Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us as we're here in day 1086. And going through the book of Zechariah, we come to Zechariah 11 today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, every part of it. Thank you for Zechariah 11 that we're going to be looking at today. I pray that you would Give us soft hearts ready to receive your word, even if it has hard things to say to us, as well as sound minds to understand your word by the work of your Holy Spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah eleven. Open your doors, O Lebanon, that my that the fire may devour your cedars Wail, O Cyprus, for the cedar has fallen, for the glorious trees are ruined. Wail, oaks of Bashan. For the thick forest has been felled, the sound of their wail of their shepherds, for the glory their glory is ruined. The sound of the roar of the lions, for the thicket of the Jordan, is ruined. Thus says the Lord my God, Become shepherd of the flock doomed to slaughter. Those who buy them slaughter them, and go unpunished, and those who sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, I have become rich, and their own shepherds have no pity on them. For I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of this land, declares the Lord. Behold, I will cause each of them to fall into the hand of his neighbor, and each into the hand of his king. and they shall crush the land, and I will deliver none from their hand. So I became the shepherd of the flock doomed to be slaughtered by the sheep traders, and I took two staffs One I named Favor, the other I named Union, and I tended the sheep. In one month I destroyed the three shepherds. But I became impatient with them, and they also detested me. So I said, I will not be your shepherd. What is to die, let it die. What is to be destroyed, let it be destroyed, and let those who are left devour the flesh of one another. And I took my staff favor, and I broke it, annulling the covenant that I had made with all the peoples. So it was annulled on that day, and the sheep traders who were watching me knew that it was the word of the Lord. Then I said to them, If it seems good to you, give me my wages, but if not, keep them. And they weighed out as my wages thirty pieces of silver Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, the lordly price at which I was priced by them. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the Lord to the potter Then I broke my second staff, union, annulling the brotherhood between Judah and Israel. Then the Lord said to me, Take once more the equipment of a foolish shepherd. For behold, I am raising up in the land a shepherd who does not care for those being destroyed, or seek the young, or heal the maimed or nourish the healthy, but devours the flesh of the fat ones, tearing off even their hoofs. Woe to my worthless shepherd, who deserts the flock May the sword strike his arm and his right eye, let his arm be wholly withered, and his right eye utterly blinded. This is Zechariah Chapter eleven. Well This is quite a challenging chapter that we have in front of us today. We're continuing in chapter eleven something that I pointed out yesterday in chapter ten, and that is that God has particular judgment against the shepherds of his people. Because the shepherds of his people are responsible for leading his people astray and leaving them vulnerable to their enemies. by teaching them or misleading them or only telling them what they wanted to hear. So God is pronouncing judgment. He's pronouncing judgment upon uh his flock, but but really upon the shepherds of the flock. Well the way he's doing this is through a sign act. So Zechariah himself is told to become shepherd of the flock. We don't know exactly what this involved for Zechariah in his life. What did it mean for him to become shepherd of the flock? Does that mean he was serving in some capacity as an elder or a priest or something like that, we don't know for sure. Um and so God tells him to become shepherd of the flock, but But first of all, he he pronounces judgment upon those who sell the flock, those who buy the flock. go slaughter them and go unpunished, and those who sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, I have become rich, and their own shepherds have no pity on them. This people who are in ministries, this is one of the applications of this passage. People who are in ministry for self-serving purposes, they're doing it because they're on an ego trip or they want the money. They they don't care about the sheep. They don't care if the sheep are harassed, they don't care if the sheep are ignorant, they don't care if the sheep are led astray. They have no real heart burden for the sheep of God. They only care if they get what they want out of it. And so they can sell the sheep to slaughter and say, Blessed be the Lord, I have become rich. Oh, this person got hurt. Oh, this person was taught something that wasn't true. Oh, this person was led astray. Oh, this person was left ignorant. of of the doctrines of the faith. Well, that doesn't matter. I have a big church, I'm popular, lots of people like me. Um it doesn't really matter. And that is a terrible, terrible um approach. You know, the the the deceiver, Satan, the wolf who's prowling around looking for someone to devour, the wolf among sheep, the the The sheep themselves might be okay with it, but it uh God is greatly displeased. And the heart of a true shepherd breaks when you see these kinds of things happening. And you can see this through like best selling books that that make millions of copies and millions of dollars for their authors, but they're teaching they're teaching lies. They're teaching things that are just false and misleading. They're not biblical and they leave people vulnerable to to false doctrine. You can also see it in popular preachers who have big churches from telling people what they want to hear. rather than grounding them in the truth of God's word. And you have people who have been Christians and been going to church for years and who don't know the Bible and who don't know sound doctrine and who don't have any discernment. to discern between truth and error. And that's that's one of the applications from today's text. But starting in verse 7, so Zechariah becomes a shepherd of the flock, doomed to slot to be slaughtered. He's doing what the Lord's called him to do. He takes two staffs, one he calls favor, one he calls union Favor is obviously the grace of God to bless his people. And union represents the union between Israel and Judah. And in time, they're both going to be going to be broken. He's he's over the he's over the shepherd, he's over the sheep in some way, and in verse 8 he says, In one month I destroyed the three shepherds. Now we don't know what that means. There's a lot of speculation about what that means, and the truth is we just don't know who the three shepherds are. It's probable Probable that in Zechariah's day there were three leaders among God's people, whether they were false prophets or whether they were priests or Levites. or governors, royal officials, whatever they might have been, that there were three well-known leaders among God's people who were false shepherds, and Zechariah exposed them. And they were put to shame before the people. But the flock didn't really respect Zechariah for it. He became impatient with the flock for not for not seeing this as a wake-up call to repent. And instead the flock turns on him and detests him for exposing these bad leaders. How dare you attack this bad leader? That's one of the things, like there's a saying that says it's much easier to con someone than it is to convince someone that they have been conned. So someone comes along and misleads God's people, and then a true and faithful shepherd comes along and exposes that this person is misleading, and people will attack that true and faithful person. for say, why are you badmouthing that pastor? Why are you badmouthing that political leader? Why are you badmouthing and It's like, hey, I I'm the one who's trying to tell you the truth. And that's really the situation that Zechariah finds himself in. But when we get to the fact that Zechariah was paid 30 pieces of silver And he throws it to the potter in um in the house of the Lord. This kind of action here is symbolic action that's foreshadowing what's going to ultimately happen to Jesus. And so while there is a historical situation that Zechariah is in that we don't really fully understand. We can see because of the way the New Testament quotes these passages that part of what Zechariah is doing here is anticipating what's going to happen with the Lord Jesus. So when Jesus came in He exposed the chief priests and the Pharisees and the scribes and teachers of the law. He pronounced woe upon them. He called them whitewashed tombs. And the culminating point in his ministry came after Palm Sunday, after the triumphal entry, he goes to the temple and he overturns the tables of the money changers, and he drives out the animal sellers who have taken the court of the Gentiles, which is supposed to be for the nations, to come and inquire about God. and turn them into a marketplace, into a bazaar and and they're profiteering from it. They're profiteering off of the worship of God and they're excluding the nations from being able to come because they would be trampled by animals and run into all these people exchanging money. So Jesus drives them out. And that becomes a turning point at which not only the leaders who are being exposed for being crooks, but also the people start to turn on Jesus. And just a couple days later, they're crying out for him to be crucified. They cried, Hosanna, but then when they cried Hosanna and welcomed him into the city, instead of going and attacking Pontius Pilate and the Roman governors, he goes and attacks the corrupt worship in the in in the church, in the temple, and they turn on him. And they sell him, Judas sells him for thirty pieces of silver, and Judas takes the thirty pieces of silver to the temple, throws it Back at the chief priests and and the leaders of the temple, and they take it and they buy the potter's field. So we're seeing some echoes, some hints at what's going to happen to Jesus. He's there for a short period of time. He exposes the shepherds as being fraudulent. The people turn on him. They sell him for 30 pieces of silver, and then that money is used. to buy the potter's field. So this is judgment. But ultimately Jesus is the one who is the shepherd. Of a sh group of sheep who are doomed to be slaughtered. Jerusalem will be destroyed in A. D. 70 as judgment. And they sell him and they betray him. And that's that's I think an an ultimate fulfillment of this passage But then we have our attention turned back to the foolish shepherd. Take once more the equipment of a foolish shepherd. For I'm raising up in the land a shepherd who does not care for those who are being destroyed, or seek the young, or heal the maimed, or nourish the healthy. This is coming back to the shepherds that The people of God have in Zechariah's day, and that they will continue to have, because even when Jesus comes onto the scene hundreds of years later, who are the shepherds of Israel? They're the foolish ones. Their blind guides, the blind leading the blind, and they both fall into a pit. So I think the message for us from Zechariah 11 is twofold. One is We need to be discerning. I was talking to somebody about this after church the other day, and they were saying, you know, we need to be a Berean, but we need to be careful to be a Berean biblically. And this is the difference. Sometimes people use the phrase you need to be a Berean. And they're using that to attack and criticize really faithful pastors with whom they disagree about a point of doctrine or other. Right? If there's a good, consistent, faithful, serving pastor, and you don't agree with them on every jot and tittle of doctrine, being a Berean is not going on social media and flaming the guy or roasting him or whatever. That's not that's not being a Berean. The Berean are They used Scripture to discern whether or not Paul was a faithful minister, and then they sat under his teaching and they heard the word of God eagerly. So being a Berean is not being a hypercritical person. It's being discerning so that you can hear the Word of God eagerly, so you can be led by a faithful shepherd. and not led astray by false shepherds. That's an important difference. So be discerning, right? But be discerning and Be zealous to follow the good shepherd by following the faithful shepherds who are leading from the Word of God in the Spirit of God, and who are not seeking their own glory, but are seeking the glory of Christ, because ultimately He is the one shepherd who never fails. And our hearts need to be wholly His. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your love and your faithfulness. Thank you for giving us the good shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ, who laid down his life for us. He was betrayed and sold for thirty pieces of silver. But he did so because he loved us, and the shepherds of his day were corrupt, just as the shepherds of Zechariah's day were corrupt. Father, may I be a faithful shepherd. And may you lead all of us, as your sheep, to follow faithful shepherds who are following the good shepherd. that your flock might green graze on green pastures and might be guarded from the enemy. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Zechariah 11. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 12. I hope it was a blessing to you. I hope you can join me again tomorrow. And I do hope, as always, that you have a blessed day in In the Lord.