Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So good to be with you on day 1090, our 1090th day in the Word of God together. Only six more to go after today. We're heading down the home stretch, our final week in God's Word together after three years of going through one chapter per day. If you haven't been with us the whole time, if you didn't join us at the very beginning, just know that all of these are available on YouTube, on Spotify, on Sermon Audio, on Facebook. It's a little bit harder to find on Facebook, but they're all on our Forest Hill PCA page. on on Facebook. So they're there. And so you could start at the beginning and go th from the beginning, or you could just look up particular ones that go with the book of the Bible you might be studying. They're all there. And uh that was part of the goal when we set out to do this endeavor three years ago. Let's pray as we turn our attention to this final chapter of Zechariah. Heavenly Father, your word is truth. Living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, breathed out by you. Your word is unique, your word is pure, your word is powerful. Please write it on our hearts. Please help us to understand it. Please grow us according to your word that we might live for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, Zechariah 14. Behold, a day is coming for the Lord when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped. Half the city shall go out in exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations, as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley. so that one half of the mount shall move northward, and the other half southward, and you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, the king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost. And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but at evening time there shall be light. On that day, living waters shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter. And the Lord will be king over all the earth On that day the Lord will be one and his name one. The whole land shall be turned into a plain, from Giba to Rimen, south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem shall remain aloft on its site, from the gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the king's winepress. And it shall be inhabited, for there shall never again be a decree of utter destruction. Jerusalem shall dwell in security. And this shall be the plague with which the Lord shall strike all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem. Their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths. And on that day a great panic from the Lord shall fall on them. so that each will seize the hand of another, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other. Even Judah will fight at Jerusalem And the wealth of all the surrounding nations shall be collected, gold, silver, and garments, in great abundance. And a plague like this plague Shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and whatever beasts may be in those camps Then every one who survives, of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem, shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of Booths. And if any of the families of the earth did not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain on them. And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain. There shall the plague Sorry, there shall be the plague with which the Lord afflicts the nations that do not go up to the feast of Booths. This shall be the punishment to Egypt and to the punish and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of boots. And on that day there shall be inscribed on the bells of the horses, holy to the Lord. And the pots in the house of the Lord shall be as the bowls before the altar. And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holy to the Lord of hosts, so that all whose sacrifice may come and take of them and boil the meat of the sacrifice in them, and there shall no longer be a traitor in the house of the Lord of hosts on that day. All right, Zechariah 14, the final prophecy in the final apocalyptic literature of the Old Testament. It has many parallels to Revelation 21 and 22, because this day that's coming is the day of final judgment and the day of the final inhabitation. The final coming of the Lord to dwell among his people in habitation, habitation, inhabiting. I don't know what word I'm looking for the final day when the Lord comes to dwell among his people. So it would be profitable to you, after we go through Zechariah 14, to go and read Revelation 21 and 22, which I believe There's a lot of parallels between the two. I'll try to point out some of them to you. But this is apocalyptic literature, and so some of this is symbolic and representative, um, and some of it is is also spoken in terms that people can understand. But basically what we have here is a final battle, which that's described in Revelation 19 and 20. It's also described a couple chapters earlier in Zechariah 12. It's a final battle And the world comes against the people of God. And there is intense persecution of the people of God. It's expressed in terminology. of an ancient siege of a city where there's houses being plundered and women being raped and people being sent into exile. But the idea is that there will be an intense persecution of God's people by the nations. That will continue for some period of time until the Lord comes and brings final judgment on all the nations who are persecuting his people. And that will be the Great Judgment Day. And Revelation describes it as a day in which the blood will flow as high as a horse's bridle for fifteen hundred stadia out from Jerusalem on every side. And that's that's pretty far. Um and so it's a great day of judgment. And People will be wanting the mountains to fall on them, to hide them from the wrath of the Lamb. But that day will also bring a transformation. A transformation of reality. So that day and night no longer continue in the same way. And there's living water that flows out to water the whole earth. And there's the Lord as King, as one king. over all the earth. I believe this is the ushering in of the new heavens and the new earth. Some people would see this as the ushering in of an earthly millennial kingdom if you take a pre-millennial perspective. I don't believe in a premillennial perspective. So I believe that this is talking about the ushering in of the new heavens and the new earth. And this language about a plague that will strike all the people that wage war against Jerusalem. This is the idea that those who are persecuting God's people are going to be judged on that final judgment day, and they're not going to have a share. in the New Jerusalem. They're not going to have a share in this renewed heavens and earth, the new heavens and the new earth and the new Jerusalem. They won't have a share in it because Because what's interesting is they didn't come up to keep the feast of booths. Now this is an interesting language here. There were three main feasts. festivals which required God's people to go on pilgrimage and go up to Jerusalem and celebrate them together as the people. There was Passover, Pentecost, and Tabernacles or the Feast of Booths. Passover was about remembering the death of the Passover Lamb and how the blood of the Passover Lamb protected the people of God from judgment. and how they were brought out from bondage and constituted as the nation of Israel, as God's holy people. The Feast of Pentecost is the feast of first fruits. It's the first harvest feast. And then the Feast of Booze or Feast of Tabernacles is celebrating how there was there was the time in the wilderness. That's why they build tabernacles or booze. There was a time in the wilderness, but now they're entered into the promised land. And it's also the feast of the final harvest or the final ingathering. Jesus died as our Passover lamb at Passover He fulfilled the Passover feast in himself as our Passover lamb slain for us. The Holy Spirit was poured out at Pentecost. when the first harvest was brought in of souls. Three thousand people were added to the church. That had been 120 and now it's three thousand, added to their number in one day. That was the first fruits, the first harvest the Feast of Tabernacles or Feast of Booths is going to be fulfilled when Jesus comes again for the final ingathering. And so this language of not keeping the Feast of Booths and they will not keep the Feast of Booths means They didn't trust in God and they weren't gathered in in the final ingathering. They also weren't making that transition from we're moving out of our time of wilderness tabernacling. into our time of promised land dwelling. That's also happens when Christ comes again. We move from the tent of this temporary body and the wilderness wandering of this earthly life in a sinful world. and we move into our permanent home in the new heavens and the new earth. But there are people in the world who don't keep that because they don't believe in Jesus and so they're not brought into the fulfillment of the feast of booths and they're left outside. And so in the end of it all, Jesus comes again, and everything, everything is holy to the Lord or put away in judgment This is the final sorting. Jesus talked about this in his parables when he said, At the end of the age there's going to be a harvest, and the wheat will be brought into the barn, and the chaff will be burned with fire. The net full of fish will be sorted, the good fish will be brought in, and the bad fish will be thrown out. And we read much the same thing in Revelation 21 and 22. All those who've trusted in the Lord are brought into the New Jerusalem, but all the murderers and the sorcerers and the unbelievers and the idolaters, they're all shut out. into the outer darkness. And that's what the end of this is is insinuating, that it's it's uh telling us that there's going to be punishment. Eternal plague. No rain. Eternal judgment. The plague that doesn't end is really what's in view here. uh in seventeen to nineteen. That's going to be on those who are outside, who don't keep the feast of booths. They're not gathered in when the Lord Jesus comes for the final harvest. But those who are brought in Everything is holy to the Lord. Everything will be worship. Everything will be holiness. Everything will be done before the presence of God for the glory of King Jesus. Horses and pots. and houses and everything. And all of life will be a living sacrifice truly. We're called to live that way in this life, but we don't. We know we don't. We fall short of that. But all that sin will be removed. And everything will be holy to the Lord as it should be when the Lord Jesus comes again. This is the final future destiny for all of God's people. And my prayer is that you and I will enjoy that day together. That we will enjoy the feast together, that we will enjoy the ingathering into the New Jerusalem together, with the Lord Jesus and with all of those who have longed for his appearing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you. Thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. Thank you that He has come to remove our sins. Thank you that He is coming again to gather us into Himself. Give us the faith to wait in hope for that day. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well that was day 1090, Zechariah 14. Tomorrow we're going to finish up the Psalms. We're going to go to Psalms and look at 148, 149, and 150. Until then, have a blessed day in the Lord.