Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. Hopefully you know who you are. It's day 1083, and we're in Zechariah chapter 9. And uh let's let's look to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you for your word. It's so wonderful. You're so good to us. Help us to receive your word as the gift that it is and respond by faith as you deserve, Father, for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter 9, the oracle of the word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrach, and Damascus is its resting place. For the Lord has an eye on mankind, and on all the tribes of Israel, and on Hamat also, which borders on it, Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise. Tyre has built for herself a rampart and heaped up silver like dust and fine gold like the mud of the streets, but behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions. and strike down her power on the sea, and she shall be devoured by fire. Ashkelon shall see it and be afraid. Gaza too and shall writhe in anguish, Ekron also, because its hopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza, Ashkelon shall be uninhabited, a mixed people shall dwell in Ashdod and I will cut off the pride of Philistia. I will take away its blood from its mouth, and its abomination from between its teeth. It shall be, it too shall be a remnant for our God. It shall be like a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jezites. Then I will encamp at my house as a guard. So that no one shall march to and fro, no oppressor shall again march over them. For now I see with my own eyes. Rejoice GREATLY, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous, and having salvation is he humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace to the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth, as for you also Because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope. Today I declare that I will restore to you double. For I have bent Jerusalem, I have bent Judah as my bow, I have meet made Ephraim its arrow. I will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and wield you like a warrior's sword. Then the Lord will appear over them, and his arrow will go forth like lightning. The Lord God will sound the trumpet, and will march forth in the whirlwinds of the south. The Lord of hosts will protect them. And they shall devour and tread down the slingstones, and they shall drink and roar as if drunk with wine, and be full like a bowl drenched like the corners of the altar, on that day that the Lord their God will save them, as the flock of his people, for like jewels of a crown they shall shine on his land, for how great is his goodness and how great his beauty, grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the young women. Zechariah 9. A beautiful, beautiful chapter. Begins with judgment on Israel's enemies. There are enemies of God's people. The real enemies we face, we realize, are not Flesh and blood. Ephesians 6 tells us we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities and the powers and the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. We are facing an enemy, the God of this world, the God of this age, who blinds the minds of unbelievers, who uses them as his tools, his puppets, to accomplish his nefarious will. The world is united in its opposition to God and his ways and his people, and our own flesh rages against us. And so our Our enemies who harass us in the Old Testament days, uh the kingdom of God was a geopolitical nation with defined borders and an army and a And an earthly ruler and battles that it fought against other armies of other earthly geopolitical powers. That is not the way of the kingdom of God under the New Testament age. And some of what's shown here is that one of the ways God conquers his enemies is by bringing them in to his people. The first part of Zechariah 9. talks about um Damascus and these other cities who are going to be defeated by violence, by being conquered, and other cities will be warned. But then but then We see that these pagan cities, these Gentile cities, are going to become a remnant for our God and like a clan in Judah. You see, after Pentecost, after the Spirit was poured out, after the king came to save his own. The gospel went out, and these areas become areas where there are churches, where there are God's people, and they become outposts. For further evangelization, Antioch in Syria, which is where Damascus is, that same area up north becomes the key sending church for the great missionary exploits of the Apostle Paul. This is all part of the fulfillment of this. So God does conquer his enemies, but he often conquers his earthly enemies. by bringing them in to be part of his people. And then he cast down the spiritual enemies by the po by the triumphing over them through the cross, by the power of the cross. And here, that's what we see, starting in verse 9. We see, by the blood of the eternal covenant. Verse 11. If you go to Forest Hill, you know that expression. It's the most commonly used benediction I use at church is from Hebrews 13, which speaks about by the blood of the eternal covenant to equip you with everything good. And here, verse 11 says, You also, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit. The waterless pit is the grave. We are ransomed from death. We are ransomed from death by the blood of Jesus Christ, who is the King, who comes, righteous and having salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey. We hear that verse, Zechariah 9-9, on Palm Sunday, appropriately so. And listen to how God defeats his enemies by speaking peace to the nations. See verse 10? He defeats his enemies by speaking peace to the nations. and bringing the the good news of salvation from death, of hope That God will bring hope and life. And the Lord will save his people from out of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation, from every nation under heaven, God will save his people. He will bring us, and we will be like jewels of a crown that shines on his head, for how great is his goodness, how great is his beauty. There's no other God like our God There's no other salvation but the salvation that our God brings. The world offers these promises, but it can't ever deliver on them. They're empty, they're hollow, they're temporary at best, they're shaky, they're false. God keeps his word. The blood of the covenant Was poured out by Jesus Christ on the cross. It sets us free from sin and death forever. We're brought in to the people of God. We're made like jewels on his glorious crown. There is nothing that compares to the salvation of the Lord. Amen? rejoice in that and let's share that. Share that good news with there are those in the world who are the enemies of God's people. They hate the church, they hate the gospel, they hate the kingdom of God, they hate the thought of God ruling over them. Tell them the good news of the king who's overcome death. And by God's grace, by his Holy Spirit, he may just be pleased to turn his enemies into his children as he did with the Apostle Paul. As he's done with so many throughout the history of his people. And if not, one day he will return and he will bring all things together. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for the victory of Jesus. Our King who came riding on a donkey, bringing peace. He brought that peace by shedding his blood on a cross. He defeated all of his and our enemies by triumphing over them through the cross. And now he conquers enemies like us and makes us children by his grace. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, that is Zechariah chapter 9. Tomorrow we're going back to the book of James for one of my favorite chapters in all the Bible, and that is James chapter 3. I hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day. In the Lord.