Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1079, and we have come today to Zechariah chapter 6. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, our good and gracious King, you love us, you care for us, you provide truth for us in your word, you provide the illumination of your Holy Spirit. We need you. We need you to come and speak to us and teach us and grow us so that we might love you better and follow you more faithfully. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Zechariah chapter six Again I lifted my eyes and saw. And behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze. The first chariot had red horses, the second black horses The third white horses, and the fourth chariot, dappled horses, all of them strong Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord? And the angel answered and said to me, These are going out. to the four winds of heaven after presenting themselves before the Lord of all the earth. The chariot with the black horses goes to the north country, the white ones go after them And the dappled ones go toward the south country. When the strong horses come out, they were in came out, they were impatient to go and patrol the earth. And he said, Go patrol the earth. So they patrolled the earth. Then he cried to me, Behold, those who go toward the north country. have set my spirit at rest in the north country. And the word of the Lord came to me, take from the exiles Heldi, Tobaijah, and Judea, who have arrived from Babylon, and go the same day to the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah. Take from them silver and gold and make a crown, and set it on the head of Joshua, the son of Jehosadak, the high priest, and say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold the man whose name is the branch, for he shall branch out from his place, and he shall build the temple of the Lord. It is he who shall build the temple of the Lord. And shall bear royal honor, and shall sit and rule on his throne. And there shall be a priest on his throne, and the council of peace shall be between them both And the crown shall be in the temple of the Lord as a reminder to Chelem, Tobijah, Judea, and Hen, the son of Zephaniah. And those who are far off shall come and help to build the temple of the Lord. And you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And this shall come to pass if you will diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God. That is Zechariah chapter 6, and it's a beautiful chapter. The first part of it echoes back to chapter 1. really the first vision that Zechariah had. And then it also, like that one, is reflected again in Revelation. Chapter 6 by the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Horses, strong horses, with chariots These are war horses, these are warrior horses, and and they're kind of like the ancient tanks, and they are symbols of military power. And they go out to the four corners of the earth. In Revelation, I think we need Revelation 6 to sort of help us complete this vision. It is the Lord Jesus who has taken the scroll and begun to open it in chapter 5 of Revelation, who then, as he is opening the scroll, sends forth from the throne of God the four horses who go out and who bring war and famine and death and rule to the ends of the earth. Now that's not explicitly explained point for point here But you do have in this one chapter the idea of these horses going out. So there's three major things happening in this chapter. These four horses and chariots going out to the four ends of the earth. They are they are obviously there to assert might and sovereignty and power. And then you have the crowning of Joshua the priest, who is priest and king now with the crown on the throne Not something you'd see in an Old Testament uh priest of the l of the Levitical line. And then you see the temple being built, a promise of the temple being built. All of this points us to Christ. Christ Jesus, whose name is the same as the name of this High priest, Yeshua, Yeshua, salvation, Yahweh saves, he saves. It's all basically different ways of reading the same Hebrew root word. Uh it's throughout the n the Old Testament in in uh form of the word salvation. It's also the name of Joshua from the book of Joshua, who was used by the Lord to conquer Canaan. Defeat the enemies of the Lord and bring God's people into the promised land. It's the same name here used of this high priest who is crowned as a king. And then it's used of Jesus, it's his name, the name that he is given by God specifically, and is a name that says he saves or salvation or Yahweh saves. So, what's the symbolism here? The symbolism that King Jesus reigns as King and Priest. He is doing two things. He is sending out his power and authority. Remember the great commission that Jesus gave his disciples in Matthew 28. He said all authority. in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. So to the ends of the earth The Lord sends forth the gospel, which is the power of God for salvation for all who believe. And in the preaching of the gospel There is a door open for salvation and mercy, but there is also judgment and justice for those who reject the gospel. And so it is an exercise of the authority. of the one who is Joshua, who is both priest and king. He is also the branch. In case we miss the fact that this is pointing us forward to Christ. Joshua is called here, behold the man whose name is the branch, which echoes back to Isaiah 11, it echoes back um to Jeremiah and what what God had promised, Jeremiah 33, the coming of this branch from the severed stump of the house of Jesse. a branch would come from the root and he would he's gonna bring the gospel to the nations, he's gonna build the church. And those are really the two Two ways of describing the same activity, because as the gospel goes out to the nations with authority and power, and people are brought into faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, they are brought into his church. And his church is built, and his church is the temple that he is building. It's important to note that in the Old Testament, there is no throne for the high priest to sit on in the temple. And no one was allowed to be both high priest and king or priest and king. There were kings who could be prophets. Like David and even Saul, when he was first anointed by the Holy Spirit as king, he was among the prophets, Solomon. And then there are priests who were prophets, like Isaiah and Jeremiah, are actually both priests, and probably Ezekiel as well. They are priests and prophets. But there was no one, no one, no one was allowed to be king or sit in that kingly office as leader of the nation politically and priest. Even Moses had his brother Aaron as high priest, not the same person to both do the leading in battle and the giving of the law, that sort of kingly function that Moses the prophet served in and Aaron was in a different office. Jesus is the only one who brings these together. So this has to be about Jesus because he's the only one who is prophet, priest, and king, which is why he is the Messiah, the anointed one. In fact, Jewish people for years expected perhaps more than one Messiah. Would there be a political Messiah who would be the son of David and the great ruler and warrior? There would be a prophet messiah, the one that Moses spoke of and said, A prophet will arise like me in the latter days. And maybe there would also be a priest messiah like this Josh Josiah, like this, sorry, like this um Joshua. Um and so Joshua, the high priest Is the one who is foretelling, foreshadowing a type of the one who comes, who is one Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, prophet, priest, and king. He rules over us. He defends us, he builds his church, he advances his gospel. What do we do? Well we are we are under his authority. We are also serving as prophets, priests, and kings, although we speak his words, not ours. We minister his gospel, not ours. We uh intercede before his throne of grace on behalf of others. And we exercise his authority in the preaching of the gospel and the setting up of churches according to his word. So the great picture here in in uh Zechariah six of the gospel power going out to the ends of the earth under Jesus, our King and great high priest. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending your son Jesus to be the great high priest, to be our salvation, to be our king, to rule over us and defend us, and to defeat all of his and our enemies. We are so thankful that we are so blessed. to be your children, to serve your purposes. Help us to walk in your ways, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. That is Zechariah chapter 6. So we're going to go back to the book of James tomorrow, James chapter 2. Hope you can join me for that. And as always, I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.