Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1082. And we are in Zechariah chapter 8. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Every part of it. Thank you for Zechariah 8 that we get to look at today. Write it on our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter eight and the word of the Lord came saying sorry and the word of the Lord of hosts came saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts. I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath. Thus says the Lord, I have returned to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem shall be called the faithful city, and the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Thus says the Lord of hosts. Old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem. Each with staff in hand because of great age, and the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets Thus says the Lord of hosts, if it is marvelous in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the Lord of hosts. Thus says the Lord of hosts, behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west country, and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God in faithfulness and in righteousness. Thus says the Lord of hosts, Let your hands be strong. You who in these days have been hearing these words from the mouth of the prophets who were present. on the day that the foundation of the house of the Lord of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built. For before those days there was no wage for man. Or any wage for beast, neither was there any safety from the foe for him who went out or came in, for I set every man against his neighbor. But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in former days, declares the Lord of hosts. For there shall be a sowing of peace. The vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its produce. And the heavens shall give their due, and I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things. And as you have been a byword of cursing among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong. For thus says the Lord of hosts, as I have purposed to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the Lord of hosts. So again have I purposed in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Fear not. These are the things that you shall do. Speak the truth to one another. Render in your gates judgments that are true, and make for peace. Do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath. For all these things I hate, declares the Lord And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the fast of the fourth month. And the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness. and cheerful feast. Therefore, love, truth, and peace. Thus says the Lord of hosts, people shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities. The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go up at once to entreat the favor of the Lord and to seek the Lord of hosts. I myself am going. Many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days, ten men. From the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew, saying, Let us go up with you, for we have heard that God is with you. Zechariah chapter 8, a powerful prophecy of the Lord's determination to do good to his people, some of which they are going to start enjoying immediately. in the days of Zechariah, but some of which is happening more so now, and some of which perhaps is yet future to be fulfilled God loves his people. This is what I want us to hear, what I think the Lord wants us to hear from Zechariah chapter 8, and that is in the prophets we have a lot of words of condemnation. A lot of words of judgment, just frankly, because there's a lot of sin among God's people, and God hates sin. God loves his people. God hates sin because of what it does to his people and also how it robs glory from him, but it keeps his people from seeking their glory in him, which is where we find our deepest soul satisfaction in what we were created for. But God loves his people. That's the point. God loves his people. God deals with sin at the cross. God takes away sin to cleanse us and make us holy so that he can pour out blessing upon us because he loves us and he delights to do us good. He doesn't like having to discipline us, sometimes it's necessary. for our own good. But he doesn't afflict from the heart, Lamentations 3 says, nor does he afflict forever. His heart is to bless. His heart is to be in our midst. His heart is to be for us, with us, and to bless us abundantly. And that's the picture we get. A picture of a newly restored Jerusalem, where old men and old women sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each with a staff in their hand, because of great age, and the streets of the city are full of boys and girls playing in the streets. It's a marvelous sight. I believe this is being fulfilled through the church. You're probably not surprised to hear me say that by now. I hope not. This is being fulfilled through the church because the church is gathering in old and young. And it's a place where we can enjoy the Lord. God is gathering in his people from the east and from the west to dwell. Where we are his people and he is our God in faithfulness and righteousness. The Lord is going to bring, is bringing A sowing of peace, where the vine gives fruit, and the ground gives its produce, and the remnant of the people possess all these things. Now there was a foretaste of this even in the days of Zechariah, the days of the return from exile. were a day of of dreams fulfilled, of longings satisfied, of hearts overflowing with joy, as they were able to come back into land and sow and reap and eat And the first 20 years were really hard, as we read earlier in Zechariah and also in Haggai, the first 20 years were really hard. But once that temple got rebuilt, there was just an increase and there was an abundance. And so God has purposed to bring good things to his people. And what he asks his people to do is to obey, to do right, to speak the truth to one another, to render judgments that are true and that make for peace and to not devise evil. In other words, when God pours out the blessing and what God is good to us, we shouldn't take that as an excuse to be selfish and miserly and greedy and manipulative, we should take it as an opportunity to share and to give and to love, to be as good to others as God has been to us. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, God has been good to you. God has washed away your sin. God has adopted you as his child. God has brought you into his family, into his holy city. God has given given you a share in the inheritance of Christ. You are an heir of God and a co-heir with Christ. God has been good to you. Don't be deceptive and manipulative and selfish and calculating to try to get what you want. That's wrong. Be kind, be generous, be gracious. God hates when his people take his blessing. And turn them into a curse by using them for evil ends. And then God gives this very specific answer to that earlier question we looked at yesterday about the fasts. And he adds some. There's a fast of the fourth month, the fifth month, the seventh month, the tenth month. What are all these? Well, the fourth month was when the walls of Jerusalem were breached. The fifth month was when the city fell. The seventh month was when Gedali was assassinated. And the tenth month actually goes back to the beginning of the siege, which was when the siege began on the tenth month, on the tenth month of the previous year So these were all significant fasts that had been added to the calendar for God's people. They weren't biblically commanded, they're not in the law of Moses, but they were added as fasting periods to commemorate this. Sorrow of conquest and exile. And God says I'm turning that into feasting They shall be seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts. Therefore, love truth and peace. God takes mourning and turns it into dancing. God takes sorrow and turns it into joy. On the cross, Christ poured out his life in sorrow, crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? In love, saying, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do In sacrifice, saying it is finished, that out of that we might have the greatest reason to rejoice. And now the cross is a symbol of hope and joy and freedom for all who believe in him. God turns sorrow into joy. And then the last paragraph is clearly talking about the church age because this is many peoples and strong nations. Men from the nations, ten to one, a ratio of ten men from the nations for every Jewish man And this is what the early church began to look like very quickly. You did have 3,000 at the day of Pentecost, and in the early years it was mostly a Jewish church, but before long, very easily, the Jewish believers were outnumbered by Gentile believers 10 to 1. And the nations are coming in, and the nations will continue to come in. And this is connecting us back to the sin of partiality from a couple of days ago. So many American evangelicals are so hyper-focused on America and underfocused. On this vision that God has for bringing in His people from all the nations Many peoples, strong nations, shall come to seek the Lord and entreat the favor of the Lord. We are now in a privileged position of being able to call them and share with them the hope that the Lord has given through his Son. on Jesus Christ. It's a joyful privilege and a responsibility. Well, this is what God's calling us to. To believe his promises, to believe that he loves us, to believe that he is for us, to rejoice in him, to feast in him and to share generously, kindly, open-heartedly with others, both material things and spiritual things to bless them in the name of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus our Savior. Thank you that in Him we have everything we need for life and for eternity. Thank you that your desire is to bless us. With the forgiveness of our sins and with the giving of our daily bread, we're blessed. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, tomorrow we've got chapter 9 on tap, one more chapter here in Zechariah before we go back to James. I hope to join you tomorrow. Have a blessed day in the Lord.