Good morning, good morning, good morning. It's Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel. Good to be with you for day 1074. Zechariah 2 is before us today. And let's pray and ask the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the prophet Zechariah for the wonderful things that you showed him about your will for your people. We pray that you would help us to understand and receive Zechariah 2. We pray that we would grow closer to you through it, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, Zechariah 2. By the way, there are 14 chapters in Zechariah. So of these minor prophets, it's one of the longest of all the minor prophets. And so we've got Fourteen chapters here in Zechariah, then we'll have four chapters in Malachi as we wrap up the Old Testament by the end of this month. And I lifted my eyes and saw and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. Then I said, Where are you going? And he said to me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its width and what is its length. And behold, the angel who talked with me came forward, and another angel came forward to meet him, and said to him, Run. Say to that young man, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls, because of the multitude of people and livestock in it And I will be to her a wall of fire all around, declares the Lord. And I will be the glory in her midst. Up, up, flee from the land of the north, declares the Lord, for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, declares the Lord. Up Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon. For thus says the Lord of hosts, after his glory sent me to the nations who plundered you. For he who touches you touches the apple of his eye. Behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they shall become plunder for those who serve them. Then you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold I come and I dwell in your midst, declares the Lord, and many nations. shall join themselves to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people, and I will dwell in your midst, and you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. And the Lord will inherit Judah as his portion in the Holy Land and will again choose Jerusalem. Be silent All flesh before the Lord, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling. That is Zechariah chapter 2. And so it's a wonderful vision of the future that God has planned for his people. And while initially An angel is sent out with a measuring line to measure Jerusalem to see what its width and its length will be. There is an interruption of this process. Stop. Don't measure. Why not measure? Because Jerusalem shall be inhabited as villages without walls. because of the multitude of people and livestock in it, and I will be to her a wall of fire all around, declares the Lord, and I will be the glory in her midst. Now, what's going on here is this is apocalyptic literature, it's heavily symbolic. We're seeing angels, we're getting a peek at spiritual realities. The measuring line is to say, go and go and see how big Jerusalem as a city is going to be, the holy city. But really the whole nature of the Holy City is going to change because in that day, we're told later, many nations shall join themselves to the Lord in that day, and you shall be my people, and I will dwell in your midst. I will dwell in your midst. I will dwell in your midst, the Lord says. I will be to her a wall of fire all around, and I will be the glory in her midst. There's going to be a transformation. of the nature of Jerusalem, no longer a city with walls that you could measure the size of with measuring line. Now we know historically Jerusalem, the earthly city, remained an earthly city with walls in different phases, and in fact you can go to Jerusalem today and see walls around the old city of Jerusalem, although it has spilled out beyond those walls even the earthly city. But this isn't talking about earthly Jerusalem. This is talking about peop the people of God. And the people of God are going to be expansively greater Than what could be contained behind walls or measured with a measuring line. It's actually going to spill out and include people from all the nations. This is this is part of God's vision for the transformation of the people of God from a political nation-state with a earthly capital with physical walls to being a nation, a holy nation, a chosen people among all the peoples of the earth. not protected by earthly means, but protected by the Lord, being our protection and our glory. We are the holy Jerusalem. We are the holy Zion. We are the people of God in all the earth. There's no measuring line. that you can use to measure. There's no global headquarters that you can go to. There's no standing army that we send into battle There's no formal organization on earth that encompasses all of the people of God, but we are the people of God, the church, the New Jerusalem, the Holy Zion. That's us. And God dwells in our midst. What's the word for us today? Twofold. One, come out. From the land of the north. Escape to Zion. In other words, don't look to the world. For your identity, for your protection, for your citizenship, for your hope, for your future. Come out. Come into the church. Come into the people of God. and find in the church your true homeland, in heaven your true citizenship, in the family of God, your true brothers and sisters. This is a consistent theme throughout Scripture, and this is one of the places where it's emphasized. And the second thing is to realize that in the church, it is the Lord in our midst who is our glory. We need to be sure that as the church we're not seeking glory in earthly measurable ways by having a big show or an impressive building or or impressive programs or putting our hope in earthly things to be our our glory and our reputation. It is the Lord God Almighty in our midst, working his will among us, in us, through us. Who is our glory? So come out from among them, escape to Zion, dwell in Zion. And know that the glory of the Lord in our midst is the glory and the protection of Zion. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are your holy people by your sovereign call. Thank you. Thank you. May we see our citizenship as being in heaven. May we see our identity as being part of the people of God. May we see our family as being the family of God. May we see your presence in our midst as being our glory and our protection, for you are great, and we are called your people by your grace and for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, that is Zechariah chapter 2. Tomorrow we're going to go on to chapter 3. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Il est encore ce fait