Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is day 1081, and we are in Zechariah chapter 7. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good, so righteous, so holy, and so kind. We are your people by your grace and for your glory. Would you please speak to us through Zechariah 7 today? Help us to learn what you would have us to learn that we might live how you would have us to live. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. Zechariah chapter seven. In the fourth year of King Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, which is the month of Kislev. Now the people of Bethel had sent Shareser and Ragemelech and their men to entreat the favor of the Lord. saying to the priests of the house of the Lord of hosts and the prophets, Should I weep and abstain in the fifth month, as I have done so for many so for so many years? Then the word of the Lord of hosts came to me. Say to all the people of the land and the priests, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh for these seventy years, was it for me that you fasted? And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves? Were not these the words that the Lord proclaimed by the former prophets When Jerusalem was inhabited and prosperous with her cities around her, and the south and the lowlands were inhabited. And the Lord, and the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying Thus says the Lord of hosts, render true judgments. Show kindness and mercy to one another. Do not oppress. the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart But they refused to pay attention, and turned a stubborn shoulder, and stopped their ears that they might not hear They made their hearts diamond hard, lest they should hear the law and the words that the Lord of hosts had sent by his Spirit through the former prophets Therefore great anger came from the Lord of hosts. As I called and they would not hear, so they called and I would not hear, says the Lord of hosts. And I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations. that they had not known. Thus the land was left desolate, so that no one went to and fro, and the pleasant land was made desolate Good coffee. Zechariah 7. Challenging word, but a word that needs some explanation. There's a lot of things here that are a little difficult to understand. First of all, we get a new time reference. It's the ninth month of the fourth year of King Darius. It's now two years after Zechariah's earlier prophecies So we're about November, December of uh 518 BC, probably um The fourth day of the ninth month, probably late late November. It's a little bit hard to tell sometimes exact dates because the Jewish calendar is a lunar calendar, it's a moon calendar. And then it makes adjustments from time to time. Um so it's different from our calendar. But we're about we we know based upon the time reference at the beginning of chapter one that we're two years after. um the first prophecy and we're about the year five eighteen BC and we're in the fall of the year, late fall, getting close to winter. And the people ask a question. They want to know. They ask the priests and the prophets, and they want to know this. Should I weep and abstain in the fifth month as I have done so? for many years, or if I'd done for so many years. For seventy years, the people of God have wept and fasted on the fifth month, because the fifth month was the month that the temple was destroyed. So now they want to know, should we keep doing this? Why are they asking that? Because there's already been a ceremony to re-establish the temple. The altar is built, sacrifices are being made, the priesthood is functioning. The temple is not yet built. It's not complete. It won't be complete for probably another year or so. But they are, they have re-established the temple. So do they stop fasting on the fifth month? The answer comes with a reference to fasting in the fifth month and in the seventh month. In the seventh month, two months after the destruction of the temple, was the the time when um Gedaliah, the governor that was left in charge by the Babylonians, he was murdered. Which brought further wrath from the Babylonians down on the heads of God's people. So rather than directly answer their questions, Should you fast or should you not fast? The Lord starts asking why they were fasting in the first place and why it is they eat or drink now. And this gets to a very important biblical principle, and that is that God cares as much why we do something as whether we do it or not, especially if the thing we have in mind is not something that He commanded in His Word. What he commanded in his word were the words of the former prophets. And those are the words that the people of God did not pay attention to. This man-made observance of fasting on the fifth month and the seventh month to commemorate the destruction of the temple, to commemorate the death of Gedaliah. We don't have any notes in the prophets that this is commanded by God, but there were words from God that they had neglected. And so God is challenging them to say, are you fasting for me or are you fasting for yourself? And when you eat or drink, are you eating or drinking for me or are you eating or drinking for yourself? This is a biblical principle that the Apostle Paul repeats when he says, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God. And when he's talking about in Romans uh 14 other places, when he's talking about some people eat certain kinds of food and not other kinds of food, some people some Christians in the early church were keeping the dietary laws and some were not, some were keeping the feast and festival days and some were not. Uh so some people were saying this this day's a holy day and this day is and this others were saying no all days are alike because we're past that now. And Paul was saying that's not as important as why you do it. Whether you eat or drink Do it all for the glory of God, whether whatever you do. The one who fasts, let him fast to the glory of God. The one who eats, let him eat to the glory of God. This is the same thing. It's from Zechariah 7 here. Maybe that's where Paul gets this principle because This is what God says. It matters more whether you're doing this for yourselves or whether you're doing it for me. We should do everything for the glory of God And then what we should be most scrupulous about doing for the glory of God are the things that God has actually commanded. Because human nature, very often in human religiosity, is we will replace the commandments of God, which are hard and require some level of self-sacrifice that we don't really want to make, and we'll replace it instead with a man-made thing that's easier. So, I have to love my neighbor as myself. That's hard. But if I wear a shirt and tie to church That will make me holy. I can do that. I can't love my neighbor as myself. I can't avoid the sin of partiality, but If I avoid, you know, whatever man-made commandment you can come up with. And we're good at that. We're good at coming up with man-made commandments. Because in a sense they're easier. They're ones we get to decide, we get to control. But what does God want? God says, render true judgments. Show kindness and mercy to one another. Do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against one another in your heart. It's a great follow-up to yesterday's time in James chapter 3, by the way. A wonderful follow-up. Because this is getting to the heart of what James was talking about. Care for those who are in need and don't be self serving And it's because the people of God refused to hear the word of God. They made their hearts diamond hard, lest they should hear the law and the words. that the Lord the host sent by his spirits through the former prophets. Hmm. Made their hearts diamond hard. Absolutely would not hear the word of the Lord and yet make up all sorts of man-made things. To make ourselves feel self-righteous. Let's have a tender enough heart to have let be cut by that. As a pastor, a lot of times people will ask me, Pastor, is it okay if I do this or don't do that? Or what do you think I should do in this situation? Some things are clear, clear in the Word of God, and if I can point to a chapter and verse, I'm always going to do that. But some things are more a matter of wisdom. What would be best, what would be wisest, what would be most uh discerning and then some things are a matter of of choice. My wife and I went out to dinner the other night to celebrate her birthday. When we opened the menu and started looking at the menu options, I didn't get out the Bible and start looking for which menu items are because there's nothing there's nothing to follow there. It's a choice. What was more important was that we prayed and thanked God sincerely for what he had given to us and were thankful. Do it all to the glory of God. And what was important is that, you know, we treated the people who were serving us with respect and you know tipped generously, those kinds of things. By the way, I used to be a waiter, side note. I used to be a waiter, one of the things that drove me nuts. Where Christian groups that would come in, especially on a Sunday after church, and leave either no tip at all or a very, very cheap tip, like a dollar tip on a hundred dollar bill or something like that, and then they'd leave a Bible tract. And the most despised ones were the Bible tracts that were looked like they were $20 bills or looked like they were $50 bills. So you thought you were getting a big tip, you picked it up off the table, and it was a Bible tract. Terrible witness. Here you are adding something that God didn't command. God didn't say leave a tract on every table you go to. But he did say, treat others the way you'd want to be treated. Show kindness, show mercy, be generous. So we need to be tenderhearted to what God has said and do everything for his glory. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for giving us life in your Son, Jesus Christ. Write your word on our hearts. Make it penetrate us. May we not have diamond hard hearts of self-righteousness, but may we have tender and responsive hearts to your word and spirit. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Zechariah chapter 7. What a great chapter. We're going to move on to chapter 8, a wonderful prophecy. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.