Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word, one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. So glad you're with us for day 1087 as we continue to make our way through the book of Zechariah. And we are here in Zechariah chapter 12 with a challenging passage. about an attack on the people of God and protection that's brought about by the Lord himself Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you today thankful for your word, thankful for your Son, who is the Word of God made flesh Thankful for your Spirit, who inspired these words and who lives within us. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, be our teacher and our guide today. Let us grow in truth and understanding and wisdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Zechariah chapter twelve The Oracle of the Word of the Lord concerning Israel Thus says the Lord, who stretched out the heavens and founded the earth, and formed the spirit of man within him. Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem a cup of staggering to all the surrounding peoples The siege of Jerusalem will also be against Judah. On that day I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples. All who lift it will surely hurt themselves. and all the nations of the earth will gather against it. On that day, declares the Lord, I will strike every horse with panic. and its rider with madness. But for the sake of Judah, I will keep my eyes open when I strike every horse of the people with blindness. Then the clans of Judah shall say to themselves, The inhabitants of Jerusalem have strength through the Lord of hosts their God. On that day, I will make the clans of Judah like a blazing pot in the midst of wood, like a flaming torch among the sheaves And they shall devour to the right and to the left all the surrounding peoples, while Jerusalem shall again be inhabited in its place in Jerusalem. And the Lord will give salvation to the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not surpass that of Judah. On that day, the Lord will protect the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the feeblest among them on that day shall be like David, and the house of David shall be like God like the angel of the Lord going before them. And on that day I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy. So that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only son, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps for a firstborn. On that day the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad Riman in the plain of Megiddo. The land shall mourn each family by itself. the family of the house of David by itself, and their wives by themselves, the family of the house of Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves, the family of the house of Levi by itself self and their wives by themselves the family of the Shimeites by itself and their wives by themselves, and all the families that are left, each by itself and their wives by themselves. On that day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness. All right, Zechariah 12. This is a very challenging passage. We have to keep in mind that we're dealing with apocalyptic literature. Which means it's often not as clear-cut as you might think. But sometimes things can have deeper meanings. Even what looks like a straightforward prophecy here. So The Lord says, Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem a cup of staggering to all the surrounding peoples. And there's going to be a siege, a siege in which all the nations take their stand against Jerusalem. But in which Jerusalem is rescued, and Judah sees this and grows confident in their faith in God. Now, we don't know of a time in history when something like this happened. But there are some things that God has told us will come in the future that seem to fit this pattern, especially if we understand it as what it is, apocalyptic literature, and that Jerusalem might not be literally the earthly city of Jerusalem, but it might be The fulfillment of what Jerusalem is, which we know in the biblical unfolding of Redemptive History, Jerusalem is the church, the city of God, holy Zion, the new Jerusalem So Revelation tells us that in the future, right before the end, there will be a final battle. in which all the nations of the earth will unite the four corners of the earth. They will come together and they will oppose God's people. And what I taught in Revelation, I said this is going to be a worldwide persecution of the people of God by the nations of the world. It'll be the most intense persecution of Christianity that the world has ever seen. We know something else that's predicted to happen right before Jesus comes again, and that is in Romans 11, we're given a picture of an olive tree, and the olive tree represents the people of God. the descendants of Abraham, the children of Abraham. We are the children of Abraham by promise. We're told that in Romans 9. We're told that in uh Galatians, especially in Galatians three. And Romans eleven says that Paul in Romans 9 to 11, he's he's wrestling in his heart over over the the fact that most of his fellow Jews, most of his Jewish people, his brothers and sisters, don't believe in Jesus. They've rejected Jesus as he himself had rejected Jesus. And the church is predominantly being made up of Gentiles. And so he's wrestling with this, and the Lord gives him the answer. in Romans 11, and that is that this olive tree, the natural branches are being broken off. There's a partial hardening that's come upon Israel, upon the Jewish people. The natural branches are broken off that wild, uncultivated branches may be grafted in. That's Gentiles, that's us. We have no natural inheritance in the promises of Abraham, but the promises of Abraham were always for all the nations The promises given to Israel were always for all the nations, and so we're brought in by grace and grafted in, and we are Jerusalem And notice the language at the beginning here. There's a distinction between Jerusalem and the clans of Judah. And Jerusalem is under siege. But it's being protected by the Lord, and the clans of Judah say, the inhabitants of Jerusalem have strength through the Lord of hosts, their God. Hmm. And then we're told later that the people turn and look upon the one whom they have pierced. So back to Romans 11. Romans 11 tells us not only were the natural branches broken away so that wild uncultivated branches would be grafted in, but that there will come a time in the future. When these natural branches will be grafted back in. Once the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, that these natural branches will be grafted back in. And so if all of this takes place at the end, Zechariah 12 could be, I'm not going to be dogmatic and say this is the absolute meaning of this passage. It's a possibility. I think it's a good possibility. Zechariah 12 could be telling us that at the end, when the world persecutes Christians, the Jewish people will look on and see the strength that Christians have in the Lord. And this will cause them. To look upon the one whom they have pierced, and mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps for a firstborn, weep because of their sin, their sin that caused them to to condemn Jesus and then and then walk away from him. And in that day, there's a fountain opened to cleanse the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from sin and uncleanness. So I think this is I think this is the final battle of the nations against the church and also the final ingathering. of the Jewish people to faith in Jesus right before Christ comes again. That's my read on it. And I'm basing that again on Romans 11, and I'm also basing it on Revelation 19 and 20. There are other ways of looking at this, but I think that's the best way that I know to look at it. Now, what do we draw from that? If we're not even sure that that's the meaning, what can we draw for sure? Well, what we can draw for sure is this. When the world opposes Christianity, God knows how to keep his own. There have been times and throughout the history of God's people when persecutions have been much more intense than they are now, certainly. Toward the end of the Roman Empire, uh, for example, well, in the early three hundreds from about the about the year three hundred. The Roman Emperor at that time launched the most violent and most comprehensive persecution of Christians. It's sometimes just known as the Great Persecution. Christianity was absolutely outlawed throughout the Roman Empire, and the penalty for being a Christian was death, and that was carried out with some uh virulent determination and they also tried to burn every Bible, every Christian book they could get their hands on. But God preserved his own. And very soon afterwards, Christianity became a legal religion, officially sanctioned by the next emperor. So God knows how to keep his own. We need to know that when the world turns up the pressure on us to deny Christ or to minimize our faith or to go along, we need to press harder into Christ. And trust in him more. And know that whoever comes against the people of God, ultimately it will be to their harm and to their shame. So I think that's the application we can draw from this. Whether or not this is for sure going to happen in the future, the way I think it is, based upon Romans eleven and Revelation 19 and 20, or whether it's some other meaning that I don't fully understand. We do know this. Those who belong to Christ, those who have who have wept over our own sin and sought him for mercy, will be cleansed and will be kept. And we can trust in that, no matter what the world brings, in opposition to us. So we never need to fear the persecution that the world threatens to bring against the people of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for loving us and keeping us. We are safe and secure in your hands now and forever, because you've cleansed our sin and you keep us in your love. Help us to press into Christ. Help us to confess him more openly and more boldly as we feel pressure from the culture to deny him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Zechariah 12. Tomorrow we're going to go back to the book of James and pick up with James chapter 4. I hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day in the Lord.