Good morning, and welcome to Walking with Jesus through the Word, one chapter per day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It is our 1067th day together in the Word of God, and we are beginning the Minor Prophet of Zephaniah. Zephaniah chapter 1 on tap today. One of my all-time favorite Old Testament Bible verses coming up in Zephaniah. Zephaniah 3. 17 Hmm, do you know what that says? Don't look it up. Maybe just wait till we get there. Alright, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for the book of Zephaniah. Thank you for this minor prophet who had a wonderful ministry and was used powerfully by you and is still being used by you all these hundreds and hundreds of years later. Speak to us through Zephaniah 1 today. Write these words in our hearts we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Zephaniah one The word of the Lord that came to Zephaniah, the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah in the days of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah. I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth Declares the Lord. I will sweep away man and beast, I will sweep away the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, and the rubble with the wicked, I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth. declares the Lord. I will stretch out my hand against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and I will cut off from this place the remnant of Baal. and the name of the idolatrous priest, along with the priests, those who bow down on the roofs to the host of the heavens. Those who bow down and swear to the Lord, and yet swear by Milcom, those who have turned back from following the Lord, who do not seek the Lord or inquire of him. Be silent before the Lord God. For the day of the Lord is near. The Lord has prepared a sacrifice and consecrated his guests. And on the day of the Lord's sacrifice, I will punish the officials and the king's sons, and all who array themselves in foreign attire. On that day I will punish everyone who leaps over the threshold, and those who fill their master's house with violence and fraud. On that day, declares the Lord, a cry will be heard from the fish gate. A wail from the southern from the second quarter, a loud crash from the hills. Wail, O inhabitants of the mortar. For all the traitors are no more, all who weigh out silver are cut off. At that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are complacent. Those who say in their hearts, The Lord will not do good, nor will he do ill. Their goods shall be plundered, and their houses laid waste. Though they build houses, they shall not inhabit them. Though they plant vineyards, they shall not drink wine from them. The great day of the Lord is near, near, and hastening fast. The sound of the day of the Lord is bitter. The mighty man cries aloud there. A day of wrath is that day, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of trumpet blast and battle cry against the fortified cities and against the lofty battlements. I will bring distress on mankind. So that they shall walk like the blind, because they have sinned against the Lord. Their blood shall be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dung. Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them. on the day of the wrath of the Lord. In the fire of his jealousy all the earth shall be consumed for a full and sudden end. He will make of all the inhabitants of the earth. That is Zephaniah chapter 1. And wow, what a stark chapter. I mean, there's no other prophet that opens with such a bold and sweeping declaration of judgment. Zephaniah was a prophet during the days of Josiah. So we know exactly when he prophesied. Josiah was a reforming king. He is the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amoriah, son of Hezekiah. That could be the Hezekiah who was king in Jerusalem. And so Zephaniah would belong to the royal family, but a different branch from the current king who is Josiah. We don't know that for sure, although it would fit. But he's prophesying during a time of reform and repentance in Judah. But he's part of the instrument that God uses because he's calling for Judah to repent. And what he's doing is pronouncing judgment in this opening chapter. Now, there's going to be quite a sweep of a range of prophecies in this short book. But here, I mean, there's like I said, there's no other prophet that I can think of that opens with such a bold, I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth, declares the Lord. Wow, that's just blunt, clear, bold, universal. Now Some people ask, is Zephaniah really talking about the Lord sweeping away everything from the face of the whole earth as we understand it? Because The word earth here in verse 2 could also be a reference to the land, the land of Judah. But it really does seem like this is the more universal yet future judgment. I will sweep away man and beast, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea. The rubble with the wicked, I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth. That seems to be the yet future final day of judgment, the day of the Lord. And yet, by the time we get to verse 4 and 5, we're coming back to a more immediate judgment that's coming against Judah and Jerusalem. because of their Baal worship. And even the priests who ministered in the temple were worshiping Baal. And Josiah is going to lead a massive national reformation. But as we know from what happens after Josiah is killed at a young age in battle, is that the people slide right back into their idolatry. None of Josiah's sons are godly men. And so while Josiah enforces on Judah a type of religious reformation where there's the exclusive worship of God at the temple, all the high places removed, all the pagan idol worship removed. The people go back to it soon after, basically as soon as Josiah is killed in battle at a fairly young age. And so God's going to send this judgment. And it's the sons of Josiah It's that next generation, the sons of Josiah, that then become subject to conquest from Babylon, first from Egypt. It's the Egyptians who killed Josiah in battle, and they subjugate Judah and Jerusalem as a vassal state, but then the Babylonians subjugate Judah and Jerusalem as a vassal state. And then the Babylonian exile comes. So it is an immediate judgment that's coming because of the particular sin of Baal worship. of basically saying, I'm gonna um turn back from following the Lord and I'm not gonna seek him. I'm gonna swear by the Lord, but then I'm also gonna swear by Milcom, who's a this table pagan idol, this idolatry, this syncretism, this this faithlessness to Yahweh that's going to lead to the destruction of Judah. And yet it opens with this universal declaration. This is something that is absolutely vital to understand in how prophecy works. And I've pointed out many times in our studies. A lot of people get hung up, for example. with the Olivet Discourse and the other teachings of the Lord Jesus in the Gospels where he talks about The destruction of Jerusalem that happened in A. D. 70, some 40 years after the crucifixion of Jesus and then talks about the final day of judgment all together in a way that is nearly impossible to pick them apart and say, well this part is talking about AD 70 and this part is talking about the end of the world. And yet it's clear it has to be two different things because some people have said, well, it's all AD 70, and therefore the day of the Lord and the great day of judgment and the you know, the sky being blackened and rolled up like a scroll and the moon turning to blood and the stars falling from the heavens. All of that happened in AD seventy, and that's just not true. And it's a misreading of scripture. And passages like this in Zephaniah 1 help us to see this is the regular pattern of prophetic pronouncements of judgment that relate to the day of the Lord. There is the great day of the Lord that is coming. Yet future, when God will in fact utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth, He'll sweep away man and beast, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, He'll cut off mankind from the face of the earth But short of that, within history, God also brings judgments. And he connects these two because all judgment Is connected. It comes from the righteous, holy justice of God against sin and idolatry and faithlessness And there is these previews. It's like a preview of the day of the Lord, or it's like an appetizer. before the main meal or like it's the this is a really trite and ridiculous reference, but it's kinda like the free samples they give away at Costco as in anticipation of the the full package. They're the same thing Right, they're the same thing. You get a little sample now, but the fool is coming And I'm not trying to be trite because the judgment of God on the great day of the Lord is nothing to be trite about. But as horrible as the destruction of Jerusalem in 587 and 586 when the temple was demolished after having stood for some 500 years almost, 450 years. And before that, the tabernacle for a thousand years. And God's people being taken off into exile, being taken out of their land. and sent into Babylon and the horrible destruction as as bad as AD seventy was in forty years after Jesus when Jerusalem was completely destroyed and the temple was completely destroyed and burned with fire into rubble and has never been rebuilt in two thousand years. As terrible as those days were, they were just a little taste of what is ultimately coming. On that day. So some of this language about the cry heard from the fish gate and a wail from the second quarter Uh, woe to the inhabitants of the mortar, the traitors are no more. I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are complacent. That's going to happen soon. Like that's going to happen not that long after Zephaniah's ministry when the Babylonians come in and destroy Jerusalem. But the great day of the Lord is also near its coming. And part of why God doesn't make it more distinct and clear, part of why he doesn't say Now, this is a little preview, but the great day of the Lord isn't coming for thousands of years because he doesn't want people to get complacent. If God told us when the great day of the Lord was coming, and we knew it wasn't coming anytime within our lifetime, let's say he announced the date. It would just lead to complacency, to hard-heartedness, to more open-handed rebellion and the spread of wickedness. And so God says, judgment's coming. And it's imminent. We don't know when it's going to come. It could come at any time. But it is near and it is hastening fast. Those two things are true. They were true 2,600 years ago, when Zephaniah was prophesying, and it's true today, that the great day of the Lord is near. Near and hastening fast. And no, Zephaniah 1 was not fully fulfilled when Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians. No, there is a still future day of final judgment, and all of those who have sinned against the Lord and who have not repented Will be judged, and there will be a full and sudden end of all of the inhabitants of the earth. And this call is a call for sober-minded realistic repentance, faith, and an eager evangelism to the ends of the earth. That's the response. Wake up, repent, seek the Lord, and spread his gospel. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you tell us the truth in love. There is a day coming, near and hastening, the great day of the Lord. You tell us about it because you want us to wake up and repent. You want us to seek you earnestly. You want us to be loyal and faithful to you and to walk by faith and not in complacency and compromise. Let us hear this word. Let us respond to this word by your grace and for your glory in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well that is Zephaniah chapter one, a very sobering word, but one that we need to hear. I hope you do have a blessed day. The Lord