Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word One Chapter per Day. I am Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church It's day 1069, and we've come to Zephaniah chapter 3, the last chapter in this minor prophet. And we're going to come today to one of my favorite verses in the Old Testament. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that you've given to us and for the day-by-day opportunity we have to be in your word, to learn from you, to grow in you. Grow us today. Deepen our love for Jesus. Draw our hearts to follow you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Zephaniah three, woe to her who is rebellious and defiled The oppressing city. She listens to no voice. She accepts no correction She does not trust in the Lord. She does not draw near to her God. Her officials within her are roaring lions. Her judges are evening wolves that leave nothing till the morning. Her prophets are fickle, treacherous men, her priests profane what is holy. They do violence to the law. The Lord within her is righteous. He does no injustice. Every morning he shows forth his justice. Each dawn he does not fail. But the unjust knows no shame. I have cut off nations, their battlements are in ruins, I have laid waste their streets, so that no one walks in them. Their cities have been made desolate, without a man, without an inhabitant. I said, Surely you will fear me, you will accept correction, then your deal dwelling would not be cut off, according to all that I have appointed against you. But all the more, they were eager to make all their deeds corrupt. Therefore wait for me, declares the Lord, for the day when I rise up to seize the prey For my decision is to gather nations, to assemble nations, to pour out upon them my indignation, all my burning anger. For in the fire of my jealousy all the earth shall be consumed. For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech. That all of them may call upon the name of the Lord and serve him with one accord. From beyond the rivers of Cush, my worshippers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring my offering. On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you rebelled against me. For then I will remove from your midst. Your proudly exultant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain But I will leave in your midst a people humble and lowly. They shall seek refuge in the name of the Lord. Those who are left in Israel, they shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be in their mouth found in their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid. Shout, sing, sing aloud, O daughter of Zion! Shout, O Israel, rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. The Lord has taken away the judgments against you. He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst. You shall never again fear evil. On that day, it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion. Let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exult over you with loud singing. I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival, so that you will no longer suffer reproach. Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors, and I will save the lame and gather the outcast. And I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth. At that time I will bring you in. At the time when I gather you together, for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes. Says the Lord. The Lord is so wonderful. The Lord is so gracious. We are sinful, we are weak, we are often afraid, we are often unfaithful, intimidated, but God loves his own God brings relief to his own, and God has precious promises for his own. So we return in chapter 3. to this idea of a universal judgment that's coming. And we also come back to a focus on Jerusalem and the nations. It's kind of where we were in chapter one. In chapter one, it was The whole earth's going to be destroyed. The whole earth's going to be judged on the great day of the Lord. But also Judah and Jerusalem, they're going to be judged. They're going to be sent into exile, and the city's going to be devastated soon. Now it is brought back to this oppressing city who listens to no voice and accepts no correction and doesn't trust in the Lord. This is Jerusalem. Her officials within her are roaring lions. Her judges are evening wools. They live nothing until the morning Her prophets are fickle, treacherous men. Her priests profane what is holy. So you have prophets, priests, and kings, the three anointed offices. They were supposed to be the covenant mediators. The kings would mediate God's justice and God's protection. The priests would mediate God's law and God's worship, and the prophets would mediate God's word, God's call to the people. And they were all failures. Because the king and his officials were corrupt and self-seeking. The prophets were fickle and treacherous. That means basically they prophesied what people wanted to hear, whoever paid them the most money, and the priests They profaned what is holy and did violence to the law by sort of telling people again whatever would advance their own cause. So all these, the king and his officials, the prophets, the priests, they're all self-serving. In contrast to them, the Lord, the Lord within her, the Lord within Zion, the Lord within his people, is righteous and does no injustice. This disconnect can't continue. You can't continue to have covenant mediators who are corrupt and self-seeking and self-serving. And unreliable and profane, and a covenant Lord who is righteous and does no injustice. And so judgment has to come. Judgment must come. And so God is going to bring judgment not only to Jerusalem, but also to the nations. God's going to judge Jerusalem and then and then God's going to gather nations, assemble kingdoms, and bring judgment upon everybody. But we get something new. in Zach chapter three that wasn't there in chapter one or in chapter two. And that is, what about those who are faithful? What about those who are trusting God? What about those who have been persecuted and oppressed? What about those who are waiting for the Lord? Well, God is going to bring us in He's going to gather us together. He's going to purify us, because we're sinful too. But he's going to purify us. He's going to change the speech of the people to a pure speech that all of them may call upon the name of the Lord and serve him with one accord. In some way, I think this is a a a prophecy actually that the curse of Babel will be undone when Jesus comes again and gathers his church. You know, we're gonna have Believers from all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues, and every age of history, from Abraham to you know, John Wesley to uh William Carey to John Calvin to um you know African pastors and you know, Chinese house church leaders and people from all throughout the history. We don't speak the same language, we don't have the same cultural background, but God's going to make us one He's going to bring us together so that we can with one accord, in a pure speech, call upon the name of the Lord. We're going to be gathered in. And we will not be put to shame, even though, even though we have rebelled against God. Because all of that is removed, of course, by the Lord Jesus and his sacrifice. And then also, though, not only will our sins be forgiven, but the proudly exultant ones, in other words, people who are really hypocrites. And false prophets and self-promoting people who lorded over God's people, they're gonna be gone, they're gonna be judged. And so it will only be the humble, the lowly. They seek refuge in the name of the Lord, and they will do no injustice and speak no lies. Because God will purify us. God will make us completely holy. Never tell a lie again. Never say anything wrong. Never have a bad motive again. Our hearts, our souls, our minds, our tongues purified. And no more fear. And no more fear. The thought of this, the thought of this coming day should cause us to sing and to shout and to rejoice and to exult because we're finally going to be free from everything that plagues us, our own sin, as well as the oppressions of the world and the brokenness of even the church, it's all going to be fixed. That should just cause us to be so excited and so passionately longing for this day to come The Lord's taken away the judgments against us. How? By pinning them to Christ on the cross. He's declared away all of our enemies by judging them for all eternity. The King of Israel, the Lord is in your midst, you shall never again fear evil, either evil that might arise out of our own hearts or evil that comes at us from the world. And so fear not. So not only can we sing and shout and rejoice and exult, but we can fear not. Because the Lord our God, and here it is, Zephaniah 3. 17. For the Lord our God is in our midst, a mighty one who will save us. He will rejoice over us with gladness, he will quiet us. by his love. He will exalt over us with loud singing. It's one thing for us to be called to rejoice and exalt and to sing aloud and shout, but to think that God would do that over us? That God would rejoice over us with gladness, that God would exult over us with loud singing, that God would quiet us with his love. There's nothing better. And that's our hope, and that's our future. Wow, that day is coming. And the Lord is already in our midst. A mighty one who saves. And so we don't need to fear today because he's in our midst today and he's promised that one day All of this, all the suffering, all the sin, all the persecution is temporary He's going to sweep it all away, and it will be like a dream that passes away in the night. He's going to deal with our oppressors. He's going to save us. He's going to gather us. And we're going to be with him and free from sin and free from oppression forever. Forever. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, you are so incredibly gracious to us. Your salvation is far better than we could ever have deserved or even imagined. What a day will be when you come to gather us together. You're going to remove all the sin out of our hearts. You're going to remove all of the dysfunction out of our minds and lives and mouths. You've already forgiven us. You've already justified us. You're going to completely cleanse us. of every stain of sin and remove all of our enemies. No more temptation, no more harassment, no more accusations from the devil, no more ridicule from the world. We will be made holy, at peace, with you, as one people forever. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen Amen. Well, thanks for joining me for Zephaniah 3. I love how in these minor prophets, you notice this pattern? It's like judgment, wrath, discipline, and then glorious grace. Glorious grace. Because that's the final word with a gloriously gracious God. Alright, tomorrow we're going to pop back to 2 Peter, pick up 2 Peter chapter 2. Hope you can join me for that, and I do hope you have a blessed day. The Lord.