Good morning and welcome to Walking with Jesus Through the Word one chapter per day. I'm Pastor Jason Van Bemmel from Forest Hill Presbyterian Church. It's day 1068, and we come to Zephaniah chapter 2. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are good. Your love endures forever. Your faithfulness is evident in our lives every day, although some days we are blind to it. Thank you for your word. Teach us from Zephaniah 2. Today we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Zephaniah 2 Gather together, yes, gather, O shameless nation, before the decree takes effect, before the day passes away like chaff Before there comes upon you the burning anger of the Lord, before there comes upon you the day of the anger of the Lord. Seek the Lord, all you humble of the land. Who do His just commands, seek righteousness, seek humility, perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the Lord For Gaza shall be deserted, and Ashkelon shall become a desolation. Ashdod's people shall be driven out at noon, and Ekron shall be uprooted. Woe to you, inhabitants of the seacoast, you nation of the Karahites. The word of the Lord is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines. And I will destroy you until no inhabitant is left. And you, O sea coast, shall be pastures with meadows for shepherds and folds for flocks The sea coast shall become the possession of the remnant of the house of Judah, on which they shall graze, and in the houses of Ashkelon they shall lie down at evening, for the Lord their God will be mindful of them and restore their fortunes. I have heard the taunts of J of Moab and the revilings of the Ammonites, how they have taunted my people and made boasts against their territory Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Moab shall become like Sodom, and the Ammonites like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and salt pits, and a waste forever. The remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the survivors of my nation shall possess them. They sh this shall be their lot in return for their pride, because they taunted and boasted against the people of the Lord of hosts. The Lord will be awesome against them, for he will famish all the gods of the earth, and to him shall bow down, each in its place, all the islands, all the lands of the nations. You also, O Kushites, shall be slain by the sword, and he will stretch out his hand against the north and destroy Assyria. And he will make Nineveh a desolation, a dry waste like the desert, herds shall lie down in her midst. All kinds of beasts, even the owl and the hedgehog, shall lodge in her capitals A voice shall hoot in the window. Devastation will be on the threshold, for her cedar work will be laid bare. This is the exalted city that lived secretly, that said in her heart, I am, and there is no one else. What a desolation she has become, a lair for wild beasts. Everyone who passes by her hisses and shakes his fist. Zephaniah chapter two Now chapter one had already declared that God was going to bring a A full and final judgment on all the earth on the great day of the Lord, which is near and hastening fast still today Every day brings us one day closer to the great day of the Lord. But we also saw in chapter 1 that there was going to be a day of judgment for the people of Judah and Jerusalem because of their idolatry, because of their hypocrisy. They would swear by the name of the Lord, but they would also w worship Milcom. They would they would forsake inquiring of the Lord to inquire of pagan deities. And so the hypocrisy And the idolatry and the religious syncretism of God's people was primarily in focus as the immediate judgment that was going to come in chapter 1. But chapter 2 The focus shifts to the surrounding nations who have harassed God's people. The burning anger of the Lord is going to come on them. They are invited to repent and to seek righteousness and to seek humility, but they are threatened if they do not do so. It's remarkable how gracious God is in in pronouncing judgment on the first group here that's pronounced judgment on are the Philistines. Philistia is where you would find Gaza and Ashkelon and Ashdod and Ekron. Those are all the major cities of the Philistines. Now the Philistines have been harassing God's people for centuries by this point. Going back to the time of the judges, remember in the time of Samson, and then in the time of Saul, the Philistines actually were dominant over God's people. And then later they weren't. David and Solomon got the upper hand, and the Philistines were not dominant over God's people anymore. But whenever Judah declined a little bit, The Philistines would rush in to harass them, but here they're going to be driven out. But God at his grace is saying to them, Seek the Lord. And do his commands, and perhaps you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the Lord. So even to the Philistines who've been harassing God's people for centuries, God is still gracious. God in judgment remembers mercy. God in threatening wrath is inviting repentance. And this is the grace of God, even to the enemies of God's people. But it won't be forever. The Philistines' land will be desolate. The Philistines, we don't really know what happened to them in history. They were wiped out at some point. They were probably an Eastern Mediterranean people who came from one of the islands. In the Eastern Mediterranean, they're not the same people as the Palestinians today, completely unrelated. Palestinians are an Arabic tribe, and the Philistines were not Arabic. They were from the islands in the Mediterranean. And so they're gone They're gone because they did not repent and they continued to harass God's people. And then from that's the the southwest of Israel, now to the southeast of Israel, Moab Moab is on the other side of the Dead Sea, and it has also been a source of continual uh threats and harassment against God's people, the Moabites. and the Ammonites. Remember the Moabites and the Ammonites were descendants of Lot from Lot's incestuous relationship with his daughters And so that they have a very troubled past, but they also have had a history of harassing God's people. And they're told. Their land is going to be desolate. And it was. It was wiped out, and it was empty for a long time because God judged them. The Kushites are brought in. Who are the Kushites? Well they're all the way south of Egypt in Africa in what's today Ethiopia and Sudan. That's where you would find Kushites. And they also are going to be judged. And then finally, the last nation addressed here is Assyria. Nineveh. This is the great power. This is the great world empire, dominant, but even they will not escape the judgment of God. She will be desolate. She will be wiped out. There is no one who is so powerful that they can stand against God. Everyone is graciously invited by God to repent, to seek the Lord, to be forgiven. to walk in the ways of the Lord, but no one can oppose God. Now this for us, I think there's two very clear applications Where there are areas in our lives where we are being hypocritical, where we are being idolatrous, where we are being unfaithful, we need to repent and seek the Lord. We need to cry out to the Lord for mercy. But if there are areas in our life where we are tempted to be intimidated by the world and We are afraid of what the world thinks of us or what the world might do to us or what might be coming in the future. We need not fear God is in control. God rules as the sovereign judge over all the nations. It doesn't mean we won't be called to go through tribulation and persecution. That's part of the lot that God has assigned to his people throughout the ages. But God will triumph. There's no one, there's no world power that's going to arise. Not Russia, not China, not the United States, who's going to rise up and be able to overthrow God from his throne. Many would like to, many have tried It's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. So for us, repentance and faith, and then confidence before the world, knowing that their days are numbered. Let's pray. Father, you are good, unfailingly so. You are just, perfectly so. You are merciful and righteous, and you extend that mercy and righteousness to all who will call upon you in faith. You've been gracious to us, and we thank you. We thank you that we are not condemned along with the nations, although we deserve it. But you have had mercy on us. You have drawn our hearts to yourself. You have given us faith in you. And for that, we thank you and praise you. Help us to live confidently and obediently. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well that is Zephaniah 2. Tomorrow we're going to go on to Zephaniah 3. Hope you can join me for that. Have a blessed day in the Lord.