Take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 8. We're going to pick up our study in the next chapter of Hebrews, chapter 8. And I want you to look in verse number one. Chapter 8 has 13 verses to it, and we'll deal with these verses tonight. But Hebrews chapter 8 verse 1. Now the things which we have spoken, this is the sum. We have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. Now I think one of the great secrets of the Christian life is simply keeping our eyes on the Lord Jesus. Wouldn't you agree? And that's how we get saved. We start out coming into the kingdom by looking to Jesus. The Bible says in Isaiah 45, 22, look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. That was the verse that converted Charles Furgeon, the great preacher, when a Methodist preacher, actually he wasn't a preacher, he was a deacon. The preacher didn't show up that morning because it snowed And the and the deacon got up and took this verse and just preached, look unto me. And Spurgeon did and he was saved. But that's the way any of us are saved. We get saved by looking to the Lord Jesus. We're saved by looking to Jesus. We're sanctified By keeping our eyes on Jesus. I think that we are sanctified to the degree that we focus upon the Lord Jesus Christ In fact, the writer of Hebrews will say later in Hebrews 12, too, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. And then the Bible tells us we're to keep looking for the second coming of the Lord, right? Write down Titus 2, verse 13, looking for that blessed hope and glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. So we are to actually live our life looking for him, looking for his coming. So all of the Christian life is about focusing our attention on Christ. And this is what the writer of Hebrews wants to remind these readers about, that they keep their eyes on Jesus because that's fundamental to success in the Christian life. In fact, you can evaluate any teaching or practice by this one thing. If it diminishes the glory of Christ, it's not of God Any teaching or any practice that diminishes the glory of Christ is not of God. And since looking at Jesus and focusing on Jesus is our Is our success in the Christian life, guess what Satan's going to do? He's going to try to distort our view of Jesus. He's going to try to do anything to keep our eye get our eyes diverted. If he can even get you to focus on rules and outward observances and be fooled into thinking by by doing that, you're good Christians. As long as you're not looking at Jesus. If the person and work of Jesus is not our focus and joy, we can do all sorts of outward things, but we're missing the vital thing: to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And one of the things that the enemy will do sometimes to get our our focus distorted off of Christ is sometimes he'll take us through trials. Or he'll bring temptation. He'll do all these things to distract us. Did you know that distraction is one of Satan's great weapons? to just distract us from doing what we should do. And so with all that in mind, the the writer of Hebrews understands this, and he's writing to Christians, Hebrew Christians, those who made a profession of faith in Christ, he's writing to them because they're tempted to abandon Christ. They've been tempted to take their eyes off of Christ and actually instead of looking forward and looking to Jesus, they were looking backwards. They were looking back into their old religion. To their old rituals, their religious practices. And they were asking themselves the question: why endure suffering and persecution when all we have to do is just simply turn back to what we once knew And then that that way things will be easy. Why not just go back to the old ways? There may be some people here tonight that are tempted that way. You've been trying to keep your eyes on Christ. You've been trying to go forward. You've been trying to be faithful, and you have all these distractions, or perhaps you're suffering because you're taking a right stand, and your temptation is, I'm just going to go back Go back to the things I once knew. Well, I want to tell you that's dangerous thinking. God doesn't want any of us going backwards. He wants us going forwards And so the writer of Hebrews is writing to remind these Jewish Christians about that very thing. And to counter this danger, the author shows that everything we have in Jesus is better. You understand that? There's nothing that the world can offer you that's better than Jesus. There's nothing that some old religion can offer you that's better than Jesus himself. And so he reminds these believers to look to Jesus. In fact, we already said this, and I'm sure you remember it, but one of the key words in the book of Hebrews is the word better, right? He's constantly pointing to the better things. Chapter 6, verse 9. We have better things in Christ. Christ is a better sacrifice. Christ, in him, we have better possessions. And you know what, we're looking for what? A better country. I I like living here in uh Baltimore, especially after being in Los Angeles. But I want to tell you something, friend, I there's a better country than this. And I I'm not looking to any of these earthly places. I'm looking to that better country called heaven. The Bible says Christ gives us a better country. We're going to have a better resurrection. So Christ is better than any of these other things, the writer is saying. And so what he's doing here in chapter 8 is he's giving us this one idea. Jesus is a better priest who gives us a better covenant. He's a better priest who gives us a better covenant. Now, if you're with us in chapter 7, the author has already proven that Christ's heavenly priesthood is of a better order. But now here he's going to talk about the fact that through Jesus we have a better covenant. And he's comparing the new covenant with the old covenant that the Jews had in the Old Testament. The Levitical priests ministered according to the old covenant that God made with Israel at Mount Sinai. But the very fact that God calls it an old covenant and then introduces a new covenant shows what? That the old covenant is done away with There's something new that was brought about by the cross of Jesus Christ. And so he wants to prevent the readers from going back to Aaron, back to the Levitical priesthood, back to the old covenant. And he wants to prove the superiority of a better covenant. Now you might ask this question, what makes the cut this new covenant so much better? I'm glad you asked. Let me give you three reasons why it's better. Number one, it's ministered by better priests Look in chapter 8, verse 1 again. Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum. I like the way he says that. Let me just sum up for you everything that we've already spoken. That's what he's saying there in verse 1. And what he's doing is he's actually summarizing all the previous arguments that he gave in chapter 7 about Christ being a better priest. You know, sometimes you hear me say, here's the sermon in one sentence, let me summarize it for you. Well, that's what he's doing right here. He's saying, let me just summarize for you. In one sentence here, everything that I've said in chapter 7, this is the psalm. We have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens And in essence, what he's saying here, we have a better priest than any priest that was in the old covenant system. And notice first of all his posture. Notice that it says he sits on the right hand of the throne. And again, he's summarizing it. Everything that Christ has done, everything he said in chapter 7 Remember, in fact, let's go back and look and read let me just remind you and look in chapter seven verse fifteen, and it is yet far more evident For after the similitude of Melchizedek there arises another priest. Remember, Christ is a priest that has a better order. What is his order? It's after the order of Melchizedek. He's not after the order of the Levitical priests, he's after the order of Melchizedek. Because Melchizedek was not only a priest, he was a king. And his priesthood doesn't end. So it's a better order He says you have another priest. The word for another there means different in quality. You have a higher quality priest in Christ. Now remember, he's talking to these Hebrew Christians. You don't want to go back to those Levitical priests, do you? When you have a better quality priest in the Lord Jesus Christ. A better order, a better ordination in verse number 16 of chapter 7, who is made not after the law of the carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. In the Old Testament, when they selected a priest, it was after what he called carnal, a carnal commandment, or we could say fleshly regulations. And it was all outward. They judged them outwardly. They judged their body. They wanted to make sure they were um without physical blemish and they were cleansed. They were bathed and they went through all these outward fleshly Rituals, that's what qualified them to be a priest, but not Jesus. His but after the power of an endless life. He had the authority. It wasn't what was on the outside, it was what who Jesus Christ was within That made him a priest that was selected by God. A better order, a better ordination. We could say a better outcome in verses 18 and 19 if you remember this. Verse 18, for there is verily a dis disannuling of the commandment going before the weakness and unprofitableness thereof And what he's saying there is that the old is being done away with to make way for the new covenant, and this new gives you access to God. Do you know in the Old Testament they didn't have access to God? But because of your new Freeze Jesus, you know you and I have access And that's the reason we draw near. We draw nigh, verse 19. It's a better order, a better ordination, a better outcome, a better oath. Because look down in verse number 20, verse 20, and as much as not without an oath, he was made priest. Verse 21, for those priests were made without an oath, but this with an oath by him that said unto him Now in the Old Testament, those priests were not required to make an oath. Aaron and the priests there didn't make an oath. You know why? Because that priesthood was temporary. But when Christ took upon himself the office of a priest, it was it was uh made secure by an oath, and that oath is found in Psalm 110 that he's quoting from You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. This is an unchanging oath. He's got a better oath. And then finally he makes a better offering. Look at verse 26 of chapter 7. For such a high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, and undefiled, separated from sinners, made higher than the heavens. That is, Jesus is just the perfect high priest. He was without flaw, and he offered himself for our sins, verse 27. And all of that he says then Everything that he said in chapter 7, he says, I'm going to summarize it now in verse number 1 of chapter 8. We have a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty on High. He said, I'm going to just summarize all of that and just tell you that Jesus is a better high priest. He's seated at the right hand of the Father in heaven. And so that's his posture. Notice he's set. He's not standing, he's set. Why? Why is that important? Well, because priests of the Old Testament, they never sat down. You ever visit a replica of the tabernacle? Anybody here ever do that? Okay, we gotta get you guys out more. Alright, if you did. One thing that you'll notice that is not one piece of furniture in the tabernacle that is not there is a chair. You know why? Because the priests never sat down. You know why? Because their work was never done. They didn't sit down, but Jesus, when he went to heaven, he sat down. You see, since his work of redemption is finished He didn't offer sacrifices. He offered one sacrifice. That was himself. That was the final sacrifice. So when he did that, now he he sits down. And the very posture then demonstrates he's a superior high priest. He's seated Not only his posture, but his position. Look at it again where it says he seated he sat on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. On the right side, that's the place of authority, that's the place of honor. Did you know in Bible days the Supreme Court in religious matters was known as the Sanhedrin? And did you know that there was a high priest that uh had on his left hand a scribe who would write down judgments he made, and then there was a scribe on his right hand? Where he would also write down judgments, and if someone were guilty of a crime or some act of disobedience, the terms of his prosecution were written by the scribe on the left side. If a guy was guilty, he would say to the one on the left hand, Here, write this down. But if a person were innocent and was no longer condemned, the terms of his acquittal would be written down by the person seated on the right hand of the priest. And we have a God man in heaven who sit at the right hand of God. You know why? That's the place of authority, that's the place of power, that's where he has written out the terms of our acquittal of all of our sins When Satan comes trying to accuse us, you know what Jesus does on the right hand? He just says to the Father, That's already been taken care of. There's nothing to write down there. So we have a better covenant because it's ministered by a better priest. But here's the second thing: write this down. It's ministered by a better priest, but also, number two, it's mediated from a better place. This is his point in verses 2 through 5. Look at verse 2. A minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man. You see, the Levitical priests serve in a tabernacle where? On earth? It was pitched by man. That is, they are the ones that set it up. But Jesus, our great high priest, he mediates our better covenant from a better tabernacle. Which tabernacle is that? That's the tabernacle in heaven. We call this the true tabernacle. That's the word that he uses here. Look again in verse 2. Of the true tabernacle. Now, this word true is not as opposed to false This is true, meaning the real substance, not the shadow. It's a comparison of the temporary versus the eternal That tabernacle on earth was temporary. The tabernacle in heaven is eternal. That tabernacle on earth was the shadow. That tabernacle in heaven was the substance. Did you know that certain Greek mystic philosophers held that everything we see, hear, and touch is but a shadow or a reflection of A real counterpart in another world. There are some Greek mystic philosophers that taught that. The world that we experience is not the real true world. It's only a representation somewhere in the universe Is the true world. Things here are a shadow of that true substance. Now the writer of Hebrews is kind of saying the same thing. Now he wasn't a Greek philosopher And he certainly wasn't trying to uh authenticate Greek philosophy. But you know what? Every once in a while philosophers might get something right. I know that surprises you. And here it interacts with truth. There's a truth. And that is to say that what we have down here is kind of a shadow. Heaven is the real substance. Did you know that? If you ever doubt heaven, just remember this. Heaven is more real than earth. It's very real. More real. This is the shadow lands. Heaven is the real place. And the writer here is saying, listen, this earthly tabernacle and temple, they were just copies of the heavenly tabernacle. Moses got The pattern from God, look down in verse number five, who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things As Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle, for see, he saith that thou make all things according to the pattern showed to thee in the mount When Moses went up there to Mount Sinai, you know what God gave him? By the way, when he came down, he had the law of God in one hand and plans for the tabernacle in the other. That's law and grace right there, isn't it? But the plans for the tabernacle came straight from God. God's the one who gave them all the dimensions of it. In fact, there are some scholars that believe that God actually revealed a model to Moses. Well we don't know that for sure, but we do know this. The plans that he had came straight from God. And the design of the tabernacle revealed specific truths about the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you know that every piece of furniture in the tabernacle had meaning to it? There was something about it that pointed to the future coming of the Messiah, the one who would die for sin, the new mediator of the new covenant, every item And so, therefore, the priests who serve in the earthly tabernacle were inferior to our high priest who serves in the true tabernacle there in heaven. the dwelling place of God. He's a true, we see a true tabernacle, but also right down the true priests. Look, look, look, look in verse 3 of chapter 8. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices Wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer. So really the question is this: if Christ finished his work and he's seated in heaven, does he have nothing to do now? I mean, is Jesus without anything to do as the priest in heaven? Is all his priestly work finished? That's kind of the question here. And what's the answer? The answer is no. Now, his sacrifice is finished, his atoning work is finished, that part of his work is done, but all of his priestly ministry is not finished. And the writer here says, look, every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. Then that means then Jesus, as the perfect high priest, he can do no less. If every earthly high priest were offering sacrifices and gifts, surely we expect the same thing of our heavenly high priest. But here's the difference. He already offered one sacrifice, so he's not offering sacrifices anymore. But he is still offering gifts. There's a difference between a gift and a sacrifice. You see, a sacrifice is a blood offering To cover sin. Jesus already offered himself. That part's done. But what was a gift? The gift offerings were given to represent personal dedication, commitment, thanksgiving to the Lord. Did you know that as God's people we're supposed to continually offer gifts to God? We we do that all the time, at least we should Because what does it demonstrate? It demonstrates our personal dedication to the Lord, our commitment to the Lord, our thankfulness to the Lord. We should be doing that continually. And did you know that we can't do that apart from Jesus Christ? Just as no Israelite could offer a gift in the tabernacle except through a priest We can't offer our gifts to God except through Jesus Christ. You understand that? So every time we come to church and we want to lift our gifts to God, you know where it comes through? It comes through Jesus. Because of him. Anything of value or consequence we do as believers must be done through our high priest Jesus. So he's still there offering gifts that come from us to the Father. He's still uh that mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, who offers up our gifts as we bring them to the Lord. Did you bring your gift to God tonight? Did you bring your gift of praise to Him? and thanksgiving and a renewal of dedication and commitment to Him. That's what we do when we worship. Write down Colossians 3:17. And whatsoever you do in word or in deed, to all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. And so the writer is saying to these believers, look, to go back to the old covenant means forsaking the realities of heaven for the earthly limitations. How much greater it is to have a heavenly high priest ministering in a heavenly sanctuary. Now let me give you the third point here, third and final. But I got a lot of subpoints under that. We have a better covenant because it is ministered by a better priest. It is mediated from a better place. But here's the third thing. It is made of better promises. It's made of better promises. Look in verse number six, chapter eight. But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry. By how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises Now this these verses actually from verse 6 down to verse 13 really contains the key arguments of this whole chapter The promises of the new covenant are far better than those of the old covenant. Consequently, then the priesthood of Christ, which is based upon better promises, must be itself a better priesthood. That's just logical. The better promises of this better covenant Or really promises that God may get this in the Old Testament. He prophesied them back in the Old Testament. In fact, hold your place here in Hebrews, and I want you to go to the book of Jeremiah. Go back to the Old Testament book of Jeremiah. Look in Jeremiah chapter 31. Because This is where these this new covenant was prophesied that had these better promises in it. Jeremiah chapter 31, verse number 31. Now, let's remember the context of Jeremiah. Jeremiah wrote this message at a time when Israel was backslidden. They were guilty of apostasy, turning their back on God. And God was about to punish them and carry them off into captivity. Why? Well, they had failed miserably under the old covenant. They just continued to disobey God. They got hard against God. Their rebellious heart just wouldn't turn to the Lord. This is against everything that Israel said that they would do. Do you remember in Exodus chapter 20, right after God delivered Israel out of Egypt, and they came to Mount Sinai, and Moses went up to the mount to talk to God, and God said to Moses, Moses, I have a proposal for your people for the people of Israel. If they want to be my people and I can be their God, if they'll just agree to obey everything that I tell them in this covenant, we can make an agreement together, and they will be to me a peculiar people And they will be a kingdom of priests to show forth my praise as long as they do what I ask. Would you take that proposal back down to the people? And Moses went back down to the people and said, This is what God said. If you'll just obey his covenant, then he will be our God, and we will be a special people unto him. And you know what the people's response was? All that the Lord said, we will do That was the response. All that the Lord said, we will do. Well, that didn't work. You know why? Because all they did was break those those promises, or I should say principles. And by the way, the stipulations of the covenant They were written down on a two tablets of stone, you know that. We call them the what? Ten commandments. And all they did was just break the commandments of God. They were doing it all the time. They were just breaking God's commandments one after another. They failed over and over again until by the time you get to the book of Jeremiah, they were so holy given over to idolatry. They had so broken all of God's covenant commandments that God said, that's it, that's enough. I'm going to punish you. I'm going to carry you off into captivity But before God did that, he gave them a word of hope. Look in verse 31 of chapter 31. Notice what he says, Behold the days come, saith the Lord. That I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which which my covenant they break, although I was their a husband unto them, saith the Lord. The relationship between God and Israel was like husband and wife. And Israel went ahooring, the Bible says, because they were committed to idolatry. God said, I was a husband, and look at verse 33. But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts, and will be their God, and they shall be my what? People. God said, Look, when I do this new covenant When I write down the stipulations of this new covenant, I'm not going to write it on stone this time. You know where I'm going to write it? I'm going to write it in their hearts. They couldn't obey that first old covenant. But this time I'm going to write it down in their hearts. Look at verse 34. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor. And every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. Those are the promises that the writer of Hebrews is talking about. These are the promises of the new covenant. Can't you see that these are much better than the old? So much better than the old. And then there was a time uh later on when the Lord Jesus Christ came, and you remember this, before the Lord went to Calvary. He celebrated the Passover with his disciples in the upper room. And at that upper room, he instituted what? The Lord's Supper. And what did he say? This take take the cup. This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you. At that point there, Jesus was then instituting the new covenant, which would be based upon what? His own shed blood. His own sacrifice on the cross. Paul would later quote these words and apply them not just to Israel. He'll quote these words in 1 Corinthians 11, and they will apply to us, the church. And so the writer is quoting from this Old Testament passage, and he's come along and he said, Christ is now the mediator of this new covenant. Just write down in your notes Hebrews 9. 15. For this cause, he is the mediator of the New Testament, or we could say the New Covenant, that by means of death For the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Write down Hebrews 12, 24. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And to the blood of sprinkling. That speaks better things than that of Abel. Know what he's saying there? When Abel's blood was spilled, remember Cain killed Abel, and Abel's blood was spilled on the ground. Remember, God said that Abel's blood cries out. What did Abel's blood cry out? Revenge! Justice! I want justice. But when Christ's blood was spilt on Calvary, his blood also cried out. But what did his blood cry out? Better things. Because what did the blood of Christ say of the cross? Forgiveness. Not justice, but mercy. And forgiveness. That speaks better things. And so this covenant This new covenant speaks better things because it's made up of better promises. Let me give you the promises. Go back to Hebrews chapter 8. Let's go through this real quickly here. I got five minutes left. You guys got five minutes left than you? All right, let's let's look at these promises. There's first of all the promise of grace. Look in verse 7. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second. Look at the first covenant was what it should be, was faultless, you don't need a new covenant. But the old covenant had limitations It had outward laws, but it couldn't change the heart. The law could reveal sin, but it could not remove it. It could not save or justify sinners. And so The old covenant was based upon who? The faithfulness of man. But what is this new covenant based on? The faithfulness of God. When God offered the old covenant, what did the people say? We will do it. Did they do it? No. This new covenant is based on God what God would do. In fact, the key phrase that we see over and over again is I will, I will. Look down at verse 8. It says, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant. This is God doing it. Look down in verse number 10. For this is the covenant that I will make After those days, saith the Lord, for I will put my laws into their heart, and right un in their hearts, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. Look at verse 12, for I will be merciful. And then their iniquities will I remember no more. You see? You see the difference? This is all based not on the faithfulness of man, but on the faithfulness of who? God. This will be all grace. God said, This is what I'm going to do, regardless of what you're going to do. This is what I'm going to do. It's going to be based on the grace of God. So it's the promise of grace. Another promise is the promise of a change, of an inner change, we could say. Look at verse number 10 again, chapter 8. Look at verse number 10. And notice what he says there. He says, For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, saith the Lord, I will write my laws, put my laws into their hearts. And write them in their heart in their minds, excuse me, and will write them in their hearts, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people. Again, the law of Moses could declare God's holy standard, but it could never provide the power needed. Sinful people need a new heart, a new disposition. And this is exactly what the new covenant does. God says, I'm going to give you an inner change. It's going to change you from the inside. Now you're going to want to do my word because of what I do in your heart. Write down Ezekiel 36, 26 and 27. This is kind of a parallel passage. of Jeremiah 31. A new heart also will I give you, a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh. I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, that you shall keep my covenants and do them. You see, when you get saved and you enter into this new covenant, he writes the covenant on your heart inwardly. He changes you on the inside. He gives you a divine nature on the inside. And so this new covenant has the promise of grace. It has the promise of an interchange. Also write this down. It has the promise of unlimited blessings. Look at verse 11. And they shall not teach every man his neighbor. And every man his brother saying, Know the Lord, for all shall know me from the least to the greatest. Boy, that's going to be a great day, isn't it? The day's going to come when there's not going to not be a need for personal witnessing You know, today we gotta get out there and we gotta say to people what? Know the Lord. We gotta witness to everyone around. You know what? There's going to be a day that comes when there's not going to be any need for personal witnessing. Because God says all people will know the Lord. And of course, the ultimate fulfillment of this promise will be at the establishing of his kingdom. And God said, at that time all shall know me. And so we have the promise of grace. the promise of inner change, the promise of unlimited blessing. Also write down the promise of sins forgiven. Look at verse 12. For I would be merciful To their unrighteousness and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. Again, the sacrifices of the old covenant could not completely remove sins The law could not promise forgiveness to Israel, let alone to all mankind. It's only through the sacrifice of Christ That forgiveness could come. And so God promises sins forgiven under the new covenant. God says, I'll be merciful. Their sins will I remember no more What does that mean? God says, I'll remember your sins no more. Does this mean that our all-knowing God can actually forget what we have done? Well, if God ever forgets anything, he ceases to be God because he's omniscient. What this simply means is when he says I'll remember them no more, it means he's not going to hold us it against us anymore. He'll deal with us on the basis of mercy and grace. He will not hold these things against us. It will never be brought up before us again. One day when you go to heaven, God's not going to rehearse something you did in the past. He's not going to hold any of that against us. He deals with us with grace and forgiveness. And here's the last thing We have the promise of grace and the promise of an interchange and the promise of unlimited blessing and the promise of sins forgiven. But here's the last thing, the promise of eternal blessing. Look at verse thirteen. In that he saith, A new covenant He hath made the first old, or he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish. So it says that he makes a new, literally there. He makes a new. And the word new here means new in quality, not new in time. And so the new covenant is of such quality that it'll never need to be replaced is what he's saying. This new covenant, this will be the last covenant. Will never need to be replaced. But in contrast The writer is saying that the old is decayed and is about ready to vanish away. This tells me that this epistle was written before 70 A. D. Because when the writer of Hebrews wrote this, the temple was standing, and the priests were still offering their sacrifices. But he says a prophetic word here in verse 13 when he says, it's ready to vanish away. All that's about to stop. And by the way, it did stop. Some of you know what happened in 70 AD when the Romans came into Jerusalem and they destroyed the temple? And you know the Jews have not had a temple or a priesthood to serve them ever since that time. You know why that was God providentially saying, the old is done. You don't need a temple. You don't need priests to s to to give sacrifices. Because all that was complete and finished in the Lord Jesus Christ. And what we have here on out is eternal. We have eternal blessings from here on out. And just simply put This new covenant, it's just a much better deal. It's a much better deal. How many of you like better deals? We're always out there looking for the best deal. Well, I'm gonna tell you right now, this is the best deal right here Best deal you're going to find. Offered a better deal. You'd be a fool not to take it. You'd be a fool not to enter into this new covenant. And so in closing, just ask yourself this then. Is Jesus Christ my high priest, the one seated on the right hand of the Majesty on High? Is he the one that is the one that I focus on in my life? My high priest who is there interceding for me? The one who died for me and now is praying for me? The one who takes my gifts that I give to the Father. Is he the one that I am focused on? Because I'm telling you, friend, that's the key to the Christian life. You have to set your affection on things above. Set your affection on Jesus. That's the key. Is that your heart devotion here tonight? Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, I pray that you'll help us to do that very thing. Knowing that we have been risen up with Christ. Help us to keep seeking the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of the Father. Lord, help us to set our mind on those things, on Christ. For we know that we have died and our life is hid with Christ in God. So Lord, don't allow the devil to succeed in distracting us away from the supremacy and the sufficiency of Christ for us. And maybe you just need to take a minute here tonight and just get refocused. Perhaps you've been distracted. You have taken your eyes off of Christ. Maybe you put them on a circumstance. Maybe you put them on some person, some earthly person that's not worthy of your devotion, your full devotion, only Christ is Maybe some trial has diverted your attention. And you need to kind of hit the reset button, so to speak, and put your mind and your focus back on Christ. How many say that's my desire, my prayer, by God's grace, I'm gonna do that tonight. God being my help Focus on him. Father, let this be a reality for everyone here tonight who've raised their hands and say, Lord, I need to get refocused. I need to focus on my Savior Lord, do that work in our heart, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.