All right. Thank you, praise team. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of James, chapter number one. The book of James, chapter number one, and we're going to look at just one verse, verse number 17. You don't have to stand this morning. You were just standing. I will stand the rest of the service. And uh look at verse number seventeen of James chapter one. Every good and perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Thanksgiving is a season that we should count our blessings, right? God has been so good to us and we need to be thankful for all that He But this verse here calls us to look not merely at the gifts that God has given us on our table, but to look at the God who put them there. It reminds us that gratitude begins by recognizing that God is the unchanging giver of every good and perfect gift. So James ties what God gives directly to who God is. And so the logic of this verse is this: God's gifts are always good because God Himself never changes. His generosity is rooted in his immutability. Now immutability is the theological term that simply means that God is not mutable, that is, he does not change. God does not change. So theologians define it like this. God is unchanging in his his being or his purpose or person, I should say. He's also unchanging in his perfections. in his purposes and in his promises. Now God is immutable. That doesn't mean that he's immobile. He still relates to his people. He still acts according to his people. But yet he does not change in his person. And he is perfect. You see, God is perfect. If he changed, that would imply that God was less than perfect, right? Because perfection doesn't need to change. So if if God's perfect, if he changed, that would mean he was either becoming better or worse. But since God is already perfect, there's no need for him to change. And so therefore he is immutable. Now, this idea is something that should give us great confidence as Christians. It should be something that we give thanks to God for, but it also should be something that we find great comfort in. when we go through trials. Three centuries ago, a Puritan pastor from London named Edward Pierce understood this very well. He pastored uh during the Great Plague of London in 1665 where a hundred thousand people died And then in 1666 there was the Great London Fire where thousands more people died and 80,000 people lost their homes. Can you imagine ministering in a time like that? He also endured endured persecution because he was cast out of his church at one point because he refused to compromise. uh adopt their rigid rules and many of them thought it was compromise, they refused to do it, so they were thrown out. . . He was ejected out of his church, losing his pulpit, losing his income, losing his home. He was repeatedly put in prison. While he was pastoring St. Margaret's Church there in Westminster, he faced the greatest trial of his life. He came down with tuberculosis. that slow and wasting disease that was so common in the 17th century. So his people watched him as he kind of withered away. And he would preach, uh, gasping for breath between sentences, but yet when he preached, he still preached with great passion, especially about the mercy of God, the grace of God. And the goodness of God. One eye witness that his sermons came from lips near the grave, but his soul near to God And during that time, Pierce varied friends, he counseled the dying, he preached to scattered congregation of people that were scattered abroad. He preached in the midst of the smoldering fires of London. And yet all throughout that he clung to the theology of James 117. that every good and perfect gift comes down from above, from the Father of lights. He preached that God is good. He rested in the immutability of God That God does not change. He wrote this: our hearts may change, our health may change, our friends may change, but he in whom we trust changes not. And herein lies the believer's daily peace and eternal hope. And based on this one idea, Pierce wrote the book, A Beam of Divine Glory. the in immutability of God. I read this book years ago, and it was a comfort to me. I just want to share with you some of the things that I learned from this That I hope will be a comfort and a help to you as you uh think about giving thanks to God, the unchangeable God who gives us Now, again, here in this passage, James makes the connection between God's unchanging nature and him being the giver of every good and perfect gift. How does he do that? Let me just share with you a few lessons we can learn as we look into this passage. Here's number one. God's good gifts flow out of God's unchanging character. Again, notice verse 17, where it calls God the Father of lights. Why does James use this expression about God? This father of lights was an ancient Jewish expression used to talk about God as the creator, the one who gave us lights. God was the one who created the sun and the stars and the moon. Have you ever think about what a gift the sun is to us, S-U-N? Also the S O N, we're going to talk about that in a minute. But the sun that constantly is giving light and and life Much of our you know, what would where would we be today if there were no sun? The sun is constantly giving life-giving rays. And to the ancient readers, the heavenly bodies were the most stable um constant things available in and in uh physical creation. Now from our vantage point, you know, the sun looks like it moves and the stars and the moon look like they move, but really it's it's the earth that's moving, right? It's w the earth is revolving and clouds that come in between. But the sun is constantly there and it's constantly shining its light. giving us life. The conditions of the earth may change, but the sun does not. And even so with God, we may experience cloud cloudy days and dark nights, but behind it all, God has not ceased to be who he is. And God is good. And that part of God does not change. Uh none of his attributes are mutable. He is good in every way, therefore, and uh that goodness is unchanging, and so therefore even when the The dark days come in the cloudy nights. God is still there shining. Notice verse 17 where it says, With whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. There's no variation, we could say. He doesn't change in his nature Neither shadow of turning, he doesn't change in his character. We just sang the song this morning, Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father And the writer wrote that hymn based on this verse where he says, There is no shadow of turning in thee, thou changest not, thy compassions they fail not As thou hast been, thou forever will be. That hymn was written by a man who was very frail in his health, who struggled all of his life. He was a godly man. He he tried to be a pastor but for one year but the physical strain was too much for him. And he and he had to do something else. But he wrote this one hymn because he wanted to express the goodness and the faithfulness of God, even in the midst of all of his his uh trials, and and how that hymn has blessed us. Even when it may not seem like it, from our vantage point, God is the giver of every good and perfect gift. He does not change. Now, Edward Pierce saw this, and uh he was a man who lost nearly everything in his life. uh by plague or by fire, his church scattered, people around him were dying, London was burning, and yet he insisted that God was good. He would say, My health changes, my friends change, my comforts change But God, the giver, remains the same. This verse became his comfort, his lifeline, the fact that God does not change in his goodness But here's number two, lesson number two is that God's goodness is not moody or mood-based or circumstantial, we could say. You ever notice how people can be moody at times? Don't look around. I heard about a husband who said to his wife, sweetheart, I I never know what the weather's gonna be like. And she says, Well why don't you check the forecast? He said, I'm not talking about the forecast, I'm talking about you Uh another man said to his friend, he said, I bought my wife a mood ring and uh when it's green, uh when she's in a good mood it it turns green, but when she's in a bad mood, it leaves a red mark on my forehead. People change with emotions. Have you ever noticed that? And people change according to the seasons. You know, this holiday season will bring a cascade of different emotions. And stress changes us. Physical weakness changes us. We are constantly changing, getting older, having those senior moments. You know, walking into a room forgetting why you're there. Has that ever happened did that happen to you last week? Don't raise your hand. It seems to happen to me more and more. We have good days. We have uh bad days. I uh someone sometimes you'll hear a child say, I want to ask my father for something, but I want to get him at the right time. I want to make sure that I ask him at the right moment when he's in a good mood. But you know what our our Heavenly Father is never like that. You never have to wait to ask God for something when He's in a good mood Because God is not given to moodiness. I said it before, but Uh this was uh uh when uh Jesse Duplanis, the Word of Faith preacher, was on TBN, the Christian Broadcasting Network, and uh he was telling a story. He was being interviewed by Benny Hinn. And uh Benny, he was telling Benny Henry, he said, Benny, I know God. I'm very close to God. I know him. And he said, one morning I got up and I was praying and something wasn't right, and I stopped and I said, God, are you okay? Are you okay, God? Because Jesse DuPlanis sensed that God was not right that day. He was kind of having a bad day. And so Jesse DuPlanis said, God said to him, Well, Jesse, my people down there are hurting me today. And so Jesse DuPlant said, Well, God, I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to cancel all of my appointments and I'm going to stay here just with you today. And God said to Jesse DuPlantis, Thank you, Jesse. And we're supposed to believe that Jesse DuPlanis could sense that God was having a bad day and God needed Jesse's help to get through the day. Because God needed that because of the his moodiness. That is one of the most blasphemous things I've ever heard in my life. James is telling us that God never has a bad day. He never does. Why? Because he does not change. God's not subject to circumstances and things around us. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God never becomes weary. God never reconsiders his love. God never stops being who he is. His love for us never cools. His disposition towards you is the same. It does not change. His generosity does not slow. His faithfulness never grows old. Listen to Isaiah fifty four, verse number eighteen. For the mountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord. that has mercy on thee. God's kindness will never depart from you. God's love will not change. And Edward Pierce knew this. He said this, there is no ebbing or flowing in God. His love stands like a rock in the midst of all storms. But here's a third lesson that we can learn from this, and that is that God's immutability guards us from misinterpreting trials God's immutability will guard us from misinterpreting trials. Now we have to understand the context of James chapter one Who is James writing to here? He's writing to people that were going through difficult trials. In fact, go to verse number one of this of James 1. James, a servant of God, of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. He addresses people that he says are scattered abroad. Why are they scattered? Well, they're running because of persecution. A wave of persecution had hit them. They were going through a very difficult time. And beloved, as believers, we will go through trials. We will face difficulty. It is a fact. Look at verse number two. He says My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptations. No, it says when, not if, but when. The question is not will I go through a trial or will I be tested? The question is when will that happen? Because it will happen. We are going to experience trials in this life. In fact, as I stand here, you are in I can divide the people here into one or three groups, those who are coming out of a season of testing, those who are in the midst of testing right now, and those who will be tested in the future. All of us are going to go through a season of trial. Jesus said, In the world you shall have tribulation. And it comes in many forms. Look again in verse 2. When you fall into divers temptations, the word means different, multifaceted. There are different trials that we all face, various forms. They come in the form of physical illness or disappointment or frustration or misunderstanding or unfulfilled dreams or Great loneliness or great loss. As you look throughout the scripture, you'll find God's people going through various trials at various seasons. in their life. And also the force of it. Look again at verse 2 where it says, When you fall, the word fall here, it's only found three times in the New Testament. Jesus used it to describe the men on his way from Jerusalem down to Jericho, who fell among the thieves. Remember the story of the Good Samaritan? Here's a man that was just minding his own business and all of a sudden some some thieves jump out. And all of a sudden he's left half dead. They they just fell upon him. That's the idea. Something that happens swiftly, suddenly, surprisingly, that is the way trials come. Everything might be good good now, but you could be hit with the news um today or sometime, get a phone call. We all have had this happen in our life from time to time. time. And when suffering hits, believers are tempted to think, perhaps God is no longer good. Maybe God is against me. Maybe God has forgotten about me. Or maybe God just doesn't really care what I'm going through. Or perhaps his posture towards me in some way has changed. And James corrects this kind of thinking by anchoring us in the truth of the immutability of God. God does not change. That's why James says every good and perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of lights. From whom there's no variation. There's no shadow of turning. If God has allowed it in your life, it comes because God is good and the end result of what is going on will be good. You say, how do we know that? Because it's rooted in the unchanging character of God, and God is good So therefore what he allows in your life will have a good purpose. That's why James could say in verse number two, count it all joy. Not joy in the pain, but joy in the result, joy in what God is ultimately going to do in your life. And when he uses the word count here, it's a financial term. It means to evaluate. You are to now evaluate the trials that you're in. but you are to evaluate them based upon the immutable character of God. Okay? That's key here. And this is exactly how Edward Pierce survived going through so much suffering. He lived through circumstances that were so overwhelming that any man might assume that God had turned against him. But because he knew that God was unchanging, he refused to interpret his trials as a sign that God had diminished his love against him. Pierce wrote this, he said, we do wrong to judge God by providence when we ought to judge providence by God. In other words, don't look at your circumstances and trials and then judge God by them, but rather look at God and then judge your circumstances. So you view your trials through. You start with the unchanging love and goodness of God, and through that lens, you view your trials. And that'll change how you feel about your trials. Because if you view your trials through the unchanging goodness and love of God, you'll have peace to know that everything that God is doing will have a good purpose. And his love for you has not changed. One day Charles Spurgeon was walking through the English countryside with a friend, and as they strolled along, they noticed a barn, and on top of the barn there was that weather vane. You've seen them where they kind of spin around with the wind. But on the weather vane it was written, God is love. And the friend said to Spurgeon, he said, that's that's an inappropriate place to put God is love, because it has the idea that God's love is constantly changing with the wind. And Spurgeon said, no, you're you're not reading it correctly. What it it means to say is that God is love no matter which way the wind blows. And that is so very true. Whichever way the wind blows, just remember God is love. God's goodness and love are stable even when the winds of affliction seem to blow against you. And Edward Pierce lived this out. When he was thrown in prison, he said, God's goodness has not changed. When coughing up blood from tuberculosis, he said, God's goodness has not changed. When watching multitudes buried weakly, he said, God's goodness has not changed. Trials do not mean God has become less good. They mean that God is doing something good that we cannot yet see. See. But here's the fourth lesson. God's gifts are perfect because He is perfect Again, verse 17, every good and perfect gift. Look at the word good there. That's Agatha in the Greek. Beneficial, kind, generous. Good in quality. It emphasizes the character of the gift. Perfect. That's the word, teleon, complete, exactly suited to its purpose. God's gifts are not only good in themselves, they are perfectly timed, God's gifts are perfectly measured, they are perfectly wise, they are perfectly suited to your life, they fit exactly what God knows you need in your life for your sanctification. So they're perfect. Some of those gifts might not look good to us at first. Trials that produce patience, delays that produce strength and faith, weakness that produces uh complete dependence upon God. The Bible reminds us that all things work together for good in this And so his gifts are unchangeably perfect. God never miscalculates. He never gives a gift too late. He never gives a blessing that will harm you. He never withholds something that you truly need. And so his gifts are perfect. But here's number five. God's immutability is the guarantee of a continual downpour of good gifts. He's constantly giving, constantly giving Just as the sun doesn't cease to shine, God does not cease to give us good gifts. Now we've been talking a lot about trials, that's part of it, but think about all the blessings that God showers us with. He's constantly giving to us. Look again in verse 17 where he says, every good and perfect gift cometh down from the Father of lights. Cometh down, that's uh in the Greek that's present tense, continual action. We could say continually coming down, descending again and again, never ceases to come. In other words, God's giving is not momentary. God's giving is continual. God's grace is not given like an eyedropper. It's given like a waterfall. God's constantly pouring out grace and goodness, and He's doing it right here, right now, while you're here. Listen to Lamentations 3. 22. His mercies are what new every morning. Psalm 23. 6, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. In Psalm eighty four, verse eleven, no good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly. And then in John 116, of his fullness we have received and grace for grace, literally it means stacked upon grace. God is stacking grace upon grace in our life. He's constantly showering us with grace. And all these verses emphasize his continual, constant giving. Your life is lived because of an unending downpour of God's goodness. You are drawing breath today because God is giving you breath to breathe. He's given you the strength to draw breath in. Every heartbeat is a drop of the mercy of God coming down. Every moment that you've lived has been lived under the constant rain of God's goodness and his kindness. Another thing I notice about this Word, this verb here, is it's active in voice. Again, it points straight to God. God is the subject of it. Everything comes from God. What you have is not from luck It's not from fate. It's not from human achievement. It's not by accident. It's from God. Notice where it says verse 17, from above. It comes from above. The same word is used in John 3 when Jesus told Nicodemus, you have to be born from above. It has to be God. And so he is the source of every blessing. Psalm 68, verse 19, blessed be the Lord who daily loadeth us with benefits. And a thankful person will see God's fingerprints on every blessing that we have in life. It's got the fingerprints of God on it because He's constantly giving to us. But let me give you the last lesson here. God's goodness is revealed in the greatest gift, and that is the gift of salvation. The gift of salvation. James moves from every good and perfect gift in verse seventeen to the greatest gift in verse 18, the gift of the new birth. Look what he says in verse 18. And of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. If you've ever doubted the goodness of God, then look at the cross where Jesus Christ purchased your salvation. Your salvation is completely a gift from Almighty God, from an unchanging God. And James describes here for us how this greatest gift that anyone can ever have How it all took place. If you're here today and you're saved and you know Jesus Christ, you know that you're going into the kingdom of God, you are a recipient of the greatest gift that could ever be given. You have the unspeakable gift. You have Jesus Christ. How did you get that? How did you get this Gift. Well James tells us here. First of all, who did it? Who did it? Look at verse 18. Of his own will. Your salvation was God's idea. It was his doing. It was his will, not you. No one would get to heaven and say, Well, I'm glad I got here. Man, that was really hard, but I was able to do it. No, it's not of you. You didn't do anything to get it. It was all of God from start to finish. Not of our own goodness, not of our own effort, not of our own wisdom, not of our own decision. You say, Well, you know, I see people seeking God. Men are not seeking God, they're running from God. They may look like they're seeking God, but actually what they're doing is they're seeking their own way of salvation rather than the true way. Because man and his fallen nature doesn't seek God. That's not what he does. God has to seek after us. This goes all the way back to the beginning in the Garden of Eden when a after Adam had sinned. Do we see Adam in the garden saying, Man, I've got to go to God about this now No, when God came into the garden, what was Adam doing? He was hiding from God. And that's the way it's been ever since. Fallen man hides from God. If you're saved today, it's because God came after you. He sought you out. Why did he do that? Because he's good and he's the giver of every good and perfect gift. And the greatest proof of his goodness is that he desired to save you. He will to save you. The greatest gift from heaven isn't something that God places into your hands, it is something that God places into your heart. And it is the gift of salvation. But then here's number the next thing is, why did he do it? Or excuse me, we could say what did he do Well, again in verse 18, it says, he begot us. That is, that's being born again. He gave us new life. This is the miracle of regeneration. We were born spiritually. We were born by the Holy Spirit of God. This is the same concept that Jesus used in John 3 when he said, Nicodemus, you have to be born from above. You have to be regenerated. That's exactly what God did to us. Again, it's a it's a gift. It's a work of God. It's a divine work. It is a miracle of grace And how did he do it? Again in verse 18. Of his own will, begot he us. Listen to this, with the word of truth. How does God do this? He uses the scripture, he uses the word of God. The new birth is not an emotional manipulation. It's not a religious tradition. It's not human persuasion. It is the work of the Holy Spirit making you alive. through the the Word of God. You see, and you've heard me say it so many times, the power is in the Word itself. There's power, there's life-giving power in the scripture Peter said this, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible seed by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. Well then the next question is, this is how he did it, but why did he do it? Look at the end of verse 18, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Salvation is the first installment of coming glory. That's what he means by first fruits. Remember, first fruits are the fruits that got ripe earliest. But they promised a harvest to come. And your salvation, what James is saying here is that your salvation is the evidence that God is going to do something greater in the future. That there's a future glory that you have. And you're going to be part of that. God saved you that he might make you perfect. Now I know you're not perfect right now But that's going to happen in your glorification. You see, salvation comes in three stages justification, sanctification, glorification. We were justified when we put our faith in Christ. We are being sanctified right now. That's why God is using trials. So those are some of the good gifts that he gives us because he's sanctifying us, he's making us more like Christ. That ultimately we will be glorified, we will be just like the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? For what purpose? That In heaven, we will give glory to Jesus all throughout eternity. We'll be added to the voice of the chorus of people that give praise and honor and glory to Jesus Christ for saving us. So God's eternal purpose in saving you was to bring you to glory. Was to make you like Jesus Christ, your future glory. And by the way, that's why we can't lose our salvation. You know why? Because his purposes do not change. God's purpose when he saved you has not changed What God has done, he will continue to do. He that has begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. When Edward Pierce saw everything around them collapse, he kept his focus on the eternal gift that God had given. And he taught to distinguish between temporal gifts and the eternal gift. And he wrote this: Christ is the unchanging gift of the unchanging God. If God never gave you another blessing here on this earth, he's already given you the greatest gift that he could ever offer when he gave you Jesus Christ. So this Thanksgiving, thank God not merely for what you have, but for who you are. You are a child of the unchanging Father. You're saved by an unchanging Savior. Through an unchanging gospel, held by an unchanging God, and give thanks to God for all of that. Every good and perfect gift comes from above. Let's bow for prayer together. Take a moment while your heads are bowed, and would you just Whisper a prayer, bow your heads and say thank you, Father of lights, because you never change. And every good thing I have. Thank God specifically. Name the blessings that He's given you. Thank Him sincerely, not out of the duty, but out of a heart filled with love and thanks for God. Thankfulness and praise. And thank him steadfastly. Just even when life changes, he doesn't. And he has a good purpose in everything that he allows in your life. And I want to ask you here today, it may be that you're here and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ Now is the time. The Bible says, now is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. And God wants you to have the greatest gift The gift of eternal life through Jesus Christ. It's no accident that you're here. You're here because He wants you to know That you're a His child, that your sins are forgiven, that you're on your way to heaven. If you haven't ever put your full faith in Jesus Christ, would you do it right now? Would you reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus I believe you are the good and perfect gift. That you came to die for my sins, pay for my transgressions, so that I could have eternal life in heaven. And today, Lord, I look to you and I ask you to save me. Save my soul. Forgive me for my sin. I turn to you today with all my heart. Put your faith in him, friend. He will save you. We're gonna have a moment of invitation. I'm gonna have our ministers come here to trump. We're gonna stand and sing an invitation hymn. Let's all stand together. And if God has spoken to your heart this morning, if you need someone to pray with you, just come and take the hand of one of these ministers here in the front. As we sing our invitation hymn, if God's spoken to you, you come