Take God's word, if you will, please, and open to the book of Luke, chapter 13, verses 1 to 9. We're going to deal with that passage here. And we're going to get to that eventually. But in the last few days, many Christians have asked what our response should be to the coronavirus crisis that we are facing. So what I want to do here today is I want to just give you three lessons that we can learn about this according to the Scripture. I'm going to take these right out of the Bible. This will be more of a topical approach, but I want to just emphasize I think things that are very important for us to understand. So what we're going to talk about first of all is a lesson about civil obedience. And then secondly, we're going to talk about a lesson about divine sovereignty. And then thirdly, I want to speak about a lesson about immediate repentance. And so the first lesson, number one, is a lesson about civil obedience. And in this, I want to emphasize that we as Christians are to be obedient to government authority. Now most of you know on Thursday, March the twelfth, the governor of the state of Maryland, Governor Hogan, took drastic action to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. He signed an executive order which activated the level of emergency level in our state of the state of Maryland to the highest possible level. Now among other things this prohibits a gathering together of 250 people or more. And so immediately I started to get some uh phone calls by people that said, well, shouldn't we gather to worship on Sunday regard Regardless of this order. I mean, can the state tell us when we should worship and when we should not worship? And so this is the first question I want to deal with. Well, first of all, I want to say that this is an order from uh the governor and if you read the executive order very closely it uses very strong language it uses the word prohibit and in fact to disobey this directive from the governor would be a misdemeanor so we would be disobeying the law. So the question that comes to mind is, is this a case for civil disobedience? Now we know that in the scripture there are times when believers are forced to practice civil disobedience because every once in a while there would be a law that went against the word of God. We know that in the book of Acts, Peter and John said, we ought to obey God rather than man. So the question comes to mind is, is this a or a time when as Christians we should practice civil disobedience because we're standing on the Word of God. We know that we never want to compromise Scripture. We know that we always want to be able to come together and worship in freedom. The question is, is this a case where we practice this civil disobedience? And my answer to that would be absolutely not Now let me be very clear. The Bible does tell us in 1 Peter 2, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. whether it be to the king as supreme, or as unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him, for the punishment of evildoers, for the praise of them that do well. The Bible makes it very clear that it is God's will for us to submit to authority. And Peter also tells us why. In 1 Peter 2. 15, for so is the will of God that with well-doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. In other words, as Christians, we need to understand that their Christianity is being maligned and there will be foolish and unknowing people that will make false judgments about Christianity. Therefore, it is all the more important as believers that we practice civil obedience that we do well. In other words, the default mode for Christians is we are obedient citizens. We listen to our governors. We listen to our authorities because this is the example that our Lord Jesus gave in his own life. He was a man in submission to authority. And the world is watching Christianity to find out uh what our response is to these kind of things. And they're watching our life. And the Bible says it's the will of God that by well-doing we put to silence The ignorance of foolish men. We silence the lies given about Christians, the false judgments towards Christianity. We silence all that. When the world sees in us obedience, when they see in us model citizens, and that's what we should be as Christians. Again, the question comes, is this a case here? for civil disobedience? And again the answer is no, because what's the goal of the governor? The goal of the governor is simply the health and well-being of Christian people, of not only Christian people, I should say everyone Not just believers but unbelievers. The governor wants to make sure that everyone is healthy. And the idea now is social separation so that the virus doesn't spread and infect other people. And so he's simply trying to keep people healthy. This is not a case when believers should say, well, we're going to disregard that. law. I think of the illustration of Daniel. Remember Daniel was in the in Babylon in a pagan land and uh he was asked to eat meat that was really if he ate it it would be uh compromising God's word. The the meat that he was given uh was sacrificed unto idols It would be uh equal to even worshiping that idol for him to eat that meat. So there were many reasons why Daniel could not compromise his conviction to eat that meat But Daniel also understood that the goal of the king's commandment was for him to be healthy. And so you know what Daniel did in his wisdom? He came up with an alternative that would accomplish what the king wanted and yet not uh not cause him to compromise his own conviction. That's wisdom there And again, he understood the goal of the authority was simply his health. Now, I think of that when I think of this executive order. The goal of our governor is for everyone to be healthy. As Christians We don't we don't we can we don't need to compromise what we believe in order to follow that directive. You say, well what about worshiping? The law is simply that you can't worship with 250 or more And so we can find ways where we can worship in public and still honor that law. I'm not sure how long this emergency order is going to last. We're thinking two weeks, if it lasts longer than that. We already have developed a plan where we can meet together in smaller groups and worship publicly. And we'll just see how that works out. But here's the thing I want you to understand, that as believers, we can practice the Word of God without compromise. and still honor our authorities. And this is a time when we as Christians should model civil obedience to those that are over us. And so that's the first lesson I want you to see. It is a lesson of civil obedience. Now, there's a second lesson I think we can learn from this whole thing, and that is, number two, a lesson about the sovereignty of God. We need to remind ourselves When something like this happens, when there's a tragedy that takes place or some kind of catastrophe or a virus comes and it kills people, we have to remember that God is in control You know, and this one idea that God is sovereign should give us peace as Christians. You know, we don't honor God if we run around with fear and headline hysteria Because the world look, again, the world is looking at Christians to see how we respond. How we respond is a testimony to the world of our faith in God. and what we really believe. Do you really believe that God is sovereign? Do you really believe that the message of the gospel promises eternal life? How we respond to things like this is a, as Paul would use the phrase, an evident token to the world of the trustworthiness of our message. Remember Paul said that to the Philippians when they were going through difficulty? He said, your boldness in the face of difficulty is an evident token to the world. of the message of the gospel. So let's remember that God is sovereign. Even in the midst of the most trying circumstances, God is exhaustively sovereign. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew ten and verse thirty? He said, The very hairs of your head are numbered. He said, Fear ye not therefore, ye have more value than many sparrows. Jesus said that a bird can't fall to the ground unless it be by the will of God. And the very hairs of your head are numbered. And what he's pointing out here to us is that God is exhaustively sovereign in our life. He leaves nothing to chance. Even the small details is something that God uh is directly in control of. He he doesn't exercise his sovereignty in a broad way and leave the details to chance. No, he's sovereign over every detail. Because we know that big events can swing on small For example, you know there's an illustration in Isaiah 5 when God was sending the Assyrian army to attack Israel, and God is describing that army. And he describes it in a very interesting way. He says, not a single shoelace of any soldier will be broken. Think about that. God said, when I send this army in, Not one single shoelace of the of a soldier will be broken. That's how much in control God is of detail. You see, if a if a if a Syrian soldier trips over a shoelace and he stumbles, he can cause others behind him to stumble, and their falling could cause uh other calamities which Could even cause them to lose the battle, and if they lose the battle, they could even lose the war. Like I said, big events swing on small details. That's why nothing is left to chance God says. Not even a broken shoelace. And so this reminds us that details are important. God is sovereign. He's sovereign over animals. The Bible says this. Scripture affirms that when God feeds the animals of the field, it says, For these look to you and to give them their food in due season. When you give to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they are filled with good things. And so Jesus also affirmed this. He said, Look to the birds of the air. Your heavenly Father feeds them. God is sovereign over all of the animals. I I read somewhere that this whole coronavirus came from a market in China where they sold um animals and they kept there at that very market both live animals and dead animals and they would butcher an animal, a live animal right there in front of the customer and under those conditions it's very difficult for uh the market to keep uh uh uh clean and to have good hygiene standards and from out of that market This virus started and then it started to spread. And friend, if that's true, we have to remember that even in that situation, God's sovereign over things that happen even among animals Uh God's sovereign over even what we would call chance events. For example, the Bible says this. The lot is cast into the lap, but the decision is holy from the Lord. The lots were stones that they would cast in the Old Testament to find out the will of God. They would ask questions and say, Lord, should I do this? And cast the lots. And the thing The way the lots fell would give them either a yes answer or a no answer. But they believed that God was so sovereign that when they cast those stones, God controlled the way that they landed. So as to find a decision from the Lord. The lot is cast into the lap, but the decision is holy from God. Which meant that God was sovereign even over chance events. God's sovereign over the affairs of nations. The scripture speaks about that. We read that God makes nations great. He destroys them. He enlarges nations. He leads them away. That's in Job 12, 23. Dominion belongs to the Lord. He rules over the nations. Psalm 22, verse number 28. He's sovereign over kingdoms, he's sovereign over people. Listen to this. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whatever way he wants. God can turn the heart of the king so that the king will do exactly what he wants. You have to remember that this is hard for us to grasp as Americans. The king was an absolute monarch. He had absolute control. And this scripture is telling us that the most stubborn will of the most powerful monarch on earth is directed by God. He can turn that part very easily. And this is comforting to know because sometimes we we live in a world where we think sometimes that people over us are determining the direction of our life. A government can deny a visa. A professor can determine an academic career, whether it's successful or not, a supervisor can block or promote a curr a career a career. It may seem like we are at the mercy of man But we're really not because the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. He turns it whatever way he wants. Proverbs sixteen, nine, a man's heart devises his way, but the Lord Directs his steps. I read one time where George Washington wanted to join the British Royal Navy when he was 17, but because he was 17, he had to have his mother's consent And at first she agreed. And when he packed up all of his things and was getting ready to load on the ship, word came that she had changed her mind and she refused to sign the form. And had she signed that form, uh he would have been fighting for the British instead of for the independence of America. You see, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord He turns it whatever way he wants. And so God is sovereign over people. God is sovereign over inanimate creation. There are many things in creation that we think of as merely natural occurrences, yet Scripture says that God is the one who causes them to happen. We read of fire and hail, snow and frost, stormy wind fulfilling his command. Again, the psalmist declares that whatever the Lord pleases he does in heaven and on earth, in the seas and in all the deeps. Then in the next sentence he he illustrates what God is doing um or God's doing of his will in the w in the weather. He says this He it is who makes clouds rise at the end of the earth, who makes lightnings for the rain, and brings forth the wind from his storehouses. God causes the grass to grow. It says in Psalm 104, verse 14, You cause the grass to grow for the cattle and the plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth Food from the earth. God directs the stars in the heavens. Job, he asked Job, can you bring forth the constellations He says, and then think about this, friend, God even sends plagues. Do you remember the ten plagues of Egypt? The Bible tells us very clearly that God sent them In fact, did you know that the term plague is found roughly 100 times in the Bible, primarily in the Old Testament? They're also mentioned, of course, in the New Testament in the book of Revelation, God in the end will send plagues, he'll send famine, he'll send disease as a judgment to the earth. And so Scripture reveals that God sent plagues in the Old Testament many times as a consequence for the people's disobedience. and for their idolatry. God was trying to get their attention. God was trying to bring repentance into the heart of people. Listen to what God said through the prophet Amos. Amos 410. I sent plagues among you as I did to Egypt. Yet ye have not returned to me. And so again, this is the reason. God sends things like this to get the attention of people. so that people will turn to the Lord. He designs it to bring about repentance Listen to 2 Chronicles 7, 13 and 14. God said to Solomon, When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or command locusts to devour the land, or send a plague among my people. If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin. And will heal their land. Here we see God using disaster again to draw people unto himself. I think this is a word that we need to remind ourselves about in these days. Why would God allow or send a virus like this? It's because God is calling people to himself. God is trying to get people to wake up and turn to him. And this leads us to the third lesson. It's a lesson about immediate repentance. We saw a lesson about civil obedience, a lesson about divine sovereignty. And then number three, a lesson about immediate repentance. You know, all of this that's happening around us should make us ready When tragedy comes. We should make sure that we're ready. And this is where we get to Luke 13 and verse 1. Listen to what it says. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans That is, there were people telling Jesus of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans Because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And so Jesus here in this passage is telling us how to respond to things like a play or a tragedy or some kind of a disaster And what does Jesus tell us? Let me give you the context of this because it's so very important that we understand the context. In the context, Jesus has just been rebuking the multitude because they were able to discern the weather because the the signs were obvious but they were oblivious to the signs of the time. And what was the sign he was talking about? Namely that the Messiah was right there in their And so he uses an illustration of a man who's going to be dragged into a court with a losing lawsuit against them. And back up to verse 12, verse 57, it says this. Or verse 58, When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee. to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer. And the officer cast thee into into prison. I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence Till thou hast paid the very last mighty. And what's Jesus saying there? Jesus is saying, look, he's giving an illustration about a man who's about to stand before a judge. He's going to present his case, but he has a losing case. There's no way for him to win this case. And Jesus says if that man is smart, he will settle with his opponent before it's too late. He should settle that case out of court before he's dragged before the judge. And then he pays the ultimate price. And the illustration that Jesus is giving is really about the debt of sin we have towards God. Did you know that one day you're going to have to stand before the judge I recommend that you settle your case before that day comes. Settle it out of court. Get your sins taken care of. Jesus died for your sins. Repent before him. Settle your case out of court before you appear before the judge. And so Jesus is giving this illustration, you better get ready, you better settle your case, and then right after that he goes in to this idea of what should we do when tragedy comes? Luke reports right after that in verse 1, at that season, there were some present who reported to Jesus about the Galileans. whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. Now we don't know much about this event that's going on. Right after Jesus gives this warning, people come to him and they tell him about something that took place with Pilate's soldiers. Evidently There was a little bit of a revolt going on among some of the Jews. Pilate sent his soldiers to go quell that little revolt. And they were very zealous. They were probably abusing their authority. And they ended up killing these Jews that were actually bringing their sacrifices to the temple. And the Bible says that in their zeal these soldiers killed these Jews and the blood of these Jews mingled with the blood of the sacrifices. Again, we don't know anything from historic historical accounts about this event. We do know, historically, that Pilate was very cruel In fact, because of his cruelty, he was relieved from his duties after the crucifixion of Jesus sometime later. And Jesus uses this current event to make a point. And he says this, do you think that these people who were slaughtered were worse sinners than all the Galileans? Do you think that was the case? In other words, was this dreadful suffering an indication that these Galileans were more wicked than others? Because there was that thinking in the ancient world, you know, if people suffer greatly, it's because they're great sinners. I think sometimes people still believe that today. And Jesus is debunking this type of thinking, this erroneous theology. And then Jesus brings up another event that took place. In verse 4, he says, Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? And then he says, This I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise And again, Jesus says, do you think that when the tower of Siloam fell and 18 people were killed, do you think those 18 people were more Great or or I should say greater sinners or more sinful than the others who were spared that? And the answer is no. There was nothing worse about them. And the point is simply this. And by the way, we could put this question into our contemporary setting today. Do you think people who died of the coronavirus are worse sinners than others? Do you think people that catch the coronavirus and end up suffering greatly because of it? Are worse sinners than others? And the answer is no, of course not. And again, Jesus was speaking to a crowd of people who did not apply spiritual truth to themselves. These people were smugly thinking that Others who suffer these kind of tragedies are deserving of the judgment of God, but somehow they were not. Their theology was like the theology of Job's comforters. Who thought Job was suffering because he had sinned against the Lord. But Jesus corrects this mistaken view by showing that all of us are sinners. All of us are sinners worthy of judgment. And so Jesus tells them how to respond. When there's tragedy that comes and people die. And towers fall, and people are unjustly killed by overzealous authorities. And plagues may come and viruses may come where people die. What should our thought be? Look at verse 3. I tell you, nay, but except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. And again in verse number 5, I tell you, nay But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then Jesus underscores this point by giving a parable, and we'll look at it briefly. But before that Think about this. Rather than asking the question why, with regard to suffering, which we like to do a lot when suffering comes, we like to ask the question why. Rather, we should ask the question what Not why did this happen to them or to me or why this or that. The question should be what? In other words, what should this tragedy teach me? And the Lord's answer is tragedies should teach us that since death and judgment are imminent, we need to be ready when it comes. How how should we be ready? Through repentance, since we don't know when it's going to come. We don't know what a day is going to bring. You can't promise me that you won't catch the coronavirus. You can't promise me that some other tragedy might come. A car accident, a straight bullet. We don't know when it might come, but you better make sure that when it comes that you have truly repented of your sins. You see, that's the idea here. You see Jesus could have used this occasion of tragedy to launch into a critique of Pilate's cruel ways. He could have launched into uh a critique of the the abusiveness of authority and uh how wrong authorities are sometimes, but he didn't do that He could have questioned Pilate's political agenda and gone on a campaign to have him removed from office. He could have lobbied for sword control or something like that. But if he did, he would have missed a valuable spiritual opportunity. He could have plunged into some philosophical debate about why evil comes, but he didn't do that. If he did that, if he went into this philosophical discussion about evil, the people that he was speaking to, they would have walked away unchanged. You see, when tragedy struck, Jesus didn't get political and he didn't get philosophical. He got personal. And he emphasized the need The personal need for them to repent. He tells them twice, you better yourself repent. What should this coronavirus tell people? It should tell them you better repent. You better get your heart ready because these viruses and these things that happen This is just a foreshadowing, a precursor of the ultimate plague that will come. That is judgment from Almighty God upon those who have not. repented. Tragedy should force us to examine our spiritual standing before a holy God. And so with that said, Jesus then goes into this story of a parable here. Listen to this in verse 6. And he spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree. Planted in his vineyard, and he came and he sought fruit thereon and found none. And then he said unto the to the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it And if it bear fruit, well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. And so, what is Jesus doing here in this parable? What is he telling us here in this parable? It's a very interesting parable that he gives here in this story. Um he's basically uh in in this story here uh he is emphasizing the urgency of repentance. You need to do it now. So think about this fig tree. Here, you know, Israel, that was a agricultural society. There were fig trees all over. The Bible talks about a man being prosperous, every person having their own fig tree, and fig trees grew big and they their leaves were pretty big. They could grow as high as twenty-five feet and sometimes a width of twenty feet. So it provided shade. And so they were very valuable to have. They provided fruit. Here we have a man who planted a fig tree in a vineyard. This is not just any place. Vineyards were very well kept And the plants in them were very well nourished. They were watered regularly. They were watched over very carefully. So here's this owner, he plants a fig tree. And he prepares the vineyard and he carefully checks the tree. He doesn't plant this tree for show. He wants to eat the fruit of it. This is not an ornamental tree. It's not to give him wood for fire. He wants fruit. He expects fruit And he goes to inspect it to find fruit. And the Bible says in verse 6, he came and sought fruit thereon, but found none. So we see this frustrated owner, he keeps looking for the fruit, he doesn't find any And so he says to the vine dresser, I've been checking this tree for fruit for three years, and it doesn't give any fruit. And notice there's a word in this verse, behold, this is a word that indicates surprise. He's surprised. I mean, if you put a fig tree in a very well-kept vineyard, you expect fruit. When he checks it, he's surprised that there is no fruit. And so he he comes to the conclusion, why why just cut it down? Why why are we letting this this tree cumber the ground? Why let it take up space? in this vineyard. This this tree enjoyed protection, it enjoyed his nurture, it enjoyed his care. It drank water from his supply, it took nutrients from the soil. It had all of that. But it was useless for the purpose for which he planted it because it it didn't produce any fruit. And so he says, cut it down. This is an expression of disgust, frustration. Just cut it down. Why why do we let it continue to take up space on the on the ground? But then there's a final chance given, verse 8. And this is the vine dresser. And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, just one more year. He says, Till I jig about it and dung it. And if it bear fruit well if not, then thou shalt cut it down So the vine dresser pleads, just one more year. I'll dig around it. Evidently he was talking about loosening the soil. Maybe we just need to loosen the soil a little bit. Maybe the water's not getting to it. So I'll I'll dig about it. I'll I'll f I'll f you know, experiment and see if we can get more water to it. And then I'll dung it, that is, I'll fertilize it a certain way And after a year, if it bears fruit, well, that's great. And if not Okay, then cut it down. Go ahead and cut it down. Now let's apply this. Who is the owner of the vineyard represent? That's God, right? God is the one who is the owner of the vineyard. Who's divine keeper? That would be Jesus. He's the one laboring in the Father's vineyard. Who does the fig tree represent? I think the fig tree in this parable represents the fruitless silicon. It really has two applications. First, Jesus was immediately talking to Israel. And so it applies first to Israel. Remember, Jesus had come and for three years labored in God's vineyard. Israel is the fig tree. Very few people had repented and turned to Christ. Jesus was on his way to the cross. He had, in fact, just one more year, he would die on the cross. So here's Jesus saying, just one more year to see true fruit. And the fruit that he's speaking about here, by the way, is repentance. True repentance. Let's just one more year. So he's speaking directly to Israel. And by the way, I think also he's speaking, this applies to us today, to people today. Already the decree has gone out. Cut it down. John the Baptist during his ministry said this, You better bring forth fruits, meet for repentance, because the axe head is already laid at the root. God has already made the judgment against Israel, cut it down. Jesus says, just one more year, let's just see if True repentance comes. And we apply this to us today. Did you know that the access is already laid at the root for people who have not repented? Because the Bible says, he that believeth not is condemned already. If you don't believe on Jesus, if you haven't repented of your sin, guess what? You're already under God's condemnation. The decree has already gone out. Cut it down. The axe head is laid at the root. All that needs to be done is for the axe head to be swung, and judgment will fall. But notice there's this final chance. Jesus saying, just give it a little more time. And notice where he says in verse 9, and if it bear fruit, the if there is what we call in Greek a third class condition. That is the possibility, it probably won't happen, maybe, but probably not So he's saying, it probably won't happen, but if it bears fruit, that's good, but the second if is first class That is, it will happen. And if not, thou shalt cut it down. In other words, that will happen. It will be cut down. If they bear fruit, it probably won't happen. But if they do, that's great But if not, this will certainly happen. The tree will certainly be cut down. Judgment will come. So you see, the application, God is giving people more time. He's giving you more time. When we see tragedies come along like this virus or other bad things, and frankly I've seen worse, we've heard of worse diseases so far. We don't know what the end of this is going to be just yet. This should remind us. That we better repent. We better bring forth the fruit of repentance to God. You see, God has been good to all of us. Every person who has ever lived on this planet was created by a good and merciful God. with the purpose to bring him glory, to turn towards him, to cla to find forgiveness and redemption in him. Every person on this planet Breathe God's air, drinks God's water, eats God's food, is a partaker in the life that God has granted them. Every person has received the goodness and bounty of God. Yet people have not brought forth unto him the fruit of real repentance. And already the judgment has gone out. The accent is laid at the root. But Jesus, the merciful Savior, says, just a little more time. Just a little more time. For repentance. And so what does this parable teach us? The urgency of repentance. You better do it now. The time is late. And when a tragedy takes place, when a virus disrupts our life, this is yet a reminder from Almighty God That the time is short, and you better have the fruit of repentance. You better bring forth fruits of repentance. You better make sure you're ready. If tragedy should visit you. You ever hear the expression you're living on borrowed time? That's literally what this parable is teaching people. You're living on borrowed time. This is literally true. God, the owner has already declared your destruction. Yet you have time to repent and you better do it. This also speaks to us not only the urgency of repentance. But the authenticity of repentance. How do we know that our repentance is real? Real repentance produces fruit What kind of fruit? A genuine sorrow for your sin. A genuine turning away from sin, turning to God, a genuine fully Trusting, a genuine dependence upon Jesus alone as your only salvation, where you believe that He died for your sins. He's the only way of salvation. And that you turn to him with all of your heart. That's the fruit of real repentance. And so how should we respond to this virus? We should comply as obedient servants. We should practice civil obedience. We should remember that God is sovereign, that he lets things like this happen. But we know that he's in control and that should give us peace, not fear. And we should re make sure that we're ready. If something bad should come our way, we better make sure that we have produced the fruit of true repentance. Because that's what God is looking for. Call upon him. Ask him to cleanse you from your sin and to be your Savior and your Lord. Now I'm finished, and I'm going to have a word of prayer in just a minute. Before I do I want to just remind our folks at Grace that next week we will have a sermon online. There will be a live streaming stream sermon from from Facebook. If you just click on our Facebook page, you'll hear a sermon from the Word of God And that'll be for next Sunday morning, March the 22nd. That Sunday night, we will be having a Sunday night service at 6 o'clock at our church. I hope to see many of you there. And also a reminder that although we won't be having church uh we don't have it on Sunday, uh this Sunday the 15th, or next Sunday morning, the twenty-second, we still as a church have needs and so you can give online. Just go to our website and you can have directions there about online giving. Just a reminder just to do that. And we'll be praying for God's blessing. We don't again, we don't know how long this uh this declaration from the governor will last, but we have plans made in case it's longer than two weeks. So continue to pray for us that God gives us wisdom. Let me pray with you. Father, thank you for your your mercy. Thank you that you are a God who, although demands fruit, also gives us time. To bring forth fruits of repentance. Help us, Lord, to take heed to the warning that our Lord gives us, the urgency of producing the fruit of genuine repentance. We need to do it now, and when tragedy comes. It's a reminder that we don't know what tomorrow is going to hold. And we better have our hearts ready. And I pray, Lord, that many who have heard this Will examine their own heart and make sure that their repentance is real, that their repentance is true, and that they call upon you as their Savior and Lord. And let me just say this with praying with you. If you want to receive Jesus right now, friend, would you just pray this prayer and mean it in your heart? Would you just say, God, be merciful to me as sinner? save me. That's the prayer of the publican in the Bible. And Jesus said he went away justified. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me And friends, you'll pray that mean it he will save you. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Things flow Praise Him creatures hear me.