Tonight I want to invite you to take your Bible and just open to Psalm 134 tonight. Psalm 134. If you've been with us, you know that on Wednesday nights we've been uh studying these pilgrim psalms as they're called or Psalms of Ascent. You'll notice the subtitle right above uh or right below the chapter and right above the verse, Song of Degrees. Now, if you've been with us, you know that the word here actually means songs of ascent or songs of ascending because these were psalms that were sung by Jewish pilgrims as they traveled upward into Mount Zion or into Jerusalem. And uh these are fifteen Psalms from Psalm 120 to Psalm 134 that we've been looking at. And the idea is that you know we're all pilgrims. This world is not our home, we're just passing through. And we're all journeying towards our Mount Zion, which is heaven. And as we are in this journey, sometimes the journey is difficult and dangerous, but the Lord strengthens us in this journey. Aren't you grateful for the grace that He gives us to make this pilgrimage? And then our journey will end in Mount Zion. And so there's a sense in which these kind of foreshadow the pilgrim journey of a believer. We start out as they did in Psalm 120 and the tents of Keter and Meshach, which is far removed from Jerusalem, and we progressively grow and journey towards heaven. And as we journey, we should be singing along the way and getting strength from the Lord along the way. And now we come to Psalm 134. This is the last chapter in these Psalms of Ascent. So this will be the last sermon on this. We've done 16 actually, an introductory sermon, and then 15 chapters. This is the 16th sermon, the last chapter of this series. And you'll notice that this is just three verses. This is the shortest of these psalms. In fact, this is one of the shortest psalms in all the Bible. It's the shortest Psalm, with the exception of Psalm 117. However, as Warren Wersby said, it deals with a subject that could fill volumes. Although this is just three short verses, this is a theme that is one of the most important themes, if not really I should say the most important theme in the Christian life. And it deals with the issue of worship. Now I think it's appropriate that the climax of these Psalms is climaxed in worship. Because this is the whole reason why the pilgrims made the journey to begin with. Why did they leave their homes and travel long distances, sometimes dangerous journeys? The whole purpose of it is worship, to worship the Lord. And so it's it's uh fitting that the last psalm And this series deals with that very issue. They're no longer on the journey. They're now in the temple And as Derek Kidner wrote, the songs of ascent which begin in the alien surroundings of Meshach and Keter end fittingly on the note of serving God or worshiping God day and night in his temple. And so it's going to talk about worship. Now it seems, as some have said, that the only place worship is found in a lot of churches nowadays is on the hymn book. There's a lot of churches that forget the whole purpose why we're here. Someone wrote, we know how to witness, and we know how to work, and we know how to whine. But we have forgotten, in many cases, how to worship. Vance Habner said this. He said, the living faith of the dead has become the dead faith of the living. It seems to be the missing ingredient. A. W. Tozer, these are all men who are much smarter than I and who have a broad understanding of the church. And A. W. Tozer, he's gone, but he even wrote in his day, he said, worship is the missing crown of the church. Another pastor said, I can tell the depth of any church spiritually after being in their worship service for five minutes. And so this is something that we need to hear. It's something that we need to remind ourselves about, that we are here, we exist, to glorify God. So what I want you to see in this psalm are five elements of worship. Five elements of worship. Things that we can learn. Now you say, now wait a minute, this is only three verses. I mean it doesn't really say a lot. Let me tell you something. In the Bible, nothing is incidental. Nothing. I believe that every word is inspired by God And therefore every word is purposeful. And there's something that God has for us in every chapter, no matter how long or how short that chapter may be. Nothing is insignificant in the Bible. So, what can we learn from this chapter? Well, here's the first lesson I want you to see. If you're taking notes, write down the plan of worship. The plan of worship. What's the plan for worship? Look in verse 1. It tells us right there, behold, bless ye the Lord. That's the plan right there. And that's a command. God says, or the word of God says, the psalmist says, bless the Lord. Now here's the question that it begs when we read this. What does it mean to bless the Lord? What does that mean? Well, first of all, the word bless, barak, is the Hebrew word. And it just simply means it has the idea of laying your hands on someone to bless them. Sometimes it's translated to kneel and it has the idea of reverence. has the idea of adoration. This word occurs about 400 times in the Old Testament. And so it's the idea then of of kneeling or And if you can imagine this in your mind, placing your hands on someone else to bless them. But again, the question is, how do we bless the Lord? How do we do this practically? And I think we bless the Lord when we recognize his great glory, when we recognize his great attributes, when we recognize all of his perfections, all of his glorious characteristics. When we think about all of these things, and then we respond properly. Now in the scripture, whenever God manifested Himself in a physical way, it was always with a physical light that was called the Shekinah glory This was this beautiful, glorious light, and there was a sense in which all of his perfections, all of his attributes are kind of mingled together and they reveal themselves in this beautiful, glorious manifestation of light. Now let me just also say, I'll be the first to confess to you that I don't understand all about that. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unspeakable. I don't understand all about that. I just know this. God's glory to him is what it's what wet is to water. The Shekinah glory to God's excellence is what heat is to the sun. And there's a sense in which all throughout Scripture God has endeavored to show to man his attributes, his excellence. His glory, and what has God expected in response? He's expected man to properly respond to his glory. And what's the proper response? Adoration, wonder, awe, praise. Worship. All of these things are blessing the Lord. Martin Luther wrote this: the most acceptable service we can do and show unto God, and which alone He desires of us is that he be praised of us. So when we recognize his marvelous attributes, his marvelous character, His perfections, and we acknowledge that and we praise him for that. That is a sense in which we're blessing the Lord. Now, here's a second thought, uh another question that comes to my mind. Is it possible for us to bless God? I mean, have you ever thought about that? That I can bless the Lord? Is that not an incredible thought? That a mere mortal can, as it were, put our hands on the head of Almighty God and bless him? To me, that's just an incredible thought. Especially when you keep in mind that there's an idea that theologians like to call the independence of God. What is the independence of God? It's this idea that he is already the most blessed creature, the most blessed being And God can't become any more happy or any more joyful or any more blessed than he already is. He's the most blessed being because he's the greatest of all beings. He's the perfect being. And so systematic theologians call this the independence of God. And it's the idea that God doesn't really need us for his happiness or his blessedness. He's already there. And so, however, that doesn't mean that we can't bless God. And that doesn't mean that He doesn't want us to bless Him. And that doesn't mean that he doesn't rejoice over our praising and blessing him. In fact, he does. In fact, he has decreed in his own way that he rejoice over us in these things. And there's a sense in even in which that is condescension. Grudin wrote it like this in his book. He said, God's independence is defined as follows. God does not need us. or the rest of creation for anything, yet we and the rest of creation can glorify him and bring him joy. And that's the way God wants it. He chooses to delight over us. He chooses to rejoice over us. I would use an analogy. I have joy. I don't need to last to add any more joy to me than I have. I already have joy. And so I don't really need to laugh. However, that doesn't mean I I can't laugh. And it doesn't mean that I don't like to laugh. I do. But I don't need that to add to my joy. There's a sense in which God is blessed. He doesn't need anything else to make him any more blessed. But that doesn't mean that we can't bless him. And it doesn't mean that we that he doesn't want us to bless him, he does. And he rejoices over that. And by the way, our blessing, God, does more for us than it does for him. We need to do that And so the fact is, God rejoices over his creation. Write down Isaiah 62, 5. As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. So listen, when we come to God's house and we recognize his greatness and we worship him, you know what we're doing? We're blessing the Lord. We're blessing the Lord. Do you know the greatest indictment against mankind is in Romans 121? Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as This is the greatest indictment against mankind, that mankind knows God, and yet they refuse to acknowledge him. They refuse to glorify him. They refuse to give him praise for who he is and what he has done. In the scripture, we are commanded to bless. the Lord. In fact, that's twenty-three times in the Old Testament we're commanded, bless the Lord. Most often in Psalm 103, listen to Psalm 103, 1, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy. And that's why we exist. The Westminster Confession, the confession upon which many Baptist confessions are based, says this: the chief end of man is to glorify God. And to enjoy him forever. That's the greatest thing we can do. And here's the second thing. So we see that number one, the plan of worship is to bless the Lord. But then write down number two, the participants Look again at verse 1. Bless, behold, bless ye the Lord. And notice the next phrase. Some of you servants of the Lord. All you servants of the Lord. So who are the participants in worship? All ye servants of the Lord, not just some All servants of the Lord. Now you know what I learned from this? Worship is not a spectator sport. You don't come to church and watch others participate in worship and not get involved yourself because that's not worship. There are some people that treat going to church the same way they they treat going to a football game. They just you know people in the football game, they just sit back and they watch and that's it. Someone said a football game is where 50,000 people in the stands who desperately need to exercise watch twenty-two people on the field who desperately need to rest. And sometimes we see church that way. We think, you know, we just come to watch, to behold, we're spectators. And there's a small group of people, they do everything, and they kind of are in the worship, they're the ones doing the worship, we're the ones watching. No, friend, no. All of us, when we come to church, we all worship. It's not a spectator sport. All ye servants of the Lord. Now, the question is in verse 1, who are these servants that he's referring to here? And to be fair, as we look at the text really, it's talking about the servants that are in the temple. Those who had who've been prescribed by God to work there in the temple, and they're the Levites. We don't have time to dig into it, but we could look in the Old Testament where God issued that one tribe of the twelve will be his priests, his tribe of priests, the Levites. And they were the ones that were uh Chosen by God to be in the temple and to lean into worship and to offer sacrifices as expressions of worship to God, they were the Levites Now I want to answer you a question, though. In the Old Testament God had Levites as his priests, but in the New Testament, who are the priests of God in the New Testament? You know who that is? That's you and me. Did you know in the New Testament all of us are priests of God? Once we come to faith in Jesus Christ, once you're saved, the Bible says you become his holy priest. Write down 1 Peter 2 verse 5. Ye also are lively stones. are built upon a spiritual house, listen, a holy priesthood to offer up sacrifices. You know what that means? When you come to Jesus Christ and you get saved, you are now part of his priesthood. And when you worship, you know what you're doing? You're offering up spiritual sacrifices We don't offer up animal sacrifices in the New Testament. Jesus fulfilled all those things with his death on the cross. They all pointed to Christ. But in the New Testament, you know what we offer up now? Spiritual sacrifices. So every time you come to God's house, you should have your sacrifice ready. And you should offer it up. You say, what are some of the sacrifices? Let me give you a few of them. Here's one: praying. Praying. Write down Psalm 141, verse 2. Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. You know, there in the temple there was a Holy of Holies, and right before the Holy of Holies was a veil, and right before the veil was the altar of incense, and the priest would offer incense upon that altar on that altar, and constantly the smoke would rise. It gave a sweet smell that was in there, and that was compared to prayer. And the psalmist is using that to say, let my prayer be as incense before you Did you know that when you come to God's house and you pray to God, it's like incense before him. You're offering up a spiritual sacrifice. So listen, when you come to God's house and people pray, don't let your mind wander. Don't zone out. Pray. You know why? Because when you pray, you're offering up incense So the Lord, it's a spiritual sacrifice. Here's another one, not only praying, but surrendering. Surrendering. That's another spiritual sacrifice. Write down Romans 12, 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, listen That you present your bodies as a what? A living sacrifice. Wholly acceptable unto God. So every time you say, Lord, I'm giving you myself, I'm surrendering to you, you know what that is? That's a spiritual sacrifice. I'm surrendering to the Lord. I remember the first time I ever did that, I was a teenager here in this church, and I went to Camp of the Nations. Some of you might remember that. We took that old yellow van up there to Camp of the Nations. I have a lot of good memories in that yellow van, a lot of spiritual decisions I made in there, but I remember riding that van and I was reading the Bible and I was reading Joshua and the Lord was so speaking to my heart And he was preparing my heart. And when I got to camp, I made a decision. I'm gonna, I'm just gonna give myself to God. I'm gonna surrender to the Lord. And I know we've all come to a point where we've made that decision. Where I say, Lord, I've given you everything. Whatever you want me to do, whatever service, I'm now yours. I didn't know it at the time, but you know what that is? That's a spiritual sacrifice. And that's what the Bible calls a living sacrifice. The sacrifices in the Old Testament, they weren't living, they were dead. But when we give ourselves to God, we're a living sacrifice. You know the problem with living sacrifices? Someone said they constantly want to crawl off the altar. So every day we have to say, Lord, I'm yours. I surrender to you. When we come to God's house, we say, Lord, I am giving myself to you. Every part of me is yours. Praying, surrendering. But here's another one, obeying. Write down Philippians 2, 17 Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. Who wrote that? The Apostle Paul. You remember he wrote that from prison. We already studied that on Sunday night And he knew that he could stand before Caesar and he could die for the gospel. And he said, you know, if that's the case, I'm ready to be offered upon the sacrifice. And service of your faith. The word offering there has the idea of being poured out like a drink offering. Because sometimes in the Old Testament, a worshiper would come to the altar, and after they Put their sacrifice on the altar, they would culminate that sacrifice by pouring drink or wine on that sacrifice, and it would of course leave a beautiful smell. It was called a drink offering And Paul said, I'm ready to be poured out. In other words, this is what he was saying. If it's God's will for me to die for the gospel, I'm ready to do that. I'm ready to obey God's will, it doesn't matter what it is. And if I live, it's Christ. And if I die, it's gain. It doesn't matter. I'm ready to be poured out. I am obeying whatever God wants You know, that's worship when you say, Lord, whatever you want, I'm going to obey. I'm going to obey it. You can't worship God if you're not obeying Him. You remember that story in the Old Testament about Saul? God said, Saul, I want you to go to Amalek, I want you to utterly kill all of them for what they did to my people in the wilderness. And God said, Don't let anything live. You kill all the soldiers, everyone, even the animals. And you know what Saul did? You remember? Saul went out. Did he kill everything like God said? This was God declaring holy war against Amalek. And Saul was his instrument of judgment. And rather than obeying the Lord, Saul, he kept back some animals and some people. Why? Because he was more concerned about using them as trophies than obeying the Lord. And then God uh told Samuel what Saul was doing. Samuel met him out there And Samuel said, so what are you doing? You were given a command. This is the harmon paraphrase here I'm giving you. What are you doing? That's in the Hebrew. What are you doing? You're not obeying the Lord? And you remember what his answer was? Saul said, Oh, listen, we're going to kill them. Actually, I'm bringing them back for a sacrifice. We're going to have a massive sacrifice. I mean, can you imagine as big I'm going to take all these animals and sacrifice them at once? Isn't that going to be great? And you remember what Samuel said? To obey is better than sacrifice. How can you pretend to worship God in a big sacrifice and yet you're not obeying Him? You cannot worship the Lord if you're not obedient. You can't do that. There's a lot of people come to church and they say amen. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with saying amen. You should say amen a lot at church You should praise the Lord. A lot of times someone said we Baptists are so inhibited it's hard to tell we're inhabited. It's okay to say Amen. It's okay to say praise the Lord. It's okay to raise your hands and glorify God. It's okay to shout, but you just better make sure that you're obeying the Lord when you do all that. One country preacher said you can't tell how much gas is in a tank by honking the horn. And that is so true. You can't tell. You better be obeying the Lord. You can't a rebel can't worship God and so obey Praying is a spiritual sacrifice. Surrendering is a spiritual sacrifice. Obeying is a spiritual sacrifice. Let me give you another one. Giving. Giving. Write down Philippians 4. 18. Paul said, But I have all in abound and a full having received of Apacroditus the things which were sent from you. Listen, an odor, a sweet smell, a sacrifice Acceptable. What was Paul saying there? The Philippians had sent him a love offering, a gift. They gave of their material substance to support Paul's ministry. And Paul said, I receive this. This is a spiritual sacrifice. You realize every time you come to church and you give, you put something in the plate, you know what that is? That's an act of worship. That's giving to the Lord. We don't give like we pay taxes. I mean if you if you're reluctant to give it, if there's a s if there's a struggle inside you, well give it anyway, but uh anyway. But you're not going to get the blessing out of it. You know, it's an act of worship. You should do it freely. That's why the Bible talks about free will offering, giving it out of your heart. Because you want to. That's a sacrifice. And by the way, David said, I'm not going to offer anything to the Lord. It doesn't cost me something. When I give, it's going to be sacrificial. And so when we come to the God's house giving, that's worship. Thanking. Write down Psalm 50, verse 14, offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the most We offer up the praise or the sacrifice rather of thanksgiving. Whenever you come to God's house and you thank the Lord, that is an act of worship. You know, and one of our favorite services here is the Thanksgiving Day service where we offer thanks to the Lord for what he has done. You realize that's offering a sacrifice to the Lord. And worship. Thanking, praising. We can even say serving. You know, the Levites, they were busy serving, doing all kinds of little things in the house of the Lord. But even that the Bible calls worship. Hebrews 13, 16. By doing good, you're offering sacrifices that are well pleasing to the Lord. Whenever, you know, the Levites, they would bake bread, the showbread, they would clean up the mess. there in the temple. They would lock the doors. They would do all kinds of little things. But you know, all those things that they did were acts of worship. And it's the same can be said of you. When you come to God's house, whatever you do for the Lord, it's an act of worship. When you bake a cake for anyone We're having a fellowship Sunday night. Those of you that are going to bake cakes and bring things, you say that's not a big deal. Oh yes, it is a big deal because everything you do is an act of worship to God Everything. It's under the Lord. Every mess that you clean up, every little thing that you do, all of that is worship. And so the idea then is that we all Worship the Lord. Not just a few. All. Now let me give you the third thing. The plan of worship is to bless the Lord. The participants are all ye servants of the Lord. Here's number three, the pattern of worship. Look again in verse number one. Behold, bless ye the Lord, all ye servants of the Lord, watch this which by night stand in the house of the Lord. It's interesting to me that he mentions by night. They don't just worship in the morning, and that's it. But they worship morning, noon, and night. In fact, they just did it all day long. And they were, this was obviously an evening service. I have scriptural justification here for an evening service right here. They were in the house of the Lord at night. We were talking with a pastor today at lunch, and you know, there's a lot of churches. They're cutting out their evening services, they're cutting out some of those things. I think that's a tragedy It's the Lord's day, not the Lord's morning on Sunday. We should give all that day to the Lord. In fact, we should give every one of our days to the Lord. We should be worshiping all the time. And that's really the idea here. They were worshiping all the time. If you read 1 Chronicles chapter 9, you're going to find out that they were around the clock, on duty, in the house of the Lord. They were constantly Worshiping. And here's the point. Here's the principle I draw from this. Worship for us as believers is not a one-time-a-week event, it is a lifestyle. It is a pattern of life, it's a way of life. You remember when Jonah was on board the ship and the mariners grabbed him up from down below and they said, Who are you and what do you do? He said, My name is Jonah. He said, I am a Hebrew and I worship God. What? What is your occupation? I worship God. That's what I do. It wasn't very good that he was running from God at the moment. But he was said, this is so what's your occupation? I worship God. And that should that was a good answer, by the way, even though he was running from the Lord. What's your occupation, believer? We worship God. That's what we do. It's a way of life. In fact, the gospel call is a call to worship Ephesians 1. 12 says, the church was appointed for the praise of his glory. That's why we're here, as we said before. We worship God. There was a man by the name of Nicholas Ehrman. He was born in France in 1611. And he got converted when he was 18 years old. And he became a servant to servants, to men who were in the ministry. in a Carmelite order. And he wrote a book that is a classic now. It's called The Practice of the Presence of God. His name was Brother Lawrence is what they called. Maybe you heard of the book. It's a great book. It's a Christian classic. But he served the Lord all of his life and he was on his deathbed. He was losing strength. And to those around them, this is what he said. He said, I'm not dying. I'm just doing what I've been doing for the past forty years and doing what I expect to be doing for all eternity. And they said, What is that? He said, I'm worshiping the God. I love. It's what I do. And friend, that's true of all of us. So there's the pattern. Let me give you the fourth thing. The posture. We saw the plan of worship is to bless the Lord. And the participants are all servants of the Lord. And the pattern is a lifestyle. It's continual. But then the posture, look at verse 2. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary and bless the Lord. Now, this was common practice for worshipers in that day to lift their hands to God in worship. In fact, there were several postures that the scripture mentions. Standing with outstretched hands, 1 Kings 8, kneeling. Daniel 6, standing, Luke 18, sitting, 2 Samuel 7, bowing the head, Genesis 24, lifting up the eyes, John 17, falling on the ground, Genesis 17 and Job 1. The really the important thing is not necessarily the posture of the body, it's the posture of the heart However, it seems like in the Old Testament, when they worshiped the Lord and they stood up, they lifted up their hands to God. and worship. Psalm 634, thus will I bless thee. I will lift up my hands unto thy name. Psalm 28, verse 2, hear the voice of my supplications when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. Psalm 141, verse 2, let my prayer be set forth as incense and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. And so they did that often. In fact in the New Testament, Paul said, I would that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands Paul said that in the New Testament. So when they stood before God and they prayed, they would lift up their hands, kind of like their palms turned up to heaven. And that outward posture was used to demonstrate the posture of the heart, the inward attitude of the heart. And what did the lifting up of hands signify? A few things. First of all, surrender. Lord, I surrender to you. So whenever you get stu you know robbed, I remember one time I got stuck up, you know, with a gun. My hands went up. Whatever is mine is yours, buddy. Take it. There's a sense in which, you know, armies, when they surrender, what do the armies do? The defeated armies they put up their hands. We surrender. There's a sense in which it means surrender. Lord, I'm surrendering all to you. And then also dependence. I'm reaching out to you. Steve Lawson wrote, this act signified a looking to God, a reaching up to the Lord for help. And so there's a sense in where we're saying, Lord, I'm completely dependent upon you. Totally dependent upon you. But then it also signified purity. With the lifting up of hands, you're saying, Lord, I'm not holding on to anything. I'm not holding on to any sin. I've let go of everything. My hands are pure before you. You see, we can't worship the Lord if we're holding on to sin in our life. God's not going to hear our prayer And so there's a purity there, there's a dependence there, there's a surrender there, and it all shows the attitude of the heart. It's like the songwriter said, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. And let me give you the last thing, the last point here. The product of worship. The plan. The participants, the pattern, the posture, and then the product. What's the product? Look in verse 3. The Lord that made heaven and earth bless thee Out of Zion. Now, this psalm opens with the worshiper blessing God. It closes with God blessing the worshiper. And that's always the result of worship. That's it. We come to give praise and honor and worship to God in our praying, our submitting, our obeying. All those things we're giving to the Lord. When we come to God's house, you should be giving those things to the Lord. And you know what God does in return? He will give back to you. He will bless you. Someone will come to church and they'll say, well, you know, I didn't get anything out of the service. Really? What did you give? Maybe you didn't get anything out because you didn't put anything in. Maybe you didn't give anything. You're not coming here to strictly get. You're coming here to give honor to the Lord We bless the Lord. He blesses us. We delight in the Lord. He delights in us and he fills our hearts with joy. We draw near to God and he draws nears to us. Psalm 16 says this. Listen to this verse. I have set the Lord always before me. I'm putting God up there. I'm worshiping Him. I'm focusing on Him. I have set the Lord always before me because He is at my right hand. I will not be moved. Now, watch this. Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. He's saying, I am focusing on the Lord. I am worshiping the Lord. And you know what is a result of that? My heart is glad And my glory rejoices. Psalm 28, verse 7, the Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusts in him. And I am helped. When you come and you worship and you depend upon God, you know what happens? He helps you. He's going to give back. Whatever you give to him is nothing in comparison to what he gives back to you. Nothing. Let me give you one more verse on this. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. But we with an open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord. This is the glass right here. The glory of the Lord. So we come and we see the glory of the Lord in Scripture and we focus on that glory. You say, how do we see the perfections of God today? We see it through Scripture, through the glass. And as we focus on that, what does God do for us? It says, we are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. As we focus on his glory, you know what he does? He changes us into that same image. He lifts us to new levels of spiritual growth. And we're energized. We're literally energized. You know, sometimes you come to church on Wednesday night and we're so tired. I could see it in your face, you're so tired. But you know sometimes and hopefully every service When you worship the Lord, you know what he does? He fills you with strength and he gives you energy. And worship is the element that inspires and energizes the church. To do what God wants it to do. It's like a rowboat in the sand. Try to move a rowboat when it's on the sand. But when the tide comes in, it's pretty easy to move. And the tide is like worship. To try to get to move people to do things, we can't do that. But when the tide of worship comes in When we truly worship God, then there's power. And then things move. Let me close with this illustration. Raymond Edmond was a wonderful missionary, and he later became a college president of Wheaton College. Billy Graham once called him the most unforgettable Christian I ever met. And he died in 1967. Let me tell you how he died. He was preaching in chapel in Wheaton College. You know what his topic was? Worshiping God. Worship. And he was telling a story in his sermon in chapel. And it was about one time he went to Ethiopia and he visited an Ethiopian king. And he was invited into the presence of the king, but before he could go to have an audience with the king, he had to follow all of the proper protocols. And he had to prepare for that audience. And if he had not fulfilled all of the criteria that he was given, that he was deemed unworthy, he was judged unworthy and he could not go into the king's presence. And then Dr. Edmund drew on that illustration as a parallel to us when we have an audience with God. And then he said, This, don't you realize that every time you congregate together and you're with the people of God, you have an audience with the King of Kings every time. And he said, any ruler would love to have that audience. They would fall on their face before Almighty God, any king. And then he began to offer some practical suggestions on how we are to get ourselves ready to meet God and to and to be with him, to have an audience with God. And while he was doing that, you know what happened? He died right there. He died talking about preparing to have an audience with God. Wow, what a way to go. And all of a sudden he was there with God. You know when I read that I thought, you know, there's a sense in which as Christians we really don't change what we do when we die, we just change locations. We should be worshiping God all the time. And when God calls us out, we just step step into his presence. But also the other thought was this, when it comes time for the Lord to call us home, whenever that may be, may He find us worshiping him. Worshiping Him. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Lord, we thank you for this beautiful little psalm. It is so rich to us. And it challenges us, it calls us, it beckons us to worship our King. To worship the Lord, all servants of the Lord, not just a few, continually lifting up our hands, which is a Symbolic of our heart, a heart of surrender. A heart, Lord, of dedication, obedience. Lord, may that be our determination. May we, as a result of this psalm, which challenges us, which calls us to worship, may we determine that this is what we're going to do, this is what we're going to be. We're going to be worshipers. continually in every area of our life, dedicated Lord, to praising you for your greatness. And as we bless you, Lord, may you in return bless us Energize us and give us, Lord, what we need. Use these words, Lord, to challenge us. We pray. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.