Bible tonight. Want you to open to the Old Testament passage of Second Kings chapter two. We are in this study of Second Kings. And tonight we're going to look in chapter 2, verses 1 to 18, this whole story. And I want to read this with you, chapter 2, verse 1. It came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went to it with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head to day? And he said, Yeah, I know it. Hold ye your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, And as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were Jericho came to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head to-day? And he answered, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee here, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee, and the two went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off, and they They too stood by Jordan, and Elijah took his manual and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they they too went over on dry ground. And it came to pass when they were gone over that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elijah said, I pray thee, let a double fortune of thy spirit be upon thee. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee, but if not, it shall not be so. And it came to pass as they went on and talked, that behold there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more, and he took hold of his own clothes, and he rent them in two pieces. And he took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and he went back and he stood by the bank of the Jordan. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elijah went over. And the sons of the prophets were there to view at Eurico. saw him and they said, the spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. And they said unto him, Behold now there be with thy servants fifty strong men, let them go, we pray thee, and seek the master, lest per adventure the Spirit of the Lord had taken him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not sin. And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men, and they sought three days, but found them none. And when they came again to him, for he tarried at Jericho, he said unto them, Did not I say unto you, Go not? This story here is the story of the homegoing of the great prophet Elijah. Uh Elijah's ascension, we could say. And this story has brought joy to some believers as they think about their homegoing and the glory of it for believers. It was the great Welsh preacher Christmas Evans on his deathbed uh said the uh thought about this story and said the words, drive on the chariots of the Lord, the chariots of the Lord. And some have wondered if he actually saw chariots of the Lord calling him home. We don't know whether Christmas Evans saw fiery chariots, but we do know that Elijah saw them and also Elisha. Elijah's whole ministry was associated with fire. He called down fire from heaven on the altar at Mount Carmel. You remember last week we looked at when King Heaziah tried to have him arrested and they sent companies of fifty men to him. Two of those companies got burned up with fire And now here his whole ending of his ministry includes being taken to heaven in a chariot of fire. Now this is one of the most interesting stories in the Old Testament. And as we read this narrative, and I don't know about you, but when you read this narrative, don't you have a lot of questions that come to mind? What's going on here, and why is this happening? So this is the way I want to approach this story. I want to kind of do a question-answer approach and see what we can learn. So basically I just want six interesting questions about this passage I want to answer. We can ask a whole lot more, but I've kind of narrowed it down to six. Here's the first question. Why does the writer place a spoiler at the beginning of the beginning of the story? Right at the very beginning, we know what the story is about in verse number one. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind that Elijah went went with Elisha from Gilgal. That's the whole story in one verse right there, basically. It's a story about Elijah going up to heaven in a whirlwind. And Elijah and Elijah take this whole journey together. Why does he put that in the front? Why doesn't he say that? You know, it's kind of like knowing the end of a movie before you actually watch it or knowing the end of the score of the ballgame before the game starts. I think there's a reason for this, and I think the writer is making a purposeful contrast between the death of King Ahaziah and the homegoing of Elijah Now if you remember, chapter one is all about the terrible death of King Ahaziah. Remember that? He fell through the lattice of a window and became very sick, and he wanted to know if he was going to recover, and so he sent messengers to inquire from the God of Beelzebub. And God sent Elijah to intercept those messengers and basically said, you're not going to recover. Three times in chapter one, God said to the king, you're not going to recover. And the reason for it was because he decided to put trust in a false God. You remember the question that was asked, is there not a God in Israel that you have to go and inquire of Beelzebub, a false God? And so Ahaziah represents all of those who refuse to put their trust in God, who put their hope in a false, vain thing, and they don't trust in the Lord. And Ahaziah dies without hope. It's a bad death. All of us will face death. The question is how will we face it? Everyone's going to have an appointment with death. I heard a new statistic out there. One out of everyone died. We're all going to face death. Ecclesiastes 8. 8 says there's no discharge from that war. Everyone, you're going to have a war with death. You have an engagement with death. You have no point with death. You can't get out of it. What weapon will you choose to fight that great monarch of terrors? Well, Ahaziah chose a false hope. He chose to try to trust in Beelzebub. And by the way, Beelzebub literally means, if you remember from the last time, Lord of the Flies Lord of the of the the God of the flies, Bale of the Flies, or we could say Lord of the Dung Heap, really, for where flies gathered. And this was kind of a uh uh a a Hebrew slander to the the name. Actually Baal's a bull means Lord of glory. They changed the B the L to a B so it could call it they could call him Lord of the Flies And look the writer is saying you actually want to put your hope in some weak God or actually a God that doesn't exist. A lot of people put their hope in a vain thing. And so the contrast here is in chapter two, where we see the terrible death of Ahaziah, and now we see the glorious departure of Elijah the prophet who go who's called home to heaven in a beautiful way. And so every believer really will go to heaven the same way that Elijah did, caught up with the angels and the clouds to ascend into heaven. And a very glorious, beautiful, homegoing. If you're a believer and you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, you know the greatest day of your life is when God calls you home to heaven. It's a wonderful thing. It's a glorious thing. That's why the Bible says, blessed in the sight of the Lord is the death of the saints. And that's why we use the imagery, you know, of You know, crossing Jordan, that all comes from a story like this. You know, there's the old spiritual. I looked over Jordan and what did I see coming for to carry me home? A band of angels coming after me. Coming forward to carry me home. And then there's the line, swing low, sweet chariot, coming forward to take me home. Comes straight from this story here. This is the hope of every believer. Those who put their trust in Christ will have a glorious homecoming. Sadly, not all chariots are sweet. Because some chariots of fire signify the wrath of God. Write this verse down in your margin. Isaiah 66, 15 and 16. For behold the Lord will come in fire, and his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger and fury. And his rebuke with flames of fire. For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment. By his sword will all flesh and those slain by the Lord shall be many. Isaiah is using the same words that we see here in 2 Kings to describe the coming of the Lord, the word fire and chariot and whirlwind. However, the windy, fiery coming of God with all his angels Here is not good. For all of God's people it will be safe. It'll be a wonderful thing. It'll be a glorious thing. But for those who don't know the Lord, it won't be. It'll be wrath. It'll be fiery wrath. It won't be glory Sinners who confess their sins and who come to Jesus and ask for forgiveness, who repent and place their faith in the finished work of Christ on the cross. You have forgiveness of sins. You have eternal life. There's a glorious homecoming for everyone who's done that. But for those who do not put their hope in God, then it's not so good You say, wait a minute, Elijah didn't die. Yeah, I know. He was called home. He didn't die. But truthfully, neither does a believer in Jesus Christ. Listen to Jesus. Jesus said, I'm the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he what? And shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Our body may die, but we're not dead Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. Question number two. Why does Elijah go on a journey before his homecoming? Why does that happen? Because as we read this text, what we noticed was that this is just one big long journey. I mean it's just one journey. I think the answer to that is this. God was preparing Elijah and those around him for his departure. That's really what this whole final journey is about. Kind of a victory lap, we could say. And so Elijah knows his days are numbered. And he knows that it won't be long before God calls him home. And so this whole narrative is organized around this journey that Elijah and Elisha take together. In verse 1, they begin at Gilgal. In verse 2, they go from Gilgal down to Bethel. In verse 4, they go from Bethel to Jericho. In verse 6, they go from Jericho to the Jordan. And when Elijah was making this journey, he was saying that God was directing him because each time he says, The Lord has sent me, God sent me here, I'm going here. Elijah was this great influential prophet. He had touched many lives, and God was preparing his heart to take him home, and he was preparing the hearts of those around him to take them home. And notice the places that he visits. They're very important. They're very significant in the history of Israel. But they also, to me, point to this Other journey that Elijah is going to take very soon. Gilgal, that was the place where the Israelites first crossed the Jordan into the Promised Land. It was a place of new beginnings. Elijah was about to cross the spiritual River Jordan into a place of new beginnings, into God's real promised land. And then there was Bethel. You know what Bethel means in Hebrews? House of God. This is the place where Abraham worshipped God in the land of Canaan. This was the place where Jacob saw the ladder coming down out of heaven, right to where he was. Actually it was a staircase, is a Hebrew word there. And he saw angels ascending and descending on that staircase, and God was right there above it. He was right there in the presence of God. And that was a reminder to him that heaven is the house of God. Remember what David said, I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Jesus said, In my father's what? House or many mansions. I know we like to think of heaven as a bunch of mansions, but really all of heaven is God's house, and we have rooms there. And don't worry, they're not small rooms, they're big. You won't be disappointed. The house of God. And then Jericho, that would remind Elijah of the victory of faith. This is the place where Joshua saw the captain of the Lord of the hosts, the Lord Jesus. Where they saw the miraculous power that God had when the walls fell. All of this was a reminder of the spiritual heritage and blessings that he was going to get because of faith. All these places were a reminder to Elijah of what lay ahead. Not only what was behind and what God did, but what God is doing and what God will do. And so this was God preparing his servant. I believe when the Lord calls people home, he gives them dying grace. Those who are his children. Those who belong to him. God gives them grace. He prepares them for the home going. D. L. Moody one time was asked if he was afraid of death. And he said, you know, when it comes to die, I don't think I'll be afraid of death. I think God will give me grace. And sure enough, on his deathbed, he was asked, Mr. Moody, are you afraid to die? And he said, What do you mean afraid to die? This is my coronation day, is what he said. I see this in Elijah, God preparing. We see this with Paul in the New Testament, right? Paul says, For I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I fought a good fight, finished my course. Now God prepares a servant, he prepares others. These were young prophets that he was seeing. At all these places there were schools of the prophets. We see this in verse 3, and the son of the prophets that were there at Bethel came forth. And then in verse 5, and then some of the prophets that were at Jericho, and then all later later in Jordan. So these were seminary students. We could say. The Bible speaks about a school of prophets in 1 Samuel 10 and then in 19, but here again they appear, and evidently Elijah here is the leader of these prophets. These were men who were being trained for prophetic ministry Men that no doubt Elijah had invested himself into, and God was preparing these men under Elijah, and Elijah was paying his final visit to these branch campuses, you could say. He was president of the uh Palestinian theological seminary. He was going around l saying goodbye to all the students, these younger prophets. And again, I think when God is going to take a servant, a loved servant, he will prepare people around that have that that person has influence. And God was preparing Elisha himself. Elisha was the disciple of Elijah. We know in 1 Kings 19, the Bible says, you remember Elijah cast his mantle on Elisha, and from then on out Elisha began to follow Elijah. He made a commitment to be a servant And we all from there on out they're together. Ten years they spent together. He took such good care of Elijah that later he was known as the prophet who poured water on the hands of Elijah. That's what he was called. No doubt he learned a lot from his mentor. And this would be difficult for him, but God was preparing him as well. Third question. Why does Elijah ask Elijah to stay behind as he makes his journey? Did you notice that every time Elijah is ready to go somewhere else, he says to Elijah, just stay here. Stay here. And what does Elijah say? No. Look at verse 2. Tarry here I pray thee, he says in verse 2. And then in verse 4, Tarry here I pray thee. In verse 6, tarry here three times, Elijah says, Elijah, just stay behind. I'm going to move on here. And each time Elisha refuses to leave, I think that the reason for this, the answer to this is this was all a test for Elisha. And Elisha shows his commitment, he shows his determination to be faithful and to fulfill his duties that he surrendered to do when he was first called to serve. By just staying right by the side of Elijah. Each time Elijah, or Elisha rather, says, as the Lord liveth and thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So he's just faithful. He's not it would have been pretty easy for Elijah to say, Yeah, you know what, you're right. I'm just gonna wait here. And it when one day I'm gonna be the new guy in town. I'll be the new president. Uh, he doesn't do that. You know, it was a fifteen mile walk from Gilgal to Bethel. Elijah said, you know, I don't want to walk fifteen miles. Nope. He says, I'm not going to leave you. And in verse 4, again he tries to deter Elijah. You know, it's another 15 miles to Jericho. That's, you know. Uh another that's thirty miles so far. But he says, No, I'm I'm coming with you. And then another five miles to Jordan, that's thirty-five miles of walking in one day. Some would consider that an inconvenience. But Elisha says, I am not going to leave you. I'm going to stay. I'm going to continue to be faithful. I'm going to do my duty. You know, this inspires us that we need to be faithful with what God has called us to do, no matter how hard it gets. No matter how inconvenient and no matter how sorrowful. This had to be a sorrowful trip for Elijah. This wasn't fun. Every time he goes to a new place, this the seminary students come out and they say, Hey, do you know that uh Elijah's going to be taken from you. You know, your master is going to be taken from you. He said, Yeah, no. Shut up. That's not really what he says, but be quiet. Why are you talking about it? And really when he says don't speak of it, he means don't add to my sorrow. Can't you see I'm having a difficult time with this already? You know? Why are you talking to me about this? You know, don't add sorrow to me. This was a sorrowful trip for Elisha. But nevertheless, he doesn't quit because it's difficult. He doesn't quit because it's painful emotionally. He stays faithful. He stays committed Here's a fourth question. Why does Elijah ask for a double portion of Elijah's spirit? Why does he do that? Well, I think Elijah, the answer to that is he just wanted spiritual power and blessings. Notice the trip continues. Look down in verse number uh seven and fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off and they s and they too stood by Jordan And Elisha took his mannow and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither into their so that the two went over on dry ground And it came to pass that when they were gone over thee, Elijah said unto Elisha, ask what I will do for thee, and before I am taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. So as they continue on this journey, they come to the Jordan River. There are fifty prophets that are watching from afar, you know. They got their binoculars out. They're watching what's going on. They didn't have binoculars back then. Just just kidding. And so they're watching. What do they see? Elijah takes his mantle. He snaps it. He smokes the waters. They're divided. This is a miracle. And they walk over on dry ground. You know, Elijah used to fancy himself as the next Moses. You know, God divided the waters for Moses at the Red Sea. Now he does it for Elijah and they walk over on dry ground. He did it for Joshua, by the way, when they crossed over, probably around the same area. It may have been the same exact area. Maybe. Probably. But here he's doing it now, not only just for Moses and Joshua. Now he's going to do it for Elijah. And they walk over on dry ground. And it's important that these 50 men are watching this. And why is that important? Because later we're going to see Elisha Do repeat the same miracle. He will take the mantle of Elijah. He will smoke the waters. They will part. And Elijah will come back into the promised land And the fifty sons of the prophets will see it. And why is that important? Because this act will confirm in their minds that Elisha is truly Elijah's successor. So in verse 9, Elijah knows he wants something. He knows that Elijah wants something from him, so he asks, What do you want? Tell me what you want. And Elijah asked a bold request, I want a double portion of your spirit. Now what does he mean by that? According to the law in the Old Testament, when a father was handing out portions of his estate to his children, he would give equal portions to the children, but the firstborn got a double portion. That's according to Old Testament law. So what Elijah is asking for is he he wants to be considered the firstborn of all the sons of the prophets, you could say. That may be later why when God takes Elijah, you hear Elisha say, My father, my father. Elisha doesn't want material riches. That's not what he's asking for. He's not asking for land or possessions. He wants Elijah's spirit. I think that when Elijah was taking this trip, going to the school, the prophets He probably was blessing these young men. I can imagine him putting his hands on them, praying for these young men, speaking words of blessing. But now here is Elisha and he says, look, I I want a double portion. You're giving your portion out to the other sons here. I want a double portion. And when he says spirit, he doesn't mean Elijah's disposition, or he doesn't mean his temperament. He's talking about spiritual power, the power of the Holy Spirit. I like what uh Reichin says about this. He was not interested merely in Elijah's staff or his parchments or his renown or even his cloak. When it came time to be written into Elijah's will, Elijah chose a spiritual inheritance His deepest desire was to have the living power of the Holy Spirit in his life and ministry. And that's exactly right. Elisha saw that Elijah had something special there, that he had a power. A spiritual power that others did not have. And Elisha was already designated as the successor of Elijah, but he knew that in order to fulfill that ministry, that calling, that he needed a lot more. than what he had. And so he asked for this this double portion. He knew that he couldn't be half of what Elijah was unless he had this double portion. And so this is what he asked for. And this is something again that we can learn from. The greatest thing that we can have as and be effective in ministry is The power of the Holy Spirit working in our lives. So we see this all through the book of Acts. The Bible says in Ephesians 5. 18, be not drunk with wine when it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. And so we need the Spirit of God. That's the thing that we should want. We should want to be filled with the Spirit. One time people were complaining about D. L. Moody. They said, everyone talks about Moody. Does Mr. Moody think that he has a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And one person spoke up and said no, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on Mr. Moody. And that's what we should want, for the Holy Spirit to have all of us. It was Moody who said, I believe firmly that the moment our hearts are emptied of pride And selfishness and ambition and everything that is contrary to God's law, the Holy Spirit will fill every corner of our hearts But if we are full of pride and conceit and ambition in the world, there's no room for the Spirit of God. We must be emptied before we can be filled. And this should be the desire of us. We should ask for a double portion. You see people around you, people who are faithful, people who are bold in evangelism. merciful in their deeds or fervent in their prayer or perhaps powerful in their teaching, you should that should be your prayer. Lord, give me a double portion of that. I had times have asked for that when I seen God working mightily in the heart and life of other servants of the Lord. Now so how does Elijah respond? Look at verse 10. And he said Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee, but if not, it shall not be so Why was it a difficult thing? Well, Elijah was basically saying, look, this is not mine to give. I can't determine how much of the spirit or the power of God that you have. No man can do that. Only God can do that. And Elijah wasn't sure if God would grant Elisha this or not, but he said, I'll give you a sign. If you are around and you see me, that's the key phrase here, if you see me when God takes me, then that Will be a sign that God will answer your prayer. Because in order for Elisha to see this, he'll have to look somewhat into the spiritual realm. And if God opens your eyes to see this That will be a sign that God is going to grant you what you want. Question number five. Why does God use a fiery horses and chariot to take Elijah to heaven? Why does he do that? And the answer is because Elijah's ministry was about declaring Yahweh as the true God, not Baal. Now follow me here. Elijah's whole ministry was all about proving that, right? Even his whole name, Eli, my God, is Yahweh. That's what his name means. His whole ministry was designed to overturn the purposes of Ahab and Jezebel. Their purpose was to replace Yahweh with Baal. And Elijah came on the scene to make sure that didn't happen. So that's why you have all these things, all these miracles that we see, all the All the contests with Elijah's ministry, that's why the three year drought, that's why the challenge on Mount Carmel, that's why raising a dead boy in Baal's territory, that's why Now he's taken to heaven in a fiery chariot. You know why? Because Baal was called the rider of the clouds He was this warlike weather deity, if you remember, and the billowing dark clouds of a storm were viewed as the battle chariot in which Baal rode, thundering forth his voice and carrying lightning as his spear. That was the way people depicted him. And so even in his departure, Elijah is again challenging that worship of Baal. He's basically saying Baal has no command over storm, rain, fire, or any of those things. Only the God of Israel does. In fact, the real rider of the clouds is none other than Yahweh. In fact, the Old Testament insists this is the title that belongs to the Lord, to him and no other. Listen to these verses, Deuteronomy 33, 26. There is none like God, O Jeshuran, who run who rides through the heavens to your help. through the skies in his majesty. Psalm 68, 4, sing unto the Lord, sing praises to his name, extol him that rideth upon the heavens, by his name Yah, and rejoice before him. Psalm 68, 17, the chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels. The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, the holy place. In Psalm 104, verse 3, who layeth the beams of his chariot, chamber, excuse me, in the waters, who maketh the clouds his chariot, who walketh upon the wings of the wind. You want to know what God's chariot looks like? Read Ezekiel 1. Jeremiah 4. 13. Behold, he shall come as up as clouds. And his chariot shall be as a whirlwind. His horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us, for we are spoiled. So Elijah and Elisha are walking along and they're talking. And notice verse 11. And it came to pass as they still went on and talked that, behold. There appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire and parted them both asunder. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. So you can just imagine that scene. Here they are just walking and right in between, you know Here comes this chariot with horses of fire. And Elijah just jumps on. Hey, see ya. He jumps on. And he's taken to heaven. And by the way, when Elijah saw this, the fire and the horses and the symbolism there was really unmistakable. This is the warrior God, the captain of the armies of heaven. He had come to retrieve his servant in his war chariot Elijah had fought a good fight, and now God was taking his soldier home to his heavenly reward in the war chariot and a glorious chariot. And notice verse 12 what happens. And Elijah saw it and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more, and he took hold of his own clothes and rent them in two pieces. Now this expression, my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof, you know, some people when they look at this, they read this, they're basically they they interpret it like this, you know Oh, here comes the chariot with the horses, you know, there goes Elijah, my father. That's not really what he's saying here. This is kind of an an this expression is an epitaph to describe the prophet. When he says the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof, he's actually referring to Elijah. Because in ancient Israel, to have a prophet was to have an army of God. And what Elijah meant by that was that one man of God is worth is better than a whole army. So he's really referring to the power of Elijah when he says that. You know, we are we seem to be really concerned about getting political e leaders, you know, good leaders in the right places. You know, that's all important. But you know what we need to pray for? We need to pray that God will raise up men of God. Because that's a whole lot more important to a nation than political leaders and statesmen. That's a whole lot more important to the kingdom of God. We need man of God in the spirit and power of Elijah. And Elisha becomes that because look now in verse 13. And he took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him. And he went back, and he stood by the bank of the of Jordan, and he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he had also smitten the waters, they parted Hither and thither, and Elijah went over. And again, and when the sons of the prophets which were to view as Jericho saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah now rests on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. So it's very evident that his prayer, his request is answered, because now what we see here is this confirmation He takes the mantle, he smites the waters, they are parted. What God did for Moses and what God did for Joshua, he now does for Elijah, and now he's doing the same thing for Elisha. Now, let me just say one other thing to point out here before I move on. You know, there's a the New Testament shows a lot of parallels between Elijah and Jesus. As Elijah ascended, remember Jesus ascended in the clouds. And remember what the angel said in Acts to the disciples watching there, this same Jesus who's been taken from you will come back in the same manner. He'll come back in clouds. And when the Son of Man comes again, he'll come as the rider of the clouds, as a warrior. That's the whole idea there. You know, some people think about the second coming and they think of Lord coming in these fluffy white clouds. That misses the point He returns as the divine warrior in his storm chariot with the armies of heaven to put down his enemies That's what John said in Revelation one. Behold he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all the kindness of the earth shall wail because of him. They will wail. These are the enemies of the divine warrior when he comes back. Let me give you one more question here in 49. Question number six. Why do the sons of the prophet insist on searching for Elijah? Answer, because they lack spiritual insight, we're not ready to listen to their new leader. Look down at verse 16. And they said unto him, this is talking to Elisha now. Behold now there be with thy servants fifty strong men. Let them therefore let them go, we pray thee thee, and seek thy master, lest per adventure the Spirit of the Lord hath taken him up and cast him on some mountain and or into some valley As if the Spirit of the Lord will do that, just toss them over the chariot. You know, just throw them out into some mountain or valley. These guys were not thinking well. And he said, you shall not sin. No, that's not necessary. But, you know, they didn't have the spiritual insight to see what Elisha, or Elisha, excuse me, saw But they still thought they knew better. They didn't want to submit to him. You know. There's no search party necessary. Oh, we we need to do this. They perhaps didn't trust him yet. Or they didn't trust his word like they trusted the word of Elijah. So they're not listening. They're going to insist to search for Elijah. They're just not listening. So you know sometimes the most dangerous people, spiritually dangerous people, are seminary students who've completed one year of seminary. They seem to have it all figured out after just a one year. In fact the word sophomore is a combination of two Greek words. Sophia wise moros moron. A sophomore is someone who had one year of school and they think they're wise, but they're really a moron. These guys were sop this was the sophomore class of Jericho Theological Seminary. And they didn't believe in the rapture. So they sent out a search party for Elijah. They just don't want to listen. They got it all figured out. They all have all the answers. And so look at verse 17. And when they urged him till he was ashamed. That is, they keep pressing him when it says he's ashamed. That is, he was embarrassed. They kept pressing him or to the extreme. Finally, he says, okay, fine. Send, go. If you want to do it, go ahead. It's your time. And notice in verse 17, and so they They began to look and they sought three days, but guess what? They didn't find them What a waste of time and resource and energy in this feudal venture, born of pride. What's the lesson? Your spiritual leaders might may not be perfect, but you should probably listen to them some, submit to their leadership, save you some heartache. The Bible says, obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they that must give an account, that they may do it with joy, not with grief, for that's unprofitable for you. So finally they get the message, you're not going to find him. He's gone. So just in closing, what do we learn from this? What do we learn? Elijah's God is the true God, and that's the God that we need, not the Beelzebubs of this world. He is the God who gives us daily bread. Elijah and Elisha knew that. God did that for them. He's the God who provides everything that we need. That's what God did for them. He's the God who gives us comfort. God comforted both Elijah and Elisha all along the way. He's the God who gives us power over death. And and they saw that. Both Elijah and Elisha raised the dead. They knew that their God has power over death. He's the God that provides strength for ministry. And so, where is the Lord God of Elijah? He is still here. He's still working through the Elishas of the church that are willing to depend upon him for strength, for power. The power of the Holy Spirit. Let me just close with this. When the famous preacher Donald Gray Barnhouse died in nineteen sixty, after over thirty years of fruitful ministry. Eternity Magazine published a memorial issue in his honor, and the magazine opened with these words in large print: Lord make me an Elisha. And the article went on to say, The Lord's warrior has departed, and his manual has been dropped at our feet. We who sat at the feet of Donald Gray Barnhouse and met Christ with every word he spoke, oh a debt of love and a debt of thanksgiving which we can never totally repay. His courage in speaking the truth, his passion for reconciling Christ's people to each other, his flaming heart consumed in service, his unceasing, thus saith the Lord. These compel us to take up the mantle boldly and say, Lord, make me an Elisha. Make me strong and faithful. Continue in me the work which is begun in this thy servant. That's a great prayer. And that should be the prayer of all of us. Lord, make me an Elisha. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for this beautiful narrative, this beautiful story that reminds us of all these things that are so important for us to learn. We thank you, Lord, that for those who put their trust in the Savior Jesus Christ, death is a glorious prospect. We know that that's our most glorious day when we're ushered into the presence of the Lord. When we will see the true rider of the clouds, the true God, and face-to-face Lord, will be there with you, and in your presence is fullness of joy. And so, Lord, help us to take hold of these things and to remember this story. And help us, Lord, to have the spirit of Elisha, who wanted to emulate his teacher. to depend upon you for power, to be faithful even unto the end. And thank you, Lord, that you honor your servants, that Or just faithful. Even in the difficult times, even in the times of sorrow, Lord, help us to be faithful. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.