Take God's word tonight. I want you to open to a New Testament passage tonight. We're going to look at a New Testament passage, 1 Timothy chapter 2, and we're going to look at verses 1 to 8 tonight First Timothy chapter 2 verses 1 to 8. And I want to speak tonight on this subject, a churchwide call to prayer Look at verse number one, where Paul says, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings, for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior. One of my favorite uh preachers from the past, Jay Wilber Chapman, was uh a young man who had just been called to the pastor of the Bethany Church in Philadelphia. He He felt like he wasn't really up to the task that was too much for him. And hoping to get inspiration, he went over to London and he heard the great uh Charles Spurgeon preach there at the Tabernacle in London Well his heart was just so totally blessed by that. He was so inspired by Spurgeon and went back to his church at Philadelphia And God honored him and blessed him and he had a wonderful ministry. And later he'd recalled what had happened there in London that really changed him, he thought After the sermon that Spurgeon preached, he went up to him and thanked him, and he said, you know, it was such a blessing, and God spoke to my heart in such a great way. And Spurgeon said, Well, listen, uh, the blessing comes from above, not me. It comes from above And he said, I want you to know the reason you're blessed is because there are people all over praying for me and praying for this church. And he said, Let me give you a piece of advice, young man. If you want to have a blessed ministry, teach your people to pray. Teach your people to be a praying church. And with that Jay Wilbur Chapman took that advice and went back to Philadelphia, taught his people To pray. He emphasized that, and as a result, God blessed the church. It was a powerful ministry. And I think the lesson there is there's power in a praying church. Someone said this that in relation to his people, God works only in answer to their prayers. It is in prayer that we exchange our natural strength. for the supernatural strength of God. And we need to do that every day, right? We need to exchange our natural strength for the supernatural strength of God. AC Dixon said when we depend on organization, we get what organization can do, and that's something. When we depend upon education, we get what education can do, and that's something. But when we depend upon prayer, we get what God can do. And friend, I want to to depend upon prayer. I want to see what God can do. Now with all that in mind, I want you to look at this passage because this is the background Of First Timothy, Paul is teaching Timothy this very lesson about the power of a church that prays together. Now You probably recognize first and second Timothy are letters written by Paul and also um Titus. These are pastoral epistles. They're called that because they are unique in the way Paul addresses issues for these young ministers in a very pastoral way. These are personal letters. We kind of see the heart of Paul flowing out of this more so in these kind of letters than in some of the other letters that he wrote Paul left Timothy in Ephesus. He was to stay there to take care of some of the problems that were creeping up at the church at Ephesus. And uh there was some false teaching going around. We see this in chapter one, verse three. There was kind of kind of a mixture of Jewish legalism and mysticism and a kind of early form of Gnosticism. And Paul wanted Timothy to stay behind and to uh make sure that they teach no false doctrine. And so this was a big tas for Timothy. And and another thing about this is that the people in the church there were not really giving him his due respect. Uh he was still a young man. Timothy was somewhat timid and reluctant to exercise his pastoral authority, so Paul wants to encourage him to war a good warfare. Timothy, fight a good fight. Now the key verse I think in the whole epistle we we can look at in chapter three, look down at verse number fifteen. He writes this, but if I tarry long That thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Paul writes, giving Timothy instruction on how to run a ministry. Here's how you're to act in the house of God. And so in this letter, there's all kinds of instructions. There's instructions on public worship, on the selection of qualified leaders, on the pastor's personal life, his public ministry, how to confront sin in the church. the role of men, the care of widows. But one of the most important lessons that Paul is going to teach Timothy is in the matter of prayer in the church. And he he's going to address this here in chapter 2, verses 1 to 8. The church was born on its knees in the book of Acts, chapter two, and the church marches forward on its knees. And so let me give you from this passage then three lessons about Number one, if you're taking notes, write down the priority of prayer. Paul emphasizes this should be a priority. Look in verse 1. I exhort therefore that, first of all, underscore that phrase, first of all. Prayer ought to be first of all. Prayer is not the last resort as some people treat it. You know, if it if nothing else works, well, I guess we should we should probably start to pray, you know. If nothing else works, we go to our knees and pray. It's almost like a last resort. That's not the way prayer is to be treated. Prayer is to be a priority. Paul said, first of all, this is to be first of all. Now, I it's sad to see how prayer has lost its importance in many churches. One one pastor lamented, he said this, if I announce a banquet, people will come out of the woodwork to attend. He said, if I announce a prayer meeting, I'm lucky if I get the ushers to show up. Such is the condition of many churches in America today. The church needs to live in the atmosphere of prayer. We need to be a praying church. And so that's why Paul says in verse 1, I exhort. I exhort. This is the Greek word perikaleo. It really means literally means to come alongside and beg and exhort. And Paul is saying, you know, Timothy, if I were there, I would be impressing on you, I would be begging you, please make this a priority. Get the church to pray. Teach the church to pray. Make it a priority. Not the last resort. It should be the first resort and the last resort and everything in between. This should be all of what we do. Someone wrote, prayer should be the breath of our breathing, the thought of our thinking, the soul of our feeling, the life of our living, the sound of our hearing, and the growth of our growing. Jesus spoke about united prayer. Remember he in his ministry he said, listen to this in Matthew 18, verse 19. Again I say unto you that if any two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything They shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in the midst of my name, there I am in the midst of them. And so the word agree here is the Greek word symphone where we get the word symphony. In other places in the New Testament, it's translated music. And I like to call this the symphony of prayer. When God's people come together and they're united and they pray together, it's like a symphony to God. To hear all those prayers coming to heaven. It's like a beautiful symphony. It's like music to his ears. Jesus told the church in the book of Acts, right before he ascended Don't just go out, wait, pray together, wait until you get the promise of the Father. And so that we see the church in the book of Acts in chapter one, they were praying together. The Bible says they continued with one accord in prayer, in supplication. They were all in one place, praying together, and God moved in a mighty way, and we know that story. And so, and a result of the symphony of prayer in the early church, God did great things. And so we're to make it a priority. Now let me give you some reasons why it should be a priority. Number one, to promote commitment. Just write that down. To promote commitment. Look in look again in verse one. I exhort therefore. Look at the word therefore. Whenever you see that, you have to back up a few verses, right? Because he's kind of making a conclusion. So if we look back in chapter 1, verses 18 and 19, this refers to the previous charge that Paul gave Timothy. Go back to chapter 1, verse 18. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy Charge here is a military word. It's the orders from a superior. Paul's not the one who is really giving this order. His superior, Jesus. This is a charge from the Lord This charge I commit unto you, Timothy. Commit is a banking term. A deposit that's been entrusted to someone, something very valuable. What was entrusted to Timothy? Well, the ministry of this church And Paul says you have a an order from that comes all the way down from headquarters that you're to do this, that you are to war a good warfare. And so we have many leaders today that are just compromising the Word of God. They're not worrying of good warfare. They're not standing strong or firm on the Word. And Paul St. Timothy, this is a charge that comes all the way down, kind of like an army-military charge. You are to war a good warfare. And he says, uh also according to these prophecies that went on before about you in verse 18. What did he mean by that? Well, there were people that looked at Timothy's life and they said, you know what, this this guy's going to be a force for God. He's going to be a great man of God. And they would see Timothy's devotion and love. And they would think, man, he's going to be greatly used. And Paul is reminding Timothy of all this. He's reminding him of his special selection and appointment. And when Paul wrote this, it's very probable that Timothy may have been doubting himself, doubting his abilities. He was discouraged with the way things were going. He was under a lot of pressure. People were not giving him his respect as a young minister. And Paul had to remind him, look in chapter four, look down at verse number eleven. These things command and teach, let no man despise thy youth, but be an example of the believers in word and conversation and charity. And spirit and faith and purity. Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the Presbytery Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy propheting may appear to all. So Paul had to remind Timothy of all these things. Nobody's under fire today, it seems like, like pastors, I think, and I know that sounds self-serving. I don't feel in a bad position. I feel very s blessed to be here at Grace, and I don't feel under fire, but the truth of the matter is a lot of pastors are under fire. And especially young pastors out there. I was reading recently a statistic, it was given to me on a um uh on this uh Logos uh software that I have that kind of give out news And they put out this report about pastors, the mental condition of pastors during COVID. Did you know that pastors are suffering during COVID? They actually gave the statistics of how many pastors are depressed, how many have quit, how many want to quit, and how many have even contemplated suicide. Can you imagine that? Even pastors contemplating suicide. And so um we need prayer. I I would admit to you as a pastor, I need your prayers. I need your prayer so that I will be as committed as I need to be, so that I will war good warfare, so that I will be a good soldier of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so notice notice also the variety of prayers that are mentioned here in verse 1. He said, I exhort, first of all, supplication. By the way, there are seven different Greek nouns for prayer. Four of them are used here in this verse. Supplication, that's the idea of offering a kind of a felt need, a request for a felt need. Prayers, that's a common term, and this really emphasizes the worship of prayer, the sacredness of the worship of prayer. Intercessions, that's praying on behalf of someone else. Let me ask you a question. You know someone tonight that needs prayer? That's why we're here. We're going to pray for them in a minute. But that's what intercession is. Intercession is praying for others that just need our prayer. Giving of thanks, that definitely is a part of prayer. All of our prayer should have thanksgiving mingled into it. And so Paul is saying, Timothy, make sure you do this and that the prayers be made for all men in verse one. Who should we pray for? Everyone we can think of that needs our prayer. All We need prayers. Again, I'm not too proud to say I need your prayers. I need you to pray for me. That I'll be sold out, that I'll be committed to Christ. And I want to pray for you and for the same reason. I m remember reading about Martin Luther when he stood before the Catholic authorities where he had to take a stand and he was weak and trembling and he asked him, he said, give me a day to meditate and pray. And they they gave him a day And he went and he prayed. And the next day when he came in to answer these papal authorities, there was no hesitation, there was no wavering. That's when he made the the statement, the famous statement. Here I stand, I can do no more. Help me, so help me God. He refused to compromise. It was strength that he received through prayer. So to promote commitment, then write down, number two, to prevent casualties. Look again in verse chapter 1, look down in verse 19. Holding faith and a good conscience, which some have put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck. And here Paul changes the illustration from Army to Navy. You know, here he's talking about those who are going to make shipwreck of their faith. These are people that may be Professing Christians in the assembly, and they're sinning against their consciences and they're making shipwreck of their faith. One country preacher said they wrecked their fellowship, their worship, their discipleship, and their stewardship. They were wrecking their ship. Now who are the me who are the men here? It's uh they give us the name, uh the two names in verse twenty twenty, verse uh where it says of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander They rejected their good conscience in order to uh defend their ungodly lives. And Paulus didn't tell Paul doesn't tell us exactly how They sin, but it says that they blasphemed in verse 20. I've delivered over unto Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. Now, so when Paul says I delivered them to Satan, that's that's church discipline. And the Bible speaks about that when a when someone sins, you approach them meekly and Trying to get them to repent. But here Paul is kind of bypassing the whole process that's mentioned in uh Matthew 18 and 1 Corinthians 5. And this was evidently such a serious sin. It had such a detrimental effect that Paul said, I've already delivered them unto Satan. for the destruction of the flesh. And Paul uses that term in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, the destruction of the flesh. And so this is church discipline. You know, sometimes when a believer or someone who professes to be a believer sins so high-handedly Drastic action has to be done. And these men were cast out. They were delivered to Satan. That's a dangerous thing. They're no longer under the protection of the ministry of the church, and they're being cast out because of their false doctrine. And that should also give us a warning. Listen, beware, there's a lot of false doctrine out there. Make sure that you're careful who you listen to when it comes to this. And so We need to pray to prevent casualties. There's all kind of people that are falling away. I hate to see casualties. Satan is out there. He is on the prow, trying to bring people down I heard about a boxer once who was uh boxing his opponent. He was being pummeled in the ring, and he came back every round and he was just just in terrible shape. And his trainer was trying to encourage him and he said, Come on, stay in there. You're doing a good job. He hasn't laid a glove on you. And the uh the boxer said, Well please keep an eye on that referee because somebody's hammering me in there You know, we have a foe. We don't always see him. But I want to tell you something, friend. He's out there delivering hard blows. And we need to be careful. We're in a real battle. We need to be on guard. That's why we need to pray. We pray to promote commitment. We pray to prevent casualties. But here's the third thing, to precede change. Look at verse 2 of chapter 2. He said, we're to pray for all men, for kings, for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Now what Paul's saying here is that prayer can change your circumstances Paul said, if you pray, you know what? It can lead to a quiet and peaceable life. Now when Paul wrote this, things were not quiet. And some were not having peace. You know why? Because at this season, it was open, or at this season, it was open season on Christians. The church was being persecuted. there in the first century. Um and so Paul says, look, our respon your responses is to pray for all men, for kings, for all that are in authority. Paul was referring to governors. He was referring to senators, politicians, especially the emperor. Do you know who was on the throne when Paul wrote this? It was Nero. Nero. I know some people have sometimes Americans uh can complain about the president or their governor or their senator, but I would venture to say that probably they are not as bad as Nero was. Nero was pretty bad, and you're probably not going through the persecution that these first century believers were going through. What did Nero do? He was known for his cruelty. Some of the things he did You know, uh they're they're so heinous I don't even want to mention them in public some of the things he did. He was no uh notor uh noted for his His incredible vicious treatment of believers. He threw Christians to lions, he would split open their stomach, pour in corn, throw them to wild hogs, watch them be devoured. He just said all kind of things. And And Paul's saying, look, you know what, you need to pray for Nero. Pray for him. Pray for all of these people that are in authority. So that we can lead a quiet and peaceable life. Now can you imagine the people in Ephesus when they read this? He wants us to do what? He wants us to pray for them? Pray for these people that hate us? Paul couldn't possibly mean Nero. Paul said all men. All men for kings for all that are in authority. You know what this tells me? Paul knew The sweeping power of prayer. Paul knew that prayer can change things. That's why he said that. And by the way, he knew it because of what happened in his life. Go back to chapter 1. Look down at verse number 12. Notice what Paul says. He says, I thank Christ Jesus, our Lord, who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Who was before what? A blasphemer and a persecutor and injurist, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. Paul remembers when he was the one out there persecuting the church When he was the one that Christians were afraid of. And can you imagine in the early church them saying, you know what, we need to pray for Saul. We need to pray for God to kill him. He is persecuting the church. He's hurting the church. Let's pray that God will take him out. And you know what God's will was? God's will was to strike them, not strike them dead, but strike them alive. And Paul got converted, and Saul, the persecutor, became Paul the preacher. So Paul knew personally how prayer can change things. And it can make things quiet. Quiet means external circumstances. We just want to worship in quietness Peace means the inward attitudes. We want peace in our heart. We want quietness on the outside. Some people say, I don't like what's going on in Washington. Good. Pray. Begin to pray. Because that's when God will work. Let me tell you something, friend. Washington can't hold back revival. When God wants to do something, Washington can't stop it. There's nothing that they can do. And when God sends it, they can't hold it back. A praying church will do more than all the bills fast in Congress. As far as helping this country. And I mean the church at large praying. It will do more to change things than anything else. And again, Paul knows this. So we pray to promote commitment. We pray to prevent casualties to precede change. But also here's another reason to please Christ. Look in verse 3. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God. Our Savior. You know why we pray? Because it's pleasing to the Lord. Paul says it's good. Kalos, that's beautiful. When God looks down and sees the church praying together, you know what God says? That's beautiful. It's beautiful. It is acceptable. That means something very well-pleasing. Every once in a while I'll meet a Christian and they'll say something like this. I'm just not sure my prayers really do anything. I can't see my prayers having a bit a big impact. I can't really see my prayers changing things. Well, first of all, you won't always know the effect of your prayers. You might not get some of your prayers won't be answered until you get on the other side of glory. And you don't know the effect that your prayers are having right now. But let me tell you something, friend. Even if your prayers don't do what you want them to do, we should still pray. You know why? Because it pleases Christ. Because it pleases the Lord. And we should be doing it for His glory. That's the real motive behind true prayer. It is for the glory of God. It's because it pleases the Lord. Not for our own selfish interests. And so to please Christ, but let me give you another reason. To promote commitment, prevent casualties, pre-cede change, please Christ. But here's another one to produce conversions Look at verse number four. Who will have all men to be saved and come unto the knowledge of the truth? Who will have all men to be saved? You know why we should pray? Because God wants people to be saved. God wants people to be converted. And this is what I call evangelistic praying. It's the desire that men come to know Jesus Christ. Let me tell you something, friend. When we come and we pray on Wednesday night, we should pray for people to be saved. Now I I think we should pray for a lot of things. I think we should pray for the sick, that God would heal them. And I think we should pray for all the requests that we come. But I tell you the priority for us, we should be praying that God will save souls. Sometimes we're more interested in praying for believers that are sick than lost people who are lost. Friend, we're more concerned about keeping Christians out of heaven than keeping lost people out of hell. It's okay to pray for the sick, and we need to do that with all our heart. But friend, we should be passionate about praying for the lost. Because God wants people to be saved. In Acts chapter 2, verse 42, it says that the church continued steadfastly in doctrine and fellowship and breaking of bread and in prayers. And it goes on to say that the Lord added daily to the church such as should be saved. God honored them. And as they prayed, God began to work and move, and he added people to the church. That's what God does to produce conversions. I was reading a story about uh you've heard of the prayer of Jabez. There's a story called Praying for Jabez. And this is the story of William Carey's son. William Carey had three sons, two were Christians. One was a loss, and he was a hard case. And one time William Carey sent back a message to his friends back in England to pray for his son Jabez and this church took it seriously and they began to pray for William Carey's son who was so hard hearted And sure enough, God worked in a mighty way, and Jabez, Kerry, was converted to Jesus Christ. And it was in honor of the prayers that God's people pray together. God, I think, responds when we pray for lost souls to come to know Christ. So that's the priority of prayer. We it we make it a priority. Why? Because it will promote commitment, it will prevent casualties, precede change, please Christ, produce conversions. That's why it needs to be a priority. But let me give you number two. Not only the priority of prayer, Write down the possibility of prayer. And we see this in verses five and six. And you know, prayer is such an unspeakable privilege. The only reason we can pray is because of Jesus. You understand that? That's the only reason we can pray is because of Jesus. And notice two ministries it mentions about our Lord Jesus. In verse 5, there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. You know why we can pray? We can pray because Christ is our mediator. He's our mediator. It's wonderful to know that when we pray, we have a mediator between the Father and us. That's a wonderful blessing. You don't understand what a blessing that is. You know, in the Old Testament, when Job was going through all his trials, one of the things he said is he said, Neither is there any daisemon between us. That might lay his hand upon us. In other words, Job was going through this trial. He wanted to locate the Father. He wanted to talk to the Father. He said, Oh, how I wish I had a daisem between us Between me and the Father. I wish that there was someone that would be a mediator between us, between me and God. He could put one hand on God, he could put one hand on me. He could help me as I'm seeking God Now, friend, Job might not have had that in that day, but you know what we have it today. And the new covenant on this side of the cross We have a mediator. So when we go to God in prayer with our request, Jesus puts one hand on us. He puts one hand on the Father. And you know what? He mediates for us. He helps us in the prayer and our prayers. That's why prayer is possible. Because we have a great high priest who helps us who is acceptable to both parties. Jesus is acceptable to the Father. He's acceptable to us. He is the perfect mediator. He is our great high priest. He understands the perfection of God. He understands the weakness of man because he became a man. He took upon him the form of a servant. Write down Hebrews 2. 17, wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. And so we have a mediator who understands us, who can help us with our case when we bring it to the Lord in prayer And let me give you the other thing here. Not only are we able to pray because of Christ our mediator, but also because of Christ our Savior. Look at verse six who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. In his perfect life and substitutionary death, he met the just demands of God's holy law. He was the ransom for all, it says here. The word ransom means a price paid to free a slave. His death was for all. And friend, uh, it was through the death of Christ that we are able to even approach God. You understand that? We we can't approach God except through the blood of Jesus Christ. Remember in the Old Testament on the Day of Atonement, it's recorded in Leviticus 16, the high priest would come once a year. He would come very fearfully into the presence of God. And that was because if he had sin in his heart, God could put him to death. And so according to the Jewish Talmud Talmud, uh the Jewish writings, there was a uh a uh actually a book called the Tractate Yoma that talk about some of these rituals that the high priest would go through before he would go onto the day of on the Day of Tonement. He would stay up all night. And he would pray and he would he would read scripture. He was trying to get his heart ready to go into the presence of God. And he would have these young priests around him. And these young priests would uh uh stay up with uh their high priest, and when he began to fall asleep, the young priests would snap their fingers and say, Sir High Priest, Sir High Priest, wake up, wake up. They were getting them ready to go into the presence of God. That reminds me of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, the night before he was going to be the perfect sacrifice for sin. It wasn't Jesus, the great high priest, who was falling asleep. It was his younger priests around him that were falling asleep, right? Because Jesus is the great high priest. He's the greater high priest. But it was such a fearful thing for a man to go into the presence of God That they would go to these extremes of staying up all night and praying. But you know what? When Jesus died on the cross, you know this. What happened? That veil that hung over the Holy of Holies was rent in twain. That was one of the miracles that took place at the cross. And what was God the Father saying to the world at that time? Because of my son's sacrifice, sinful man is now able to approach the presence of God. Only through the blood of Jesus Christ, only through the death of Christ. Prayer is possible because of what Jesus did on the cross. And let me tell you something, dear friend. When a Christian doesn't pray, When they don't take advantage of this blessing of entering God's presence, in a way they're really saying, you know, it really doesn't that the cross and what Jesus did really doesn't it's not that valuable to me Friend, do you realize that Jesus died on the cross, shed his precious blood so that you could enter into the presence of God? And you don't take advantage of that blessing, that opportunity, the possibility of prayer. But then let me give you the third and final thing tonight: the purity of prayer. Not only the priority of prayer, first of all, the possibility of prayer because Christ is our mediator, Christ is our Savior. But then thirdly, the purity of prayer. Look down in verse number eight. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. And Paul here, he's referring to the posture When if when a Jewish person would pray, most of the times they would extend their arms, they would hold their hands up towards heaven With their palms turned upwards, and and really that was signifying there's nothing I'm holding on to, there's there's nothing in my hands, there's no sin that I'm clinging on to It was just one of the postures of prayer. But as you read in the Old Testament, there were many postures. Standing with outstretched hands, 1 Kings 8, 22 mentions that. Kneeling, Daniel knelt In Daniel chapter 6, standing in Luke chapter 18, sitting, 2 Samuel 7, 18, bowing the head, Genesis 24, 26, lifting up the eyes, John 17, 1, falling on the ground. Genesis 17, 3. All of these are different postures of people that prayed. But let me tell you something. The most important thing is not the posture of the body, it's the posture of the heart. What kind of heart did you have when you come to God? And so Paul gives three essentials here. Holy hands. This means a a life that is clean, that is blameless. Again, you're not holding on to any sin. It's a posture that of surrender. When you're holding up your hands, you're surrendering to God. I remember one time I was robbed at gunpoint. I put my hands up. Why? Well that means look, I give up. Alright? I'll give you everything I have. At that point all I had was eleven cents, that poor poor p th thief. He only got eleven cents from me. I almost said, I'm really sorry, man. I only have eleven cents. I said, catch me next week, I'll try to have a little bit more. We lift up our hands and and it's as a sign of surrender. Means I give up. All I have is yours. And we're saying that to God with holy hands. We're absolutely submitted to God, a surrendered heart. But then without wrath, he says in verse 8. Wrath simply means we're on good terms with somebody else. We're not holding anything in our heart. We're not angry At our brother. Remember what the Matthew 5. 23 says, if you're angry at your brother, leave your gift at the altar and go be reconciled. There's nothing that you're holding in your heart against someone else. And then it says without doubting. And doubting just simply means that we pray in faith. Without doubting. Come in faith. Remember what James says? Um that a doubter doesn't get anything from the Lord. You know, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavers is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. Don't be up and down, up and down And your faith, you come without doubting. You come in faith. And God honors that. You know why? Because we trust in the character of God. We trust in the promises of God. I can rest without doubting in the character and in the promises of Almighty God. Amen? So we should come with faith, come believing Jesus taught us the very same thing that we need to come with faith. So there's the priority of prayer, the possibility of prayer, there is the purity of prayer. We need to come with the right heart And God will honor that. You know, when I was in LA, one of the services that I preached at there at that chur at church was a Saturday morning, a 6 a. m. Saturday morning prayer meeting. And the the church auditorium it was it was filled with people 6 a. m. on Saturday morning. And I I preached uh preached through an interpreter. All the all the sermons were through an interpreter. um or a translator, I should say. Um and you know, of course when you preach to a translator, uh it you know If you if you normally preach a half hour and you have a translator, that becomes an hour sermon, right? So you've got to kind of cut your sermon down, trim it down, only say what's really necessary, you know. And uh that's kind of something you develop after you've done it But I preached for about a half hour, I think. And then afterwards this church just prayed together. And friend, it was wonderful to see all those people coming together and praying. And by the way, you know what I found out about this church? They have a five thirty AM prayer meeting every day. Every day people come and they pray. You know what? That's serious. They're serious about prayer. And I tell you, friend, we need to get serious about prayer. We need to cry out to God. And I think God honors that when we do that. Let me just close with this story. I love the story of Jeremiah Lanthier. He was just a layman. He lived back in uh right before the Civil War. It was about eighteen uh eighteen fifty-seven. He was in New York. It was a time of financial crisis. Before that, uh they were very prosperous in that day, but there came a crash on the market in 1857. October that year, the banks were closing, stocks were failing dramatically. In November of that year, as the story goes, they had to have armed troops on Wall Street. to keep a crowd of hungry, distraught workers from breaking in to the treasury and stealing money. And so it was really bad. And Jeremiah Lanfair said, you know what, we we need to pray. Things are terrible in the country right now. We just need to pray. And so what he did was he he got some flyers made up, some handbills, and he passed them out. He found a church that was let them use their facilities. He advertised the t the time and the place on the flyer. Said, would you come together and let's just have a prayer meeting? Let's just pray. Businessmen, he invited businessmen to pray. And on that day he showed up, and there was no one else that came. It was just him. So he prayed. And he said, I'll come back the next week. And he came back the next week, and you know what? When he went back the next week, six people were there. And he prayed with those six. And then he came back the next week. And you know what? Um twenty people came the week after that. And so let's he said, let's do this again. And he went back the next week and then forty people showed up. And then he went back the next week and then it it doubled again. And then he he kept praying and it and it kept getting bigger and bigger and finally it exploded to where at twelve o'clock noon in New York at that time Uh churches were filled. I mean he he filled up one church, then they got another church and another church and churches all over began to fill up with people. that at twelve o'clock noon would stop what they were doing, come together and pray. And one man who came to the U. S. at that time wrote and later and said that if you were a man visiting in the U. S. in eighteen fifty-eight That you couldn't go anywhere on the East Coast or all the way out west towards Chicago where at noontime you would find thousands of people praying. In a prayer meeting. That was called the Fulton Street Prayer Revival. And you know what happened as a result of that? Thousands and thousands of people got saved. Thousands of people got saved. And you know what? Things got better. God worked. And think about that. When was that in our history? That was right before A Titanic event would take place in our country. You know what it was? The Civil War, where many, many thousands died. But you know what? Many of those who died got saved As a result of this prayer revival that took place, God used it in a mighty way because one man decided to get serious about prayer. What if we decided to get serious about prayer here? What if we really decided to really seek God's face? Wonder what God would do. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. As I said, we're going to end our service praying tonight. And I want you to just take a moment and get your own heart ready. And I'm going to bring to you some requests. I'm going to ask you to pray for these things tonight. But just take a moment. Would you take a moment right now and just make sure that when you approach God, you got holy hands? There's no sin in your life. You're approaching God without wrath, without doubting. And enter into his presence with thanksgiving. Father, thank you for what you've done in our lives. The grace that you've abundantly shed in our lives. Thank you, Lord, for how you're working in hearts. Lord, help us to get serious about seeking you. There are many needs that we have, Father. So many needs. But you're sufficient for all these things, and we praise you. We praise you for what you've done in the past. We praise you in advance for what you're going to do in the future. Lord, just please hear our prayers tonight as we seek your face. Would you just pray for these things? I'm going to just give you a list of things tonight. I'm going to ask you to just pray, seek the Lord. We want to pray for Pastor Earl. You remember Pastor Earl was on our staff. He's. An ICU in Florida with serious health concerns. He had a ruptured appendix and he's having breathing difficulty. So pray for God's healing for Pastor Earl. Pray for Keith Brown. He attends here at Grace. He had a stroke and is hospitalized. Just pray for his healing. For Sherry Luizo, who's this is the mother in law of Joe Grant. She has liver cancer waiting for a transplant. Pray for Bill Thomas. This is Judy's brother. He's in hospice. Pray for him. Pray for Terry Van Kirk. This is Mark Hilton's sister. She's hospitalized with COVID pneumonia. kidney problems and congestive heart failure, just pray for her healing. Right for Clarence Jackson that's a um past race member having kidney surgery. Pray for David Johnson and his family. They're dealing with the loss of his brother Maynard. Pray for comfort for them. Pray for Mary Miriam's uncle Danny Wilcox. He's in Texas, was in a serious car accident. Just pray for his healing. Tonight let's pray for our missionaries that we support uh Bill and Ruby Shade. people that are on your heart. Just take a moment and just pray for their salvation tonight. Whatever burden is on your heart, maybe there's something that you want to really lift to the Lord in prayer, take a moment and do that. Whatever burden you were carrying. Take a moment and pray for our church, pray for the ministries of our church for God to Bless and grow his church. Take a moment tonight and just pray for our country, pray for revival, pray for our our leaders as Paul told Timothy to do. Father, thank you again for this wonderful privilege of seeking your face. Lord, we just confess again how we do. Lord, need you. We're desperate for your blessing. We know that all is vain unless, Lord, you bless what we do. So bless our ministry here at Grace. Lord, hear all these requests for these that we've lifted before you tonight. We bring these in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior. It's only through him that we can even approach your holy presence. And we come in the name of Jesus and we lay before your throne all these things. We thank you in advance, Lord. For the answers that you'll give. Thank you for your grace, for your love, for your mercy to us. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. All right. Let's stand together.