It's good to see you all here tonight. Thank you all for coming out on a very cold evening. Winter's here, isn't it? At least it feels that way. But uh take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah, the Old Testament prophet Jeremiah, and I want us to look at another wonderful Christmas uh promise that God has given to his prophet Jeremiah. And look in Jeremiah chapter Each of the chapters here tonight. While you're finding that, I was reading something very interesting this week. On October the first, nineteen seventy, there was an obscure company company in Arkansas, uh a store that went public with an initial stock pricing. If you were living back then and you wanted to invest in this uh this little kind of five and dime store Uh the price per share was sixteen dollars and fifty cents per share. Now if you decided to go ahead and invest in this and you bought let's just say a hundred shares of this stock stock and you spent $1,650 back in nineteen seventy and you held that stock uh from that day until this day, do you know how much that stock was It would be worth now thirty-one million dollars because that little five and dime that was Walmart. And so if you invested back then in this little store and you kept that investment, you would be a millionaire today. Now that you're all depressed. You would have w w wish we had a time machine, right? We could go back in time on things like this. Now people who invest are basically what are they saying when they invest? They these people that invested if uh uh back then uh had no idea what the future would hold. But when you make an investment basically you're placing your hope in a prosperous future. Or we could say you're You're placing your hope in some events in the future that will be positive, that will be good, it will be rewarding. Well, in our passage here today, um this is a story about Jeremiah making Making a investment. He makes a purchase. God in fact is going to ask him to make a purchase. And really under the circumstances that Jeremiah found himself in, uh it seemed like a ridiculous ridiculous purchase to make uh at that time. In fact the people who already thought that Jeremiah was a bit crazy, if they had any doubt about it, all doubts were removed when they saw what Jeremiah Does next here in this story. Jeremiah decided to buy some land in his hometown of Anathoth, and uh he made a purchase there. But again, it seemed like a I'm not much of a real estate person, but uh according to the fundamentals of real estate appraisal, uh the uh the principle uh that applies The Jeremiah's purchase is this. It is the principle of anticipation. And it says this according to the principle of anticipation, property value may be affected by Expectation of a future event. So they say that you know a lot of times when you buy property, uh you should look at the possible future. Maybe some future events that might uh cause that property value to go up, or it could cause the property value to go down. In other words, how much a piece of real estate is really worth depends on what happens in the future. And so if the government decides to run a superhighway through your dining room, your property value is going to go down. Uh but if great things happen happen or around that property, then there's a chance of that property value going up. Well with that principle in mind, it was just the absolute worst time You say, why is that? Well, I want us to look at this story here, and I want us to learn some things. We'll take a look at it, and then some things that can apply to us real estate or to make a purchase and the first one was the city was actually under siege at that moment. Look in chapter thirty two, look in verse number one. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the 10th year of Zedekiah, king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar, verse 2, for then the king of Babylon's army besieged Jerusalem. And so this is the tenth year of Zedekiah's reign, that would be five eighty seven BC, which means the the siege of Jerusalem had already begun. You say, now what is that? Well if you've been With us here on our study, you realize that Jeremiah the prophet has been predicting that the Babylonians are going to come in and they are going to uh basically take over the city. Babylonian army, he began to lay siege against the city. It took bat the Babylonians eighteen months to finally overtake the city of Jerusalem where the city eventually capitulated To the Babylonians and the destruction that Jeremiah prophesied uh happened. But right now, at this moment, uh the city is under Siege. Now how many of you would like to buy land that is a battlefield at that moment? That it's uh you know, you talk about uh property value going down You talk about property becoming less appealing. It's property that you you know are tempted to buy while a war is going on. But not only was the city under siege, but the pro Prophet was under arrest. Look at the rest of verse 2. For then the king of Babylon's army besieged Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the prison which was in the king of Judah. House. And another reason why it wasn't wise to make a purchase was because Jeremiah was in prison at that moment. He was locked up in the stockade. Uh it was no time for him to invest in real estate being in prison. Uh you know, even if the prophet bought the ranch he was still unable to farm it and uh he And so it wasn't really horrible, but it still it was prison. And the reason that the king put him there was because of what Jeremiah had been preaching. Verse number three, for Zedekiah, king of Judah, had shut him up, saying, Wherefore dost thou prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord, behold, I will give thee the city into the hand of the king of the Babyl of Babylon Babylon, excuse me, and he shall take it, and Zedekiah, king of Judah, shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak With him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall behold his eyes. And that is Jeremiah had already gone around prophesying that the city was gonna fall. You may as well submit. Zedekiah couldn't understand why Jeremiah would say these things. It was kind of, you know, at the very least, he was, you know, demoralizing the people. The very worst he was a traitor. And not only that, Jeremiah said that Zedekiah, you know what? You're gonna get to meet Nebuchadnezzar up close and personal. You're gonna see him face to face Face to face him to uh Nebuchadnezzar where he of course And so since Zedekiah didn't like that, he throws Jeremiah into the prison and perhaps he had plan to even kill him if things went the way Jeremiah said they did. So again we're all getting back to the point where of you know why buy land? But here's number two. Notice the purchase in verse number six. And Jeremiah said, The word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Behold, Hanamiel, the son of Shalom Thy uncle shall come unto thee, saying, Buy thee my field that is an Anathoth for the right of redemption that is thine to buy it So while Jeremiah is in prison, he gets a a visit from one of the family relatives. You say, Oh how nice. They were concerned about Jeremiah. Not exactly. If you remember back, you know, when Jeremiah first started preaching, the family turned against him. And there was a plot to get rid of him. And and some that were in on that plot were family members. And now all of a sudden, here comes a family member and this is his long lost cousin uh Hanameel uh we could just call him cousin Hanny who just came who decided to come and visit Jeremiah right while he was in prison and he had an offer for Jeremiah. He wanted to sell his field some property in their hometown. You say man what a great guy. In the middle of a war, right while Jeremiah is in prison, uh, he just comes in and he says, Hey Jeremiah, how you doing? Listen, I have a sweetheart of a deal for you right now This is something you're not going to want to turn down. Someone wrote this. Hanamiel is one of the great character characters and all-time willer dealers of the Old Testament. He went on to say there is someone Like Hanamiel in most families. He is the cousin everyone avoids at family reunions because he's always trying to sell something. But he slaps everyone on the back and says, Listen, I've got a great deal for you. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Now, by the way, God warns Jeremiah, and this This is what we see here in verse number seven that this guy was coming. Jeremiah, your cousin, your long lost cousin is going to come to you. He's going to want to sell you some land. And sure enough, it happened Look in verse eight. So Hanamiel, mine uncle's son, came to me in the court of the prison according to the word of the Lord, and said unto me, By my field I pray thee That is in Anathoth, which is in the country of Benjamin. For the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption is thine, buy it for thyself. And then Jeremiah said, Then I knew that this was the word My this is an ideal piece of property. You're gonna love it. Uh it's yours to buy. Now, by the way, uh the Babylonians had already taken over all that property. So And so um the only way that this property would ever amount to anything would be as if something in the future, some future event made this property worthwhile. Uh that made this purchase worthwhile. Now why did this cousin want to uh sell this to Jeremiah? We really can't be sure of his motives. Uh he w he may have been trying to take advantage of the situation. War's going on, property values are decreasing. You can imagine that. If you do the research you'll find that houses in Jerusalem were torn down and the bricks were used to try to shure up the wall to keep the enemy out. You talk about housing prices going down and the land becoming worthless. Now it may have been that this was Jeremiah's nearest relative, and it was his right to redeem it. There's a law in Leviticus twenty five that uh talks about this practice that whenever you wanted to sell some land, you couldn't just sell it to anyone. You remember God divided the land up by tri Tribes and then by families, and God wanted to keep that land within those tribes and families. And so whenever you wanted to sell your land, you had to go to your nearest relative. And if they turned it down, then you would go to the next you know you have the right of purchase it almost makes it sound like you know this is your responsibility to take care of this. Or perhaps it could be that this was a test of faith for J Jeremiah. Perhaps his relative had heard Jeremiah preaching. And he had heard Jeremiah talk about a restoration that's going to take place sometime in the future. And maybe the relative was saying, Jeremiah, let's see you pre Put your money where your mouth is. You say there's going to be a restoration of the land, that all these things are going to turn around one day. Well, if you really believe that, then it's a buyer's market right now Now is the time for you to buy. Maybe he's saying, you know, if you really believe what you preach. Let me see. Let's let's buy this let me s let me offer Because it says there at the end of verse number eight, then I knew that this was the word of the Lord. That is to say, I know, I knew That God wanted me to do this. In fact, if you go to chapter 32, verse 25, Jeremiah says that the Lord said to him, Buy the field for money. God Now this seemed like the most illogical thing to do. In fact, if God had not told Jeremiah to buy the field, then perhaps He would have passed on this offer. Thank you, cousin Hanny, but I don't think so. I don't think this will be a good purchase right now. But it was God who said, Jeremiah, I want you to buy This land. And so Jeremiah obeys the voice of the Lord. Look down at verse number nine. And I bought the field of Namiel, my uncle's son, that was in Anathoth, and weighed him or the money, even the seventeen shekels of silver, and I subscribed the evidence and sealed it and took with So I took the evidence of the purchase, both that which was sealed according to the law and custom and that which was open, and I gave the evidence to of the purchase unto Baruch, the son of Nariah. Now Baruch was Jeremiah's uh for all practical purposes his secretary. And so Jeremiah does exactly Exactly what the Lord says and what we see here in these verses are really the incredible detail of how business was conducted back in Jeremiah's day. Uh all the details were really given here about what happen Jeremiah basically he he buys the land just like he was told um basically he uh has it uh signs the title D has two copies made, he notarizes them, uh he gives the legal documents to his secretary and then basically has witnesses uh one Watch all of this, and I think the witnesses probably walk away scratching their heads thinking, you know, has Jeremiah lost his mind? Why is he buying this land? And by the way, Jeremiah had the title Because look what he says in verse number thirteen. And I charged Barak before them, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Israel take these evidences, this evidence of the purchase, both which is sealed and this evidence which is open, and put them in an earthen vessel that they may continue many days So what does Jeremiah do? He takes the title D's that he has and he rolls them up on the scroll and he has his secretary put them in a class jar because back in that day that was the way you preserved important documents. You would put it on a uh perhaps papyrus uh paper Or even on parchment, you would roll it up, you put it into a clay jar. By the way, that's uh some of you are aware of the Dead Sea Scrolls, you ever hear of them? Little boy was walking one day looking for a lost sheep threw a rock into a cave, heard a ding, walked in, and there were hundreds of clay jars. In those jars were scrolls that had been preserved for two thousand years. Those are what we know now as The Dead Sea Scrolls. So this is a good way to preserve an important document. And Jeremiah has this document preserved. And even that, you could say, is really an act of faith. To preserve the document. Because the only way the investment that Jeremiah made would ever be worth anything, remember I told you, is if things changed in the future. So Jeremiah I had this document preserved and and it's there for w if ever things change, that he has the title D to this land. And again, you know, word I'm sure gets out uh through the witnesses that were there. And I think all this took place in the court of the prison there, so there were a lot of people witnessing all this. And Words getting out, and the next thing you know, people are talking about it in town, saying, you know what? Uh, do you know what that crazy prophet Jeremiah did now? He bought some land You know which land he bought? It's the land right out there in Anathot, right out there. It's the battlefield. He actually purchased some of the land where they're doing the fighting. Uh And I'm sure that they laughed or laughed at Jeremiah. One person wrote, The prophet must have appeared to have been beside himself when he bought a field in the possession of his Enemies. And I'm sure the cousin laughed all the way to the bank. Man, I really put one over on him. Wow. What an incredible thing. He engineer engineered a shrewd deal. But notice the next part of the story. We saw the prison and the purchase. Next, I want you to see the prayer. Because what happens next is that Jeremiah has kind of a crisis of faith. Let me ask you a question. You ever do something in faith and then later say, why did I do that? Or we could call this buyer's remorse. You ever buy something and say, Why in the world did I purchase that? Why did I buy that? I think Jeremiah has a case of this. Did you ever Ever notice that when we have a triumphant experience of faith, it is normally followed by doubt. Or we're tested. We have a testing experience of doubt following that triumphant experience of faith. And this is common for many Christians. You know, we we do something in faith and we say, oh, I believe God, I trust God in this, I'm gonna This is common for Christian Christians and Jeremiah Certainly was having this problem. Doubts were now gnawing at his soul. And so he begins to do what we should do. Whenever you have doubts about a course of action, maybe you Done something in faith and you think you've done the wrong thing, you know the best thing to do is is pray. Take it to God. And that's exactly what Jeremiah does. He begins to pray. Now Now the prayer that he begins to pray is in verse number sixteen. Now when I delivered the evidence of the purchase unto Barak, the son of Nara I prayed unto the Lord, saying, Ah, Lord God, oh Lord. And by the way, this prayer here is really a great prayer in so many ways because it Nothing too hard for thee. Thou showest loving kindness unto thousands, and recompense the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them. The great and the mighty God, the Lord of hosts is his name great in counsel. Isn't that a great prayer? I mean he's really exalting the Lord here. And you know what that t teaches us one lesson about prayer as we're talking about this uh prayer focus Focuses on the greatness of God. And uh Jeremiah, he just praises God. He adores the greatness of God. Let me ask you a question. Do you adore God when you pray? A lot of times we just come To God, say, Lord, here's my list. Get back to me when you can, and we were done. Jeremiah, he adores the greatness of God. And that's what prayer should be Do. He says, Lord, there's nothing too hard for you. And he continues, but then another thing about this prayer is that he's rehearsing the works of God. If you look at verse 20 Which has set sign and wonders in the land of Egypt, even unto this day, and Israel and among other men, and has made thee a name as it is this day, and has brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and wonders, with a strong hand and a stretched out arm with great terror. Again, he's now you know what he's doing now? He's rehearsing God's works. That's another And there's a sense in which that's what Jeremiah He's thanking God for all the great things that he's already done. And uh and then he also talks about giving Israel a land that flows with milk and honey. But then another thing about prayer is that it includes pouring your heart out to God. Because Jeremiah does that. Look at verse 24. Behold the mounts there come unto the city And the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans that fight against it because of the sword o and of the famine and of the pestilence what thou hast spoken Spoken has come to pass, and behold, thou seest it. And so Jeremiah uh begins to pour his heart out. And he begins to talk about already God all around the city. the the city is already being besieged, ramps have already been built, the the the army is ready to come into the city. He could foresee the the uh the plunder he could foresee the Babylonians coming Coming in and the result would be sword and and famine and plague. And he already says all this. He sees all this, I should say. And look in verse number twelve And then here's the thing. But thou hast said unto me, O God, buy thee the field for money and take witnesses, for the city is given into the hand of the Cheldeans Now, here's where the bit of faithlessness comes in on Jeremiah's part. God, the army is already out there. I can see what's going to happen. And yet You tell me to buy this field? And and and yet the land that I bought is already taken over by the Chaldeans. There's a sense in which Jeremiah Was filled with doubt. He felt like a fool, and there's a sense in which he he wants really some kind of an explanation from God about why he was to buy this land And don't hold Jeremiah in too much judgment. Because you know what I've noticed? We're kind of like Jeremiah in a lot of ways. You ever notice that? You know, we we like to praise God God, how many believe God's name is mighty and great? We all believe that. And we all say that there's nothing too hard for God. But do we really trust Him in the little things Because when it gets right down to it when we have some of these little crises that take place in our life, we're kind of like Jeremiah, okay God, uh you know what are you doing? You know, we sometimes our theology and theory doesn't really match our practice, does it? No amens Y'all look so holy tonight. I mean, let's admit it. I believe in the sovereignty of God. I believe He's great. I believe there's nothing impossible for God But sometimes I struggle in my faith when God doesn't do things the way I want them to be done. And this is what's happening here with Jeremiah. But you know, again, we serve a God who is so very graceful And when we go through times like that, a lot of times God will condescend, He'll meet us where we are, and He will encourage us with promises. And this is exactly what God does with Jeremiah. I want you to notice the next part of this story. Not only we see the prison, the purchase, the prayer, but notice next the promises. The promises Now, God is going to give Jeremiah some incredible promises here. And I think that some of these promises are some of the greatest promises in the Old Testament. By the way, why did God have Jeremiah buy the field and store the title? Will you remember what I told you that there are two ways that God would use his prophet to give the word of God to people. Remember what they were? Sermons and then signs. And Jeremiah would, of course, boldly preach God's word, but sometimes God would have Jeremiah do certain things And and the doing of those things, they were symbols and signs of what God wanted to say to all the people. And by having Jeremiah By this land in front of all these witnesses, what was God essentially saying to those people at that moment, right while the city itself was being besieged By the Babylonians, God was saying, you know what? There is still a future here. In fact, go back to verse 15 of chapter 32. Notice where it says, For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, houses and fields and vineyards shall be Why did God have Jeremiah go through all of that purchasing and all those things? Because this was a symbol and a sign to everybody that God says there's gonna come a day when houses and fields and vineyards will be possessed again in this place. In fact go to chapter thirty-two and look down in verse number forty three because again God says and fields shall be bought in this land whereof ye say it is desolate without man or beast it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans forty four Men shall buy fields for money and subscribe evidences and seal them and take witnesses in the land of Benjamin. God said, You know, the real estate market is going to come back There's gonna come a day when I'm gonna reverse everything. There's gonna come a time when this This land once again will be populated right now. I know you look at it now and you say, Oh, it's gonna be desolate, and indeed it was. In fact, in the rest of chapter thirty two, God of Yeah, I am going to punish the land. I am going to do all these things because of the sins of the people. However, Jeremiah, I want you to know that that little uh buying thing that That you went through, that wasn't without a reason. There is going to be a future. In fact, notice the response that God gives to Jeremiah. Look at verse number 27 Of chapter 32. Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. I love this next thing. Is there anything too hard for me? Humanly speaking, I mean Jeremiah He's there in prison. If he looks out over the wall, all he sees is Babylonian armies. He sees all the bed. I mean, humanly speaking, there's no way that There's going to be any future here in this place. But God says to Jeremiah, Is there anything too hard for me? Anything in the word too hard there is a word that can mean something beyond one's power to do. Is there anything, Jeremiah, that I cannot do? I can I can turn this thing around This all applies to us. You know why? It may be that you're here tonight and you're waiting on God. You've asked God to turn things around. There's things happening in your life. You might feel like Jeremiah did. You might be wrestling with doubts this very moment. You might be uh feeling a bit foolish. Perhaps there was something that you What you did in faith, believing that God was gonna honor that, and right now you don't see it happening and you're waiting and now you're wondering, Should I have done that? Was that the right thing for me to do? Now you're questioning. It might be that you're here tonight and you don't have a job and you don't have any prospect of a job. I can't tell you how many people I've talked to in the last few weeks where they've come to me and said, Would you pray for me? I lost my job. I'm looking for something. This is a bad time of the year to be without a job. And they're waiting for God to open up a door for them. And from their perspective it looks almost hopeless From their viewpoint. It might be that you're praying for a wayward child. And the more you pray for that child, the harder their heart seems to get. And they're not listening to anything Anything you say, they're not uh responding to any of the love that you're trying to dish out, and it just looks like there's no hope for this child. It might be that you have a physical disease Or illness and the doctor's report doesn't give you a whole lot of hope. Those the sometimes doctors can't are not very in encouraging with some of the things that they Say it again, we could go on. Whatever situation that you're in, the word that God has for you is that there's nothing too hard for me. Nothing God says, I can turn this around if you'll just trust me. You never waste your investment when you invest in the promises of God. That's never A wasted investment. And so there is nothing impossible for God. God can do anything. And by the way, what does that remind us about? That reminds us And she said, How can this be? I'm a virgin. I don't know a man. And and what did the angel say to her With God, nothing shall be impossible. God is a powerful God. He can do anything. And so God gives a great promise. And I and we don't have time to look at it, but you can see all the I wills that God said He's going to do. Look at verse thirty-seven. Behold, I will gather them all out of the countries in verse thirty-eight, and they shall be my My people and I will be their God. And verse thirty-nine, and I will give them one heart, and verse forty, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. And then you would say, Man, that's a lot of encouragement But you know what? God's not done yet. He comes back. Look at chapter 33. Really, chapter 32 and chapter 33, these are twin chapters. You need to read them together, but God's still not done. Look in chapter 33, verse 1. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah the second time, while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying, Thus saith the Lord Lord, the maker thereof, the Lord that formed it to establish it. The Lord is his name. Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. Here's Jeremiah. This prison, and God has already said, Jeremiah, there's nothing impossible for me. And then God comes again and says, Jeremiah, call unto me, and I will answer thee. And I will show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. The word mighty here means unsearchable, inaccessible. Hidden things. And God is saying to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, I will show you the hidden things. I'll show you what I will do in the future. And again, we can see the I wills in verse seven of chapter Chapter 33, I will cause the captivity of Judah to return. I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, verse 8, and so on. But then God says, This: I'm going to fill this city with joy again And I'm and and once again you'll hear happiness. Look down at verse number uh eleven, the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, and the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of the of them shall say, Praise the Lord of hosts, for the Lord is good and for his mercy endures forever. And of them that shall bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord, for I will cause to God says, Look, Jeremiah, one of these days the voice of joy will be heard again, and the voice of joy of The voice of gladness is going to be heard again, and the voice of the bride and the bridegroom. There'll be young young couples and they'll be rejoicing together, and they'll be saying, Praise the Lord for what God has done. And there will be people taking their sacrifice unto the altar. In other words, everything that happened, God says, I'm able to reverse it all. I'm able to reverse it all Again, I'm talking to people here tonight. You might have come in tonight thinking, I wonder if I'll ever be happy again. I wonder if I'll ever have joy again. And the answer is yes. You will. If you put your hope in God, you will. If you trust in God, you will. God says, I'm able to I know you might have sorrow now, but there's hope in the future, and I can reverse it all I can Now what are you thinking if you're Jeremiah? Sitting there in that prison. What's the first what here's what I would think. When? When is this going to happen? I want to know when. You know. God, this is all great. Uh when are you going to do this? And here's the last part of this whole uh narrative here, and that is the prophecy Because God's gonna tell 'em when. When is it going to happen? Uh and by the way, God will give them some indicators of the time. He doesn't tell them the exact day, but he does Does give them some indicators. They already have given some in verse 11. There's going to be a voice of joy. There's going to be the bride and the bridegroom rejoicing together. And look at verse number 12. And thus saith the Lord Again in this place which is desolate without man, without beast, and all the cities thereof shall be an habitation of shepherds, causing their flocks to lie down. Verse thirteen, in the cities of the Mountain in the cities of the Vale and the cities of the south and the land of Benjamin and the places about Jerusalem in the cities of Judah shall the flocks pass again under the hand of him that telleth them seem Saith the Lord. In other words, God says, you know what is going to happen? These are some indicators. There'll be marriage again. We already saw that. There'll be music. We already saw that. Seeing you got God says, Jeremiah, you'll see some of these things, but also you'll you'll see shepherds and they will be watching over their flock. Notice where it says in verse thirteen. They'll tell where it says the flock And he puts them into the fold at night. They pass under his hand. And why does he do that? He inspects each one and uh you know puts them in. He wants to see if there's any wounds or briars or anything like that And then when he finally gets them all into the fold, he himself guards them and uh he watches over his flock is what he's saying. In other words, if you put all this together, it'll be a time of peace, it'll be a time of rejoicing, it'll be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. It'll be a time when young married couples will be happy and they will say, Praise the Lord. It'll be a time when shepherds will uh cause their flock to lie down at night And then when all that happens, look in verse 14. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will perform the good thing which I have promised. When you see all these things happen, Jeremiah, you'll know the time Is near, and I'm going to do all the good things that I said that I was going to do, that were all already listed, all the I wills. What else is going to happen? Verse 15. In those days, at that time Well, I cause the branch of righteousness to grow up unto David. You know what he's talking about there? You already know. He's talking about the Messiah. At that time, I'll cause the branch to grow up. Now, who is the branch? Of course, that's another messianic name for the Lord Jesus Christ. It will be the branch of righteousness And Jeremiah already expounded on this in chapter twenty-six. We don't have time to go there. He's called the the branch of David, but also that same branch of David will also be the Lord our righteousness. Whoever this offspring of David is, he's going to be the Lord Lord our righteousness. He will be God and man. He will be the Messiah. And he says, when you see all these things happen, you'll know That it's it's time for the branch, the the Lord our righteousness, he will come and he will be there in the land. And then it says in those days And so what's this referring to? Of course, it's referring to the coming of Christ, the birth of the Messiah. By the way, if you look in Luke chapter 2, you know what you're going to find, all these things. Line up perfectly. Talk about a young couple that's happy. Mary and Joseph, they made that journey from Nazareth down to Bethlehem. By the way, they had to pass through Jeremiah's hometown. They made that journey. And you talk about it being a time of peace. This was the time of the Pakramana, when Caesar Augustus had brought peace to the world. It was a time of peace Peace. You talk about there being a time when shepherds were watching over their flocks at night, all around the countryside at that time, shepherds were watching over their And that sounds like a passage out of Luke chapter two, doesn't it? Because when did the angels of the Lord appear? were keeping watch over their flock. And so all of this is the fulfillment, all that what happened in Luke chapter 2 is the fulfillment of everything that God told Jeremiah that was going to happen. So there in that prison God again gives Jeremiah a beautiful promise about all the blessings he's going to do in the future, and all those blessings are going to be connected to the birth of the Messiah when the Lord Jesus Christ comes there. Jeremiah saw it. Again, it is worth it to invest in the promises of God. That's what this story teaches us. It is worth it to invest in God's kingdom. You know, when Jeremiah bought that land, he wasn't really Just buying it for himself. You know what he was doing? He was investing in the future kingdom of God. You know what this tells me? Any investment I make in the kingdom of God Is a good investment. You say, well, man, from a human standpoint, it doesn't look like a good investment. Let me tell you something: the best investment you can ever make is in the kingdom of God. Because you know what? All these kingdoms are going to pass away. But his kingdom is going to endure. And so Christmas is a time when we're we need to be reminded that we need to invest in We need to invest in his promises. It's a time that reminds us that God offers us hope. There's nothing impossible for God. And God says to us, Call unto me And I will answer thee, and I will show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. That is a great Christmas promise for Jeremiah, and it's for us as well. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for again this prophecy, this wonderful prophecy, this prophecy of hope. And I pray, Lord, indeed it will give hope. hope to every person here who needs it tonight. There may be some here who are going through a crisis of faith and they need this encouragement From you. I pray, Lord, that you would minister these words to their heart. There may be some who are struggling with different issues, Lord. May they be reminded that, Lord, you can turn things around That you can reverse things, that Lord, there's nothing impossible for you. And that Lord, you tell us, you command us, call unto me, and I'll answer thee And I'll show you great things, great things I have in store for the future for you. And if you're here and you're a child of God, he has great things in store for you in the future. If you Name the name of Christ. And so with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say this is the promise that I'm claiming tonight? That God would help me through this time. That what seems Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand and say, That's me, pray for me tonight. Father, bless bless these hands, Lord. Bless these hands these your people. And Lord, give them faith. Give them the hope that you give through the scripture. Help us, Lord, to invest our faith in your promises. And to be patient as we wait upon you to fulfill all the things that you said you would do. We know, Lord, that you will. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.