Would you take God's word this morning and open please to the book of First Thessalonians in the New Testament, First Thessalonians, and look in chapter number one. I want to begin a series through this book, but look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. And would you please stand for the reading of God's Word? 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. We're going to look at verses 1 through 4. Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus under the Church of Thessal of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's authoritative word. May God give us understanding this morning in the scripture. Let's bow for prayer Father, as I come before you today, I'm wholly dependent upon you to help me as I preach this your word. And we believe your word is powerful. Your word changes lives. Your word gives us hope. So Lord Help me as I preach it to make it clear, and may Christ be honored and glorified. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A man named Jack was uh leaving the church uh Christmas service one year, and while he was leaving, the pastor said to him, Jack, he said, It's good to see you. He said, Listen, it's time for you to join the Lord's army. And he said, we'd like to see you every Sunday. And Jack replied, he said, but Pastor, I'm already in the Lord's army. And the pastor said, Well then Jack, why do we only see you on Christmas and Easter? And he kinda said to the pastor, he kinda whispered and said, he said, because I'm in the secret service It seems that there are too many people that have joined the Secret Secret Service who called themselves Christians. Statistics tell us that in the last several years church attendance is down. People seem to forget the importance of worshiping in church. And because of the pandemic, the churches in America seem to have grown weak. People again are not attending, they're not giving, they're not serving as before. According to the Pew Research Of those who participated in church be previous to the pandemic, it goes on to say the majority are not attending any services at all now. It goes on to say 57% of those who before attended no longer go at all. The survey also says 16% watch online or in on TV. 13% attend in person, 14% attend in person and watch online. They kind of mix there those two. But the bottom line is according to these stats, the numbers are down. Everything seems to be down. And many people, again, today see church as optional, not as something that is essential. That is troubling because I tell you, beloved, the world today needs the church more than ever. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. This is the place where the gospel is proclaimed. The only hope that man has is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The church is God's gift to a broken and sinful world. It is a local community of believers who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. We come here to worship, we come here to fellowship, we come here to hear the word of God. And we are ambassadors as we go out, we are Christ's ambassadors to a lost and dying world. So God leaves us here. In this world, so that we could have an impact on the world, not the reverse. It seems like more than the church having an impact on the world, the world is having an impact on the church. Now the Apostle Paul understands the importance of the church. He understands how important it is that the church stand firm even in difficult times. Even in challenging times. And believe me, I recognize that the days in which we live are challenging days. But that's all the more reason that we need to stand firm in Christ as the church. This was Paul's concern about the church at Thessalonica. Let me give you a little background into Paul writing these two letters, 1st and 2 Thessalonians. Why did he do that? Well the beginning of the church of the Thessalonians begins in Acts chapter sixteen. In Acts chapter sixteen, the Apostle Paul was praying about where to go next. And he got a vision, and in that vision he saw a man of Macedonia crying out and saying, Come over and help us. And from that vision, the Apostle Paul discerned that it was God's call to go to Macedonia. And so Paul went there, he went to the city of Philippi, he and Silas, and he started a church there, and you might remember that story that while they're preaching the gospel and people are coming to Christ, it stirred up people in the church. Paul and Silas were thrown into jail. They were beaten. The Bible says stripes was laid upon them. They were thrown in jail. But at nighttime they began singing praises to God. And the other prisoners heard it. And when that happened, the Bible says an earthquake came, and the earthquake caused all of the chains to fall off of the prisoners that were there. It opened all the prison doors. The jailer who was there was frightened for his own life because for a Roman jailer to lose prisoners that meant his own life. But Paul said, look, don't take your life. We're all here And you remember the response of the jailer? What must I do to be saved? And Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and your house. Now Paul left. uh Philippi. From there he went to uh Apollonia and then Amphipolis. We don't have any record of him uh preaching the gospel there, but then he came to the the city of Thessalonica. This is one of the most important cities in all of Macedonia. One of the reasons was before that was because it had running right through the city a superhighway called the Ignatian Way. We might say it was the I-70 of its day. You know, you get on I-70 up here, not far from us. If you get on I-70 and you stay on it, where's it going to take you? All the way west. It'll drop you off on the other side of the state of Colorado. A superhighway. And and the Ignatian way was kind of the I-70 of its day. It tied East and West together There was no place more significant then for a church to be planted than right there in that strategic city of Thessalonica because if a church was planted there, that they could get the gospel out all over from east to west Going all the way to Rome itself. And by the way, that's exactly what happened. In Thessalonica, the Apostle Paul experienced tremendous success. He wasn't there very long, but in the time that he was there God did a miraculous work. But along with that also, he experienced tremendous opposition. Now it was Paul's pattern. To go when he went to a city, he would go first to the synagogue and he would preach Jesus Christ. And that's what the Bible said he did. In Acts chapter 17, the Bible says it went in. He went into the synagogue. He went to the scriptures opening and alleging and talking with the people there about Jesus Christ being the Messiah. And the Bible says that he was there for three Sabbaths. Three weeks some feel like it was probably longer. He was just in the synagogue for three Sabbaths. Finally they threw him out of the synagogue And in fact, they threw him out of the whole city of Thessalonica. Paul started a church in the house of a man named Jason And it was growing, but there was a raid on the house of Jason because there were certain people there in the city that did not like what was happening And they came to the house of Jason looking for Paul and Silas. But Paul and Silas had escaped out of the city. And they went on from there. The Bible tells us to Berea. They spent a few uh days there in Berea. Then they went on to Athens, and then from Athens Paul went on to Corinth. But by the time Paul got to Corinth, we have every reason to believe that he was a very discouraged man. Because the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2 3, Paul said, I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. Now think about it. Paul had been just chased out of the last three cities that he was in. And uh those who opposed him didn't merely um be settled or content with the idea that he was out of town. They followed him. to bring opposition to him. They wanted to make sure in the next town that he went to that he did not have success. So he had these enemies following him around. And so by the time he got to Corinth again Paul was weak. And he said, I came in fear and in trembling. But there was another thing that really concerned Paul. He was wondering about the believers in Thessalonica. He was wondering how they were doing. Would the converts in that new church plant, would they survive? Would they give up the faith because of the opposition that they would obviously be getting there in that city Would the church disband or will it go forward? Will they revert back to their pagan religions? Many of them were saved out of Greek pagan religions, and Paul says they turned to God from idols. He was wondering, would they continue on? Would they be faithful? And Paul had no way of knowing His heart was burdened over that church. So finally Paul sent Timotheus to go see what was going on there, and Timothy went to Thessalonica. And then he brought back a report to Paul when he was in the city of Corinth, and the report was that the church was standing firm. It was a good report. It calls Paul to rejoice. Despite the opposition they were getting, despite the persecution, they were standing true to the Word of God. And that brought such joy. It also was reported to Paul that they loved Paul. They wanted him to come back as soon as he was able. But however, there were also some problems that were there in the church. There were some people that were confused about the doctrine of the second coming of Christ. They thought that since Christ was coming back, they should just quit their jobs and wait. And so some of them were doing that and they were looking to others to kinda feed them. That's why you have verses like he who doesn't work shouldn't eat You see that in 2 Thessalonians. Also, some thought that since their loved ones died, they missed the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. So these believers were filled with questions. What was going to happen to their dead loved ones? But they there were also people there and Thessalonica that were slandering Paul, that were saying he was just some wanderer, some heartless wanderer that had no concern over them. So to deal with all those issues, Paul writes the letter, 1 Thessalonians. Six months later, he writes the second letter of Thessalonians But what we see here is in the greeting of this letter that Paul writes, the first letter, he's so thankful to God for them because they did stand firm. And what I see here in these first four verses that I want to give you this morning are just basically four reasons why the church can stand firm even in difficult times. And what this is for you this morning, beloved, it's a call and an encouragement for you as a believer to stand firm in Christ. Things are not easy, I understand that. There are challenges, but that's all the more reason for us to be faithful. Because we can be a witness now more than ever of the greatness of our God. We can be a witness of the power of the The gospel of Jesus Christ, how it transforms lives. Let me give you four reasons why we stand firm. Number one Is the power of the church, because of the power of the church. Look at verse number one. Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus unto the church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be unto you in peace. Thank God that God uses men and women to plan his church. Here, God used Paul and Silas and Timothy to start the church. Thank God for good church planners, but beloved, just remember this, the church isn't built on a man. The church of Thessalonica was not built on Paul or S or Silas. If it's built on a man that it has the wrong foundation. The church is built on the Lord Jesus Christ. It is his. You belong to Jesus Christ You are his church. And therefore the power comes from God and it comes from Christ. That's why the expression that Paul uses here in verse 1 is not an accident where he says, you are in God and in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where the power comes from. The church is in Christ. That's a very important expression in Paul's theology. We see this expression used all over in Paul's writing, in Christ. In Romans 5, Paul gives an explanation of this. We don't have time to go into all of it, but just let me say it like this. I've said this before. When God looks down from heaven, he sees only two men. He sees Adam and he sees Christ. And this morning, here, you are either in Adam or you are in Christ. That's it. If you're in Adam, the Bible says in Adam all die. But if you're in Christ, the Bible says then you are alive. You have life. So if you if you are an Adam, you'll die and spend eternity separated from God. If you're in Christ, you will spend eternity with him in heaven. This is called the believer's union with Christ. You are one with Christ. You are in Christ. That is the sum and substance of all of Paul's theology. We see this all over when Paul writes. 216 times in the New Testament, Paul uses that phrase in Christ. Every spiritual blessing that you have comes because you are in Christ. For example, in Ephesians 1. 3, Blessed be the God and Father, our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. You have all these blessings because you are in Christ. We are new creatures in Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. God makes you new because you're in him. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Our salvation flows from this. Listen to 2 Timothy 1 9, who have saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ before the world began. Our completeness in grace comes from being in Christ Let me ask you a question. Now that you're saved, are you struggling to be sanctified, to live up to what God has called you to? Well listen. I am too, all of us as believers, but know this, you're complete in Christ. You have all that you need to be what God wants you to be. Colossians 2. 10, and you are complete in Him. Because you are in Christ. Everything we need comes from him. 1 Corinthians 1. 30. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who of God has made unto us righteousness and sanctification and redemption? We have all of that because we are in Christ. He is my righteousness. He is my wisdom. He is my sanctification. If you are warring against sin in your life, just know this. You have the power in Christ to overcome that. Because God has given you that power if you're in Christ. Because you're His. He is my sanctification. He is my truth. He is my wisdom. When we die, we die in Christ. You either die in Christ or out of Christ. And if you're in Christ, guess what? The greatest day of your life is when you die. Miss Diane Baronella, God bless her, what a wonderful woman she was. But I want to tell you the greatest day of her life is when she passed into heaven. And she is with the Lord because she died in Christ. She's with the Lord in heaven and with other loved ones that are already there. We die in the Lord. We'll be resurrected in Christ. When we go to heaven, we obtain our inheritance in Christ. So that's what the church is. We are in God. We are in Christ. That is a significant expression that Paul uses here. And by the way, there are many illustrations in the Bible that talk about this. Jesus said, I'm divine and you're the what? Branches. Just like a branch, a branch can not bear fruit of itself. Jesus said, You have to abide in me, because without me, you can do nothing. If you are connected to divine Christ, that makes you one with Him. That's part of the illustration of that oneness that you have. All of the life comes from Christ. Any fruitfulness you see in me comes from Jesus Christ because I'm connected to the vine. It's the vine that gives the life. It's the vine that gives the strength. It's the vine that gives the fruitfulness. But also the Bible says we're stones in a building. The foundation is the apostles and prophets. Christ is the cornerstone. You are stones You're fitly framed together, the Bible says in Ephesians. You're put in this one building. We are all in this one building called the church. Christ. Strategically put us here, and we're all united together, Christ Himself being the foundation. Again, that's a picture of your oneness in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible also says we're members of a body. One body, Christ is the head, we are all different members, and every member is important. God's put you here. A body can't do what it's designed to do if all the members aren't working together in that body And it's one body, yet we're all together in it. That's another beautiful illustration of our oneness. Christ is the bridegroom. The church is his bride. Again, another beautiful picture of that oneness that you have. And so all that to say that the reason we can stand, no matter how difficult things get, is because of the fact that we are in Christ. All of our power comes from him There's the power of the church. But then, secondly, I want you to see the prayers of the church. Look in verse number two Where he says this, we give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. And as Paul's thinking back to this church, he's giving thanks to God. And the word thanks, Eucharisto, we get the word Eucharist. Uh and it really just is uh a word that simply means thanksgiving. Um Paul every day was giving thanks for the work that God was doing in that church. And I think that what Paul means here is that he was praying for this church and the believers there individually. I don't think his prayers were vague. I think they were very specific for people there in that church. And the point that we need to understand here is that in order for the church to stand strong, it does it through the prayers of God's people And for order for us to stand firm, we have to be a praying people. Last week we had the privilege of having Pastor Park. from Soul Korea preach here. I want to thank you all for listening graciously. I know it's not easy to listen through a translator, you know. I know a little bit of what that's like when I go over and have to preach through a translator. Get some of those weird looks from people like what is this guy talking about, you know. But I think we we graciously got a good you graciously l listened and I thank you for that. But I think we got a pretty good message because if you listen closely, you know what his message was. that against the rising tide of hostility that is out there in the church, the only way we stand against this tide is through prayer. That's how we do it. That's how we stand firm through prayer. How many of us take that to heart? Sad to say I think the Church of America is weak in prayer. When I went to Korea Went to some of those churches there. This is what I found out. Did you know that members of the churches over there in Korea, they have a prayer meeting every morning. Every morning. Yeah, they start out their day, they come to church, they have a prayer meeting at six o'clock in the morning And after the prayer meeting they go to work. It's every day. Every day they come. Every day they pray. And then they go about their day. They pray together. And I I tell you when I saw that I thought, you know, it kind of puts us to shame here in America. Because we don't emphasize prayer like that. The the most sparsely attended service in America today in churches is the Wednesday night prayer service. But we should we should be coming together. We should be praying for one another. You should be praying for your family, your friends, the needs that you have. There is power in united prayer when the church prays. And when we pray for one another, that's how we stand. That's how we go forward. So we stand firm through the power of the church which is in Christ, through the prayers of the church, but then also the purpose of the church. Look at verse 3. Notice what he says. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. This church, even though it was young, it was already serving Christ. And Paul hears about this and he rejoices. The church is a place where we serve our Lord. I remember reading about a church during World War II, a church in Strasbourg that was destroyed. Nothing remained except as they were going through the rubble, they found that one s statue of Christ was still standing. But there was only one problem. The hands on that statue were broken off. And when the people rebuilt the church, they left the statue just as it was. And Christ had no hands on that statue. And someone asked them, why did you not fix the statue? Why does Christ have no hands? And they said, because when when people see that statue, it touches their hearts because they realize that we are the hands of Christ today. We the church. We are the hands that do his work. Christ has no hands, but our hands. to do his work today. Christ has no feet but our feet to lead men through the way. Christ has no tongue but our tongue to tell men how he died. He has no help but our help to bring them to his side, one person wrote. And the church at Thessalonica was busy serving Christ. Paul said he he remembers their work of faith. What does that mean? That is, it's works that people do now that they're saved. This is not working for your salvation. It's working because you are saved. We don't work for salvation. Salvation is all by grace. But the works that we do after salvation show that our faith is real. The Bible says that. It tells us that, you know, works is not the root of our salvation. It's the fruit of it. For by grace you say through faith. That's not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. That's the root of our salvation, faith and faith alone, and what Christ has done for us. But then the next verse, verse 10, says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. That's the fruit of our salvation. Now that we're saved, we serve And that service, the works that we do, is a proof of our salvation, that we are in Christ. It verified the genuineness of What God had done in the heart of the Thessalonians that they were working. Paul says, I know your work of faith. And then he goes on to say, labor of love in verse 3. This is an extension of the work of faith. How hard did they work? The word labor here is a word that means to labor to the point of exhaustion. They were serving, they were laboring. to the point of exhaustion. And why were they doing this? What motivated them? Love. Labor of love. Love for who? Love for Christ. And that's why we serve. We serve Christ out of sheer gratitude and love for what he's done for us. That's it. Again, we don't work for salvation. We work because of what he did to give us our salvation. He purchased for us with his death on the cross. Someone wrote, I will not work my soul to save that work my Lord has done, but I will work like any slave for the love of God's dear Son. We love him, therefore we serve him. Remember when Peter denied the Lord Jesus and Jesus restored him? He restored him with one question that he asked Peter three times. What was it? Peter, do you love me? Do you love me? And it's that simple. If you don't serve your Lord, you need to examine why not? Do you love him? It's that simple But then patience of hope, he says in verse three. What is this patience of hope? The word here it means to endure under difficulty. You keep on keeping on. And why do you do that? You do that because of hope. Hope of what? Now when we use the word hope today, the word hope today means a wish. Like you say, I I hope that something happens. Man, I really hope that this happens. I hope the Orioles win the World Series this year. That's a hope that I have. It's a wish. It's not a certainty. It's just a hope. But that's not the way the word hope is used in the Bible When the word hope is used in the Bible, it's a certainty. It's something that will happen. No doubt about it. It is a fact. So when the Bible says the blessed hope of the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, that's not a wish. That's something that will happen. That is a certainty. And so when Paul talks about your patience of hope, the word patience here is your perseverance, your persevering, your enduring. Difficulties and trials, you keep on being faithful. Why? Because of your hope. The certainty that lies before you. What is that hope? that he's talking about. And the hope that he has is simply this, the believer's future glory, the future rewards that God has for those that are his people. I think this is what Paul was talking about when he wrote 2 Thessalonians 4. 8. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day. But not to me only, but also all they that love is appearing. That was the hope. The hope was future glory, eternal rewards. That's why we just keep on serving. There's no retirement for believers. We serve Christ until he calls us home. And what causes us to do that? The hope that we have. That Hope causes me to continue to persevere, to continue to be faithful until that day. And so Paul talks about the purpose of the church. Now let me give you one final thing. We stand firm because of the power, prayers, and purpose of the church. But then here's number four. The preordination of the church. Look at verse number four. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. Now, whenever someone hears the word election, it kind of raises concern to some and confusion to others, but there's no need for either of those. Election simply means that salvation was not your idea, it was God's idea. It all started with God. It means that God chose you. You didn't choose him, he chose you. Jesus said this in John 15, Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, Jesus said to his disciples, that ye should And ordain you that ye should bear fruit. And in the mind of God he chose you before the foundation of the world. Listen to Ephesians 1 4. According as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. The entire plan of God, the entire plan of salvation was in the heart of God long before man was ever created. This is the sovereignty of God. But beloved, just know this the sovereignty of God does not negate man's responsibility because God commands all men everywhere to repent. All men everywhere. Are told to call upon the Lord. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And whosoever will may come. So there's God's sovereignty and salvation. There's also man's responsibility. And both of these things are taught equally in the scripture. Both of these things are there. You say, well, I don't understand that. Well, I don't fully embrace it either. I don't fully understand it. Let me back up. I embrace it, but I don't fully understand it. I just know that both of these things are true. Uh let me give you an illustration. Salvation is like a a a homeless man who's hungry, he's walking down the street, he sees a big mansion. On the front door of the mansion, there's a sign that says, Whosoever will may come. He says, you know, I'm a whosoever will, and I certainly need a place to stay. So he goes into the door, opens the door, goes in, shuts the door. And he looks on the inside, and on the inside of the door it says, chosen in him before the foundation of the world. And then he sees that there's a table with his name on it. Both of these things are true. Both of these things are equally taught. You see, and again, admittedly there's a mystery there that I can't fully comprehend, but that's okay, friend. There's a There's mysteries in theology that I can't fully wrap my mind around. I still can't fully map wrap my mind around the fact that Jesus is truly God and yet truly man. Both and the same person How can God grow in wisdom? The Bible says in Luke that Jesus grew in wisdom. Wait a minute, he's God, he already knows everything, I know But in his humanity he grew in wisdom, in his deity he knew all things. Those two natures were concurrently brought together in one person. And are there mysteries that come with that? Of course there are. Of course there are. Who wrote the Bible? God or man? You're right, God. But if you said man, you're right too. Because man wrote it, and and we see the personality of the writers. And yet the Bible says, Forever, O Lord, thy word is already settled in heaven. And yet man of his own volition and free agency wrote the words that he wrote, and yet the words that he chose were the words that God had already chosen in eternity past. And there you see the concurrence between sovereignty and man's free agency. We see this in other places in Scripture, and we see it here yet in salvation. You say, Well, preacher, I still don't understand it. Well, okay. But just know this. That whoever wants salvation can have it. Are you hungry? Are you hungry The table is here. It's fully loaded with bread. Just come. He's the bread of life. Just come. Are you thirsty? Are you thirsty? Come on. He's the fountain of life. He offers the water of life freely. Whatever. Are you burdened down by your sin and you want forgiveness? Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I'll give you rest You see, forgiveness is available, friend, if you want it. You don't need to worry about the rest of it. Just if you're hungry, come. If you're thirsty, come. If you're burdened down, come. And let that burden of sin Lie at the foot of the cross where Jesus took all of your sins upon himself and paid your debt of sin And so we stand firm because of the power of the church, the prayers of the church, the purpose, and the preordination of the church. Something that was settled in the mind of God. And so the question as we close here this morning, are you standing firm in the faith? Are you in Christ? Are you serving him out of love and gratitude? Are you persevering in prayer and service? Are you one of his Are you standing fast, standing firm? One time a little boy had an old horse, an old dilapidated, flea-bitten, sway back horse. And one man was making fun of that boy's horse. He said, son, is that horse a racehorse? He said, no, sir. He said, son, is that a show horse? He said, no, sir. He said, well son, can he run fast? He said, no, sir, but he can stand fast. You know what? God's not interested in whether you're a racehorse or a show horse. You know what God wants? He wants you to stand fast. He wants you to stand firm in the faith. And be faithful. Are you doing that? So this is what Paul wanted to know about the believers in Thessalonica. And they were standing fast. And God was using them in a great way. And we'll see that as we continue to study this letter. Would you bow in prayer with me? As your heads are bowed and eyes are closed, I just would ask that you examine your heart, beloved. Before God, I love you in Christ, each and every one of you, and I want God's blessing in your life. I want you to know that you're in Christ. I want you to be blessed in your Christian life. And that comes through obedience to your Lord. Are you standing firm? Are there areas of your life where you say, I need to pay attention to this? I tell you this, we have a God who is a forgiving, loving God, and a God who will meet us right where we need have that need. His grace will come right where we are. And if you're here this morning and you need to cry out to him for grace, then do it. If you're not saved, he'll come to right where you are. He'll hear your prayers. He'll forgive you for your sin. He'll save you, friend. Just reach out and pray. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need Christ. I'm burdened by sin. I am hungry for the bread of life. I am thirsty. I want my sins forgiven. I want Christ to be my Savior, my Lord. Jesus, be merciful to me a sinner. Friend, if you pray that, I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will no wise cast out. He'll save you, He'll forgive you. And if you're a child of God, I would just encourage you to take these words to heart. To stand firm in the faith for Christ. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today. May it be used for your honor and your glory, we pray in Jesus' name