Thank you. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of 1 John, chapter 3, and we're going to continue studying 1 John. It's been a while since we've been in it, but I want you to look in chapter 3 and One particular verse I want you to look at this morning. We're going to look at several verses, but I want to read this one with you. 1 John chapter 3 and verse number 5. And you know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is no sin. Pray with me. Father, thank you for the privilege we have of being here to worship. And Lord, help us now as we go to the Word of God. Help me as your servant to make the scripture clear. And may the Holy Spirit of God use it to bless every heart that's here today. And I pray in Jesus' name, amen. President Calvin Coolidge was a man of few words, they say, about him. And one day he went to worship. His wife was unable to go to worship service with him that morning. And uh when he came home she said, uh, what was the preacher's sermon about? And he said, uh sin. And she said, Really? Well what did he say about sin? Well he said, Well I'm pretty much I'm pretty sure he's against it. Pretty much sure he's against it. And uh The question that I want to pose to you today is what is your relationship to sin? That's an important question because your relationship to sin is an indicator of your relationship to God. And uh this uh key verse in the whole passage is the verse that we just read, verse number five. And you know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is No sin. This is why Jesus came. I was thinking, you know, I should prepare special sermon for Christmas, but then I thought there's no better passage than the one that we're going to look at here this morning. This is the whole reason for Jesus coming into the world that he made Take away our sins. Your relationship to sin reveals that you are a true child of God. Now you're either a child of God or you're a child of the devil, one or the other. And again, we see that John in his writings, if you remember with us in our study, he's very antithetical in the way that he writes. He's either he's very either or You either are sensitive to sin and confess your sins or you say that there is no sin. You either walk in the light or you walk in darkness. You either love the world or you love the Father. You can't do both. It's one or the other. You either know him and keep his words or you don't know him. So John gives these either-or proposals all throughout the uh this letter and now he's going to give us another one here. You're either a child of the of God or you are a child of the devil And your life manifests which one you are. Look at verse number 10. Notice what he says in verse number 10. In this, the children of God are manifested, and the children of the devil. So you're either a child of God and a child of the devil, and your life will manifest which one that you are. And more specifically, your relationship to sin will determine or manifest whether you are a true child of God or whether you are a child of the devil. Now John's going to make some critical statements here in this passage. I want you to look down at verse number six of chapter three. Notice what he says. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Think about that. John's in verse number six is saying that sin in the Christian life is incompatible. But then notice what he says in verse number nine. Notice what he says there in verse nine. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. Now here he says that sin in the Christian life is impossible. So if you're a Christian, it's incompatible. In fact, John says that if you're a believer, you do not sin. Now this verse has startled a lot of people when they read it because they say, how can John possibly say that a Christian does not sin? I know a lot of Christians, and you know what? They sin. In fact, I'm a Christian, and I hate to tell you, sadly, I sin. So there seems to be a contradiction here to what John said earlier on. You remember in 1 John 1, John said that if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves And that part of being a Christian is confessing our sins. And here, it just seems like John is now saying that if you're a true Christian, you do not sin. So critics will say, well, there you go, here's a contradiction in the Bible. So what's the answer to this dilemma? Is this really a contradiction? Can a Christian sin? And how much can a Christian sin and still be a Christian? Well, Christians sin. They shouldn't. We don't want to. But we still sin. But the question still remains, what about verse six and verse number nine? How can John say that a Christian it's impossible for a Christian to sin Let me give you some explanations. You can imagine there have been some different interpretations as to this and what it means. Let me give you several of them. One of them says this, well this this actually means that this is uh mortal sins, and John's referring to mortal sins. And what he's saying is that a Christian does not commit mortal sins And this explanation comes from Catholic theology, which says that a true Christian only commits venal sins, which are lesser sins, and mortal sins are greater sins. And I would just say, what's the difference? I don't see any distinction in the Bible between venal sins and mortal sins. Uh and so I I don't think that this has any basis on what John's trying to say right here He just says that whoever abides in him does not commit sin. He doesn't divide them into mortal or venal or any other way. Well, here's another explanation that people give, and that is This is talking about God overlooking our sins. That now that you're a Christian, you know, you can't sin because God overlooks all of our sins. He doesn't look at our sins anymore now that we are in Christ. But that's a very difficult explanation to hold on to as well because I think that the Bible teaches that God chastises his people. That to me doesn't seem to imply that God overlooks our sins. If you're a child of God and he chastises you, that means to me that he doesn't overlook sin in your life That you're not going to get away with anything. Ananias and Sapphira drop dead in church because they lied. And if God gets exercised over sin like that, then you can be sure that he doesn't overlook sin. God regards sin in our life, so that's not the right explanation. Well here's another sin or another explanation here, and it this explanation is a sin too, but anyway. This refers to the new nature, someone says. This is talking about the new nature. The reason John says that a Christian can't sin is because our old nature sins, but our new nature does not sin. Now, these verses, again, say nothing about old nature versus new nature. All right? This argument comes from really Romans chapter 7 where The Apostle Paul says, It is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. And so some interpret this to mean that Christians don't sin in the new man, it's the old man that sins But the problem with that is that it kind of relieves us of responsibility. Because while it's my sin nature, while it is the old man, that's not a separate part of me. It's still me Okay? And so uh you can't separate uh the old man, the old sin nature from me. For example, I say to my wife says, you know, you did something wrong, and I can say, honey, it wasn't me Uh that was my old sin nature. That was the old Jerry Harmon that did that, not the new Jerry Harmon. The new Jerry Harmon would never do that. And my wife would say, Well, I've got something for the old Jerry Harmon right here That that excuse is not going to work. And then there's another explanation to this, and that is this refers to the ideal. John is thinking that this is the ideal situation. It's ideal that a Christian not sin. But again he says, whosoever is born of God does not commit sin. John is making a factual statement. He's not expressing a wish. Verbs in the Greek have moods. There's the indicative mood, which is the mood of fact And then there's the optative mood that the writer can use, which is the mood of expressing a wish. But the mood here in this passage is indicative, not optative. John is not making a wish, oh hi, I wish that Christians would not sin. No, this is factual. This is not indicative here. So that explanation does not work. And then there's another explanation that is that this is referring to deliberate sin. This is a popular explanation. And it says that Christians, it means that you will not deliberately sin. And one commentator says it like this. A Christian does not do sin, he suffers it In other words, you know, their will is not involved. They just seem to suffer sin, which makes them, again, more of a victim of sin than the actual doer of sin. But again, uh this relieves anyone of responsibility when you look at it like that, right? My will is involved when I sin. When I sin I normally find my will is involved with that sin. So none of those explanations explain really what John's talking about here So let me give you the last one, which I think is the right one. I believe this is the correct view that when John is referring here to sin, he's referring to habitual sin or a lifestyle Or a practice of sin. This is the best way to really understand the tenses that John's using here. In verse 6 and in verse 9, John uses the present tense, which expresses continual action, a lifestyle. Again in verse number nine, whoever is born of God does not, we could say it like this, does not continually, habitually practice sin or live in a lifestyle of sin. Okay, so that's what he's referring to here. If you're a true child of God, you might lapse into sin for a moment, but you're going to get up and you're going to confess it. But it but you do not live in an unbroken continual pattern of sin. That is to say that if you're a child of God and you're living just like the world with living in sin, not concerned about it at all, then um then you're not truly a believer. You will not have a lifestyle, a practice of sin. So do Christians sin sometimes? Do they sin deliberately sometimes? But if they're a true child of God, they're going to confess it. They're going to come to repentance. In fact, believers struggle with sin. They struggle against it. That's the difference between a child of God and a child of the devil. A child of the devil will run into sin. They'll leap into sin and they'll love it. A child of God will lapse into sin and he will hate it He'll struggle against it. And so a child of God will run away from sin, and sometimes it'll catch him. A child of the devil will run into sin. and not worry about struggling against it. And so if you're saved, what's the pattern of your life? The pattern of your life is going to be habitual righteousness. Obedience to the Lord. Remember I told you John has three cores that he emphasizes over and over again, the doctrine of Christ, loving other believers, and then a righteous life, obedience and righteousness. That's going to be the evidence that you're a true child of God. And your life will be one of practical righteousness. I'm not saying that you won't sin, we will, we'll struggle against it, we'll lapse into it, but the normal pattern of our life will be to live in obedience and righteousness to Christ That's the whole point that John is making right here. You will not live in habitual sin. Now John keep going he's going to give us four reasons why children of God practice righteousness and they do not practice sin. They do not live in habitual sin. So let me give you these four reasons. Here's number one. When our realization of God's love, when we realize God's love, again look in chapter three, look in verse number one. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. And when you read verse number one, you get the impression that John is overwhelmed by God's love. He's amazed, astounded by God's incredible love. In fact, I think he's kind of fishing for an adjective to describe God's love. How do you describe God's love? What word can you use? to describe the love of God. And we could call it an amazing love. Look at verse 1. Behold, that's kind of calls for attention. He's demanding us to think about God's love. When's the last time that you thought about how much God loves you? I'm convinced that we don't think about it enough. We don't think about God's love enough. But notice where he says, what manner, this is one adjective that means literally of what country. Something that's not of this earth, something that is alien, that we've never seen before. That's the idea here What measureless out of this world love. John Stott kind of captures the sense when he said this the Father's love is so unearthly, so foreign to this world that John wonders from what country it might come from. This is this is John just saying, man, this is just uh uh an unearthly love. I w I wish I could find a word that could really describe the incredible love of God. Uh you heard about the Indian in the desert, he was sending up smoke signals to his squall uh love his girlfriend. And uh he was trying to give her love signals and he would put up a little puff of smoke here and a little puff of smoke there. And that's back when they were testing the atom bomb in the desert And all of a sudden he looked up and there was this huge mushroom cloud that just filled the sky. And he said, wow, I wish I'd have said that. Well, that's the way God's love is. It's just that we're trying to find a word to describe this atomic love of God. There's just no word that can describe it. It's an amazing love, but it's an abundant love. Notice again where it says, hath given unto us, perfect tense, lavished upon us. This is a God's gift given to us. We can't earn it. He's already given it to us in Christ. But it's an adopting love. Again, verse number three, that we should be called the sons of God. I I love the doctrine of salvation, and the older I get in Christ, the more I love it. The more I love the gospel. Um I love the fact that we're justified. God's declared us righteous. I love the fact that he's working on us, conforming us to the image of Christ. I love all those words that define salvation, imputation, and and uh all these other words. But the one thing I think that is the most Wonderful blessing of salvation is this idea of adoption. God has adopted us. He's made us his children. When I was in the Philippines, we were I was being driven all around to s uh to some places to to speak. I remember uh one night I was taken while I landed, the the plane was late. And I landed and there was we had a three-hour drive ahead of us and these these pastors were waiting. And this was a difficult drive. It was at nighttime, it was storming, it was raining And uh the the pastor that was picking me up was hurrying to get me to this place. It's south uh from where we were, and it was storming, raining, and uh he was driving so fast I remember I remember him uh saying, Oh, you know, trying to talk to me, trying to get to know me. You have any uh grandchildren? I said, Yes, I have five, and I would love to see them again. Would you please, please not kill me in this car trying to get me there? We went through these roads, it was stormy, raining, we went over some bridges that were kind of iffy. I talk about praying without ceasing. I learned how to do that Finally got me there to this uh place where these pastors were actually waiting. And uh so I spoke that night and then um uh went to they put me into a hotel that was on the third floor, no elevator, three large suitcases, six flights of stairs, finally made it up to the top and Uh my all of my things were soaking wet in this in the suitcase. I had to had to dry it all out that night. But then I spoke the next day and we were headed on the way back. I don't know why I told you all this. This is really not the point. But we were headed on the way back And uh alongside the road I saw these two little girls, two beautiful little girls, and they were we stopped at the ro roadside and they h held their hands out and uh and they were homeless girls and my heart just went out to 'em And so I gave them some food and some money. And uh I thought, man, I would I would love to adopt these girls. If I could, God is my witness, I would have brought 'em back with me. I was I even asked the gentleman there, I said, uh Pastor, how do anyone ever adopt these children? These were homeless children. They're called the Baja people because they come they live around the sea. But when the conditions are bad where storms, they try to find shelter in the cities. We saw some families living on their steps, sleeping on cardboard, basically And and uh I said, how much to adopt? If I wanted to adopt one of these little children, how much would it cost me? And he was telling me all the legal maneuvering that had to take place and how pricey it was to adopt a child and bring a child home And he said you know, the last time it was like thirty thousand dollars per child. And I thought, you know, I wish I could do that. I wish that I could bring these children with me. And then I began to think about The greatest blessing of salvation is that you and I are adopted in Christ. When God saw us, he set his love upon us. And he saw us in our homelessness and our poverty, and he loved us. And he brought us unto himself. And you know what? He paid the purchase price for our adoption. And that price was in Christ. That's all part of the love of God. And that's what John is talking about here. Behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us that we should be called the sons of God. This love that God has given us, it's an amazing love. It's an abundant love. It's an adopting love. He brought us into his family and made us his own. But also it's an alienating love because look again what it says in verse number one. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. It is this love that alienates us from the world. Because we are partakers of divine love Because we have been designated the children of God. The world, they don't get it. They don't understand it. They don't know why we love and worship our Lord the way we do. They can't fathom that love But it's also an anticipating love. Look at verse number two. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. You see, what God starts, he will accomplish. And he began a good work in us when we were saved, and God is continuing that work. He's going to make us just like the Lord Jesus Christ, absolutely perfect in Christ. That's the love that God has given us. And that's the reason why we will not continue live in sin. A true believer will not live an unbroken pattern of sin. Why? Because we understand the incredible love that God has bestowed upon us. And for a believer, that makes it impossible for them just to continue to live in sin. So number one, there's our realization of God's love. But here's number two. our reverence for God's law. Look at verse number four. Whosoever committed sin transgresses also the law, for sin is a transgression of the law. Now the word for lawlessness in the Greek is anomia, which meaning no law. And John is not talking here about someone who accepts God's law and occasionally breaks it He's referring to someone who lives as if there is no law. It's where we get the word antinomianism. What is antinomianism? It's the idea that a Christian can live however they want to. Now that you're in Christ, grace has saved you. You don't have to live according to any standard. You can live however you want. There's absolute, total liberty in Christ. I'm not living under the law. I'm free to do whatever I want That's called antinomianism. And normally a person who practices that lives however they want. Actually, it's the opposite of legalism. So you have legalism on one side, you have lawlessness or liberty, antinomianism on the other. And they're both extremes. And what John is saying is, look, just because you're saved doesn't mean that you're going to throw off any idea of God's law in your life. I know Christian people who call themselves Christians who say they can practice and do whatever they want and still be saved. And friend, that's that's a misunderstanding of God's word. Because if you're a believer, you're going to have a reverence in your heart for the law of God. No, we're not under law, we're under grace, but friend, we live according to the law. Because we love God's law. We love God's Word. Martin Luther compared the law to a stick. And before salvation, it's like a rod that beats us down. Why is that? Because the law reminds us of our sinfulness The law shames us. The law reminds us of how we've fallen short. It'll chastise us. And so therefore we fear the law. We kind of hate the law before we're saved. But after we're saved We begin to love the law. You see, it was a rod before salvation, but now after salvation, it becomes a staff that helps us to walk. It's a walking stick that gives us the ability to walk according to it. And when God saves a person, God takes the law and he puts it in their heart and he writes it on their heart. In the Old Testament, when God Wrote the law. He wrote it on stones. But in the New Testament, as a believer, that law now is written in your heart by the Holy Spirit. So you're not going to hate God's law, you're going to love God's law. And you're going to have a reverence for the law of God, just like the psalmist in Psalm 119, where he said, Oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. You're going to have that wonderful love in your heart for the law of God. So you're not going to throw off any of the standards and principles of how to live a Christian life and because you say I'm under grace. No You have a reverence for God's law. That's why a true believer can't continue to live in an unbroken pattern of sin. It was our realization of God's love. There's our reverence for God's law. But here's number three Write down our relationship to God's Son. Again, look at verse number five. And you know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is no sin. So to continue in sin is inconsistent with Christ's work. Why? Because He came to take away sins. He came to give us victory over sin in our life. If a Christian continues to live in sin, that would make the death of Christ pointless. And in these verses, John points to the primary reason. for Christ's coming. This is the reason for Christmas. He came into this world to remove sin. Notice Christ's removal of sin, we see that in verse 5, to take away our sins. And the word take away, that's a sacrificial term. It literally means to lift up. When a worshiper in the Old Testament brought their sacrifice to the altar, the priest would lift it up as if to say, all the sins have been Placed on this animal right here. They would lift it up as if to say, let your wrath fall here. And that was a picture of Jesus Christ who would one day come and be lifted up on the cross. So that our sins can be taken away. That's why he came to die, to remove us, to remove our sins. And so there's that reason, but also there's Christ's union with the believer. Look at verse 6. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not, or that is to say, doesn't live in continual sin. Why? Because you can't abide in Christ and practice sin. Those two things are incompatible. And the word abide here again is present tense. We uh that's a characterization of a true believer. This is saying that if you are saved You will abide continually in Christ. That's what you are. You're abiding in Him. That's a synonymous for salvation. What's a believer? A believer is someone who is continually united to and abiding in Christ That's why you can't be living continually in sin, because you can't abide in Christ and live continually in the sin at the same time. That's the whole idea there. So if you abide in Christ, you will not live in sin, he says. And whoever does that, look at the rest of verse 6. Whosoever sinned had not seen him, neither known him. If your life is one of continual sin, then John says you haven't seen him. You don't know him. Because you're so united to Christ. You can't continue to live that way is what he's saying there. The believer's union with the Lord Jesus. But then there's also Christ's destruction of Satan. Look in verse number eight. He that committed sin is of the devil, for the devil sin is from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. And again, John is so dr dogmatic and straightforward. Anyone who continues to live in sin Continual sin is of the devil. Again, he leaves no gray area here. If this is your pattern of life, you are of the devil, not of God. Why? Verse number 10 again. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. And so remember John says, you know, this is why Jesus came. He came to destroy the works of the devil. If you're a child of God, you're not under the reign of Satan. You're not going to be living in sin as a child of the devil. Why? Because Christ destroyed his works. And when the word destroy is used here, it means to Luo, to undo, to unchain. We are no longer part of the kingdom of darkness. We are not chained to Satan. He has no more authority over us. Sometimes a believer will say, you know, I'm afraid of the devil. Well, you don't need to be. You need to understand that in Christ, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And so you don't have to fear Satan's authority over you because he has no more authority over you. And so because you're related to the Lord Jesus Christ. So a Christian cannot habitually sin because it's It's incompatible with the love of God and the law of God and the work of Christ. He removed sin. He united you to himself. And Satan's works have been destroyed. That's why a Christian will not continue to live in sin. But let me give you the last reason. And that is our regeneration by God's Spirit. Our regeneration by God's Spirit. And John here talks about the ministry of the Holy Spirit in the believer's life. And and look it look down in verse number uh verse eleven, or excuse me, verse nine. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he was born of God. And here John is talking about the ministry of the Holy Spirit. When you're saved, the Holy Spirit regenerates you. He does that special work of regeneration in your heart. And you have now what is called, not only are we given the imputed righteousness of Christ as salvation, but the imparted righteousness of the Holy Spirit. Because of the Holy Spirit, it is possible for you to live and walk in righteousness. We can't do it ourselves, but we can do it because of the Holy Spirit And he uses here a metaphor, the metaphor of a seed. Notice what he says, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. Because he is born of God. That is to say, he cannot continue to live in sin. Why? Because this seed has been placed in him And because of that, he will not continue in sin. Now when John uses the metaphor of a seed, he's giving us an idea that righteousness was planted in us by the Holy Spirit. What happens when you when you plant a seed? Well it begins to grow, it'll it'll sprout And then it'll begin to grow more and more and more. And I I remember growing up we had a grapevine in the back of our yard. Every summer it got bigger and bigger and bigger. And pretty soon all we could see is the grapevine. We could see more of the grapevine, less of the yard. Till finally when you looked out the window, all you could see is the grapevine. The yard was almost gone. It had completely taken over And that's what he's talking about as far as righteousness. When you were saved, the seed of righteousness was planted in you. And as you grow year by year You know what? There's going to be more righteousness flourishing in your life and less of sin flourishing in your life. That's why you can't live in sin if you're a Christian. Because that seed of righteousness has been put in you, and it's going to continue to grow and grow and grow. In fact, the longer you're in Christ, the more of Jesus there is, and the less of you there is. That's the idea of sanctification. So he uses this metaphor of a seed, the seed of righteousness was planted in you. And so therefore You're not going to continue to live in sin. When you realize God's love, when you reverence God's law, when you have that relationship to God's Son, when there's been that regenerating work in your heart by the Holy Spirit and the seed of righteousness is planted in you, it'll be impossible for a true child of God to continue to live in Sin. And that's John's whole point. So the question we have to ask ourselves is this What is my relationship to sin? What is it? Jesus came. To take away sin. They change my whole relationship to sin. And a true child of God, if you truly know Jesus, you're not going to live in sin. You're going to be so grateful for God's love, thankful for His Word. You're going to be so united to Christ. And so Sanctified in your heart by the work of the Spirit that it will be impossible for you to live that way Now, friend, again, this is another test that John gives us so we can examine our hearts so that we can know for sure that we truly are children of God. And so my question is, do you know for sure that you know Jesus Christ? Let's bow for prayer together today. I just want you to examine your own heart. Can this be said of you? What's your relationship to sin? Are you living in an unbroken pattern in your life? And if you can just continue to live that way and not be convicted, and not have true repentance and not cry out in confession. And not long to live on a higher plane of righteousness. Friend, John says, he's very clear. And this is manifest the children of God and the children of the devil. Whoever doesn't do righteousness is not of God. You're not going to continue to live in sin because you can't because The seed's been planted in you. Has that seed been planted in you? Do you know Jesus as your Savior? And if not, would you be willing today to just come and say, Lord Jesus I want to know. I want to turn from my sin. I want to know that I'm a child of God. And I'm turning from my sin today and I'm putting my Faith in you and you alone. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. The Bible says, Him that cometh to me I will no wise cast down. If you're not sure of that, friend, make it settled today. Make it sure today. Come to Christ. Put your face in him. Let's all stand together. We're going to sing a stanza of a hymn, Pass Me Not. We're going to have ministers up here in the front. If you have a spiritual need, please come. They'll take you aside, pray with you. But we're here to help you in any way we can, let's