Take your Bibles tonight. Open please to the book of Psalm 2. We're going to do something a little different tonight. I know we didn't 2 Kings, but tonight I want to I want to go over Psalm 2 with you. Psalm 2 tonight. And uh look down in verse number twelve as we come to Psalm two. This is a beautiful, beautiful messianic psalm. And just I want to read one verse with you tonight as we go into it. Verse number twelve. Kiss the son, lest he be angry and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him I heard of a young cocky cowboy who was riding his horse one day and he saw an old man a hunched over and just had gotten off of his mule and He decided to have a little fun with the old man and he took out his six shooter and he began firing at his feet and he said, Have you ever danced, old man? And of course the old man started, you know, dancing out of necessity not to get hit by a bullet, and finally he ran out of bullets And the old man went over to the mule and he pulled out a shotgun and he pointed it to the young cowboy now who had no more bullets and he said, Son, have you ever kissed a mule? And the m the young cowboy said, No, sir, but I've always wanted to Verse twelve is a command here that is given in this this psalm. Then really it's kind of the culmination of the whole psalm. We're kind of backing into it tonight, looking at this verse Verse 12, because again, it is kind of the climax of everything that has been said. And I think it's very key. I think it's a kind of a key theme here And really the the k the uh ver the verse basically tells us to kiss uh the sun or perish. Kiss the sun or perish. That's that's a pretty strong command there. And what does this mean to us? And I want us to look at it in this psalm here tonight. And what I want you to see is that Psalm 2, first of all, it's a messianic psalm. Now we can divide the Psalms up in many different ways. There are five books of the Psalms. Uh but another way we can divide the psalms up are in the categories of the themes in which they emphasize. For example, there are Lamentation Psalms. There are Thanksgiving psalms. They're called enthronement psalms that describe God's sovereign rule. There are pilgrimage psalms. That's where Jews would sing these particular psalms on their way to Jerusalem to participate in the various feast days. There were wisdom psalms. Those were psalms that were designed to teach us the will of God. And then And precatory psalms, these are the psalms that were with people pray where they're invoking the wrath of God upon the enemy or upon the wicked for retribution. But another category of Psalms is messianic psalms, and these are psalms that specifically portray Christ as King. And these are normally psalms that speak prophetically about the Messiah. And they look way beyond the present circumstance and they look far into the future to someone that is great Now, among the Messianic Psalms, I think Psalm 2 is one of the ones that really stands out because it presents Jesus Christ as the anointed King and Son of God. This psalm was written by David. Someone said the psalm was written by David, but it speaks of a greater son of David. Now there are some scholars that doubt that this is all about Jesus Christ. But as we read this, what we're going to see is that David didn't face rebellion by Gentile nations, which is described in this Psalm. Jesus, of course, will. David was not anointed at Zion or Jerusalem, as this Psalm describes He was anointed at Bethlehem and at Hebron. And so this psalm is referring to none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact Psalm two, you might be interested to know, is probably one of the most quoted psalms in the New Testament. The New Testament writers are constantly referring back to this majestic psalm. Augustine uh called this set of this psalm, he said that uh Christ himself is the singer in this psalm. It not only is about Jesus, but it's Jesus himself. speaking in this psalm. And I think it's appropriate to look at during the Christmas season because one could call it a Christmas Psalm because really what it talks about is the reaction of the world to the coming of God's anointed one, God's Messiah, into the world. Have you ever been around a proud father after uh his child was born? You know, how how wonderful that occasion is. Well, in this psalm, it's almost like God the Father is very happy. He's introducing his son into the world. It portrays the rejection of the world at the Messiah. It portrays the rejoicing of the Father at the coming of the Messiah. And verse 12, as I said, is an important verse. It is a climactic verse, and it's God commanding the world to kiss the sun. Again, this is a command. God demands that the world show His son due affection and adoration. And so in this song, God the Father not only reveals who Jesus is, but commands the world to give their worship to him And if we refuse, then the result of that will be the anger and displeasure of God the Father Now, as we approach this Christmas season, again it's good to look at Psalm 2 because it shows the attitude of God the Father to the world about how we should adore and magnify and worship uh the Lord Jesus Christ. And again I say, you know, it's very easy in this festive season to get our eyes off of the real thing. You know, Christmas comes with a lot of things that people like, but we all need to be reminded continually about the main thing and that's Jesus Christ. We need to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so God the Father says, kiss the Son. Now what is a kiss? Think about it. It's us it's really an expression of affection. We kiss Uh those things and people that we love that we want to express affection for in Scripture is a sign of warmth and intimacy. Remember the prodigal son when he returned home, what did the father do? The father, the first thing he did was he kissed his son. It's indeed a great expression of our affection, but also adoration. A kiss was a sign of reverence, a sign of adoration. Uh, you know, it was appropriate to uh kiss a king's maybe ring or hand uh when you went into his presence. Uh rabbis to this day will kiss the Torah before they read it. They have such a love and affection for the scripture, they kiss it. Orthodox Jews When they go into a home, there's a mezuzah there at the door that has scripture. They'll kiss that mezuzah before entering into the door again as an expression of great affection. And by the way, did you know the word worship is a combination of two words? It's canoa, which is kiss, and pro, which is before, to kiss before. And that's literally what the word worship means. Hebrews says that when Christ came, let all the angels proskenua worship him. And so it is a sign of adoration and reverence. But also it's a sign of allegiance, a sign of loyalty, a sign of devotion. And so when God the Father commands us to kiss the Son, We are basically paying homage to Jesus Christ. We are worshiping for who he is, him for who he is. It's a sign of our allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Why should we do this? Why do we kiss the sun? Well, I want you to look at some reasons here that the Psalm gives for us as we study this passage. Here's the first reason: because of the rebellion against him. That's number one. We are his people and we see the rebellion that is against them. Look in verse one. Let's look at the beginning now. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? You know, this world is not a friend of Jesus. Even though he came into the world to save the world from sin, and you would think the lost in this world would be happy about that, but this psalm reveals that's not the case. And friends, I don't really need to remind you, I think you already know that there is a rage in this world against Jesus Christ. There's a rage in this world against God's Son. Don't let the warm feelings that you talk hear about around this time of year fool you. The people love a lot of the things that come with the season, but they don't love the Lord Jesus Christ. There is a hatred against God's anointed. And if you don't believe me, just go uh go try to talk about Jesus in a public place and see what kind of response that you get. And so these first three verses teach us that the world is in rebellion to God and his Son. They are raging, they are revolting, they are rebelling against Christ. I heard of a minister who was very nervous because he was going to do his first wedding, and when it came time for the groom to kiss the bride, uh he meant to say it is customary to kiss the bride. Instead he said it is customary to cuss the bride Uh he kind of got his words mixed up there. And today instead of kissing Christ, the world is basically cursing him, cussing him. Spurgeon said this. We have in these first three verses a description of the hatred of the human nature against the Christ of God. And notice the forms of their rebellion in verse 1. First there's protesting. Look at the word rage there. It's a Hebrew word that means to plot, uh insurrection. That's the idea here. Even now we still hear stories of people trying to take Christ out of various elements of society, not only just Christmas, let alone that. We always hear stories about that around this time of year where people kind of don't like the idea of the emphasis of of o of Christ around this time of year. But they're trying to take Christ out of everything. We always hear about stories where people don't like it when you read the Nativity story or then or you when you read Luke chapter two and you know you always have these little cases pop up. That's because again, this is the spirit of the world in which we're living. There's this protesting against Christ. And then there's this premeditating is another form here where he says imagine. And again in verse 1, why do the heathen raging the people imagine of anything? And again, the word used here is the same word used in Psalm 1 for meditation. When we meditate, we're thinking about something over and over and over again in our mind. Same word that's used here. We as godly people, we meditate on the Word of God. We meditate upon who Christ is, but the ungodly world, they're meditating on how to get rid of Christ. How to uh get Christ out of their life, how to get God's anointed out of their life. And so their Premeditating and then their positioning again in verse one. Why did the heathen rage the people imagine a vain thing? Verse two the kings of the earth set themselves look at the word set there Yeshab, which means to stand or to set oneself against, in other words, to take a position against. They've decided they they are against God's anointed They're against um the not only God himself, but his anointed. Notice it's where it says that They set themselves against themselves and the rulers take counsel against the Lord and against his anointed. Look at the word their Lord. That's all caps, that is the uh God, Yahweh God, and his anointed the Lord Jesus Christ. So they're positioning themselves. And what what is this talking about? This is talking about the governments of this world. It's talking about The people of this world, they are positioning themselves against the Lord and his anointed. And then also by planning. Notice where it says they take counsel together. They they they think about this all together. John Phyllis wrote this, the decision to do away with God is a United Nations resolution put to the vote and passed unanimously without abstentions or without votes. And he's talking about this passage here, not literally. But he's saying the world is coming together, and they are counseling together, and they are against the Lord. This is the forms of their rebellion. They're protesting, they're premeditating, they're positioning themselves, they're planning They don't want the reign and rule of God's anointed over them. That's the forms of their rebellion. But again, look at the focus. Again, in verse 2, they take counsel together against the Lord. And against his anointed, the focus of the rebellion is against God. Again, the word Lord, notice it's in all caps. That's the divine name, the holy name, the most sacred name. for God. The anointed is the Hebrew word Messiah, which means the anointed one. This is the Old Testament name for Jesus. Now again, the world doesn't have a problem with Christmas. They just have a problem with Christ. I read an article a while back entitled this Santa Yes Christ No. Santa Yes Christ No and it talked about a parade in a major city that's going to feature all these things. It's going to have Chinese uh lion dancers, uh gay and lesbian shamans or shamans, however we say that. And they have all these other kind of things in the parade. The one thing that you won't see there, however, is anything about Christ They'll have everything about Santa Claus and Elves and all of that, but nothing about Christ. They don't want to acknowledge Jesus Christ in any way, in any shape, or form. They want to get rid of Christ. Satan has always wanted to crush the seed of the woman. So we see the forms of their rebellion, we see the focus of their rebellion, then we see the folly of their rebellion in verse 3. Let us break their bands asunder and cast their cords from us. And that is, they want to break all the ties with God and His anointed. Let us be unfettered, literally. Let us do away with the cords. And all that speaks about God's authority. They do not want to be under the authority of God. You know, we even have people in government today that don't realize that they get their authority from God. They get their authority from God. Where else are they going to get it from? God is the one who ordained government officials, but you have people in government now that don't want to be under God's authority. They want to be in control themselves. They're a God unto themselves. They are casting aside the cords They want their freedom. You know, you ever hear people talk about that? I want my freedom. Our first parents wanted freedom in their quest to become free. They became slaves. Slaves of sin. And since that time man has been in rebellion to God, desiring freedom. They want he wants to cast away the cords. But many don't realize that there's really no such thing as freedom. You're a slave to someone or something. It's just a question of what. You're a slave to something. You know, in one of his books, the theologian P. D. Forsyth wrote, the purpose of life is not to find your freedom, but to find your master. And you make sure you find the right master. And let me tell you, beloved, the right master is Jesus. You're a slave to someone or something. The best thing you can do is be a slave to Jesus Christ. And but yet the world says we want nothing to do with God or nothing to do with his anointed, and they are basically foolishly rebelling against the Lord. And so this psalm here, God says to the world, kiss the sun. You better be submissive to the sun. You better acknowledge the sun. You better worship my son. And so here, this is one reason why we do as God's people. We do it because of the rebellion against them. Listen, as believers, you know what? The more the world tries to pull Christ out of Christmas, the more I want to put him in. And the more the world tries to cuss the name of Christ, the more I want to exalt and praise and honor the name of Christ. That should be our response as believers. We should never allow the world to intimidate us to be silent about who Jesus is. We should never allow the world to scare us away from praying publicly and praying in the name of Jesus. I got a letter from the government of Maryland asking me to come down and lead and pray in one of their general assemblies. And they're going to send me a list of all the protocols, all the things I'm supposed to say, and all the things I'm not supposed to say. But I want to tell you something, friend, if you think I'm not going to pray in the name of Jesus Christ, you've got another thing coming. I'm not ashamed of the name of Jesus Christ. I think as believers, we need to exalt the name of Christ all the more and not be intimidated by the world. We need to kiss the Son. We need to show our allegiance and our love and our affection to the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ Oh, by the way, did you know that when the early church went went under persecution, you know what they did? Let me just show you this real quick. Go to Acts chapter 2 or Acts chapter 4 real quick. Just look at this with me. Acts chapter 4. This is the early church. They were growing. God was blessing. Peter and John were thrown in jail. And uh they were beaten, and then they were told to leave, and then not speak the name of Jesus anymore. And as they were leaving, the Bible says in verse number 24 They went back to the church. They reported to the church. And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, thou art God Which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of thy servant David said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine anything? Does that sound familiar? You know what they did? They called a prayer meeting and they all prayed together. You know what they did? They prayed this psalm They prayed Psalm 2. And you know that was the church saying? We're not going to be intimidated away from worshiping our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. They had just been told, don't speak or mention the name of Jesus anymore. And do you know what their response was? Pray together and they pray Psalm 2. I love that. They're not going to be intimidated. They went out and they preached Christ all the more. And so, beloved, we we kiss the son because of the rebellion against him. But here's number two in Psalm 2, because of the revelation about him. Look at verse number 4. Now this is another reason we kiss the Son because of who he is. This is one of the great passages in all the Old Testament which reveals the deity of Jesus Christ I mean, do you realize who Jesus is? You understand the person of Christ. He is the reigning king. Look at verse number six, actually. Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. I love this. But how does God respond? Notice first of all who Jesus is. He's the reigning king. How does God respond to the world's rebellion? God sets his king upon his throne God said, yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. God sets Jesus Christ as King God's plan for dealing with rebellious rulers is to set up Jesus on his throne. That's God's answer to man's rebellion. It's Jesus Christ. God laughs at those that think they can pull Christ off his throne. He laughs at them. I assure you God is not up in heaven worried with wringing his hands. saying, oh no, you know, the world is in rebellion against my son. These people are not worshiping him. I I promise you that's not happening. What does the Bible say in verse number 4? He that sits in the heaven shall laugh. This is what I call the Father's derision. The word laugh means a ridicule or mock. The father ridicules the vain attempts of man to overthrow his son. The king. Man has tried but has failed. And God the Father laughs at the attempts of them who shake their fists into the heavens and think that they can overthrow the throne of God. Proud man thinks he can do that, and God's in heaven saying, You've got to be kidding You think you can actually do that, to stand up against the sovereign God. Then we see the father's displeasure, and his laughter turns to anger in verse 5. Then Shall he speak unto them in his wrath and vex them in his sore displeasure? God's wrath is against all those that seek to resist his anointed son. And you would think that the enemies of Christ today would learn from history. Spurgeon points out that in the late 3rd and 4th centuries, the Emperor Diocletian, who was a great enemy of Christianity, erected a pillar that said, Extincto Nomine Christorium in Latin. The name of Christ is extinct. And he put them in various places in his empire. He even went out westward to Spain and he erected some more pillars. One pillar said that the name of Christians is extinguished. And then another pillar said the superstition of Christ is abolished And I've extended the worship of the gods. But what Diocletian didn't know is that the name of Christ and Christianity was not extinct. While he was doing that, Christianity was growing, leaps and bounds. It was continuing to spread. And you know what happened to Diocletian? He ended up d dying by suicide. And the only reason we remember his name is because he tried to set himself against Christ. That's the only reason we even remember him, is because of that. Of the thirty Roman emperors and governors in those high offices, I could go down the list if we don't have time, but you just look at the way they died. One was slain by his own son, one became blind, one was deranged, one Uh or two committed suicide, eight were killed in battle. Many died horrendous deaths because they were men who set themselves against God's anointed. There was one man in particular called Julian the Apostate. And he was a man who one day in battle, actually, he he he lifted up his dagger against heaven, and uh he was defying the Son of God. And he spoke words of blasphemy defying the Son of God. But in that very battle, he was wounded, and he knew that the wound was mortal. And he lay there in his own blood, and when he did, he reached into his into his armor and he flung his blood up into the heavens, and he said, Thou hast conquered, old Galilean. Thou hast conquered. And then he died. And you know what? The Galilean will always conquer. Always. He's the reigning king. But then he's the revealed son. Look at verse 7. I will declare the decree, the Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Again, this is one of the great verses, and here I think the psalmist plunges into deep theological waters. And when he says, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. Now this doesn't mean that Jesus was begotten, that uh he was not eternal. He was always uh the son, he was always Jesus Christ, part of the Trinity. the equal second uh member of the Trinity, fully God. And so what does it mean when it says, This day I have begotten thee? I think that there's two possible meanings here. One This either refers to the day of the eternal decree when Christ was declared to be the Son of God and begotten, or this this when he says this day, this refers to the time when Christ's identity was manifested to the world that he was the son of God, the second member of the Trinity, when he was born into this world. And I think that this is more in line with what he's talking about here. That God decreed that his eternal son now be manifested into the world. And this happened, of course, when Christ was born. And this verse is quoted in Hebrews to speak of both his incarnation and his resurrection. So I think it encompasses all of that. I think this refers not only to his incarnation, but his public ministry, his baptism, his crucifixion, his resurrection. Why? Because all of those events, altogether, they all bear witness that Jesus was the Son of God. All of those things. They all testify to that same fact that he was the eternal Son of God. And so God that's what he's referring to there. He is the revealed Son. But then notice this also, he's the returning Lord. Look at verse number eight. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. The Father has determined to exalt Jesus to make him both Lord and King of all. Notice his sovereignty in verse 8, where he says, I shall give thee the heathen for thy inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. That is, all the earth and everything will come under submission to Jesus Christ. I think Paul refers to this in of Philippians, where it says that because Jesus humbled himself and he went to the cross, God now is going to highly exalt him. You know we have people out there trying to make a name for themselves. They try to exalt themselves. You know, that's not the way to make a name for yourself. The way to make a name for yourself is to humble yourself and don't worry about it. And if God wants to exalt you, let it him exalt you. And no one ever humble themselves more than Jesus. Therefore, no one's going to be exalted any higher than Jesus. The Bible says in Philippians 2. 9, God has highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name. But at the name of Jesus, every knee will bow. And heaven and earth under the earth. Every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. So God's gonna exalt him. We see his sovereignty, we see his severity in verse nine. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. We see his severity here in verse nine. Did you know Egyptian kings when they celebrated their rule, they did it by writing the names of their enemies on the side of of pottery and then with a rod they would smash it. It was a very symbolic gesture of their supremacy over their enemies. This verse is quoted in Revelation 2. 5. Listen to this. And she brought forth a man child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up unto God. and to his throne. And so he is the returning Lord. And one day he will come as our reigning king And by the way, this is what we celebrate. We during the first we when we worship and celebrate Christ at the first advent, we're also recognizing that just as surely as he came the first time, he's coming again And we sing about that. When we sing joy to the world, that really is not a song that applies to the first Advent. It applies to a second Advent. And so go ahead and sing it. It's a great song. But we're celebrating that he's going to come to the world and that he's going to remove all vestiges of the curse. He's going to take his rightful place as the king. And so that's what we sing about. Now let me give you the last thing here. So we kiss the son because of who he is, because of the revelation about him. He is the reigning uh king. He's the reigning king. He's the revealed son. He's the returning Lord. But here's the last thing I want you to see in this Psalm. We kiss the Son because of our refuge, because of the refuge in him, that we can find refuge in him. Look at verse number 10. Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Now, these last three verses of this serve really as an invitation. To come and to submit to the Son. It is warning men: stop rebelling against him. Stop resisting his rule. This is an invitation to come to him. In fact, it's the wisest thing you'll ever do. Be wise, it says in verse 10. The wisest thing you could ever do is to stop resisting Christ, stop rebelling against Christ, submit completely to who He is. And what does this remind us about? The wise man, right, who came seeking the Savior? That is the wisest thing you can do is to bow to him, to worship him, to receive his invitation. And what do we get when we do that? Let me give you some blessings here, protection. In verse 12, when it says, Blessed are they that put their trust in him, in the last part of verse 12, put their trust in is one word in the Hebrew. It means to run to for refuge, to flee to for protection. And when you come to Christ, you're finding refuge in him. Refuge from what? Refuge from sin. Refuge from the evil of this world Remember the story of the woman that she came to Jesus while he ate in the house of Simon the Pharisee, and she heard that Jesus was there. This is recorded in Luke 7. And the Bible says in Luke 7, verse 37, that this woman who was a great sinner and she knew about Jesus, and she went to this Pharisee's house, and she brought an alabaster box of ointment. And then it says this in verse 38, and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet. and anointed them with ointment. That woman demonstrates the heart of a true worshiper coming to Christ. She was a sinner who found refuge In Jesus Christ. He found forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And she kissed the Son, as it were. Matthew Henry wrote this, to welcome Jesus Christ and to submit to him is our wisdom and interest. Let him be very dear and precious. Love him above all. Love him in sincerity. Love him much as she did, to whom much was forgiven, and in token of it kissed his feet. There's protection, there's peace. Look at verse 11. Serve the Lord with fear. Rejoice with trembling. The word serve is a Hebrew word for a slave. Submit yourself to him as your master. And the Septuagint actually translates the verb form of doulas, which is slave. Make him your master. That's the whole issue And then rejoice with trembling. Why? Because there's peace now between you and God. There's no more war. God's no longer enmity with the sinner. When you come to Christ, there's peace. And then finally there's pardon. Notice what it says, kiss the son lest he be angry, and you perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Those who submit to Christ We'll get his forgiveness, we'll get his pardon, you'll share in his victory. Those who refuse to do that, to kiss the Son, to submit to him. The Bible says that they will be victims of God's anger and God's wrath Now some people say, well, you know, I'm going to remain neutral. I'm going to neither worship him nor will I reject him. I'm just going to remain neutral. And I just want you to know that's impossible. You have to, it's one or the other. Jesus said, he that is not with me is against me. And those who refuse to kiss the Son. They will not be guiltless before God. God is a God of love. He wants to pardon. He wants to forgive. But God is also a God of wrath. And if you do not rightfully acknowledge his son, if you don't rightfully receive his son, then what you'll get is not pardon, you'll get punishment And God makes that very clear to everyone. You kiss the sun, you receive the sun, you welcome the sun, you worship the sun, you submit to the sun, you make him your master, your lord. And if you don't Then the Bible says you'll perish from the way when his wrath is kindled against you. But I want to tell you something, friend. I have no problem adoring, worshiping Jesus Christ. We don't have any problem loving the one who first loved us. There's no problem there with that. And so my my Prayer is that in this Christmas season that we won't get distracted, that what will happen is that we will worship Christ all the more, that we'll keep our eyes on him, that we will adore him for who he is. Even though this world is rebelling against him, that we will exalt him all the more. So let me close with this story. It's kind of corny, but I'm going to close with it. There's a story about a church deacon who had a parrot who would say, the parrot all the parrot would say is, Let's kiss, let's kiss. And the deacon was embarrassed about that. He was trying to teach the parrot to say something else. After all, he was a deacon in a church. And the pastor had a parrot, and the pastor's parrot always said, let's pray, let's pray, let's pray. So the deacon thought, I know what I'll do. I'll put my parrot with the pastor's parrot, and the pastor's parrot will teach my parrot how to talk. And so he did that. And when he put his parrot with the pastor's parrot, sure enough the deacon's parrot said, Let's kiss. And the pastor's parrot said, Let's pray. Um and then the other parrot said again, no, let's kiss. And the pastor's parrot said, My prayers have been answered. That's corny, I know, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have even said that. Thank God my prayers have been answered. Well, my prayer for you this Christmas is that you truly worship Christ. That you give all of your affection to him, that you don't be distracted by these things of the world. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this majestic psalm. Thank you for what it reminds us about, the world in which we live. And it reminds us, Lord, as believers, that we are to not be distracted, not be discouraged about some of the things we see going on. Because, Lord, this is exactly what you said would happen. We live in a world where there's rebellion, where the heathen are raging, where kings of the earth are setting themselves against the Lord. Against his anointed. I pray, Father, that despite all of that, that we as the people of God will worship Christ all the more. We'll adore him for who he is. We'll be a testimony in this world Of Jesus Christ. And I pray, Lord, that as a result of our witness, that others will turn to Christ. And may we be reminded about His coming. That in the end Christ will win out. The world will sin will not win, and faith will not fail. But that in the end we will be victorious with our Savior. We believe in the power of the gospel. And Lord, help us to preach it all the more. Thank you, Lord, for this psalm and help us to focus on it and remember it in this Christmas season. And Father, we just thank you again and pray in Jesus' name. Amen.