Take your Bibles tonight and open, please, to the book of First Corinthians. And we are in the last chapter of First Corinthians. Can you believe that? We're actually going to finish up this book. Are you all surprised? I don't know how long we've been in it. I don't know how many sermons I have preached out of it, but it's been a while. But we come to the last chapter, a very important Chapter. And uh tonight we're gonna look at verses one through four. And the title of my sermon tonight is A Collection for the Saints. Time to time here in our country we experience a financial crisis. I think we probably have pulled out of one here recently. Uh and normally when that happens, and by the way, it'll happen again If history repeats itself, I'm sure it will. Um and normally when something like that happens, uh the solution from uh political leaders is to simply uh take more ta taxpayer money and spend our way out of it. That's normally one solution. Someone said that Washington's face is on our money, but his hands is also on our money. Um and so Um but not to keep to be political. That's not my purpose here tonight. The question is how do we respond when there is a financial crisis? Uh that's really what Paul's doing here By the way, a financial crisis is nothing new. If you read through scripture, especially the Old Testament, you're going to find that there were several times in the history of Israel where God brought a financial crisis upon the land and he always had a specific purpose that he was trying to accomplish when something like that took place. For example, sometimes famine was sent to a land We see this in Deuteronomy 28, verse 23. It says, In thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under And so this is a warning from God that whenever And God would sometimes send a famine for that specific reason because of the disobedience of God's people. Sometimes God would send a famine We see this in the book of Haggai. Uh if you read that old that minor prophet, you remember the people when they were repatriated into the land and they began to build The temple uh got into the building of the temple and they really only got the foundation laid and they started focusing on their own houses. And they got nice houses that they built for themselves and they forgot And so the the the house of the Lord was kind of uh you know unfinished. And God said to them, Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from And I called upon the drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and on the new wine, and so on. And he says in verse nine, ye look for For much and lo it came the little. And when you brought it home I did blow upon it. Why saith the Lord of hosts? Because my house is in waste, and ye run every man to his own house House. And so this was a reminder to God that the people were to put God first. And the answer to that famine was very simple. God said, Go to the mountain and bring wood and build And so this was a reminder to God's people that we always put God first in our life. Reason for famine in in the Old Testament, and that is just to simply bring repentance. And really we see this also in the New Testament. If you look at the story of the prodigal son, uh there was famine that was used there And so God had specific purposes when a final I remember reading this story during World War Two. Uh we know that there were millions of people that died, a li especially in Europe. in Europe mostly. And uh as a result of that there was so many orphans that were left after World War Two. And they had to build these camps and these orphanages to house all these orphans and they had one particular camp that housed these orphans and they offered to these children the best food and the best care, everything that they could need. But The children in this orphanage were not sleeping at night. They couldn't figure out why the children at nighttime would not go to sleep. And so they did a study and they found out what the problem was And so then from every night on, when they would put the children in bed, you know, those big dormitories with those long line of beds, there would be a lady that would take a cart and she would go down one And she would have a little loaf of bread that she would give each child at night. And they would take that bread and they would hold on to it. And having that bread in their hand, they didn't feel so anxious. And Pretty soon all of them began to sleep through the night. Because the problem was, based on their experience, even though they had the healthiest of food that day, there was no guarantee that they were going to be able to eat tomorrow And so having that little loaf of bread in their hands was the thing that caused them to believe and to dispel all the fears and anxiety they had about eating for the next day. Well the loaf of bread for the child of God, of course, is the Word of God. And the Bible tells us how the Lord is going to take care of us. Even in times of hardship and famine, the Lord It's going to be with his people. The Bible says, My God shall supply all of your need according to his riches and glory. But that's the background of First Corinthians chapter sixteen. This is the church's response response to a financial crisis that had hit uh the church in Jerusalem. So what I want you to see with me tonight are just three thoughts about Paul's response to the financial crisis that hit uh the early church. And here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down a godly motivation for giving. Paul is a is going to encourage this church to give Look at verse number one. Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I've given order And so Paul here is taking a collection from these Gentile churches, and he's using this collection Did you know that the New Testament teaches that one of the primary purposes for for giving is to take And and this is why Paul was taking up this collection. This was on his third missionary journey. Paul is going from church to church. This is how the church responds to a financial crisis. If we know someone that has a need as the body of Christ, we need to respond to that. We need to help them out as one of our own in the family of Christ. Christ. And so we see then the crisis in the church at Jerusalem. Crisis in the Jerusalem church. Number one was converted pilgrims. Now think about this. Pilgrims would come to Jerusalem on their feast days to worship. And they would come in from all over, right? But remember what happened on the day of Pentecost? The Bible says Jews from all over they got saved. And as a result of getting saved, uh they uh Stayed there, many of them stayed in Jerusalem. The Bible says how many of them were saved on the day of Pentecost? Three thousand. And then there were more that were saved later. In fact, the Bible says in Acts chapter 4, verse 4 another 5,000 got saved. And that's just talking about the men who were converted. And so you imagine that some of those men had their family with them. And so you have a a large group of people All of a sudden that decide they're going to stay in Jerusalem. Now not all of them stayed. I'm sure some of them went home, but many of them stayed. And so um they had to find work. Why? Because at that point that was really the only church at that time. And there were miracles happening there. There was great ex Excitement there, there was fellowship there, and uh and so they could only stay in inns for so long before they ran out of money, and then after that they were dependent upon the hospital So this put an immediate strain on the church as they tried to absorb thousands of spiritual refugees in the church. If you could imagine Imagine if there were hundreds of people here that came to Grace and they didn't have any place to live, and we decided to divvy them up among you. How many volunteer to take a few families home tonight? And then you kept them with you for a few weeks and after a while we all start running out of resources. We take all of our resources and we're helping all these people to get settled, but after a while it's starting to put a drain on But also you add to that that there were many widows and orphans and many poor people that had no place to go, that the Church of Jerusalem was taking care of The Bible says that um there were many there in Jerusalem. And then there's another reason for the crisis. There was a loss of jobs. Some of the men who were there from Jerusalem that got saved, they were Jews many of them lost their jobs because of the hostility that the Jews had against Christianity. So immediately when they trusted Christ, that meant that they were no longer part of Judaism Judaism, and that was a very exclusive religion. If you're not one of us, if you're not part of us, then you're no longer uh one of us, then we're gonna kick you out of our our tr our guild. You're gonna no longer have a job Jerusalem was poor, just like many parts of the Roman Empire. Why? And by the way, the city of Rome was very wealthy. You know why? Because they were sucking the resources out of all of these cities and towns all over the Roman Empire. They were taxing people to death. They would conquer territories and conquer cities and towns and then they would extract taxes from the people That were there in those towns, and they took money of their natural resources and many of their products, and Rome would fill their own coffers with riches, but they left the people that And so another thing that they did was they would hire um you know Jews or uh that would collect money from the people there in Jerusalem. They were tax collectors We know in the New Testament, a tax collector was not looked upon in a very high favor. Why? Because a tax collector would collect taxes for Rome, but whatever they could collect above the Roman tax Taxes they could keep for themselves. And so what were they doing? They were extracting from the people very high taxes, only a percentage of that they would give the Romans, the rest they would keep for themselves That's why that when Zacchaeus got saved, he said, Whatever I stole from someone else, I'm going to return to them fourfold. Why? Because tax collectors would do that often. They would steal from the people And then you add to that there was another reason. There was a worldwide famine that hit. In fact, go to the book of Acts and look in Acts chapter 11. Let me just show you this. Acts chapter 11, look at verse number 27 It says, In these days came prophets from Jerusalem to Antioch, and there stood up one of them named Agabas, and signified by the Spirit that there should be great And so here we see in Acts eleven, there's a prophet from Jerusalem, and the Bible says, being led by the Spirit, he predicted that there There would be a worldwide famine that would make matters worse. By the way, historical records uh affirm that there were a series of famines that hit throughout the Mediterranean region right in the times of Claudius. In fact there are records, papyrus scripts that talk about this. Severe worldwide famine that hit right around them. But notice again the response of the the the disciples. Look at verse twenty-nine. Then the disciples, every man according to his ability Determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judea, which all which also they did, and sent it unto the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. And so to Help out their brethren, they determined to take up a collection. And the Bible says, every man according to his ability. And because this was the largest population And because these believers were already impoverished, they determined to send help to these believers. Now, this is the basis of Paul's encouragement. Now keep in mind the church in Jerusalem was doing everything they could to help out all of these poor brethren that were around them. They were doing all that they could But again, go back to the book of Acts, look in chapter two, and look at verse number forty four, and notice what was going on there in the church. 2 verse 44 and all that believed were together, and they had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods and parted them to all men, and every as every man had need And they continued daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, and did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people So notice how deep the generosity of these believers ran. Notice they were loving each other, they sold their prof property, they gave me a It says And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul, neither said any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own. They had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, and great grace was upon them all. Verse 34 Neither was there any among them that lacked, for as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet And distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. And Joseph, who was who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son of consolation, Elijah Evite and of the country of Cyprus, having land sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. So imagine what's going on here. Here are these people in the church. And they see others who have needs, and you know what they're doing? They're selling their possessions and taking the money, giving it to the apostles, and giving it to the poor people that are there in the church. Many who had land and houses Sold those things and gave the money to the apostles. So you can see that the believers in the church of Jerusalem were making a tremendous effort To take care of all of the poor that were among them, all those who had needs. They were doing everything they can. Now, this is not communism, brother. This is just simply Christianity Christian love. This is just simply responding to a need. And they were basically saying in the church, whatever is mine is yours, and if you have a need, then I'm gonna sell this and I'm gonna take the money and just just Just have this money given out among all those who have needs. That was the spirit of love that permeated the early church. But now that can only last so long. After a while you've sold all of your lands, you've sold all of your possessions, and everyone in the church has done everything they could do, and you still have all of these needs needs that are there among the church. And so Paul took this burden on himself. He saw he thought this is an opportunity for the Gentile churches To encourage a Jerusalem church. And so he was making this collection among all the churches so that they could take this Jerusalem. Paul saw this as an opportunity to show the world that there were not two churches. There wasn't a Jewish church and a Gentile church. was only one church and that all of the racial barriers were that had existed before between Jews and Gentiles, they were all gone in Christ. That there was nothing But oneness and this was a very tangible evidence to a watching world of the love that existed in the body of Christ when they saw Gentile churches giving to And so this was Paul's goal. He wanted to bring this collection to this church there in Jerusalem. This was something that was very dear to Write down uh to Paul's heart. Write down Galatians chapter two, verse number ten. said to Paul, remember the poor, and Paul said, the very thing I was eager to do. Paul said, This is the thing I'm eager to do. Paul, tell the Gentile churches to remember the poor. And Paul said, I'm eager to do this very thing. And so the primary purpose of giving here That Paul's giving us here in this passage is to help out other believers in the church that are suffering through poverty. I think it's the obligation of One that we as the church take care of one another, that we love one another, that if there's a financial need we help each other, the Bible says in Hebrews thirteen sixteen. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are well pleasing to God. Let me show you another passage Go to Romans chapter 15, verse 24. Again, he's talking about this same thing, this collection. He says, at present, however, I'm going to Jerusalem, bringing aid to the saints. He's staying there in verse number Number 25. This was Paul's desire. He wanted to go to Jerusalem. He wanted to bring aid. This was the passion of his heart there during that that uh last missionary journey. He says in verse number 25 twenty five to minister unto the saints verse twenty six for it has pleased them of Macedonia and Achaea to make a servant Gentiles have been mark made partakers of spiritual things, their duty is to minister unto them in carnal things. So what's Paul saying there? There's a sense in which the Gentiles have a certain debt that they owe to the Jewish people. Why? Because out of the Jewish race came the Messiah. Out of the Jewish race came the gospel, we could say. And so since the Jew Gentiles were now recipients of spiritual blessings because of the Jews, they now, in a sense, are debtors to minister back to them, Paul says In carnal things, and when he uses the word carnal there, he's just simply talking about material possessions, finances, goods, gifts. There's a sense in which the church the Gentiles really And so Paul is calling upon all of these churches to give generously to all, and there was a cooperation among the churches with reference to doing this very thing. So we see number one, there's a godly motivation for giving, and that is to help out poor brothers. But right down number two, here's the second thing. There's a godly manner of giving. Look in uh again in First Corinthians chapter sixteen and look down at verse number two So he says upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store, as God has prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come. So we We see here that Paul lays out a specific way, a manner to give. First notice the pattern. Uh according to the first day of the week. This was good to be done on the first day. This is how we know That the early church met on Sunday. That was the important day. Before the church, the important day was the Sabbath day, which was Saturday, but when Christ came out of that grave on Saturday Sunday, there was a shift to the day of worship being on Sunday, because that was the day that Christ rose. And so the church would gather on Sunday, and Paul says On this first day is when you're to give, and so it teaches regular worship on this day. It teaches as a part of the worship giving. That's a big part of the worship. And so this is a day Sh giving should not be something that's done periodically. This is part of our worship that we do all the time when we come together. Now there are times when the Holy Spirit But normally the pattern of the New Testament church was to give regularly on this day. And this was not a legalistic requirement. And again, this was a part of worship. Our giving shouldn't be like we're paying taxes. You know, by the way, it's tax time. Just want to remind you about that And we uh we are you know we do all the forms and we're trying to figure out every loophole we can to keep from paying too much taxes and there's nothing wrong with that That's not the attitude we have in God's house, is it? It's kind of the opposite. We say, Lord, you know, here's how much I want to give. Am I able to do this? This is what I want to do. I want to do more. And this our heart attitude is totally different when it comes to giving in the Lord's house. And so there's a particular pattern here on the Lord's Day. There's the people. Notice it says in verse 2 Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you notice no one is excused from this part of the worship. We are all stewards of whatever the Lord has given us, no matter how big or how small It is no matter what your income everyone can do something. In fact, in the Old Testament, God made provisions for people who could not afford to bring to the Old cost a lot so that every person could participate in this aspect of the worship of bringing their gift to the altar. The Bible says in second Corinthians eight twelve, for if there In other words, if there's an eagerness to give, let Let the gift and the giving be according to your ability, not what you don't have, but what you do have. God says so every person can be involved In this thing of giving. But notice the place again in verse number two. Upon the first day of the week, let every man of you lay by him in Store. And the word for store here is uh theosaurizo, is where we get the word thesaurus from, and of course that word simply means a collection. Now Thesaurus is a collection, a treasury of words. This word here means a treasury, and what it's speaking about is a treasury that sometimes was a part of the temple. Even in the pagan temples people would bring their riches because they had a a a storehouse there, even in pagan temples they had this, and in the Jewish temple in the Old Testament Testament. They had a storehouse. They had a place where people would bring their treasure. It was a place of safe keeping. And so evidently in the church then when the people would There was a place where this was kept there in the church. It was organized in such a way that people could come and they could bring their And it was kept and very uh s securely in a very responsible way. And notice Paul says uh lay laid by him in store as God has prospered him that there be no gatherings when I come. And so Paul was speaking here of this special fund and treasury to keep the money collected for this one project. It was at the church. So that when Paul came, the collection was already there, it was already ready. It was already already designated so that he could take that gift and add it to the collection of what is of the the other churches had already put in as they went there to Jerusalem. Portion again in verse 2, as God has prospered him. And some preachers and scholars have different views on the percentage, but I believe, of course, the Bible teaches Tithing in the Old Testament. And uh it was something that even Jesus affirmed, uh we could say in the Gospels, and this is to me really our ten percent of giving to the The Lord is just really the bare minimum of what we can give to God as an act of worship, but ten percent, and it should be a free will giving, that is to say, it should come of willingly from the heart. And I've often said this if you give grudgingly, if you're not giving out of an act of worship, you may as well keep it. So you may as well hold on to it because you're not doing it out of worship You know, and really you're not fulfilling the purpose that God has for you. And you say, well, you know, God doesn't need my money. You're right, He doesn't need your money, it's already His. Everything belongs to God To the Lord. It's all his. The Bible says in the book of Haggai, the silver and the gold is mine. That money that's in the bank, it's already his. God's not some bill collector going around looking at a letter Your sheet saying, you know, you've cheated me, and somehow I'm gonna get my money, which is sometimes the way we portray God. God is not a bill collector, friend. God is a giver. He's the one that just keeps giving And giving and everything already belongs to him. And God doesn't want your money, he wants your heart. And God knows that the dedication that doesn't reach the pocketbook doesn't reach the heart. Therefore it shouldn't be done grudgingly. It should be out of a heart that says, Lord, I want to do this. I want to do this as an act of worship, an act of thanksgiving that says all that I have and all that I am, I know that it already comes from you. And you and when I reach into my bank account and I give you something, I'm reaching into my heart and I'm giving you myself. As an act of worship, it should come From the hearts. And what does God say that He's going to do in return? The Bible says, write down Luke chapter six verse thirty eight give, and it will be given unto you good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over they will pour into your lap and that is the symbolism here is is taken from the marketplace in the ancient Middle East grain market where people would live Literally go to to to the grain market and they would have their um outer cloak ready. They would wear an outer cloak and they would have a sash around the middle and a cloak that went all the way down to their feet, and they would pull up that outer cloak and kind of make a little, you know, little uh pouch there. And then the grain market would just pour pour into their lap all of And God is saying, look, if you give, I will pour into your lap abundant Abundantly. We see this in the book of Ruth when she went to get her grain. The Bible says this in the book of Ruth, chapter 3, verse 15. Give me the cloak that is on you and hold it. That's exactly And God says, This is the way I'll give to you. If you worship with a right heart and you give, God will give back. But notice again in chapter sixteen, look at verse number three. This is what I call the protection, verse three. And when I come, whosoever ye What did Paul mean by this? The word approve is the word documents. This is someone who's been tested and found to be trustworthy. Now notice that the Paul Paul avoids handling the the gift himself directly. not handling the money himself but but he's gonna ha he wants the church to to appoint people that are trustworthy to go with him to And so what's this teaching here? It's teaching accountability, of course. Um when they were gonna take that offering, Paul wanted other messengers from the church. church to go with him. So that it's not just Paul giving this gift. This this is accountability. They're all together accountable, but it's also a representation of all the church, all the Gentile churches And it's almost like Paul says, I want these men to be seen. I want them to be representatives of these Gentile churches so that the people in the Jerusalem church can see it and they can know the law that That is coming from these Gentile churches. And so there had to be some accountability there. But notice the third thing. We see a godly motivation for giving We see a godly manner for giving, but notice the godly measure. Look at verse 4. And if it be meat that I go also, they shall go. with me. And so what does he mean here? The word meat means fitting from the Greek word axios, which is worthy, that which is in equal weight, or that which is right. And I think what Paul is saying If it's an offering that indicates true generosity and love, then I'll I'll take it. I'll go with them. And it was almost Paul didn't want this gift to be something Something that was that was uh you know limited. He wanted it to be a generous gift. The offering was not an embarrassment. I don't mean to be negative or mean when I say this, but sometimes what people give To the church is an embarrassment. What they give to God is an embarrassment. Once you've used it, it's no longer any good. You say, Well, the Baptist Church will take it. And they give it to the church And you know what, we we don't really need that. Let me just say thank you, but no thank you. God wants your best. Now you all need to lighten up a little bit. I'm getting some mean looks here. Relax. I'm kind of being a little bit light myself. Uh you're still looking mean at me. But seriously, we need to make sure that what we offer to the Lord is not an embarrassment. Embarrassment, that it's something worthy, that it's not a poor offering. Because Paul knew that there were some churches out there that were very giving and some that were not The Philippian church, for example, they were such a giving church to Paul. They were always wanting to give. And Paul says, you know, I want this offering that's going to be taken to be representative of the giving heart of God's people and the Gentile churches towards the church. And so that That's what Paul meant by that. So we see here then a godly motivation for giving, a godly manner, and a godly measure of giving. You say, well, you know I I don't I don't have much to give. Let me tell you something, dear friend. Whatever you give, if it's from the heart, God will use it. More importantly than the than how much it is, as far as measure By worldly standards, is it the question is, does it come from your heart? And is it something that is a worthy offering from your heart to the Lord? And with people, everybody's different But the question is again, does it come from the heart? And God can take whatever it is, and he can use it in a great way. Now let me close this sermon tonight by just reading to you something That I read as I was preparing for this, and I thought, what a what an incredible story this is, and it's something that we could learn from. Albert Lexi is a shoeshine man. For the last Thirty years, Albert has set up a sh uh a shop in Pittsburgh's Children's Hospital and knocked the dirt off of other people's shoes. The article goes on to say he bust He polishes and he charges a mere five dollars for his labor. Often a satisfied customer will leave a tip. Most give an extra dollar, some give two. Once during the Christmas season a doctor gave him fifty dollars for shining one pair of shoes. But big tips like that are few and far between. And people don't just care about the condition But when Albert has shined his last shoe and put away his sho First pair of shoes there 30 years ago, Albert has donated more than a third of his earnings to the Children's Hospital Free Care Fund, which helps parents who can't afford to pay for their sick child's medical costs. In addition, Albert has also given the hospital every tip he has ever received. Every single tip But Albert is just a shoeshine man. How much could there be to give from a man like that? Well, according to the hospital administration It's a seemingly impossible number. Two hundred grand. That's what professional athletes give. Not a shoeshine man, and yet that is the correct number, the article says. What an incredible testimony. You know what even s Small amounts given faithfully add up to a powerful legacy, and God can use for his glory. So let's take a lesson here from what Paul Paul is teaching the church at Corinth to give to those when there are needs. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, again, we're reminded here from your word how we are to conduct our lives, how we're to live our lives. How Lord we're to please you in every manner of our life, which includes even the way we handle our money even the way that we give. It speaks volumes of us. So Lord help us to to know how important this is to you. That when we're Faithful with material things, Lord, you entrust to us spiritual things. You give us true riches, like spiritual power and grace, the ability to minister to others So, Lord, help us to be faithful in this area. And Lord, help us to reflect the love that the early church had for one another. Help us to reflect it here in this church. To love one another. To help each other when we see a brother or sister who has need, Lord, to move into action and to give from a generous heart to help those that are in need And so, Lord, speak to us in this regard. Help us, Lord, to be faithful in this area of our life. Use these words from the apostle to us. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.