Well it's good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the Old Testament book of Ecclesiastes? We uh referenced this uh book this morning in uh I uh want to just preach out of it a passage of scripture that has been a passage that has been ministered to my heart several times, and I want to just share it with you here tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter 7 is where we're going to be And uh we're going to look at verse number 13 down to verse 18 tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verse 13. If you have trouble finding that it's Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Ecclesiastes. I'm worried about you whether you know where the folks of the Bible are. So go to the book of Psalms, it's right in the middle, and then go left. Um or actually write, sorry. Verse thirteen of Ecclesiastes chapter seven. Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which He has made crooked? In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider God also has set the one over against the other to the end that men should find nothing after him. From time to time I like to pick up a book by the Puritans and read them. There's a lot of depth in theology in Puritan books. G. I. Packer said that the Puritans were spiritual giants in a time when the world was filled with spiritual pygmies. And I think that that's still true in a sense. But uh we have a great opportunity to read some of their works because a lot of their works have been reprinted and repackaged. I remember I was in a bookstore in Pennsylvania and I happened to see the title of a book. The title of the book was A Crook in the Lot Uh this was uh the reason it caught my attention is because the cover of the book had a picture of the uh towers that were hit by airplanes on 9-11, uh towers in New York, the Twin Towers And uh the subtitle of the book was The Sovereignty and Wisdom of God Displayed in the Afflictions of Men. This was a book that was uh written in the 17th century and then reprinted uh for us uh today in the modern world. It was written by a man by the name of Thomas Boston, who was uh become really one of my favorite Puritan writers. He was uh a Scottish minister who studied at the University of Edinburgh and he was a Hebrew scholar. Jonathan Edwards called Boston a truly great divine. If Jonathan Edwards puts your his approval, that kind of gives you an understanding of how great this man was. But uh he was a faithful pastor and a writer, and he left behind twelve thick volumes of writings that just really dealt with just about every major Christian doctrine of the faith. He was a faithful pastor of a small rural church. He was that pastor there for over 25 years at the same church. There's a lot of reasons to admire him, but the thing that I admired him for most was his perseverance through suffering. Thomas Boston was a man that was given to periods of uh melancholy, they called it, what really we would call depression. He was prone to discouragement in the Christian life. He was often poor in his health and Suffered a lot, but he never missed uh a a time in the pulpit. He was always faithful to be preaching. His wife also suffered chronic illness of the body and perhaps also of the mind But the greatest trial that Thomas Boston and his wife ever had to bear was the death of their children. They lost six of their ten babies. Six. One loss was especially tragic. Boston had already named a son Ebenezer, which in the Bible means hitherto has the Lord helped me. You can find that story in 1 Samuel chapter 7 where they raise a stone. And it's a memorial stone because God had helped him and the name of the stone was Ebenezer. Um he named his son that, but uh that son passed away. When his wife was ready to give birth, and she did give birth to another son, he considered naming the new son Ebenezer as well. Yet he hesitated. I mean nam naming the the new child Ebenezer would be a testimony of hope and faith in God, but what if this new little boy died also? That might be a a a loss too bitter for him to bear, him and his wife. Yet he decided to name the child Ebenezer. And this little boy got sick And despite the urgent prayers of his parents, the little child never recovered. And as a grieving father, Thomas Boston wrote in his memoirs, It pleased the Lord that he also was removed from me. After such suffering and having such a great loss, many people perhaps would be tempted to accuse God of wrongdoing, maybe even quit the ministry. or to abandon their faith, or maybe even just to uh you know step out of ministry for a little while and then and then come back in. But that's not what Thomas Boston did. He believed in the goodness of God, he believed in the sovereignty of God. So rather than turning away from the Lord in a time of trial, Thomas Boston turned closer to the Lord. He ran to God for help. He's a man that's worthy of our admiration and imitation, a man who knew how to persevere through a difficult time of suffering. One of the ways that we can learn from his example of perseverance through suffering is to read his classic book on the sovereignty of God in our in our life. That book that is the title of the sermon is stolen from Thomas Boston. It's actually a title of the sermon that he preached called The Crook in the Lot. And it's based on this passage that we read in Ecclesiastes 7, verse 13. Look at the verse again. Consider the work of God. For who can make that straight which he has made crooked? The command in this verse is to call upon us to carefully observe the ways of God. And Thomas Fawston did that. He meditated on God's sovereignty even in his affliction and his life. This was actually the last publication, last uh sermon that he wrote that was actually published before his death. We learned by reading this, and also we learned that the writer of Ecclesiastes, Solomon, who was a man who had powerful skills and observation. Who observed the world around them and he observed the providential works of God. He studied the seasons of life. He learned uh things that God did in certain times. He watched the way people worked and played. He saw how they lived and how they died And here in Ecclesiastes chapter 7, the author, Solomon, is inviting us to also participate in observing the providential works of God all around us. And Solomon asked this rhetorical question, who has the power to straighten out what God has made crooked? That's a good question. The question is designed to make us think, to provoke us to think deeply. No one has the power to change God's purposes or plans. Things are the way God wants them to be. We don't have the power to overrule Almighty God. Now when Solomon talks about something that is crooked, The crook in the lot. He's not talking about something that is morally out of line, as if God could ever be the author of sin, because we know that God could never do that. God is never the author of sin or evil. He's a holy God What does he mean by the crook and the lot? He means something that is difficult in life to bear. He's talking about some trouble, some adversity, or some affliction that we have to endure. He's referring to something about our life that we wish that we could change, but we do not have the power to alter that or to change that. It could be a physical limitation. It might be the breakdown in a personal or family relationship It might be some affliction, some suffering that you're going through in your life, some circumstance that causes you great grief or pain, something that we wish we did not have. Or something that we wish that we did have. Sooner or later in life, there's going to be something that comes upon us that we wish had a different shape to it That we wish was not there. What is the one thing in your life that you would change if you had the power to change it? That is your crook in the lot. And according to Ecclesiastes, God has given to each of us a different situation in life. He's given to each of us a crook in our lot. There are no lots without crooks. We could say it like that. Thomas Boston uh actually said this. I'm quoting him. He says, quote, there is a certain train or course of events by the providence of God. Falling to every one of us during our life in this world, and that is our lot, as being allotted to us by the sovereign God. So we all have our lot. We all have things in life we wish we could change. He continues and he says, quote, In that train or course of events, some fall out cross to us and against the grain, and these make the crooked our lot While we are here, there will be cross events as well as agreeable ones in our lot and condition. Sometimes things are softly and agreeably gliding on But by and by, there is some incident which alters that course and pains us. Everybody's lot in this world has some crook in it There is no perfection here, no lot out of heaven without a crook. So you all have your crook. And the question is, how do we respond to the crook in our lot? What's the proper response? When God in his sovereignty decides to put the crook in our lot, the question is How are we to respond to that? Well, Solomon is going to give us here four proper responses to the crook and the lot that I want you to see in our passage here today. And here's first of all, affirm the sovereignty of God. That's the first response. Affirm the sovereignty of God. Look again in verse number 13. Consider the work of God. For who can make that straight which he has made crooked? That's what Solomon is calling upon us to do. Solomon is calling upon upon us to do is to consider that God is sovereign. This is a comparative this is an imperative here when he says consider. Two times he uses the word consider. We we see it in verse thirteen and again in verse number fourteen in the day of prosperity be joyful and the day of adversity. consider. The word consider here, Ra'a in the Hebrew means to look at, to examine, to inspect, with the uh with the idea of seeking to understand We know that we can't always understand the works of God, but that should not keep us from examining them and trying to understand what the Lord is doing. John Flavel, another Puritan, wrote this in the book, The Mystery of Providence. He says as believers, we should try to read the hand of Providence. Admittedly, it's not an easy thing to do. But uh he said we should seek to read the handwriting of God. We can't always know God's specific purposes and why things happen as they do. But there are some general theological things that we can draw from that. What are they? Well, first of all, we understand that God is in control and we're not. God is in control. A crook in the lot teaches us that God rules over all the affairs of our life. Notice the repetition of the phrase God has made. We see that in verse 13, we see it in verse 14, these are the works of God. The crook in your lot is not the result of fate It's not the result of chance. It's not the result of happenstance. There's nothing that just comes along in your life without God's permission or approval or God allowing that to happen in your life. Nothing, there are no, I've said before, there are no accidents in the truest form of the word, only acts of providence where God allows these things to enter into our life. And Solomon makes it clear that the crook is what God has made. This is what God has brought about. Now the characters in Scripture recognize that God is in control. When Job was hit with all of his trials, he didn't blame it on bad luck or chance or fate. What did Job say? The Lord has given and the Lord has taken away Blessed be the name of the Lord. He recognized it was all from God. God gave him what he had. And when those things were taken away, he recognized it was God that took it away. And then he said, blessed be the name of the Lord. He's in control. He's sovereign. And we need to be reminded of this. We all need to be reminded of this, especially people that are in powerful positions that have a tendency to think that everything is under your control. They're not The uh the world with all its powerful men, they rage against heaven. They rage against God. They seek to throw off God's control. What does the Bible say in Psalm 2? He that sits in the heaven shall what? Shall laugh God laughs at man's puny attempts to try to dictate his own fate or to control things, thinking that men are in control. Remember the story of Nebuchadnezzar? the king of Babylon, the king of that world empire, such a powerful man. And he thought that he had built all of the kingdom of Babylon by himself. And God warned him, you better humble yourself, you better recognize that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will, and he sets it up even over the basis of men. And Nebuchadnezzar didn't really seem to get the point. And one day he was uh walking out of the palace onto the port a rooftop and he looked out over the whole kingdom and he just felt very proud and Struck with ego, he said, Is not this the great Babylon that I have built by my power, by my majesty, by my might? God had a serious ego problem And what happened? God struck him with insanity right there. He ended up eating grass like an oxen. Insane. What happened? God put a crook in his lot God had to teach him who was in control. And he remained in that condition until it finally dawned on him that, God, you are the one that is in control. And then he ultimately confessed in Daniel 4 All the inhabitants of the earth are refuted as nothing. This is Nebuchadnezzar talking now. And he that is God doeth according to his will in the army of heaven. And among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand, or none can say, What are you doing? God knows what he's doing. You don't have to question what he's doing. God is in control, and God cannot be overruled. That's what Solomon means when he says here in verse number 13, for who can make that straight which he has made crooked? How can you straighten out if God has put a crook in your lot? How can you straighten that out? You don't have the power to straighten out what God has made crooked. We can't do that. We cannot change what God has done. It will not be changed until God allows it to change. Until God straightens it out. And God in his time may straighten that out for us, for you, but it'll be in his time. And it will accomplish the purpose that He has. So the crook in your lot might be just for a season, it may be just for a time that God does this in your life. But God will do it until He sees fit until it's His time. In fact, go back to Ecclesiastes chapter 3, very famous passage of scripture that you all know very well. Look in verse number one. You could probably quote this, you've heard it in the quoted a lot, or maybe in a song, verse one, to everything there is a season and a time to every what? Purpose under the heaven. And then he goes through a litany of these opposites, and a time to be born, a time to die, a time to plant, a time to pluck up, that was just planted, and so on, until you go down to verse 11 where it says this, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Who's the he there? That's God. God in his time will make it beautiful. He will straighten out the crook that is in your lot. But it'll be in his time. He's got a time for everything. In Job chapter 9, verse 12, Job said this, Behold, he taketh away. Who can hinder him? When God wants to take something away, you can't stop that. Who will say unto him, What doest thou? Job got the message. You can't say, God, what are you doing? God, you don't know what you're doing here And Job 11, 10, if he cut off and shut up or gathered together, then who can hinder him? That is to say, if if if you know if God passes through, if God imprisons or God summons the court, no one can turn them back. Job twelve verse fourteen. If he tears down, none can rebuild. If he shuts a man in, none can open. You can't change what God is doing. You can only submit and understand that God has a purpose But there's another thing that we can learn and that is this that even in that time when God is sovereign with over the crook in our our lot God is merciful no matter how much we may suffer during that time. No matter how great our suffering, God still, He still has not given us what we deserve. He still is merciful even in that time, and his grace will carry us through whatever we have to deal with. The reason this is true is because, beloved, we are all sinners. And if God gave us what we deserve, then all of us would perish in eternal punishment. Because we're sinners in the sight of a holy God. But whatever crook that we have in our lot, it should be a reminder to us that we uh we don't really deserve the good things that we have. God's given us more than we deserve. You know, we we seem to have this sense of entitlement that somehow God owes us a prosperous, happy life free of afflictions and free of sorrows. If God doesn't give that to us, then we have a right to be angry and bitter at God, you know, that God's just being unjust. Thomas Boston wrote that the crook in our lot should remind us all of the sin in this world and even of our own sin. In a sense, what he's saying in this It's very true that the reason anything is crooked at all is because of the sin that came into this world by man's doing. Sin that brings a lot of this, sin of mankind in general When the Psalmist was in a deep trial, he had a crook in the lot, he prayed this, out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. And then he said this, if you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, who can stand? Even in his suffering, he understood that, you know, God, if I got what I deserved, I wouldn't be able to stand. I'm still getting better than I deserve. So the first response when we have this crook is to affirm it's not chance, it's not faith, God is sovereign over all of my life. This is not an accident, God has a purpose and everything that he brings. But then secondly Not only affirm the sovereignty of God, but number two, accept the seasons of life. Just accept the seasons of life. Look at verse 14. In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider God also has set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him. And Solomon teaches that both prosperity and adversity come from the same divine hand. And God might bring a season of prosperity into your life, you are to accept that as from the Lord, and be grateful and be thankful. But he also may bring a season of adversity into your life, and you are also to accept that. the crooked with the straight. He will give not only burdens at times, but he also, doesn't he, give us blessings as well? He gives us multiple blessings and also burdens. And sometimes he'll do it, they'll be mingled together. They'll be together at the same time. There may be some people here tonight and you say, man, I've got some burdens I could tell you about that I'm carrying. It's a crook in my lot. But at the same time, you can also say, boy, I'm really blessed in these areas. God does both sometimes at the same time. And why does he do that? Notice that's what he says. God also has set the one over against the other. So while you are carrying this heavy burden on your back, you won't fall back because he loads your hands with blessings on the front, so he balances you out. You won't fall back, you won't fall forward, you're carrying burdens on your back, you're carrying blessings in your hand. God does both of these. He wisely mixes the two together. And why does he do that? Well, Solomon tells us why he does that in verse number 14, to the end that man should find nothing after him. That is to say God mixes these two together to keep us humble, to keep us dependent, to keep us teachable. God will balance our lives by giving us enough blessings to keep us happy and enough burdens to keep us humble. And he'll balance it out so that we can find nothing in him. What does he mean by that? He helps us to see that we don't know it all. We can't do all this on our own. To keep us from thinking that, you know, we got everything in control on our own. We have all the answers that we can manage. our lives by ourselves? And the answer is we we cannot do that by ourselves. And God will mingle these two together to keep us absolutely totally dependent upon Him because without Him we can't do it Without him, we just can't make it. We have to look to him. To be dependent upon him. Just about the time that we think we have an explanation for things, you know what God does? He changes things. He changes the situation. He throws out the old formula, he gives a new one, and you're left confused. Whoa. What are you doing, God? No ha no matter how much experience we may have in the Christian life, or how many books that you read, or or how much theology you digest, or how much education you have, you still have to walk day by day by faith in God. You'll never outgrow that. The problem comes when we don't want to accept this both as being from God. We want all the blessings, not the burdens. In fact, there's a certain theology out there that says God doesn't give any burdens, only blessings. That doesn't see the whole picture of God. No God does both. There are delightful providences, there are dark providences. We want all the delightful, we don't want the dark. We want all straightness, no crooks. And Solomon's advice here is to accept both. To accept both from God's hand. And he's telling us to trust in God and place our hands in the wise gracious hand of God, all of our future, in the wise, gracious hand of God. Again in verse 14, in the day of prosperity, be joyful. And in the day of adversity, consider. There's a play on words here in the Hebrew. I don't know if I can really communicate this. I'll give it a shot. Prosperity is the Hebrew word tobah. Joyful is the word batob. Adversity is Ra'a, consider it is Rea. You getting all this? So in the day of Tobah Bato, and in the day of Ra'a Rea, Now that was put together that way, designed to help the reader remember it was kind of a little catchy expression to kind of give you the English equivalent. It would be saying something like this. When things work out, shout When things crumble, be humble. That's mine. I'm copywriting that expression. But all of that is a reminder that we are to accept both from God. We accept both from God. And again, Job is a great example of this, the richest man of his day, and yet he suffered more than any man. And Job said to his bitter wife on the day when he received the crook in his lot, he said to her, Job 2. 10, You speak as one of the foolish women. Shall we receive good from God? And shall not we receive evil, or that is difficulty? And all this, Job, sin not with his lips. Thomas Boston's advice for living with your crook in the lot was this, quote, humble yourselves under it, and as the yoke which the sovereign hand has laid upon you. Then he went on to say, wait on patiently till the hand that made it mend it. It's good advice. Just be patient. Wait until God who made it mends that crook and he straightens it out for you. So number one, we affirm the sovereignty of God. Number two, we accept the seasons of life. But here's number three, another way to respond, is avoid the sin of extremes. Avoid the sin of extremes. Look at verse fifteen. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. It's one thing to say that we believe in the sovereignty of God, but it's another thing to accept it and live it out, often in a world that may seem to us to be meaningless at times when it's hard to figure out what is going on. I mean, let's face it, there are times from our vantage point when there are things that are going to happen that it just doesn't make any sense. It makes no sense to us. Sometimes looking at it from our point of view, and to use the expression that Solomon uses often in the book of Ecclesiastes, from our under-the-sun view, it looks as if things are upside down. How can God be in control if things seem upside down from our vantage point? We would think that a righteous person would prosper and be blessed and have a long life. We would think that the wicked would be punished and and cut off. But Solomon says here in verse number 15, he kind of presents us with a scenario that He has often observed that seems desperately unfair to us in verse 15. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perishes in his righteousness I mean, this is the exact opposite of what people would expect in a world that is being governed by God, that a righteous man would perish. Because of his righteousness? I mean, the righteous people are the ones that ought to rejoice in their prosperity. The wicked are the ones that should suffer adversity. But Solomon says, look, I look out and I see the righteous dying before their time, and I see wicked people that keep living on and they live a long life This is a paradox to us. Didn't God say that people that obey, he would give them long life and the disobedient would perish? Well, that's generally true, but sometimes things are not as they're supposed to be. And sometimes godly pastors are martyred for their faith while their enemies live on to terrorize the church. I've read so many times here recently of Christians over in places like Nigeria that are being slaughtered. Some Christians in the Middle East that are being slaughtered by their enemies. The righteous Naboths of this world lose their vineyards to the wicked Ahabs. They lose it to the Jezebels, the Naboths are killed. Why the Ahabs and the Jezebels seem to prosper And so these injustices are crooked things in life that we wish we could straighten out. We wish that there was something we could do immediately But knowing we cannot change this, Solomon gives us some practical advice that we need to follow when we encounter these kind of things. And really the whole basic point that he's giving right here in verses 15 down to verse 17 is that this apparent contradiction can tempt people to go to extremes. It can tempt us to either be self-righteous And wise, that is to say, wiser than God, like we know better, or the other extreme would be towards Sinful recklessness. So let's look at the first extreme he warns about overly wise. Look at verse 16. where he says again, be not righteous over much, neither make thyself overwise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? Admittedly, these verses are a bit difficult to interpret. There's uh several interpretations I've read out there that uh you know they're not right. But let me just give them to you. So some say Solomon here is being cynical and he's saying, look, if the righteous perish, why be righteous? Don't try to be a goody two shoes. On this interpretation, they're saying that Solomon is advising a middle road type of life. Don't be too good or don't be too evil. Just find the middle road. You know, if you're too righteous, you can really pay for that. And you don't want to be overly wicked either, or you'll get punished by God So don't live a life of total wickedness because God will judge that. Don't live a life of total righteousness because you could suffer for that in this ungodly world. So just be moderate Is that Solomon's advice? No, it's not. That would be foolish advice. And that would go against the whole grain of scripture. So what's he talking about? Solomon is referring here to a self-righteous um attitude um or having this attitude that you know better than God or that you are wiser that you can actually give God advice on how things should run You know, God, did you know that this is going on? As if we have to inform God and say, you know, here's what you need to do I mean if I were God, you ever hear people say that? I always cringe when I hear that. If I were God, oh boy. Let's just thank God that you're not. And let's thank God for his grace that he didn't make you a a a spot on the ground with a lightning bolt when you just said that. Who are you to even make that expression? That whole expression assumes that there's somehow in your view that you have a better grasp on things, that you can bring better justice, that you're wiser than God. That's a dangerous attitude to cop. When things in this world seem unjust and unfair, there's the tendency to sit in judgment on the way that God handles things. And I would encourage you never do that. Don't ever do that. Solomon is warning us against this attitude. Philip Reykin writes this. He is warning us against a conceited righteousness that stands ready to challenge God for his failure to reward us as much as we think we deserve And so when we get a crook in the lot, we may be tempted to say, What who does God think he is to treat me this way? I mean, doesn't God know who I am? Doesn't he understand what I'm trying to do for him? He shouldn't treat me this way. I know better than him. I'm too righteous to be treated like this. That's a dangerous attitude. You say why you say that? Because at the end of verse 16, Solomon says, Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? You cut this attitude, you you're headed for trouble. destroy here, confound. You're headed for judgment. God knows what he is doing. And if the wicked seem to prosper it is because you're taking the short view of things. This is not all there is. And that's part of the problem that Solomon points out in the book of Ecclesiastes is that people are looking under the sun. They're not looking above the sun. You understand that this is not all there is, that there's an eternity, and God is going to balance everything out, and nobody's going to get away with anything. We have to live with an above-the-sun view of things. This was the problem with the psalmist in Psalm 73 He had a short view of things and he was complaining, and you know, God is good to everyone except me and I've done all this and I've I've purged my house in vain and I've tried to live righteously in vain, and he was just having a pity party, and then It says, until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then he went to church. By the way, that's why you should come to church. So that your perspective changes and you get a view of eternity. And then he said, then I understood their end. That is, the psalmist said, you know what? When I started thinking about things from eternity standpoint, then I understood where they're going to end up. And the only heaven they have is this right here. It's very short, it's very brief. He says they're they're like people walking on slippery places that any any moment they can fall. But what do we have? We have God. We have His presence. So the Psalmist understood that he had the short view of things. Paul said this. in Romans 8. 18, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. There's no way you can compare what you're going through now with the eternal weight of glory that God has laid up for you one day as a believer in Christ. Judge by looking at just the here and now things, you're you're not judging correctly. God's judgment is based on the eternal, not on the earthly temporal. It's on the eternal. So don't think yourself wiser than God or set yourself up to be a better judge. But then that's one extreme. What's the other extreme? To be overly wicked. Look at verse 17. Be not overmuch wicked Neither be thou foolish, why shouldest thou die before thy time? And here is the idea of wicked is rejecting the word of God, rebelliously casting off the law of God. This is the person who may get bitter at the crook in their lot. This is the person who goes through a difficult time and they say, you know, what's the use? What's the use of trying to live for God? I'm getting the short end of the stick all the time. I'm here and trying to do the best I can and And so they conclude, you know, there's It's no use trying to be righteous. That's the same conclusion the psalmist made in Psalm 73 before he got his per perspective changed. He said, Verily I've cleansed my heart in vain and wash my hands in innocency. What good does it do to live a godly life? And what is Solomon's advice to those who are tempted to think that way? Well he says in verse 17, don't be a fool. Don't be a fool. Why should you die before your time? I mean, you know, you want to rebel against God, you want to rebel against His Word because you have a crook in the lot, you have this sense of entitlement, you think you can do better, or maybe you're throwing up your hands and saying, what's the use? That's a foolish way to think If you live rebelliously in sin, you will perish. So don't do that. So Solomon warns against these two extremes. when you're going through your crook in the lot. But here's the last bit of advice that he gives us here. Affirm the sovereignty of God. Accept the seasons of life. Avoid the sin of extremes. But here's the last thing. Adopt the spirit of reverence. Adopt the spirit of reverence. Look at verse 18. It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. They also from this withdraw not thine hand. For he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. There's a way to avoid both extremes here, and the answer is to live in the fear and reverence of God And again, this is a verse that's somewhat difficult to understand. But when he says, take hold of this, when Solomon says you need to take hold of this, you need to lay hold of this. That's in view of everything that he's already said, what he's about to say, Solomon says, now you need to really listen to what I'm about to say here. You ever say that to your kids? Now listen to me, what I'm going to say You need to take hold of this, what I'm going to tell you. He's saying the right way to approach life specifically with your crook in the lot is by shunning self-righteousness and rebellious fatalism that embraces wickedness. You need to shun all that and you need to live a life that fears God And need to live a life that reverences God. The God-fearing person will escape both of these extremes. They'll also escape the consequences, the death and destruction that accompany those extremes. So notice where he says, for In verse 18, for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. That is, the person who fears God, you know what? When he goes through all this, he'll in the end, he'll be standing. He'll be able to come forth through all of this. You'll be able to stand firm through prosperity. You'll be able to stand firm through adversity because your heart is anchored in the fear and reverence of the Almighty God. The guided life is a balanced life. And so Solomon encourages us to walk in the fear of the Lord. This is one of the great themes of the second half of the book of Ecclesiastes where he again emphasizes over and over again, you need to fear God, you need to fear God. Remember I told you this is Solomon wrote Ecclesiastes at the end of his life audience looking back and he's reminding us of all the mistakes he made. And one thing he keeps coming back to is look Let me just tell you this you need to fear God. That's the the advice he comes back to again and again. You need to fear the Lord. In fact, this is the conclusion of the whole book. Flip to the end to chapter twelve real quick and look at this with me in verse number thirteen. Um kind of sums it all up in verse thirteen. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. You wanna you wanna m I was I sometimes I'll say this. You want me to give my whole sermon in one sentence Sometimes I do that. Let me give you this whole sermon in one sentence, but you still have to listen for another 40 minutes. So Solomon in the beginning says he writes all this, then he says, Let me just give it to you in one sentence here. Everything I'm trying to tell you. Here's the conclusion of the whole matter. Verse 13. What? Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is what? The whole duty of man. To fear God is to reverence God, to have respect for his wisdom, for his awesome power, for his sovereignty, for his mercy and love. And that's the attitude that will keep you from sitting in judgment whenever you have a crook in your lot. This is the attitude that Paul rebuked when he said, But who are you, O man? To answer back to God. You don't want to have that. But then later on in Romans eleven he says this O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out For who hath known the mind of the Lord and who had been his counselor, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again. For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory for ever. Amen That's living in the fear of God. Living in with reverence to God. So to live this way in the fear of the Lord, it teaches us to submit to our crook in the lot. We learn to praise God for prosperity, and we learn to trust God in adversity, to ultimately look to Him. We learn to live a life That is free from self-righteousness and also from wickedness. So let me again quote Thomas Boston here and I'll be done. He says this, quote, make it your habit to silently admit mysteries in the conduct of providence towards you, which you are not able to comprehend, but will adore. That's such a great expression. And then uh let me just give you uh this is where Jerry Harmon ends here. And pick up a little bit more Thomas Boston here and give you what he says. He uh he gives a lot of reasons for the crook and the lot in his book, but I just want to give you three. He offered these reasons um You might be bearing this crook and you want God to straighten it out, but he gives some reasons why you're going through this. Number one, he says this as a test to help us determine whether we are really trusting Christ for salvation. Sometimes God will put the crook in the lot to See if you're really, really trusting him. To prove the genuineness of your faith, like he did with Job. Job says, when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. To refine that faith. But number two, he says this, to turn our hearts away from this vain world and to teach us to look to heaven and to prepare us for heaven. I think that's so needful because we all have a tendency to focus on the here and the now. And we rarely think about our eternity in heaven. He says this, quote, pray, how do you think to be made suitable for heaven by the warm sunshine of this world's ease and getting all your will here? And he goes on to say, nay, sirs, that would put your mouth out of taste for the joys of the other world. So to get you ready for heaven. And then number three, this will be it, to humble our pride. and to help us see our own sinfulness. He says this it is the overlooking of our sinfulness that allows the proud heart to swell. And he and he lists many more, which you don't have time to to look into. And the point of listing these possible reasons for our suffering is not to suggest that we can always figure out why God has put some particular crook in our lot. The point is, even though we can't always figure it out, the point is God knows why he put it there. We might not figure it out, but God does. God knows. He knows the reason for it And his purposes are not arbitrary. When something in our life seems crooked, we're very quick to tell God how to straighten it out. God, here's what you need to do. Instead, we need to allow God to straighten us out. Because that's what He's trying to do. That's the ultimate ultimate purpose, to straighten us out. to humble ourselves under the crook and to trust him until he sees fit to make straight what he has made crooked And if you have trouble humbling yourself under the crook in your lot, I would just tell you to look to Jesus. who humbled himself, who submitted himself. Remember that he was the good shepherd. He had a crook in his lot and the crook came in the shape of a cross. The cross that Jesus had to bear for us. In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus prayed, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass for me. Father, can you straighten out the crook in the lot here? And there was no answer. There was no other way. And Jesus submitted himself and he humbled himself and became obedient unto what? Unto death. Even the death of the cross. So Jesus suffered the crook and the cross. That was the lot that God had given him to bear. He humbled himself under it. He trusted God the Father and he waited for God the Father to straighten all that out And God the Father did. So if God can be trusted to trait to straighten out something as crooked as the cross for our Lord Jesus, can't you trust God the Father to straighten out the crook that's in your lot. So Jesus is our example in this. So if you have trouble submitting, just look to the Savior. And see God's love for you demonstrated through the crooked cross that He bore for you. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for the wisdom of your word. These wise words from Solomon who teaches us to look around, to consider the works of our wise Heavenly Father. And to know and understand that all things are in your hand, you're sovereign over all things, and you have a purpose for every crook that you place in our life. That you're using it to sanctify us, to purify our faith, to straighten us out, so that we may be the people that you call us to be. And Father, I pray for those who may be here tonight. That are thinking right now about the the one thing in their life that they wish that they could change. They wish they had the power to change it, but they don't have the power to change it That you'll help them, Lord, to submit to it and to wait upon you to straighten it out, and to know that in that time you are working out your purposes, even though we might not always figure it out. It may be hidden to us, but in the end we can say like Job, I will come forth like gold. And so Father, we confess that we humble ourselves beneath your mighty hand and we trust you in all of this. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen