Take your Bibles. Open please to the book of Psalm 123. As you know, we are in a study through these pilgrim psalms, and tonight we come to Psalm 123. And I hope that this is being an encouragement to you, as it is to me, studying these Psalms. There's so much in here. And tonight I want to talk about the focus of faith. So if you look in verse 1, just four verses here in Psalm 123, and follow along as I read. Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. Behold, as the eyes of the servants look unto the hand of their masters And as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord, our God, until he have mercy upon us. Have mercy upon us, O Lord. Have mercy upon us, for we are exceedingly filled with contempt. Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorn of those that are at ease. and with the contempt of the proud. And so tonight I want to talk about a cure for spiritual nearsightedness. The word myopia, you may have heard of that word before. It's a medical term, and it is the term for nearsightedness or short-sightedness. People who have myopia can see things that are close, but they can't see things that are far away, right? That's nearsightedness. Things that are distant or blurred or perhaps can't even be seen at all. And what's interesting is this spiritual uh or this term rather, this uh medical term, myopia, comes from the Greek New Testament. Did you know that? This is the Greek word that is used in 2 Peter 1. 9 where it says this person is blind and cannot see afar off. That's the one word in the Greek, and it's the word myopia. And so perhaps you have that problem tonight. You're nearsighted. But I'm talking more to those who don't have a physical problem, but to those who have a spiritual problem because This is a spiritual disease as well. There is a such a thing in the Christian life, I believe, as spiritual myopia. And this is the believer, the Christian, who is so burdened down with the cares of this world Because they're seeing things that are near, and they're not seeing things that are afar off. They see the problems that they're dealing with. They see the circumstances that they are in. They see the world and all of its problems. And because they're spiritually nearsighted, they are depressed. They're down and out And so they're like Peter that was once walking on the water, but when he took his eyes off the Lord and he put his eyes on the winds and the waves, he began to sing. Well, if that's your problem tonight, if you're unable to really see things afar off, or you're looking at your problems and your burdens, then Psalm 123 is for you. This is really a cure for spiritual nearsightedness because in this psalm, the psalmist teaches us to lift our eyes off of our problems and to put our eyes on the Lord Now, what is the problem that the psalmist is facing in Psalm 123? We don't really see the problem until we come to the last two verses in verses three and four. And what I want you to notice is the phrase, we are exceedingly filled with contempt. Look again in verse 4. Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorn of those. And so exceedingly filled is used twice here, and it's the Hebrew word. It just simply means saturated. We we could say it like this. We have had more than enough. We've had more than enough. You ever hear someone say something like that or something similar? We have expressions. that really talk about this same concept here. You ever hear someone say, I'm fed up to here? I'm fed up to here. Or I've had it up to here. Or I'm ready to throw in the towel. Or you could probably think of some others, right? I can't take it anymore. Or I'm at the end of my rope. Well here's here's my favorite. I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired. You ever hear that one? I'm just sick and tired. Now all of these things really express the emotion that the psalmist is trying to express here. It is frustration, it is hurt, it is disappointment, and all of those things are all rolled up into one where he says, we are exceedingly filled. Man, we have had it. Perhaps that's how you feel tonight. You may have come to church here, you you drug yourself in to come to church, but you really are sitting there and you're thinking you're thinking, you know what? I am ready to throw in the towel. I'm sick and tired. I've had it. In fact, some of you look like that tonight, if you don't mind me saying. I I I just I I I have a problem Now, more specifically, what was the problem that the psalmist was dealing with that was causing him to feel this way? Well again In verse 3 and 4, it gives us an insight into it, where he says, we're filled with contempt. And in verse 4, our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud. Now the burden the psalmist was facing was the ridicule and the contem that the world was constantly dishing out at the people of God. The people of God are being scorned, they're being held in content by those who are at ease. I think one of Satan's greatest weapons is to use the contempt and the scorn of the world to try to get at God's people. to depress the people of God. Thomas Carlisle called ridicule or scorn, he called it the language of the devil. Shakespeare called it paper bullets of the brain. But those bullets have slain many a warrior. There are many that can stand up to lions, and yet they wither under scorn and ridicule from the world. And so the psalmist is fed up with it. And by the way, the scorn and the contempt and the suffering that God's people face is a common theme that we see through these pilgrim psalms. We're going to see it in Psalm 124, where he describes himself as being, God's people are almost swallowed up, they're almost drowned, they're almost ensnared. We'll see it in Psalm 129 where it talks about the sufferings of God's people compared to a farmer plowing on their back. And so, and by the way, has any nation suffered like Israel has suffered? But today, the scorn and the content has turned to the world, or excuse me, has turned to the church The persecution of God's people is something that we have seen in the latter days. In fact, I was reading one statistic that said more Christians were martyred in the 20th century than in all the previous centuries combined. I believe we're living in the last days, right? I believe that things are growing increasingly dangerous and perilous. for the people of God. Now I'm not trying to make you feel even worse, and I'm not trying to give you a martyr's complex because we are on the winning side, right? God has given us the victory, and we know that we have victory through our Lord Jesus Christ, but we have to accept that this is a reality in the world in which we live The reality is that we are going to face a lot of difficulty. On this pilgrim journey, as we're traveling to our Mount Zion, as we're pressing on, we will face the contempt of the world Now I have to admit that I agree with the psalmist in feeling this way. Maybe you feel the same way. I'm tired of the attacks on Christianity by our society. I'm tired of the blasphemy I hear about the Lord. I'm I'm tired of the attacks on God's word. I'm tired of the hostility that comes from liberal media against the church. I'm tired of laws that are being passed that disregard God and disregard the Word of God, calling good evil and evil good. But now, let me just give you a little background into this psalm here because it might help us to understand. Sometimes it's good to go behind the psalm and find out the occasion upon which this was written. So I want you to hold your place here and go to the book of Isaiah, and I want you to look down in chapter number 36 of Isaiah. Let's kind of get the setting of this psalm, the background of this psalm. Now most scholars agree that the background of this psalm was during the time when Hezekiah was king of Judah And the city of Jerusalem was being invaded by the Assyrians under the king Sennacherib. And Isaiah chapter 36, from verse 4 on down to verse 20, we see a little bit of what's going on here. Basically, Sennacherib sends one of his officers to Jerusalem to tell Hezekiah to just surrender. And this officer's name is Rabshaka. And he comes with a great army. He comes to Jerusalem. The city is shut up. The people are inside are captives to this great army. And Rabshekah begins to scoff and ridicule Hezekiah and the people of God. Look at verse number four. And Rabshekha said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest? Verse 5. I say, saith thou But they are but vain words. I have counsel and strength for war now on. Whom dost thou trust that thou rebellest against me? Verse 6. Lo, thou trustest in the staff of this broken reed on Egypt, whereon if a man lean it will go into his hand and pierce it, so is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all that trust in him. So basically he's scoffing at Hezekiah and at the people, and he's saying, Who are you trusting in? Who's going to get you out of this mess that you're in? Look at your city surrounded. What are you going to be able to do? Are you going to put your trust in Egypt and the Pharaoh of Egypt, if you put your trust in Pharaoh, that's kind of like leaning on a splintered reed. What would happen if you leaned on a splintered reed? Well the reed would pierce her hand And it would hurt. He's saying that's what it's like for you to depend upon Egypt. Nothing's going to get you out of this mess. In verses 8 to 10, he says your only reasonable action is surrender. Look at verse 9. How then wilt thou take turn away the face of one captain, the least of my master servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? Now in verse 8, he mockingly offers to give the Jews 2,000 horses. He's basically saying, look, I tell you what, I'll give you 2,000 horses if you can find 2,000 riders that'll ride on them in flight But I venture to say that won't happen. And even if you could furnish 2,000 riders, if we sent out one, the least of our army, the least soldier in our army, your Our least soldier could stand against your 2,000 riders. And so what's he doing? He's mocking the people of God. He's scorning the people of God. Look at the summation of what he says. Look in verse 10. Am I now come up without the Lord against this land to destroy it? The Lord said unto me, go up against this land and destroy it. Now here he's trying to really demoralize the people of God. You know what he was saying? He was saying, you look, do you think God's going to help you? God's not going to help you. In fact, it was God who sent me here to destroy you. Your God's not going to help you. So what's he trying to do? He's trying to get them to take their eyes off the Lord. Don't trust in your God. He's not going to help you. He's trying to terrorize these people. Now realizing the seriousness of the situation, Hezekiah sends negotiators, and there's a continual speech from this guy, but it's continual scorn and contempt. and intimidation. Now let me just tell you that this is the way the devil operates against the people of God. You know what he wants you to do? He wants to intimidate you. He wants to bring fear into your heart, bring terror into your heart, and he wants you to think that God is not with you. That the reason you're in your circumstance is because God put you there and God's going to punish you. God's hand is against you You ever have people, sometimes Christians will come and they'll talk to me like that, oh, God's doing this. Let me tell you something, friend. God is for you. He's for you. But Satan wants you to think that he's not. And he will plant negative thoughts in your mind to try to get you to take your eyes off of the Lord. And so he mocks God, he mocks the people of God, he mocks trusting in God because he wants to bring that fear and terror. And by the way, it all works because we don't have time to get into all of this, but Hezekiah and all the people are just filled with terror. They're filled with fear. And perhaps that's where you are tonight. You're just you're you're you're here tonight, but you're afraid of the future. You're afraid of what's going to come. You're afraid of what's down the road. You're disappointed, you're frustrated because you're in a circumstance that you can't seem to change. And you're wondering what is going to happen But let me just say this. The real problem that you have tonight is not your problem. Okay? You say, what are you talking about? The real problem you have is not your problem. The real problem you have is that you're focused on your problem and not on the Lord. You understand that? Your problem is not the problem. Your problem is that you're looking too much at your problem. And you're not looking enough at the Lord. And again, this is exactly what Ribshaka was trying to get the people of God to do. He was trying to get them to focus their attention on what was going on, the armies that they're surrounded with, the pitiful situation in which they found themselves. Get your eyes off of God. Look at your problem. That's exactly what Satan does. Get your eyes off the Lord. Look at this problem that you are dealing with. And sometimes we can be so focused on the problem, we're so consumed with that, that we're in despair. And this happens to Christians all the time. Now with that in mind, go back to Psalm 123, because again, this is the cure to spiritual myopia. To spiritual nearsightedness. What I want you to notice in Psalm 123 is how many times does he use the word eyes? Verse 1, I lift up my eyes. Verse 2, behold as the eyes of the servants look to the hand of their masters as the eyes of a maiden, and so on. And then he mentions the word eyes three times in verse 2 Once in verse 1, and then the word look also is mentioned in verse 2. So we can pick up the the whole theme of this is where you focus your eyes. And we're talking here in a spiritual way. Where are you looking? This is the cure for your spiritual nearsightedness. Now with all that in mind, I just want you to point out that in this chapter, the psalmist looks or focuses on three things. that cures spiritual nearsightedness. What's the first one? Number one, focus on God's throne If you have a problem with looking at your problems around you, you have spiritual nearsightedness, the thing that you need to do is do what the psalmist did in verse 1, and that is focus on God's throne. In verse number one, because that's what he does. Look at verse one. Unto thee lift up I lift up, or excuse me, lift I up mine eyes. Now that's what the Christian life is all about. It's where you look. You tell me where you're looking, and I'll tell you what your spiritual condition is. Notice where he looks. Unto thee lift I up my eyes. And of thee there, of course, is talking and referring to God. Now I love the way this is phrased. It doesn't say I lift up mine eyes unto thee, but rather unto thee. That's at the beginning. Why? Because that is emphasis Whenever it's put at the beginning of the sentence, it's added emphasis. Unto you, and the idea here is Lord, I'm looking to you, to you and no other. To you and you alone. It means to trust in the Lord, to depend upon the Lord, to turn your problems over to the Lord. That's what he's referring to here. It's interesting in these psalms sometimes the cure or the answer is at the beginning and then he kind of backs into the problem. This is why I am doing this, because here's the problem. But in the very beginning, he's saying what the answer is It's looking to the Lord. And again, friend, this is a principle that is dominant in the Christian life. We live our Christian life looking to the Lord. That's what it's all about. That is a major theme. In fact, the Christian life begins by what? Looking to the Lord for salvation. Write down Isaiah 45, 22. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. For I am God and there is none else. This was the verse that God used to bring conversion to the heart of Spurgeon, the great preacher. He was a man who was very depressed. He was uh very distressed. He was very unhappy, he was in despair. One morning in January of 1850, he woke up needing to go to the house of God. He was so very down And it was a snowstorm out that day, and he walked through the snow, and because the storm was so bad, he, rather than going to his normal church, he diverted to a little church down a little street. And he went in and there was a guest preacher there because the pastor couldn't even make it. And this was the text that he read, Isaiah 45, 22, look unto me and be ye saved. And Spurgeon said he sat down and this man began to preach, look unto the Lord, look unto the Lord. And then he said he pointed me out. He said, You young man, you look very miserable. Can you imagine me doing that to one of you tonight? You look really miserable. But Spurgeon said, I was, I was miserable. And then he said, look to the Lord. And Spurgeon in his autobiography talks about that. And uh he talks about what happened at that moment. He said this, then I had this vision. Not a vision to my eyes, but to my heart. I saw what a Savior Christ was. I saw at once the way of salvation. I know not what else he said. I did not take much notice of it. I was so possessed with that one thought Like as when the brazen serpent was lifted up, the people only looked and were healed, so it was with me. And at that moment, Spurgeon was converted. We start out coming into the kingdom by looking to the Lord. And all of the Christian life is lifting our eyes unto Jesus. We live each day of our life like that. The Bible tells us that in Hebrews chapter 2. And then of course the life of faith will culminate when we see Jesus one day in heaven. But now here's what I want you to see in verse 1. This was a purposeful decision on his part, on the psalmist part. He made a decision. I'm going to lift my eyes to you. You know why that's important? Because it's not natural for us. We have to make a decision to do that You know what our tendency is? Our tendency is to look everywhere else except the Lord. We look down, we look around, we look inward. We have to make a decisive daily decision that I'm going to look to the Lord today. I'm going to do that. Spurden again wrote, We must use our eyes with resolution, for they will not go upward to the Lord of themselves. And so, not only where he looks, but notice what he sees. Look again in verse 1. Unto thee I lift up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. Now, the word when it says dwellest there, the Hebrew is enthroned. Thou that is enthroned in heaven. What does he see when he looks up? He sees God on his throne. He sees God enthroned. This is a beautiful picture. of God's sovereignty. Someone said there are three heavens. The first heaven we see with the naked eye. The second heaven we see with a telescope, that's space. But the third heaven we see with the eye of faith. And this psalmist looks up to the third heaven with the eye of faith. And what does he see? He sees the one who dwells on the throne. He sees that God is enthroned in heaven. Often in the book of Psalms This is mentioned. For example, Psalm 11, verse 4. The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven. Psalm 113, verse 5: Who is like the Lord our God, who is seated on high? Again, Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. And again, the imagery here is a God who is on his throne, who is sovereign. And who is in control. Friend, I don't know what your situation is in here tonight, but I want to encourage you that God has not lost control of what's going on in your life. In fact, God is in control. No matter what happens around us, we have had to hear and see of some things that have happened in our country and in our world that is very distressing to our hearts. But friend, we need to be reminded that our Lord sits enthroned in heaven. He is in control. He's in control. And so, uh, and by the way, sometimes God will allow the failure of human leaders. To force us to look to the Lord even more. In fact, remember Isaiah chapter 6, the Bible says, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord high and lifted up on his throne. He goes into the temple and he sees a vision of God in his holiness on his throne. And when did that happen? That happened when Uzziah, the king that he had put so much faith in Who, by the way, was a godly man, but he ended in failure because he disobeyed the Lord. And when that happened, Isaiah was forced to take his eyes off of human leaders and put his eyes on the Lord, the one who is enthroned in heaven, the one who never fails. Man will fail us, but God will never fail, and God is enthroned in heaven. And so we need to look to God's throne. But here's the second thing. Not only focus on God's throne, but secondly focus on God's hand. Focus on God's hand. Look in verse 2. Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress. So our eyes wait upon the Lord our God until that he have mercy on us. And so he focuses now on God's Someone said faith is the ability to look past adverse circumstances and see God's hand at work. Now, what the psalmist is doing here is he's using an illustration that was very, very familiar to anyone that lived in the Near Eastern culture or was in a Near Eastern household. And in fact, if you go in certain places in the world today, you'll still see these same things going on that's described here in verse number two. And what's he describing? That in a household, this was obviously a rich household, where a master had servants, whenever the master would entertain guests, the servants would be there to do much of the work of serving. And a big banquet hall. So picture in your mind, here's a big banquet hall, the table is spread out, the guests are coming, they're seated, the servants are waiting at the opposite end of the banquet hall. And in this culture, it was considered rude or it was considered unclassy to speak out loud. And so what the servants would do is they would look at the gestures of their boss, their master. And just with the gestures of his hand, he would give the servants direction on what to do. And so they would be waiting at the end of the hall, focused on the hands. of their master. It may be just a little wave of the hand, a little finger gesture, but they're alert, they're standing, they're waiting, they're looking For just that one little movement that will give them the order, the direction that they need. One traveler to the east wrote about his experience. Let me just read you what he said. He said, I have seen a fine illustration of Psalm 123. 2 in a gentleman's house at Damascus. The people in the East do not speak so much or so quickly as those in the West, and a sign of the hand is frequently the only instructions given to the servant in waiting He says as soon as we were introduced and seated, a wave of the master's hand indicated that coffee should be brought, and another hand signaled that we are ready for dinner. The servants watched his master's hand, and he knew instantly what the master's will was when he saw the gesture. And friend, and so the psalmist is using this well-known custom. To say, just like a servant studies the hand of his master, that's our posture, the posture of faith for a believer. What are we looking at? We're looking at the hand of God. We're waiting to see God's hand. To see God's hand at work. Now you might be saying, now wait a minute, how do we by faith look at the hand of God? Well, if you notice in scripture from time to time when you're reading, you'll see the phrase the hand of God. And what normally is it referring to in scripture? It's referring to the providential acts of God, the things that God does. We see this in Ezra We see it in Nehemiah, for example, in Ezra 7. 6, he said, For the hand of the Lord was on him, or on me. Ezra 7. 9, the good hand of his God was on him. Again, Ezra 7. 28, I took courage. For the hand of the Lord my God was on me, and I gathered leading men from Israel to go up with me. We see this in the book of Nehemiah, when Nehemiah was granted all the things that he asked of the king, Nehemiah said, It was the good hand of God that was with me. So when do we see the good hand of God? When we see God's providential works. And by the way, you know what? This is not always easy to do in the Christian life. You know what we have to do? We have to study to see the hand of God. Because you know what I see sometimes in Christians? That they're not, they're blind to what the Lord is doing around them. They're blind to the hand of God and his works around them. And all they talk about are their burdens. Oh, I have this problem, I have this problem. Well from where I sit, I see God, his hand, blessing you I see God's hand working for you. And by the way, sometimes the good hand of God might not come the way we think. Just because things don't work out the way you think they should work out doesn't mean the hand of God is against you How many times have you gone through a situation where it's been difficult only to find out later that that difficulty was needed in order for God to do some further good in your life? You got demoted at a job only to realize that that demotion led to a later promotion at a better job or at a better place. What is that? That's the hand of God. That's the good hand of God. Doing things for you. When we look at our problems, we become blind to blessings. But when we look to providence, we become blind to burdens And we see God's good hand. Now, by the way, what does God's hands do for us? Just a few verses, jot these down. First of all, God's hand feeds us. Psalm 104, verse 28, Thou openest thy hand, and they are filled with thy good. The eyes of all wait upon thee that thou givest them meat in due season. Thou openest thy hand And satisfies every every living desire. You know why you're taken care of. You know why you have food on your table? Because God has opened his hand to you. It is God who feeds us. It is God who supports us Psalm 63 verse 8, Thy right hand upholdeth me. It is God who directs us. Psalm 139, verse 10, it says, If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. God will direct us with his hand He will deliver us. When God delivered the uh children of Israel from Egypt, the Bible says it was the hand of the Lord. It's God's hand protects us. Remember in Job when uh Satan came before the Lord and Satan said, look, if you Pull forth your hand, then I can do to Job what I want, but the reason I can't now is because your hand is protecting him. You realize it's the hand of God that protects us, that avenges us. Psalm 10, verse 2. Arise, O Lord, O God, lift up thy hand, and forget not the humble. And so get your eyes off your problems and focus on the hand of God and what God is doing for you all around. Now let me give you the third and final thing. Focus on God's throne. Focus on God's hand. But number three, focus on God's mercy. Or we could say focus on God's heart. Look again in Psalm 123. Look down at verse number, the latter part of verse 2. Until that he have mercy upon us. Verse 3. Have mercy upon us, O Lord. Have mercy upon us, for our soul is exceedingly filled with contempt. Three times he uses the word mercy. He's praying, he's asking God for mercy Now, friend, this is a good prayer to pray. You know why? Because first of all, it expresses to God our utter helplessness. There are some people here tonight, and what you need to do is just go to the Lord and say, Lord, just have mercy on me That's a good thing to do. You know why? Because God delights in mercy, the Bible says. And Micah. He delights in mercy. He's filled with mercy. Some of the greatest prayers in all the Bible is this prayer. Have mercy, O Lord. Have mercy on us. And you know what? God will. Now again, let me just close by going back to Isaiah. Would you go back to Isaiah again in chapter 36? Because I want you to see a great illustration of what uh we're talking about this prayer for mercy for God's help and salvation. Go back to Isaiah chapter 36. And this time I want you to look in verse number two. Because I see something here in verse two that I think is very significant. Sennacherib sends his general to meet Hezekiah. Notice the location, verse 2. And the king of Assyria sent Rabshaka from Lachish to Jerusalem. unto King Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pole in the highway of the Fuller's Field. Now, you say why is that important? I think this information has special uh not only geographical significance but theological significance. You say why? Well, years earlier, another king of Judah, just a few years earlier, a king by the name of Ahaz. was in this same location. This is found in Isaiah chapter 7. You can read this later. In Isaiah chapter 7, King Ahaz was in a similar situation in that he was facing a formidable army. A confederate of two countries had come together. And they were threatening Judah and Jerusalem. They were threatening the household of David. And you know what God does? God sends Isaiah the prophet to meet King Ahaz where? At this very same place. At the conduit of the upper pool and the highway of the Fuller's Field. This exact same place is where King Ahaz stood. And what happened? King Ahaz was asked to trust in the Lord. He was asked to look to the Lord. And you know what happened? He wouldn't do it. He refused to look to the Lord. Instead, he looked to other things. And basically, he failed that test. He failed. Now, years later, here's another king. He's in the same situation. He's being threatened by an evil force and an evil king, and now he's going to be asked to do the same thing, and that is to put his trust in the Lord. Now go to chapter 37, and I want you to see King Hezekiah's response. Chapter 37, verse 1. It came to pass when King A Hezekiah Heard it that he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloss and he went into the house of the Lord. Drop down to verse number fourteen It says, and Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord, and he spread it before the Lord. So what does he do here? Again, same situation. Hezekiah. He's filled with sorrow. He's distraught. He takes this threatening letter that is given to him and the other people in the city. And he takes this letter into the house of the Lord and he spreads it out before God. And what is he doing by doing that? He's looking to the Lord now. If you have any doubt about where he's looking, look down in verse number 15. And Hezekiah prayed unto Lord, saying, Listen to this prayer, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, that dwelleth between the what? The cherubims. Where is that? That's the throne of God O God that dwells between the cherubims, that art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth. What is Hezekiah saying here? Lord, you're on the throne and you're sovereign. You made it all. You made heaven and earth. What's he doing? He's looking to the Lord, to the Lord himself. Verse 17, Incline thine ear, O Lord, and hear. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and see and hear all the words of Sennacherib which he hath sent to reproach the living God. And of a truth, Lord, the king of Assyrias have laid waste to all the nations and their countries, and they have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods. But were the works of man's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they have destroyed them. Now therefore, O Lord our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth might know that thou art the Lord, even thou alone. Then you have to love that response. What's he doing? He's looking completely to God. There are some people here tonight, and you have a problem. And you've been down and you've been frustrated, you know what you need to do? You need to go to the Lord and you need to spread that letter out before the Lord, whatever it may be. If it's a letter, if it's a bill you can't pay, if it is a threatening letter from someone, if it's a problem, you just go get alone and just lay it out before God. And look to God and look to God alone. Look to the throne of God. And you know what? God may call upon us to wait, because you remember in Psalm 123 it says, until we wait upon thee for mercy, sometimes we have to wait. For God to bring his answer. But that's part of faith. By the way, that's the hardest part of the Christian life. Waiting. But that's that's faith is waiting on the Lord. And you know what? Hezekiah waits. He doesn't have to wait long because in verse 21, God sends Isaiah the prophet to King Hezekiah. Look in verse 33, because here's the Lord's answer. Therefore, thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria He shall not not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it. By the way he came, by the same shall he return. And it shall not come into this it shall not come into this city, says the Lord, for I will defend this city to save it And of course, you know, many of you here already know the end of the story, uh, but you know that God sent one angel in one night, and he destroys 185,000 soldiers. Not one arrow touched that city. Because why? God defended it. God took care of the situation. And friend, if you bring your burdens, your problems, whatever it is to the Lord, you know what? The Lord will take care of it. We have to wait on them. And that's part of the focus of faith is waiting on the Lord. But He will. Let me close with this. So we we focus on God's throne. and we see the sovereignty of God. We focus on God's hand and we see the sustenance of God, the sustaining hand of God, and we focus on God's mercy and we see the salvation of God. That is the focus of faith. Corey Tinboom is a name that you heard. She lived just a horrible life in a Nazi concentration camp. And she saw, and by the way, that's a place where the where hope was just about gone. She saw horrible things that no one else had ever seen before. And yet she survived. Not only did she survive, but she survived with hope in her heart and with faith in God. And one time a person came to her and they asked her, they said, how can you survive? How can you come out of that concentration camp and have such faith. And how can you survive the way you did? What was the secret of it? And she this is what she said very simply. She said, if you look at the world you'll be distressed. She said, if you look within, you'll be depressed. She said, but if you look at Christ, you'll be at rest. That was it. That was the secret. And really that sums up this psalm, Psalm 123. Unto thee Unto thee. I'm going to get my eyes off of the near problems, and I'm going to develop a spiritual faresight where I look for the Lord. That's what the Lord wants you to do tonight. Let's bow for prayer Let's bow for prayer. So Father, we thank you for this reminder. We've heard this before, Lord, but we need so often to be reminded again and again. of some fundamental principles for living by faith and living a victorious Christian life. And Lord, I just pray for some folks here tonight. There may be some here that have a case of spiritual myopia. They're just looking at their problems. They've been so focused on their difficulties that they have neglected to look to you. And their heart is filled with fear Lord, I pray that you would give them eyes of faith. May they lift their head. May they look to you and you alone With heads bowed and eyes closed, is there someone here tonight that says that's what I need? I need the focus of faith tonight. I need to take my eyes off of the near things And put my eyes on the Lord. Is that your prayer tonight? Say, God help me to look to Him. Would you raise your hand and say, that's my affair tonight? That's what I need God sees your hands. There's a hymn that we sing, O soul, are you weary and troubled? No light in the darkness you see. There's a light. For a look at the Savior and life more abundant and free. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. And look full on his wonderful face. And friend, that's what you need to do tonight by faith. Look to Jesus. Commit your problem to Him, and He will take care. Father, you see these hands. Bless these hearts, Lord. Give them the focus of faith. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.