All right, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the longest chapter in the Bible, Psalm 119, as we continue to go through This uh great chapter, one stanza at a time, and we come to verse 113. This is the stanza under the Hebrew letter of Samek. Remember, these are 22 sections after the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet Verse 113 down to verse 120 is the section we're going to look at tonight. The title of the sermon tonight is A Cure for the Double-Minded. A few years ago, a rare two-headed snake was discovered in the backyard of North Carolina. Each head had its own brain and would often would try to move in opposite directions One head wanted to go left, the other wanted to go right. And the snake kind of ended up stuck, unable to move forward. A at times the the the head would fight over food. Uh one wanted one thing, one the other, I guess. This is a kind of a fascinating thing, but the condition of this snake made it so vulnerable it really could not survive on its own in the w in the wild. And that's a vivid picture of the double-minded man. When the heart is divided, pulled in one direction and then in the other, one perhaps by faith, and then the other direction by doubt, or maybe it's drawn to God and then toward to the world. What happens is a person becomes spiritually paralyzed, unable to really make any progress in their Christian life. And just like this two-headed snake really couldn't survive because of the two wills, so the double-minded Christian remains unstable, unfruitful, and spiritually ineffective. James, it says, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. In verse 113, the psalmist here uses a word that's not found anywhere else in the Old Testament. He's using using it to describe something that he hates. Look at verse 113. I hate vain thoughts. The word for thoughts there is a word, see ep, that literally means double-minded Some translations actually translate it that way. For instance, the RSV uses the word double-minded men, expression double-minded men, or double-hearted, another translation. Another translation uses hypocritical people or duplicity. And so the word seems to describe those who those who their religious commitment is not total. They don't have pure hearts. They uh really are um have a mind for God and then a mind also for the world. And so really this is kind of the theme of this whole stanza here. And what he's doing in verse 113 is he's kind of setting up a powerful contrast. Again in verse 113, I hate vain thoughts, but notice the contrast, but Thy law do I love. So we all have to develop that same quality. In fact, I would say that's the cure for being double-minded. We have to hate being double-minded. We have to hate that half-hearted devotion to the Lord. And we have to develop a deep love, a single-minded devotion to God and His Word. That is the cure. A deepening love for God that comes as we study and we meditate in the Word of God. We can say really love for God's Word and love for God are really synonymous. That's something that we see all throughout this whole chapter, right? I mean we see that. To love God is to love his word, and vice versa, to love his word is to love God. And so this stanza begins and ends with the psalmist declaring his love for God's word. We see it in verse 113, Thy law do I love. We see it in verse 119, the latter phrase, Therefore I love thy testimonies. And the reason we love God's word so much is because of what it teaches us about God. That is the thing that should keep us from being double-minded. So, I want you to see three things that we learn about God, that the psalmist points out about God in this stanza here that should prevent us from being double-minded. Here's number one. God is our protection. He's our protection. And these verses, from verse 113 down to verse 115, Show us reveal to us how God and His Word are our source of protection in this evil world. Do you ever feel as though you needed protection? Protection from sin or circumstances or evil? Notice three actions we see from the psalmist here. First of all, hiding. Hiding. Look at verse 114. Thou art my hiding place and my shield. The word here, hide or hiding place, is talking about a secret place. It's talking about a shelter, a place of protection and refuge. It kind of conveys intimacy. It conveys safety. The same word is used in Psalm 32, verse 7, Thou art my hiding place. Thou shalt preserve me from trouble in that verse David is rejoicing that he's forgiven and he speaks of the joy of hiding safely in God. One of the most vivid pictures of a hiding place is found in 1 Samuel chapter 22, verses 1 and 2. David, the Bible says, departed to he was escaping from Saul, but he went to a place called the Cave of Adullaum. And he finds refuge in that cave, a literal hiding place. But more importantly, David knows that even while he's in that cave, really his real hiding place is the Lord. And so he writes in Psalm 57, verse 1, on that same occasion, be merciful unto me, O God. Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge until these calamities be overpassed. Though hidden in a cave, David knew that his real hiding place was God. It was the Lord his God. The real shelter was not the rock above him, but Or the rock around him I could could should say, but the God who is above him. He said, Thou art my hiding place. There's no better place to hide than in God. And right down Isaiah 32 verse 2, it's referring here not to a place but to a person. Listen to it. It says, a man shall be as a hiding place. from the wind and a cover from the tempest. This is a messianic image that presents Christ as the refuge from judgment. Paul would later say in Colossians 3:3, for ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. No better place to hide than in Christ. Christ is the fulfillment of that messianic image we hide in him. He is the rock that we hide in. One time when I was over in England and uh I heard of a special place and I wanted to visit it. So I had my daughter Abby drive me to this this little area in a place that's uh called Somerset, England. And it's really just alongside the road. It's really kind of an unassuming place. But let me tell you the story of what took place there. In in 1763, Augustus Toplady, who was a young minister, was traveling through s this area of Somerset, England, through these hills, and as he journeyed, a violent thunderstorm broke out. Rain poured down, the wind was howling, lightning flashed across the sky He he felt that it he was in danger, and so he he sought shelter immediately, and he found it in a narrow cleft of a limestone rock. It was a natural fissure where one could hide until the storm was passed over. And as he stood there, protected from the elements, he began to reflect on the spiritual reality that just as that rock was sheltering him from the storm, so Christ is a refuge for sinners. He is a refuge from divine judgment. And from that moment of meditation and gratitude, he thought of the first lines of a hymn that he would later fully develop and write. You probably already guessed it, Rock of Ages, cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. And that was the spot where that hymn actually was written. There was a plaque there on that rock. It was kind of high up. It was hard to see. And you say, you traveled all the way just to see that? Yeah, I'm kind of weird that way. Yeah, I wanted to see it. Very special place. That's my favorite hymn that so beautifully talks about the gospel. But in the same way that Toplady found shelter in the cleft of a rock, the psalmist finds deep spiritual rest and refuge and hiding in God. And even we as believers, our refuge is Christ. So he's hiding, but then he's hoping again in verse 114 where he says, I hope in thy word. And the word here has the idea of a confident expectation. This is not wishful thinking. He's absolutely confident in the promises of God's Word. And so he finds security in what God has revealed in his word. And he is he is not just clinging to a book, but he's trusting in the integrity of the author, the person God. He trusts in God fully. Matthew Henry writes this, those that make God their hiding place and shield may hope in his word that no real hurt shall be done them. He that makes the word of God his rule and lives by it may have the comfort of it as his stay and as his support. So he's hiding, and then he's hoping. But also he's heeding. Look in verse 115. Depart from me, ye evildoers, for I will keep the commandments of my God. Now remember, this psalm starts out rejecting double-mindedness, and in this verse he demonstrates the opposite of being double-minded. It's a picture of decisive loyalty to God, of spiritual commitment. Again, look at determination. Depart from me, ye evildoers. I will keep the commandments of our God. That's the kind of determination that we need to live for God in this world today. He separates from evildoers. Instead of wavering between righteousness and the world or compromise, he tells evildoers, stay away from me. That's not the path I'm going to go. To depart me, to turn aside, turn away, literally get behind me. Be careful, beloved, of the company you keep. Sin is contagious The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 15 33, Be not deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. The Bible says, Blessed is a man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And here the psalmist, he also reset results resolves to obey. I will keep the commandments of my God. That's the heart of a true believer. He's acting, he's not just thinking. Whereas the double-minded man, he's kind of back and forth between thoughts. The psalmist here acts decisively. He's not halting between two opinions. He's choosing absolute, total commitment to God. Is that this uh verse when I was uh s meditating on it reminded me of the story of George Beverly Shea. Uh you might not know that name, some of you may, but he was the singer for Billy Graham in a lot of his crusades. He sang really before uh probably more people than anyone else, millions of people. But when he was a young man, he was a very gifted singer, and uh there was a secular music group that was kind of trying to recruit him in called the Lynn Murray Singers And uh they gave him a piece of music and said, We want you to audition and George Beverly Shea uh looked over that music and uh He saw something in it that just didn't really sit well with him. He was he had been raised in a Christian home. His father was a preacher, and as he read over that music, he He he saw some words in there that were had a worldly theme to it. His thought was, what would my father think if he heard me s saying these these words? And he he made a decision right there and he said, you know what? I have given my whole life to Jesus. My tongue belongs to Christ. And later on, he would write the words to a song, I'd rather have Jesus than silver or gold. I'd rather be his That Psalm really became his personal creed and really reflects the attitude of Psalm 119, verse 115. Depart from me, ye evildoers, for I will keep the commandments of my God. So God is our protection. But then secondly, there's another image that the psalmist presents here. God is our pillar. Look at this is from verse 116 down to verse 117. Notice verse 116, uphold me according unto thy word. And then in verse one seventeen, hold thou me up. And so the psalmist is using this imagery of God and his word is like a pillar of strength. First of all, God supports us. We see this in verse 116. The the word the Hebrew word here uphold me is Samek. You say, well what does that mean? Well look at this. Go to verse 113 and look right above it. Your Bible might have a subtitle that has that word there, right? Samic. That word is the same Hebrew word that you see in verse sixteen, uphold me. And and you see up and that word Samic actually it was a picture of And when uh before before words actually became um uh uh uh I should say w when words were pictures, when the alphabet was actually picturagrams I'm sorry, someone was trying to call me right here in the middle of I had to turn it off, right? I wish if you're watching my way of live stream, save your questions for later, all right? But um anyway, the the it was a picture of a pillar. Remember I said that letters evolved. First they were pictures, and then they evolved to letters. Well, the picture of this letter, which is actually equivalent to our letter S in English, it was a picture of a pillar. And so the word actually means pillar. And the reason I bring that up is because I think the psalmist is kind of playing on this idea here. When he says in verse 16, Uphold me according to thy word. And so the idea is it's it's God who is that pillar for us. He's the one holding us up. And when he does it according to his word, it is an appeal, this is an appeal grounded in the certainty of God's word And throughout Scripture, God is portrayed as a pillar. Remember, He's a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night for the Israelites as they journey through the wilderness. In 1 Timothy 3. 15, the church is called the pillar and ground of the truth. You might want to write in your margin Isaiah 41. 10, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness To say that God is our pillar means God is the source of our strength. He is our stability. He's the structure that holds us, that keeps us from collapsing. A few weeks ago I was over in England and went down to uh Cornwall as I was kind of traveling through and looking at some uh really historical places there. Off the coast of Cornwall is a famous lighthouse called the Eddystone Lighthouse. This is a famous lighthouse. It's been called a pillar in a storm. The Eddystone Rocks are really a kind of a treacherous reef reef. off the southwestern coast of England there, just off the English Channel, and it was a notorious area known for shipwrecks For centuries, sailors feared the rocks that were there because they were hidden just beneath the surface, waiting to destroy ships when the storms came in those stormy waters. In the seventeenth and eighteenth century, they tried to build a lighthouse. in that area to help ships warn about this dangerous spot. But the lighthouses that they built were so weak that the storms destroyed them But in 1759, an engineer named John Smeaton designed kind of a revolutionary lighthouse. He built it not from wood, which the other lighthouses were built from wood, but he built it from interlocking granite. Blocks carved in a way to fit together like puzzle pieces. And it was set upon a solid rock foundation with each block holding the other in peace. Each block was supporting the other. And that lighthouse became very famous because it withstood all the fiery uh ways of I should say fierce ways, all of the Crashing waves, all the battering winds, all the storms that blew through there for over a hundred years. And that lighthouse became had the reputation of a symbol of hope and guidance. And and really engineers still use the design that Sweeten came up with. They still use that design. today. And so the point is that life is that way. Life has storms that hit us unexpectedly. Storms of affliction, storms of temptation, storms of uncertainty. Each storm represents hidden dangers. Like the rocks hidden below the surface, sin, suffering, spiritual discouragement. Each believer is like the lighthouse. We're to be the lighthouse in the storm. But our foundation is not our own strength. Our foundation is God. And just as the Eddie Stone Lighthouse stood firm because it was carefully designed, that solid foundation stood Even so, we will stand as long as we are on the foundation of God's word. God and his word. The storms will come. But the soul that is built upon Scripture will survive. It will not collapse. The world is filled with shipwrecks and Lives that are dashed upon the hidden rocks of pride and compromise and despair. But again, the the Christian who builds his life on the promises of God will stand. God supports us. God strengthens us. Look at verse 117. Hold thou me up. Same idea here. He uses a different Hebrew word. He uses another word that starts with the S. Remember, he's using alliteration every um you know throughout this but anyway hold me up is sayed he's saying the same thing in a different way The idea here is that it's a picture of leaning upon something, and so we're leaning upon God. It's a picture of us being so weak that we need something to lean upon. And that person that we lean upon again is the Lord. He is holding on to us. You see, that's why I know that I can't lose my salvation. Because it's not me holding on to God, it's God holding on to us. If it were me holding on to God, I would lose my salvation. But it's God who holds on to us. And notice the response of the psalmist here. Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe. He knows he's safe if God is the one holding on to him. He knows he's secure. Again, this reminds me of the security of the believer. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice and and and and I know them, and no man shall pluck them out of my hand This is again the basis of eternal security. But notice his response. And I will have respect unto thy statues continually. And so while God is holding on to us, there's a sense in which also the believer is determined to hold on to God. And so there's a little bit of the Both happening here, the the concurrence of I know that I'm saved, I know that I'm not going to lose it because God is holding on to us. That's the preservation of the believer, but there's also the perseverance of the believer. That's where we are holding on to God. It's a both. The believer who's truly saved, you're not going to let go of God. You're going to continue to hold on We persevere in faith. That's the whole idea here. Matthew Henry writes, if we be held up, we must resolve to make God's statutes the rule of our walk, for by them we are held up. So it's not only God holding on to us, that's the reason I know I'm safe, but also in return, what's our response? We hold on to Him. We persevere with Him. So God is our protection, and God is our pillar. But there's a third image I see here. God is our purifier. And we see this from verses 118 down to verse number 120. And these verses, this is an attribute of God that people don't like to talk about. This talks about God's wrath. People love talking about God's love. Preachers love to preach sermons about God's love. And many of them never mention the fact that God is a God of wrath. But Martin Lloyd Jones was right when he said, unless I start with the holiness of God, my whole concept of the love of God is going to be false. Lost sinners think God is too loving to judge. God is too loving to send anyone to a place called hell. But the truth of the matter is, God is too holy not to do that. It is his holiness. God's wrath is grounded in his holiness. God's wrath for sin is rarely preached, and because of that, sinners have no fear of God. I think perhaps the most famous sermon ever preached in America was Jonathan Edwards, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. And in that sermon, Edwards vividly portrays God's wrath against sinners. He describes sinners being held over the pit of hell by a small thread. And then at any moment that thread could break. And he describes in that whole sermon God's terrifying wrath for sin. It was said that people back then held on to the pews because he was so vivid in his description of God's wrath. And it brought many people to Christ. But you know, if you try to preach a sermon like that today, it would become across as being so This is a a generation of people that have been raised on Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. And indeed Jesus does love you. But the reason that's such good news is because of the wrath of God You really don't understand God's love until you first understand the seriousness of God's wrath. Again, that is based upon his holiness. Most people today kind of make light of a sermon like that from Jonathan Edwards. For example, one liberal preacher said, obviously we do not believe in that kind of God anymore. And he's right, people don't believe in a God of wrath. In fact, there are many preachers that feel like they need to apologize to the world for the Bible speaking of God's wrath, or our God that would send sinners, unrepentant sinners, to hell. But here the psalmist does not apologize for the wrath of God. He focuses on this attribute. Why? Why is this necessary to talk about? So that people will develop what is seriously lacking today, and that is a healthy fear of God People do not fear God. They do not fear God because God's holiness and wrath are not preach But it also serves to purify us spiritually. It serves as a cure for being double-minded. So, what are the images that we see here? First of all, trotting down. Look at verse 118. Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes. For their deceit is falsehood. The psalmist affirms that God trods down those who deviate from his statues. Of course, this is a metaphor, this is a poetic image, but it's describing divine judgment. It evokes scenes of destruction where God's enemies are not merely ignored, but they're actively judged. They're crushed by God's righteous feet This is not a petty or impulsive anger, but the settled holy reaction of God against sin and rebellion. Again, God's wrath is not contrary to his love. It is a necessary expression of his holiness and his justice. But then also throwing away. Look at verse 119. Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross. The psalmist compares the wicked to dross. This is the waste material that rises when precious metals are refined by fire. The dross rises to the surface and then it's skimmed off. And what does the refiner do with the dross? Well, he just throws it away. It's worthless. It's impure. It's fit only to be thrown away. And so the image is striking. God is the refiner, and the wicked are not just rejected, they are removed as part of this purification process. God actively removes evil. His wrath is not passive, but it's deliberate. The phrase thou puttest away implies God's divine initiative. Don't get the idea that people are going to get away with sin. They're not. God is not indifferent to sin. He acts against it with holy resolve. Judgment is just and purifying, and the wicked, as a result, they don't have an enduring place. All the wicked of the earth, it says, will be removed. It seems you might look around today and it might look like the wicked are flourishing. But it's only for a time. The Bible says their end is sure. Psalm thirty seven verse ten for yet a little while and the wicked shall not be. Yea, thou thou shalt diligent diligently consider his place, and it shall not be. But the question is, what should our response be to God's righteous judgment? Well notice verse 119 the latter part. Therefore, I love thy testimonies. The psalmist kind of draws a surprising conclusion from God's wrath, love for God's word. This should cause us to love God's word all the more. That was his response. Why? Well, because it tells us that God's judgments are true. They are affirmed in Scripture. The believer's heart resonates with divine justice when we see God doing what is right, what is just. And love for God's word is deepened as we see his power in action. There's kind of a holy delight in knowing that God's word will not return void. It will accomplish the thing that God has for it. So we see trotting down, throwing away, but there's another image here, trembling, trembling. Look in verse 120. My flesh trembleth for fear of thee. I am afraid of thy judgments. This is another proper response to God's holy wrath. Not only love, but a reverential fear. And this verse kind of brings to a climax this thought about God's wrath that he gives us here. He says, My flesh trembles. I don't think he's using poetic metaphor there. I think he's talking literally. My flesh trembles. This is his literal bodily reaction to the majesty and the holiness of God. The psalmist is so awestruck by the holiness and justice of the Lord that his body literally quivers. This is not a fear of terror, like a criminal before a tyrant, but it it's a kind of holy trembling, a deep awareness of God's greatness and our unworthiness. The Bible gives a lot of illustrations about people who tremble before the Lord. The Bible says in Isaiah 6, when Isaiah got a vision of God and all his holiness, that he said, Woe is me, for I am undone When Daniel encountered the heavenly messenger, the Bible says that Daniel said, There remains no strength in me. He was completely stunned and shocked, and there was no strength in him. Even John on the Isle of Patnus, when he saw Christ, fell at Christ's feet, the Bible says, as dead, when he saw the glorified Lord. Each of these men, when they got a vision of God and his holiness, trembled before God. Now you might be sitting there thinking, well, if I had a vision of Christ, I would tremble too. But now remember the psalmist here, he doesn't have a vision of God like they did, but he he does have a vision of God. And he's trembling, not because he had a vision of God like the other men, but because he did, however, see the holiness of God. But how did he see it? He didn't see it like the other men. He sees it through what? Through the Word of God. That's how he saw God's holiness And by seeing the holiness and majesty of God through the Scripture, by meditating on God's word, he trembled. And so here's the point. This is the way we see God's holiness today. This is the way we see God's majesty when we see it in Scripture, when we study and meditate in God's Word. You know what? Sometimes it should cause us to tremble. It should cause us to tremble. A trembling heart is a sign of a soft heart, one that is sensitive to sin, one that is quick to submit. We tremble again because God is infinitely holy. And we are finite because God's word is true, and every promise, every threat of judgment will be fulfilled. God's justice is sure, and he will by no means clear the guilty. A person will either have to pay for their own guilt or hide in Jesus Christ. Those are the only two choices Either you hide in Christ and find all of your refuge in Him who took your guilt and sin upon Himself on the cross, or you'll stand guilty before God on your own. And believe me, that's something to tremble about. That kind of trembling leads to transformation. Listen to what Isaiah says in Isaiah 66, 2. To this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembles at my word. And so this stanza ends in verse 120 when it says, and I am afraid of thy judgment. So this whole stanza takes us from a divided mind to a devoted heart. We kind of trace the journey. Hating double-mindedness, loving God's law, seeking refuge and strength. And God and His Word, witnessing God's wrath against sin, hypocrisy, and deceit, trembling in holy fear, and submitting in awe of who God is. This is the cure For double-mindedness, a fresh vision of God's majesty that kind of silences any kind of internal division that a person might have in their heart. When God is rightly feared, the soul cannot drift into uncertainty. It is anchored. The cure for the double-minded is not found in great willpower. It's not found in external discipline. It is found in a renewed heart, one that burns for as f as for love for God's word, bows with reverence before God's holiness. And we love him because he's our hiding place, because he's our pillar. We fear him because he's our purifier. He is our judge. This is the kind of love and fear that doesn't pull us in opposite directions. It anchors us. It causes us to be completely devoted to who God is. And let me just close with this. In the early days of of uh navigation, sailors were awed by the mysterious power of a compass. The needle suspended, free to move, always pointed north. But few of them understood why. And later scientists discovered the secret. The compass needle contains iron that is magnetized. A naturally occurring magnetic rock, a lodestone. It's magnetized. And the compass doesn't point north by accident. It is kind of drawn that way by an invisible force aligning with the Earth's magnetic field. And so, and that's the key. If the compass needle becomes demagnetized, what will happen is it'll just swirl around, it'll lose its sense of direction, it'll spin wildly. and it'll point to nowhere or even worse, the wrong direction. So for the compass to be reliable, it must remain magnetized and continually drawn to that fixed source. The double-minded man is like a demagnetized compass. He's unsteady, he's unreliable, and lost. But the heart that is gripped by the love for God's Word, a reverence, fear, For God's holiness is kind of like a well-calibrated compass. It consistently points in the right direction. No matter how stormy the sea, no matter how dark the night. It points in the right direction. And if your heart has been spinning, if your heart has been distracted by the world Divided by sin, you know what you need to do? You need to recalibrate your heart according to the word, the fixed word of God. That is your source. Let his promises draw you. Let his judgment sober you. Love him. Fear him. Let's bow for prayer. together. Just take a moment with heads bowed and eyes closed. Think about this stanza tonight. Think about the psalmist. Would you pray that God will remove any double-mindedness? In your life. And that he would give you this same type of holy commitment that we see from the psalmist here. I will keep the commandments of my God. God. Father, we thank you that you are indeed our protection in this evil world, that we can hide in you, that we can hope in your word. We thank you, Father, that you're our pillar. You're the one that holds us up, that keeps us stable. You're our strength in times of difficulty when storms come. And Lord, you're the purifier. And because of that, Lord, we fear you. We know that you're a holy God and that you will judge sin. And Lord, may that cause us to love you all the more and to submit to you freely, and to be all the more grateful for the refuge that we have in Jesus Christ. May we run to Christ, our refuge. May we find our hiding in him and him alone. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful Maxwell's name. Amen.