Open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter four. We're studying first Corinthians here on Sunday night. My wife and I, and Abby and Will and Theo, we all had the opportunity to go down to Tennessee to uh introduce Theo to my wife's parents, uh his great-grandparents, and let uh her uh her and him, uh Mimi and Papa, uh see uh little Theo and it was a it was a good trip, a quick turnaround to go down there and back. And while they were there, I uh had the opportunity to preach at a seminary down there in Tennessee uh about about 800 students, um, you know, college students, seminary students, and whatnot, and spoke several times there And had a j had the uh it was a privilege to do that. But I'm glad to be back. It's always good to get home, isn't it, um, when you're out traveling. And look at 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Kind of bring that up because you know sometimes the uh hardest group to preach to are theology students because they already know it all. They already have all the answers when you're in college. And then of course when you get out of college you realize you don't have all the answers, you're still learning a whole lot But I want you to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 4, and I want you to look down at verse number 6. And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself. And so Apollos, for your sakes, that you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against the other. So I want to talk about thinking biblically about servants of the Lord. And I think this is what the Apostle Paul is trying to do here in this passage to help us to think biblically about serving the Lord. You know, it's an awesome responsibility to be called to serve the church. It is something that we don't take lightly, certainly not. There's a lot of things that you have to be able to do in the church. I I think the the ideal model of a pastor uh in the scripture, the biblical motif of a pastor, I think is shepherd theologian. You have to love people, shepherd the people, know the word of God, give the word of God. I think that's the uh That's the biblical motif. We see, however, you know, in um with the with that calling, there's a lot of things that are expected. Some think of it in terms of CEO, office manager, educator, salesman, diplomat, referee, writer, theologian, politician, motivational speaker, Boy Scout leader. Psychologist, social worker, funeral director, master of ceremonies, church planner, missionary, and so on. You can keep going. Helpful but not essential, landscaping manager. Interior designer, musician, minor league athlete, stand-up comedian. You have to have the answers to life's toughest questions. about dying, suffering, the sovereignty of God. You have to hold firmly to your convictions, yet you're not allowed to ruffle anybody's feathers. And you have to have a sweet disposition at all times. if you're going to be a servant of the Lord. That's a very demanding thing, as some of you know. But to add to that, God's servants are constantly being evaluated, judged criticized. Did you know that that that kind of happens? A popular game that some Christians like to play is evaluate the preacher. Evaluate the minister. All kinds of criteria are used to determine who's successful and who is not. Who's the most influential? Who's the most gifted? The most effective. They even have Christian magazines that kind of rank pastors and ministries. You ever see that? They read up these extensive reports. They rank pastors by the membership of the church, attendance at worship services, uh size of staff, Sunday school, academic and honorary degrees, books, articles written, number of messages given at conferences, conventions, and So on yada yada yada. All that stuff. As popular as that is today, that's exceedingly offensive to Almighty God. It's offensive to God. And I think the Apostle Paul here in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 is going to point that out. And what he's going to tell us is the proper way to judge and evaluate servants of the Lord. It really deals with the congregation's attitude towards the minister and the minister's attitude towards the congregation. Now, what's the problem here in 1 Corinthians? The problem is the Apostle Paul is being criticized. They were hammering him. I mean, you know, I'm I'm really surprised, honestly. When I read 1 Corinthians, I read 2 Corinthians, I'm just astounded. at how much they were criticizing the Apostle Paul. Can you imagine someone criticizing the Apostle Paul? I think besides the Lord Jesus Christ, he was perhaps the greatest Apostle or preacher, we could say. The greatest miss minister, the greatest apostle, and uh the greatest man to gave the word of God besides the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet here is this church at Corinth, which is a carnal church by the way. And we already saw how many issues they have. They have a lot of issues they're dealing with Yet one of the problems they have is that they were very free to criticize Paul. And you don't can't do this now, but if you ever take time, go to 2 Corinthians and just read through 2 Corinthians, especially chapter 10 and 11, where Paul kind of, you can just read there and know some of the criticisms they're leveling against the Apostle Paul. They say he was basically weak and cowardly when present, but he's bold when he's a safe distance away. They were kind of m mistaking his meekness and gentleness for weakness. And Paul says in verse 2 of 2 Corinthians 10, he's capable of bold and fearless confrontation, but he wanted to spare the Corinthians that. He didn't want to fight. As a no servant of the Lord wants to fight. Sometimes they may have to, but they don't want to. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 8, they were questioning his authority as an apostle. They were saying, you know, he's not one of the twelve He can't be one of the real ones. They were accusing him of being an abusive leader, of trying to intimidate them with his letters. They even criticize his weakened physical appearance. They say his preaching lacked charisma, personality. He lacked the personality of a truly great leader. And then they criticized him because his speech was untrained. They did Paul didn't use the Greek oratory and rhetoric that they prized so much in that day. He just spoke plainly. And so they said, well, he's not trained as a speaker, and they criticized him for that. And Paul admitted, he goes, you know, I I don't present the gospel with Greek rhetoric, but I know the gospel and I make it clear. That was his response. They accused him of being a counterfeit. You know why? Because he wouldn't take their money. Imagine that today. That that wouldn't happen today. You know, a a preacher not taking somebody's money. But they were criticizing him for that. They were thinking they were saying, you know, Paul's too uppity to take our money He thinks he's better than us. They got offended because he wouldn't take it. But the reason Paul didn't take their money is because he didn't want to be associated with those traveling wise men who spoke for a fee He wanted to disassociate himself with them, and he didn't want the gospel to appear chargeable. So therefore he didn't take the money. And they criticized him for it. And these are just a few of the criticisms. They even go deeper than that. So, what does Paul do here in 1 Corinthians 4? He's basically going to point out some mistakes. that they made when they judged them. And by the way, these are the same mistakes that people make today when they evaluate ministers and their ministry. It's the same exact mistakes. that people make today. So what are they? If you're taking notes, here's number one. Number one, they judge with the wrong criteria. Wrong criteria. Look in verse number six again. And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself. And to Apollos, for your sakes, that you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written. That no one of you be puffed up for one against the other. Paul said, you know, these things I'm going to tell you, or these things I've already told you, really. I I'm I'm I'm I'm giving to you so that you're not you you know how to think about us servants. You're not puffed up one against the other. Now again, what is Paul referring to? And I kind of sometimes feel like a broken record because I kind of go back to this one historical illustration of what was going on in Corinth. But I really believe that it's the background of what's going on in 2nd in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, 3, and 4. You have to understand the behavior of the people in the city of Corinth, how these teachers of wisdom were competing with each other, and their disciples were uh criticizing other teachers and and uh they were bragging on the teacher that they had. And the teachers were actually teaching their disciples to do that There was a stiff competition for these teachers of wisdom to rally disciples around them. And that was all taking place in Greek wisdom, Greek philosophy. this spiff competition. And this was getting into the church. And Paul again refers to it in verse 6 when he says, so so that you're not puffed up one against the other. And so Paul said, in order for you not to do that, I have in a figure transferred to myself and Apollos these images, these analogies. Look at that phrase I have in a figure transferred. That's one word in the Greek. It's a combination of two words, two Greek words, meta, which means to change. Schemata, which is where we get our word scheme, and it simply means to change the form. To change the form of Paul said, look, I've applied these analogies to me and Apollos with the hope that it'll change the form of your thinking so that you won't think the wrong way with regard to service of the Lord I want to change the way you think about us because you're not thinking correctly. You're not using the right criteria in which to evaluate servants of the Lord. So I want to change it. Now look at verse 6. What are the these things? And these things, brethren, again, these are the analogies that Paul previously gave in chapter 3 and 2 in chapter 4. That's what he's referring to. And we already went over this, so we're not going to get over it a lot tonight. But do you remember the analogies of the church? And in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2, the church is like a family Look at look again in verse one of chapter three. And I, brethren, cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as a uh as uh as unto carnal, as unto babes in Christ, I fed you with milk and not with meat. You know, child it's the church is like children in a family. And and basically Paul is saying, you know, we're like spiritual parents. And the job of the servant of the Lord is to bring you to spiritual maturity so that you can partake not of just the milk of the word, but that you'll grow spiritually and you will be able to take in the meat of the word. And so that's what he's referring to there. Uh but you know, we're kind of like spiritual parents that bring you along spiritually, Paul said, and uh and we want to see you mature. But then also you remember that the church is like crops in a field. Look in verse number six. I have planted, chapter three, verse six, I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the what? God gave the increase. The church is like crops in a field. One man might plant, another water, but it's the Lord who gives the increase. And Paul's basically saying, you know what, we're just like farmers We're like farmers. We're not we're not not only we sh are we spiritual parents and we're trying to bring you to full maturity, but we're like farmers And we're just planting the seed of the word, and someone will come along and water that. But we know that if anything happens, if there's any growth, we know who does that. That's God who does that. And so we're just working together. And the idea that he's conveying here is we're not in competition. There's no competition in the church. Paul said, I'm not competing with Apollos. I'm not competing with Peter, any of these things. We're all working together, we're all on the same team, we all have the same goal, and we're and we're really not that big a deal. We're just like farmers. We're farmers. God is the one that's really doing it all. He's the one. So and this really speaks about the humility of spirit that Paul had. when he spoke of this. And then he gives the other illustration. The church is like construction on a foundation. Look in verse number 9 again. Paul said, for we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. Look at verse ten. According to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, another builds thereon But let every man take heed how he how he builds thereon. For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ. Paul said, you know, we're just like we're construction workers on a foundation And we're all doing our part. Uh Paul said, I'm a w wise master builder. And he wasn't bragging when he said that. He said it's according to the grace that God's given me. You know, any spiritual gift that you or I have, we can't brag on that because it's a gift from God. It's something that God did. It's according to God's grace. And he gets all the glory for that. And Paul said, you know, God's grace made me a wise master builder. And I lay the foundation. And another person comes and he builds on that foundation. And um we try to keep the building right. We want the right plans, the right materials that has to be tested. We want the right workmen, but that's really all we are. We're like spiritual parents trying to bring you to full maturity. We're like farmers in a field and we're trying to produce a crop. You know, we know God is the one who gives the increase. We're like Workers on a foundation and we're trying to build, and we're very careful how we build. We don't want to build the wrong thing on the foundation called Jesus Christ. We want to build with the right materials. We want to do it with the right motive But then he uses another illustration. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 1. So let a man so account of us. Let a man sow account of us. In other words, here's how you think of us I want everyone, Paul said, every man to account, and that's a present imperative. Here's how I commend you to constantly regard us, he says. How? As ministers of God. Look at the word ministers there. Now, you might think that that's a word of distinction, but the Greek word here is hooper ratos. Hooper means under Retas means rower and under rower. What's an under rower? Well, Romans had ships, Roman military had their navy, and who powered those ships? Slaves. And they were they were under the bottom of the ship, in the bottom of the ship, they had several levels, but the very bottom of the ship, they were rowers. They were chained to an oar. And they would row hard that ship. And that's the exact word that the Apostle Paul is using here. Paul said, you know what, we're just we're laborers of the Lord. We're slaves to Jesus Christ. And we just labor for Him. We're just servants of the Lord. We're underrowers. And we do the hard work. You know, an underrower. They work pretty hard, don't they? We work, we sweat, but we we're just servants of the Lord, that's all. We just obediently do whatever our master tells us to do. That's all. That's all we are. That's how you are to regard us. That's how I want you to constantly regard us as slaves for Jesus Christ. And then he says another one. There's a responsibility of a steward. Pastor Earl mentioned stewardships and stewards. Kind of matches what Paul says here in verse 1. He says, and stewards of the mysteries. of the kingdom. Of course a steward literally means a household manager. This was a person that was placed in charge of a whole household. The household didn't belong to him. He was just put in charge of everything in the household. And the steward was someone who was trusted, because this was the property of his master, the owner, and so he was given the fields to watch over the vineyards, the finances, the foods, other servants He was just a trusted man. He was given great responsibility. A steward was. You know what the church is? The church is the household of faith. And you know what? You know who owns it? God does. It's Jesus' church, not mine. And you're not my people. You're Jesus' people. You belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. You're his sheep. And there is a tremendous responsibility to serving the church, serving the people of God, and distributing the wealth of God Equally. Notice where he says you're stewards of the mysteries of the kingdom. The word mysteries here, I believe, is referring to the secrets hidden in the Old Testament. now revealed in the new, we could say that the mysteries are the deep truths of God's Word. The minister is the steward of the Word of God. He's charged by God to faithfully administer the mysteries. of the kingdom, the mysteries of the Word of God. And that means that ministers are to preach the whole council of God. We preach all of the Word of God. I don't preach just what I like. Or just what you know suits your fancy, or just what makes you happy. I'm not called I want you to be happy now, all right? But I'm really not called to make you happy. I'm a steward, and one day I have to stand before God and I have to give an account that I've given the whole counsel of God, that I've given it correctly, that I haven't twisted things and made them suit my own agenda or my own purposes because again this isn't my household, this is God's household, and I have to serve his interests, I have to serve his purpose And one day I'm going to have to stand before Almighty God and give an account for that. So when I stand before God, I don't want the Lord Jesus saying, Jerry, why didn't you ever preach on this? Well, Lord, people don't like that And when I face them that people get mad at me. I didn't want to do that. You know, after all, I want to be w liked. That's not gonna cut it. That's not gonna cut it. I have to be a steward. You know that everything that God gave you here, He wants you to know? You understand that? He wants you to know. This is why He gave this. He left a lot out already. I mean, you know, there's more you're going to learn when you get to heaven. But he gave us this because he wants you to learn it, and he gives to the church stewards that they might administer the mysteries of the Word of God. He wants you to learn it. He wants you to know it. And notice in verse 2. And moreover, it's required in stewards that a man be found what? Just faithful. You just have to be faithful. God's standard for judging his servants isn't the same as man's It isn't popularity, personality, numbers, degrees. It's not success as man views success. It's just be faithful to what the Lord has called you to do Just fit these things. Just remember you're a spiritual parent and you're a farmer in a field, you're a laborer on a on a foundation, you're you're a steward In the household of faith, you are an underrower and you're to work hard. An underrower never looked for reward. He never looked for a pat on the back. He just did it. Our reward will come, and everything I say applies to everybody here, our reward will come when we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. That's where the reward comes. So number one, they judged with the wrong criteria. They were using the world's standards to judge servants of the Lord, and Paul says, that's the wrong way to think about us. Here's the way I want you to think about us from now on. But number two, they judge with the wrong in the wrong court. They judge in the wrong court. Look at verse 3 Paul says, but with me, it's a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment Yea, I judge not my own self. And what Paul's going to show us here, I think, in these verses now, are three courts in these two verses where God's servants are judged. And again, there's no way to be a minister or preacher or a servant and not be judged or evaluated. And so what are the courts? First of all, there's man's court. And that's what we see in verse 3. But with me, Paul said, It's a very small thing that I should be judged of man's of you or of man's judgment. You know, Paul didn't get upset when people criticized him He didn't get upset because he knew that this was not really the court that mattered. He didn't get puffed up when people praised him. Because again, he knew that that's not the court that really matters. The bottom line is people's understandings of the facts are imperfect. So Paul said, it's a very small thing what you think of me. Now, by the way, there's nothing wrong with listening to people's criticism, you know, some of the criticisms leveled against me and years past and uh you know, uh i it it's justifiable. There's areas where I have failed or I have been negligent. And uh, you know, so it's good sometimes to listen to that and learn from that if you can. But the bottom line is man's judgment is not really the one that really matters. It's not the one that really matters. I like what one person said. Worship must be rejected. We don't take any worship. Not that anyone has ever tried to worship me or anything like that. That's never happened, and I'm glad. Praise must be deflected. If anyone gives praise, that goes to God. Because anything good, it's been the grace of God. Criticism must be accepted. Listen and learn from it. There's always a tint of truth in what is said. Change what you can and commit the rest to the Lord. You know, I had a man in my church at Ellendale. that uh after every sermon, he would hand me a slip of paper. You know what was on that paper? Every English mistake I made in the sermon Everyone. I I I assure you that's humbling. And every Sunday he go, brother. Thank you. Thank you so much. This is really gonna help me. I'm gonna read this as soon as I get home. And just throw that thing away. No, I'm just kidding. I really appreciate that. Thank you so much. Now you know he was sincere. You know, he thought he was really helpful. I mean he probably was. But you know, again, what does Paul say? Look at verse 3 again. But with me it's a very small thing. That I should be judged of you. Look at the word small there. That is a superlative of the Greek word mikros. What does that sound like? Micro? As in microscope? Microscopic? And this is a superlative of the word mikros. Something very small. And so Paul's saying it like this, it is a very, very, very small thing, what you think of me. It's a very small thing. Because really, this is not the court that matters. Not only the court of man, but there's a second court. There's the court of self. Look again in verse number 3, where he says, it's a very small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self. This is the court of self. Paul said, I don't judge my own self. Now what did he mean by that? This doesn't mean that Paul doesn't give himself a spiritual examination, because we do have to do that, right? Every time we come to the Lord's house. And we uh we partake of the Lord's table. Uh what does the Bible say? We have to examine ourselves, right? And the and Paul later said to the Corinthians, examine yourselves Make sure you're in the faith. And so there's nothing wrong with a spiritual examination. That's not what he's talking about here. What he's basically saying is when it comes to judging my whole overall ministry, it doesn't matter really what you think, and it really doesn't matter what I think. Because this judgment doesn't matter either. You know, we had a tendency to give ourselves a lot of credit And the way that we minister. We sometimes think that we do very well when maybe we didn't. What Paul is saying is this human verdict On his life and ministry matters so little that even his own opinion of his own ministry doesn't really matter. So he doesn't bother to make a judgment on it. He doesn't bother to worry about it. He doesn't, after he preached a sermon, he wouldn't go through it and go, I wonder how I did. I wonder how that went. Well I said, I just don't worry about it. Because my own judgment on myself Does it really matter? Again, we had a tendency to give ourselves a lot of credit. Heard about a preacher who preached a great sermon. He was gloating. He went home to his wife and he said to her, How many great preachers do you think there are in the world today? She said, one less than what you think. We all have a tendency to over-evaluate and exaggerate our own goodness and usefulness. And Paul's point is this, self-evaluation is unreliable. It's just unreliable. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. The word deceitful there is a proper Hebrew word Jacob, the heart is Jacob. What did Jacob do to his father? Jacob deceived his father. And your heart will deceive you. Now, Paul says in verse number 4, look at verse 4. For I know nothing of myself. That is, Paul said, I don't know anything that I've done wrong. I don't know anything that I'm doing wrong. I don't know any unconfessed sin in my life. But that doesn't get me off the hook. Look at verse 4 again. Yet am I not hereby justified? That doesn't mean I'm good. Just because I don't know anything that I'm doing wrong. And I can say that I don't know anything in my life that's displeasing to God or that I need to get out of my life. If I did, I would move it out, but that doesn't mean that I'm off the hook My conscience doesn't convict me. My conscience bears witness with me. But again, self-evaluation is unreliable. So it really doesn't matter what I think. Doesn't matter what man thinks, it doesn't matter what I think, there's the court of man, the court of self, and then there's the third court, there's the court of God. Look in verse 4, the end of verse 4, but he that judges me is who? The Lord. And the word judges present participle. The one who is constantly judging. Is the Lord. This is the only judgment that matters in all judging. It's God's judgment. He's the one who's constantly judging us and ministering in anything that we do. The only legitimate court is God's, the only valid evaluation is God's That's all that matters. The Corinthians were squabbling. They were arguing over who was the best preacher. Was it Peter? Was it Apollos? Was it Paul? And some were criticizing Paul. And Paul said, none of that matters. Just doesn't matter. Because you're judging in the wrong court. Third mistake. They judged with the wrong criteria. They judged in the wrong court. But here's number three. They judged according to the wrong clock. Wrong clock. Look at verse 5. Therefore, judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness. And will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. Then shall every man have praise of God. You know what Paul is saying? Paul's saying, it's not the time to judge right now. This isn't the time to judge anyway. That's coming. This is man's day. God's day is coming. In fact, in verse 3, where it says, or of man's judgment. The Hebrew says anthropos hermeras. Man's day. This isn't man's day. This is not the time for judgment. There's going to come a time for that, but right now this is this is man's clock. This isn't the clock that matters. Judgment is going to come. And do you know why it's not time for judgment right now? Because all the results aren't in yet. Ministry's still happening. The results of what people have done, they're still being felt. Here's a man who may have ministered faithfully and he may have passed away, and yet the work that he has done is still bearing fruit. There are still things happening as a result of his faithful ministry. There are still people reading his books, still people listening to his sermons. Things are still happening. And so all the results are not in. So this is man's clock. This is the wrong time. This is not the time to go around Evaluating who's the best and who's not. Or who's this and who's that. That's why I say all these magazine articles out there and these surveys, that's all of the world, my dear friend. That's not the way God judges. And besides, you would have to know everything about everywhere before you can really make those judgments. Nobody knows that. They're not omniscient. And I think they could have a discouraging uh effect sometimes on people who are faithfully serving And maybe the field where they're laboring in is not producing as much fruit. But it isn't because they aren't working hard. They're working as hard as anybody. They may not be getting the same results, but results are not our responsibility. That's God's responsibility. That's God's responsibility. The time is going to come for judgment, the Bible says, when the Lord comes, in verse 5 again, until the Lord comes, notice this who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness. So what's he going to do? What's the hidden things of darkness? These are the things that are done that we don't know about, presently unknown to us. These are deeds done that are hidden from the rest of the world. We just don't know about it. The facts, one of these days the Lord is going to reveal all that, and then He's going to make manifest the counsels of the heart. And every man shall have praise of God then. When the day comes, the Lord will judge works, He'll judge words, He'll judge the counsels of the heart, that's the motives of the heart. Because he knows everything about everybody at every second. He knows every motive. He knows it all. And he will give the judgment then. And he sees every secret work, every work that is done by someone who nobody else saw, God saw it. And then the Bible says the hidden things will be made manifest. I'll just close with this illustration because we're really out of time. But I think I may have told you this before. But when I was uh pastoring a church in New York and had just gotten there, I got word that a missionary was being sent Uh his body who a missionary who had died, his body was being sent to the church for me to conduct the funeral I didn't know anything about this missionary. And I later found out. His widow came to the church and I started to learn about this guy. This guy graduated from Wheaton College. He uh after he graduated, he he went to Erian Jaya, the most remote area of Erian Jaya. You get there by a dugout canoe. He took back with him one of these um homes on stilts, tin homes that you roll up. And when he got to his place of ministry, he unrolled it. He put this home up on stilts because of the rainy season to keep dry. And he stayed there for 40 years in the jungle. And he translated the Bible from the language of the people there, the Osma people. I mean he used these Hebrew lexicons and dictionaries and these Greek lexicons and dictionaries and he translated the Bible to the language of those people. He started churches. all throughout there and and put leadership in those churches. It just just did an incredible thing. And I'm learning all this. And then he came home for furlough and the doctor said, you can't go back. If you do, you'll die. And he said, I just need one more year to get everything right. And we'll you know, and so the doctor said, Don't do it. He said, I gotta do it. So he went back into the jungle, spent one more year making sure everything was ready. And then when he came off the field to get onto the plane, he could barely make it onto the plane. Finally got on the plane and they took off. They were bringing he and his wife back to America, but they had to stop an emergency landing in Australia in a remote little town in Australia because he he was so sick he was going to die. They took him to the hospital there. He called back to America, talked to his three children that were in America, spoke to each of them for 15 minutes, said his goodbyes to his children, witnessed to all the doctors and the nurses, and then he died. And then they shipped his body back to that church. And he was laid out in a pine box Not a coffin, a pine box. And laying on his chest was the Bible he had translated for all those years of work And I want to tell you something, dear friend. I was not worthy to stand up there and say anything to that man. What an incredible servant of the Lord. You don't know who he is, but God knows who he is. And the Bible says when the Lord returns, those hidden things, those ministries where people have sacrificed so much for the Lord Jesus, God's going to reveal that at that day. Then we'll know who to praise. At that day, the Apostle Paul says, by the way, his w his widow came to me later and she said, Would you like his books? I said, Yeah, absolutely. I don't know what I was just thinking. I was thinking of this huge library. How naive and dumb I was. We're talking about a missionary in the jungle, all right? He's not gonna have a huge library. So she brought me this box about Ye Long and that wide, and in that box were these books that were all mildewed and falling apart. And they were the Greek and Hebrew lexicons and dictionaries and all the books that he used to do his translation work. Just an incredible, just set of books. And so I I just kind of look at those books. I don't ever use them. I just put them on the shelf and remember to be faithful. As we serve the Lord. And that's what Paul is saying here. Just be faithful. And one day the Lord He's going to bring to light all these things. And Paul says, All these things I have transferred to myself and to Apollos For your sakes. I'm doing this for your sakes. So you learn not to think of men above that which is written. Stop treating us the way the world does. We're simply servants of the Lord. And let's just be faithful. Let's just be faithful. Let's let's bow together for prayer So Lord, we are so blessed by your word, and it's encouraging. To know these things, Lord. Help us, Lord, to indeed just be faithful. We know, Lord, that you're the one who's watching. You're the one who is constantly judging and evaluating. And we know that anything that we do under you, Lord, it's not lost. It's not hidden in your sight. And we know that the day of reward is coming. It's not today. It's not Man's Day. But it is coming. And Lord, let this motivate us to just be faithful to you, to be your servant. What a privilege that is. To be saved. But then beyond that, that Lord, you would actually use us to in your kingdom to advance the kingdom in some way. And Lord, I'm speaking to all your servants here tonight. May they be encouraged and inspired by your word. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.