Bibles go to Second Kings. Remember we're studying through Second Kings and we're looking at these stories and we're learning principles for our own life as we look at these These uh narratives that God uh put here in his word under inspiration of the Holy Spirit that we can learn from. And these are examples Paul said to us on how to live. And so we look tonight in 2 Kings chapter 6 and we're going to look at verse 24, and we're going to cover kind of a big narrative here. It's going to start in verse 24 of chapter 6, and we're going to go all the way through chapter 7. And the title of the sermon tonight is A Day of Good News. A Day of Good News. I heard about a large two-engine train that was making its way across America, and while crossing the Western Mountains, one of the engines broke Well the uh the captain said, well that's no problem. We can still make it to Denver on one engine, so they were a little slower, but it was no problem. But further down the line Uh you probably guessed what would happen by now, right? The other engine broke down. The train came to a standstill right in the middle of nowhere. Well the engineer uh needed to inform the passengers why the train stopped and so he always Try to put a bright side on everything that he said, you know, give the positive side. And so he made the announcement like this. He said, ladies and gentlemen, I have some good news and I have some bad news He said the bad news is that both engines have failed and we'll be stuck here for some time until additional engines arrive. He said the good news is is that you didn't take an airplane for this trip. That is good news, right? We don't want both engines on the airplane to fail. So now the story tonight has some bad news and then it has some good news. In the first part of the story, it's bad news, but The story ends really with good news. And the bad news is in this story that an enemy army surrounds the city of Samaria. the are the people of God. The siege results from that because when an army surrounds a city they don't let anything in and so people inside They begin to get hungry. There's a famine and people are starving. And the starvation causes them to do unthinkable things. I think sometimes when we read the Old Testament, some of the things that happen in there just are incredible to us. But these are things that literally happen. But in the midst of all of this, God gives his promise for salvation and deliverance. And in the story, we're going to see that some lepers, some social outcasts discover God's salvation. And uh they simply hoard all of the blessings for themselves and then they realize it's it's wrong to not to not tell others about the miraculous the miraculous salvation of God. And a key verse in this whole story is in 2 Kings chapter 7, verse number 9. I want you to look at that verse as we start off. Then they said one to another, We d We do not well This day is a day of good tidings, or we could say good news. And we hold our peace. And if we tarry till the morning, some mischief will come upon us. The word for mischief there, the Hebrew word avon. Well we'll feel guilty in the morning is how we could say that. You know, if we just are here in this camp and we're hoarding all the blessings and we don't tell others Well, we're going to feel guilty in the morning. And so they said, Now therefore come that we may go and tell the king's household. They realized their silence about what God has done is a sin. And so they reported to the king who will tell others. And now in the story, we're going to find that some believe this, but there are always some that don't believe the Word of God And the idea of this whole story, I think, is when God makes a promise of salvation, we have to respond properly or face the consequences. Now this story again emphasizes a major theme that I've hammered on again and again in this series that we see throughout the book of 2 Kings, and the theme is The faithfulness and the reliability of God's Word. When God says something, don't doubt it. Unbelief in God's Word Brings severe consequences. Now remember, the writer of Kings is writing to a group of people that believe that God has failed to keep his promises. And I think that's one of the worst sins that a person can commit. To say that God does not keep his word is calling God a liar and a deceiver. And so the books of 1 and 2 Kings were written to defend the character of God, to defend the reliability of God's word. Now, why did the people think that God hadn't kept his word? Well, because God made some promises. He promised that Zion Jerusalem would be the place of his dwelling forever. And a symbol of that was the temple was built right there in the city of Jerusalem. That was a symbol of the presence of God a symbol of God's favor on Zion, which would be his place forever. And then the other promise that God made was that God would put a son of David on the throne of David. It would be an enduring dynasty And according to 2 Samuel, remember the promise, he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. But now Nebuchadnezzar had come in, he had basically destroyed the temple, there was no son of David on the throne in Jerusalem. And exiles were carried away, and the people of Israel were thinking God did not keep his promises. God failed to keep his word. Was the God of the Babylonians greater than Yahweh, the God of Israel? Was God not able to keep his promises? And so the writer of Kings writes to remind the people That the reason that they suffered the consequences that they did and the reason people were carried away into exile is not because God failed to keep his promises, but quite the contrary. It's because God is faithful to keep his promises. God made a covenant with Israel and God said if you obey me, I'm going to bless you. I'll give you blessing after blessing after blessing. But if you disobey me, curses will come upon you. And that's why the writer of Kings is faithful to make allusions to this covenant that God made with Israel. And he will often point back to Deuteronomy, specifically chapter 28. To the word the word of God tells the people what would happen if they failed to keep God's word And so the writer of Kings is concerned to demonstrate how God's word is always sure. And this whole story here is an illustration of it. The hardship and the judgment that are that's going on in this story. Is exactly what God said would happen if God's people disobeyed him. It's exactly what would happen. Now also there's another theme that we see in the story we need to mention that even in judgment, God is merciful and God gives salvation God's word is faithful to judge, just like he says, and God's word is faithful to give mercy and salvation, just like he says But either way, the common denominator is the faithfulness and the reliability of the Word of God. So I want you to see three scenes here in this narrative, all focused around the promises of God, the promise of salvation, and a promise of judgment. But um so notice what I call number one scene one, I call this good news declared. Because again, the kind of major idea here is that God has promised good news, even in the midst of judgment. Good news declared. Look at verse number 24. Let's watch how this sets up. Came to pass after this that Ben Hadad, King of Syria, gathered all the host and went up and besieged Samaria. And there was a great famine in Samaria, and behold they besieged it. Until a ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a of a cap of dove's dung for five pieces of silver. Now don't know about you, but that doesn't sound appetizing to me. Here is this uh enemy king Ben Hadad who came in and surrounded the city of Samaria, cut off supplies, the people inside are starving, and prices are going up Because the supply chain wasn't able to break through there. The prices were going up, and things got so bad, so severe, that a donkey's head, one of the least nourishing and most repulsive parts of this animal. was sold for 80 shekels of silver. Now what is that in American currency? That's about two pounds of silver. That's a lot of money. A lot of money. And again, for a a donkey's head? Wow. And then doves dung, what is that? Some scholars think this was a name for s a certain kind of sea pod or beans back then. And so a half pint of this would really which was considered nail nor normally animal fodder costs five shekels. That's about two ounces of silver. And people were willing to pay these exorbitant prices for this foodstuff that was hardly edible, let alone kosher f if you're Jewish. And so just get the picture. There's just a horrible famine that is going on here in the city. Reminds me of uh where I read where one time in Germany things got so bad that it took a wheel a wheelbarrow full of cash to buy a loaf of bread. And so this is even worse than that. Now, the next part of this scene demonstrates how really bad things got Now remember, the Writer of Kings is concerned to show the readers how God's word comes true. So this scene here, this next scene, is going to make a veiled reference to what God said would happen All the way back in Deuteronomy 28, God said, if you disobey me, this is going to happen. And what was it Well, why don't you take a minute? Why don't you go back to Deuteronomy chapter 28? Why don't you just look and see this for yourself? What did God say was going to happen? Go back to Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. And go to chapter twenty-eight and and notice what God says. Look at verse one, and and it shall come to pass if thou wilt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments, which I command thee this day. That the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon thee and overtake thee. I like that. You ever have blessings just overtake you? Here God is saying, look, if you just obey, you'll be blessed. Blessings will overtake you if you just obey. And then he goes on to name all of these blessings. But drop down to verse 15. But it shall come to pass if thou wilt not hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God to observe all his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day. All these curses shall come upon thee. In direct contrast, these curses will come upon thee and overtake thee. You can be either overtaken with blessings or you could be overtaken with curses And it's all dependent on you. If you obey God, blessing. If you disobey God, there'll be curses And then he says in verse 16, Cursed shall be shalt thou be in the city, and curse shalt thou be in the field, and curse shall be thy basket and thy store. Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy land, and the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep. Cursed shall be thou when thou comest in, cursed shall thou be when thou goest out And on and on we can go, one verse after another after another, where God said, All these things are going to be cursed. And remember what God did to really demonstrate this? Do you remember back when God had half the tribes of Israel get on one mountainside, Mount Ebal, half the tribes get on another mountainside, Mount Girizam? And in the valley below, the law was read, and the law and the blessings were read, and the people of Mount Garrison would say, Amen, amen, amen, every time they gave up a blessing. But the people on Mount Ebal, they would say, whenever a curse was read, Amen, Amen, Amen. In other words, God's word is true. This will happen. If we obey, we'll be blessed. If we don't, we'll be cursed. This is a giant object lesson. By the way, let me just make this note. Some of you know I do archaeology in Israel from time to time And I go with uh an archaeologist named Scott Strifling from Associates of Biblical Research. I don't know if you've been listening to the news lately, but there was a major discovery over in Israel just a few weeks ago. Scott That who's been here, by the way, in this church, some of you might remember Scott, but he was over there on Mount Ebal, and they found Joshua's altar over there. And years ago they did a excavation there and they filtered through some of the some of the um of the dig and they had a little trash heath, you know, things that they thought were no longer good. Whenever you do an excavation, you always take the leftover dirt and rocks and whatever and you just kind of put it all in a pile. And so in the eighties they did this major excavation and they had left behind this huge pile of rubble after it was over. What Scott did, Scott decided to go in and begin to sift, water sift, all that leftover debris there to see if there was anything interesting in that pile. And you know what he found? He found a little one-inch tablet, and it's called a curse tablet. You know why? Because on that tablet it's got the name of Yahweh, and it also has the word curse, curse, curse, curse, those who disobey God. Curse, curse, curse. That's exactly what you would expect to find on Mount Ebal, because that was the mount of cursing. And so God says if you do if you if you obey, you'll be blessed if you don't And notice specifically what God said would happen. He said the enemy look at verse forty seven of chapter twenty-eight. And he said that the enemy would come in in verse forty-seven, but thou shalt serve not the Lord thy God, because thou Serve us not the Lord thy God with joyfulness and with gladness of heart. Verse forty nine, therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies which the Lord shall send against thee in hunger and in thirst and in nakedness And one of all things he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck until ye have destroyed thee. That's exactly what was going on in Second Kings chapter six. The enemy had come in, and they'd kind of like put a yoke around that whole city, and they were experiencing hunger and thirst and all those things. But here's another thing God said would happen. Look at verse 52. And it shall, and he shall beseech thee in all thy gates Until thy high and fence walls come down, wherein thou trustest throughout all the land, and he shall besiege thee in all thy gates throughout all thy land, which the Lord thy God hath given thee And thou shalt eat the fruit of thine own body, the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, which the Lord thy God hath given thee in the siege and in the straightness wherewith thine enemies shall distress thee. Wow It would get so bad. You would be besieged by an enemy. It would get so bad. You would get so hungry that you would actually commit cannibalism That's horrible. You would actually eat your own children, the fruit of thine own body. You say that could never happen. Go back to 2 Kings chapter 6. They're surrounded by an army. They're cut off from supplies. There's great hunger, great famine in Samaria. And look down at verse number 26 of chapter 6. And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O King. And he said, If if the Lord do not help thee, when shall I help thee? Out of the barn floor, out of the wine press. In other words, here's this woman, here's the king, and he's walking around the top of the wall, he's looking at the fortifications because he knows the enemy's out there, they're trying to break in And while he's walking around, here's a woman that says, King, help me, help me. Now he thinks she wants food, but she doesn't. She wants justice. And he says, You know, I'm not God. I can't fill your barns. I can't fill your wine presses. Only God can help you But look at verse 28, and the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman said unto me, Give thy son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son to-mor And so we boiled my son and did eat him. And I said unto her on the next day, Give thy son that we may eat him. And she hid her son. What a horrible story. What a terrible thing. And this is just just horrid. But this is exactly what God said would happen. Things would get so bad when they disobeyed the Lord. That this very thing that God said in Deuteronomy 28 would happen. Now here it is. It's happening. And the writer of Kings again is faithful to point to this to say the reason all these tragedies and these heartaches and these things are happening is because you have disobeyed God. And that's what happens. And so when the king hears about this, he's just mortified. He look what it says in verse number thirty and it came to pass when the king heard the words of the woman that he rent his clothes and he passed by upon the wall and the people looked and behold he had sackcloth within upon his flesh Here when he hears a story, he's just so filled with sorrow, he just rips his clothes. And when he rips his clothes, that people were seeing that on the inside he's wearing sackcloth, which is a sign of mourning. But the truth of the matter is it doesn't ma it doesn't matter if you're wearing sackcloth as a sign of repentance if you don't have real repentance, because Notice the next verse in verse 31. Then he said, God do so and more also to me, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day. So who does he blame for all this? He blames Elisha. And he he makes a uh a nose that I'm gonna I'm gonna make sure that he gets his head cut off on this day Uh by the way, an oath that he's never going to be able to fulfill, because if you've been with us in the series, you realize that Elisha is divinely protected by Almighty God. Nothing's going to happen to him. And so we see here what I call in this part a divine prophecy fulfilled. This is exactly what God said would happen. And it's only the people's fault because of their apostasy and evil and wickedness and disobedience against God. All these things have come upon them. But now let's get to the good news. That's the bad news. And it's really bad. But let's get to the good part of the story. Because look down in verse number 32 But chapter six But Elijah sat at his house, and the elder sat with him, and the king sent a man from before him. But ere the messengers came to him and said to the elder, See ye how this son of a murderer has sent to take away mine head. Look when the messenger come and shut the door and hold him fast at the door, is not the sound of his master's feet behind him And while he yet talked with him, behold, the messenger came down to him, and he said, Behold, this evil is of the Lord. What should I wait for the Lord any longer? So here's Elijah in his house. The king sends a messenger down to Elijah's house to get him. Elisha already, you know, he knows things because God reveals it. He knows that the king sent a messenger down to him and he's meeting with the elders of Israel. Perhaps the elders are there to ask for help from Elisha. They know that Elisha is a man of God. That he has the power to do miracles. So maybe they're asking for help from Elijah. But anyway, while Elijah's there in the house with the elders, he's not concerned. He just says, just shut the door and bolt it. Don't let the messenger in And they do that. When the messenger gets there, however, he says, you know, all of this that's happening, this is from God. This is from God. Well he's right, it is a judgment from God. But he's saying, you know, what what should I wait for the Lord any longer? Why should I wait any longer? And then look in chapter seven, verse number one, the story picks up. The king gets there And I I this is not said in the story, but I think this happens. I think the door is open because I think Elijah now wants to hear a prophecy that he's going to make. Here is a word from God in this horrible situation. God is about to give a promise. God is about to give a word of salvation. So in chapter 7, verse 1, then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord again. This is the emphasis of the chapter. Hear God's word. When God says something, he means it. Listen to the word of God. Thus says the Lord. Tomorrow, about this time. Shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria And what was Elisha saying there? He's saying tomorrow, about this time, all of the high prices are going to come back down, and we will have pre Siege prices tomorrow at this time. Wouldn't that be wonderful if we heard something like that about the gas prices? Probably the reaction that some people would give were the same thing that one of these men from this one messenger of the king said, look in chapter 7, look in verse 2. Then a Lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God and said, Behold, if the Lord would make windows in heaven, might this thing be? In other words, he scoffs at that The fact that tomorrow at this time all the prices are going to come back to normal and this messenger of the king basically says there's no way that that's going to happen. He scoffs at the word of God. Will it become like Noah's flood with food instead of rain pouring out of heaven? Is God going to rain down food on us? You see, you know what we learn from this? To the humble heart that's open to God, the word of God generates faith. But to the proud and the self-centered, the word of God can make the heart even harder. The same sun that melts the ice hardens the clay. But it's a foolish thing to doubt God's word. Listen, when God says something, He will do it. But here's this man, and he's he's he's scoffing. So notice what Elisha says to him. He has a little response at the end of verse number two. And he said, this is Elisha, and he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shall not eat thereof. Because of this man doubted and he scoffed at the word of God, Elisha said, you know what, you're going to see this, but you're not going to be able to enjoy it. This will be God's judgment to you because you doubted God's word. So here's scene number two. That's scene one. Good news declared Scene 2, good news discovered. How's this all going to happen? How's the providence of God going to bring all this about? Well, it's very unique here what happens. And I like the next part of this story. Look at verse number three. And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate, and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? So this is how it's all going to happen. Remember when God says something, it's going to come to pass. And God will use even the least likely of people to bring about what He says is going to happen. And here He just happens to use four lepers who are the outcasts of society. In fact, they're on the outside of the gate of the city because people didn't want lepers in the city. And they're sitting there and they're saying, you know, why are we looking at each other Is kind of what they're saying. You know, uh notice what I call the reasoning of the lepers. They realized that they had nothing to lose. They were dead men whichever way they turned. Since desperate times call for desperate measures, they decided to take their chances and desert the enemy. I should say desert to the enemy Desert Israel and go over to the side of the Syrians. Perhaps, maybe, just maybe, the Syrians might show them some mercy and give them some morsels of food. And so they decide to do that. Look at verse 4. If if if for if we say we will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there, and if we sit here, still here, we die also. Now therefore come and let us fall into the hosts of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live, and if they kill us, we shall but die. That's the reasoning of the lepers, you know. We may as well, we're dead men anyway. Let's just try this. And I call this next part the rejoicing of the lepers, because the most amazing thing happens. In verse 5, and they rose up in the twilight to go into the camp of the Syrians, and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there They come to the edge of the camp. There's nobody there. Here's this huge encampment. Thousands and thousands of soldiers in tents. And they come to the edge of the camp. There's nobody there. Verse 6, for the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots. And a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host. And they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come upon us Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight and left their tents and their horses and their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their for their life And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went unto one tent and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver and gold and raiment, and went and hid in it, and came again, and entered into another tent and carried thence also and went and hid it. You can imagine the ball they're having there. They come to this camp, it's completely empty. And why is that? Well, because God did a miraculous thing. God didn't use any army. God did all this by himself. The Syrian army, they hear chariots and horses And they think, man, the Israelites have hired these mercenary soldiers to come against us, and by the sound of it, it looks like it's a huge army. We better get out of here. We better run for our life. And they all ran and they left all their equipment and tents and riches and gold and clothing and everything behind. They just ran out of that camp Everything was left behind. And the whole camp was quiet and still. Not one single soldier was stirring. And so I just imagine these lepers kind of looked at each other and blinked a little bit. And say, can you believe this? They just hit the Powerball jackpot. Notice their first response in verse 8. We just read it. Man, they come to the camp, they go into one tent, they eat and drink and carry then silver and golden raiment and went and hit it. You know. You know what this reminds me of? You ever see that TV game show called Supermarket Sweep? Y'all know what I'm talking about? You greedy people watching that. No, I'm kidding. You know, I what it is is that you know, people would run through a supermarket with a cart and they had teams and you would run through and the idea was you throw in the most you had ti you had just a little bit of time on a clock to run through and throw in the most expensive things you could find in the cart And the team that had the most expensive things at the end, they won. Supermarket sweep. You know. This is what's happening here. This is an ancient supermarket sweep. Because these lepers are running through the camp. They go in one tent. They're picking up gold and silver and clothing in there. You know, they hide it and then they go into another tent and they put more gold and silver in things. And they're just having a time of their life. I can just imagine them, they're drinking wine and they're eating food and they're laughing and they're having fun. And one writer, Philip Riken, wrote this. He said the lepers ran from tent to tent, looting with the bandon. It was like the world's biggest shopping spree. They must have been deliriously happy rummaging through the sacks, trying on clothes, munching on snacks, guzzling wine. Hey, look at this, one might have said, as he opened a purse of gold. That must be worth a fortune. Or check this out, I've always needed a new robe. And so they're doing all this and they're having a blast. And this next part is what I call the repenting of the lepers. Because in verse 9, they kind of come to themselves. And it says in verse nine. Then they said one to another, We do not well, this day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us Now therefore come that we may go and tell the king's household. So they came and they called unto the porter of the city, and they told them, saying, We came to camp to the camp of the Syrians, and behold there was no man there, neither a voice of man, but horses tied, and asses tied, and the tents were there. And he called the porters, and they told it to the king's household within. So during this whole thing, they their conscience begins to get the best of them. And they said, you know, we this is a day of good tidings. God did a uh a miraculous thing here. And we can't just continue to feast on all this and enjoy all these riches while our fellow neighbors, while our fellow men are in the city of Samaria and they're suffering. Greatly. It's not good for us just to keep all of this to ourself. So let's go and let's report it. Let's tell others. And indeed they do. They go to the to the gate of the king's house and they let it be known, and the word begins to spread throughout the king's house. We saw that in verses ten and eleven. Now here's the last scene in this story, and I call this the good news disbelief. We saw good news declared, good news discovered, now good news disbelieved. When the king gets word of what happened, you know what? He's filled with doubt and skepticism. That's just like a an unbelieving king. Verse 12, and the king arose in the night and said unto his servants, I will now show you what the Syrians have done to us. What the Syrians have done? What? You mean what God has done No, he's thinking this is a plot from the Syrians. This is what the Syrians have done. They know that we be hungry, and therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall snatch them alive and get into the city Instead of saying, man, God fulfilled his word. Remember, this king was there when Elisha made the prophecy and said, tomorrow at this time the prices are going to come back down. And the king was there to hear it. And rather than saying, man, God fulfilled his word, God did exactly what he said he was going to do. Instead of saying that, he says, This is a trick from the Syrians. They just want to flush us out of the city so that they can just kill all of us. That's all this is And so one of the king's servants has an idea, verse 13. And one of the servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city. Behold, there is as as the multitude of Israel that are left in it. Behold, I say there they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites that are consumed. And let us send and see And so he has an idea, let's just, you know, let's just not send a lot of people out. Let's just send, you know, five horses, a few men, and just see about this. In verse 14, they took two chariot horses. That is four horses instead of five. And the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see. And they went after them unto Jordan, and lo, all the way was full of garments and vessels. Which the Syrians have cast away in their haste, and the messengers return and told the king. So you know what they do? Here are these guys, they go out, they investigate, and they see the retreat. path that the Syrians made all the way down to the Jordan that's about 25 miles from Samaria. These guys are running. And they crossed the Jordan River. And so the enemy was far away. So the messengers realize this is true, this is right. So they go back in verse 16 and they tell the king, and when the king hears the news You know that what he does now? He says, okay, fine. So he opens up the gates of the city so that people can go out. And and rummaged through the spoil left behind. And in verse sixteen, and the people went out and spoiled the tents of the Syrians, so a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel. What's the next phrase? According to the word of the Lord. It happened just the way God said it was going to happen on the very next day The prices all came back down. And it was just as God said, even though humanly speaking it looked impossible, when God says something, God's going to do it. But there's a sad thing that happens here at the end. But again, it shows the fulfillment of God's word. And look at verse number 17. And the king appointed the Lord on whose hands he leaned to have the charge of the gate, and the people trod upon him in the gate, and he died, as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. Remember that guy that said, you know, is God going to open the windows of heaven and make it rain food? He scoffed at the Word of God. He got the assignment to sit at the gate to make sure everyone left the city orderly. Not a good assignment. Because when the gates opened up, you know what happened? The people they They trounced him. They trampled him to death. You ever hear a story like on Black Friday when Walmart opens up, people get trampled? Trying to get into a sale for a large screen TV. Here, this kind of thing happens here. The king opens the gates. The people of Samaria were so hungry they were starving. And they ran out and they trampled this guy. And just to make sure you know who it is in verse 18, it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel and a measure of fine flour for a shekel. shall be to tomorrow about this time in the gate of Samaria. And that Lord answered the man of God and said, Now behold, if the Lord shall make windows in heaven, might such a thing be And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shall not eat thereof. Remember that little detail there? Because this man scoffed at the word of God, Elijah said, You know what, you're going to see this with your eyes. But you're not going to get to enjoy it. And indeed that's exactly what happened. It's specifically exactly what happened. Here was this man. He was given the job. of mining the gate while people ran through. He saw what was happening. He saw the incredible spoil and all that was going on, but he didn't get to enjoy it. Because again, in verse 20, and so it fell out unto him, for the people trod upon him in the gate, and he died. It's a serious thing to doubt the word of God. When you doubt the promise of God's salvation, you disbelieve the promise of salvation, you scoff at God's promise of salvation. That means you have to bear the consequences for doing that. And that's exactly what we see here. Now we just have a few minutes, so let me just give you just some quick principles to apply here. Again, number one, God always fulfilled his word. Always. Always. When God says something, it will happen. When God gives a literal prophecy, it will literally be fulfilled. Right down to the very last detail. Again, that's a major theme that we see throughout the books of Kings. Number two, salvation is the good news of God's miraculous work accomplished for an undeserving people. You know what? This is a beautiful picture of salvation because we were like the people of Samaria. We were in bondage to an evil king. The Bible says in 1 John 5. 19, the whole world lies in the lap of the wicked one. The world is in bondage to this evil king. And we were like that. We were poor and destitute. We had nothing that could satisfy the hunger that was inside of us. We were spiritual lepers. In the Bible, leprosy is a type of sin. And yet God miraculously provided salvation and deliverance for us. This was not something that man did. This was God's work and God alone. God brings salvation, God and God alone. Not with the help of man. And in God's grace, God drives away the enemy, and God feeds these people, and a table is spread out in the presence of their enemies. Salvation is not of man at all. Salvation is the work of God. And the lepers had it right when they said, This is a day of good news. Because that's exactly what the Bible calls the gospel good news. The gospel is the good news of what Jesus Christ has done for us by dying for our sins on the cross, taking all of our sins upon himself, paying our penalty. On himself, he died for our sins, making salvation a gift. And the good news is for those who believe in God's promise of salvation, you have forgiveness, you have eternal life. And those who disbelieve that promise, those who scoff at that will have to bear the consequences of that for themselves. But then there's another lesson. The good news of God's salvation is meant to be shared. It's meant to be shared. We can't keep this good news to ourselves It would be wrong for those guys to stay in those tents and join the riches and not telling others who are starving, who are hungry. And I want to tell you something, church. It's our responsibility to share the good news with those around us. We live in a world filled with bad news. People that are uh confined to their house and afraid and they're listening to news, horrible things on TV and all the things going around. No wonder people are depressed, no wonder people are sad. You know what people need? They need to hear good news. And they need to hear the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that is our responsibility. There is a sin that the church commits regularly, and it's the sin of silence We come and we enjoy all the wealth and the privilege and the blessings of all that God does, and yet we're silent when it comes to telling others. That's a wrong thing to do. And the guilt is upon us. Again, they use the Hebrew word own. We're gonna feel guilty If we remain silent, they said, they realized they had a responsibility to share the good news. And then the last thing, finally, as we close. When one does not believe God's promise of salvation, they must bear the consequences. They have to bear it. No one else. The promise is there. And when you hear it, you're responsible to respond in the right way. When God gives a promise of salvation and help to you, you are responsible to respond in the right way. And for this one man who scoffed, death came upon him suddenly. He had no idea on that day, the very next day, that he would die. It came suddenly on him. I'll close with this. I'll never forget witnessing to a friend. I was saved as a teenager, newly saved, and there was a young there was a uh teen I was witnessing to, he was a little older than me And uh just newly saved, and I learned to share the gospel, and I was sharing the gospel with this guy. His name was Doug. And I'll never forget that Doug scoffed and he laughed when I shared the gospel. And you know what he said? He said, I have my whole life in front of me. He said, I'm not going to give my heart to Jesus. I'm going to live my life the way I want. And he totally turned away from the gospel. And not long after that, Doug got into a car after school with four other boys, and they were driving home, and it had just rained. And as they went around a bend, they were go their driver was driving a little too fast, and the car spun off the road, and it wrapped around a telephone pole. And there was only one guy in that car who died in that accident, and it was Doug. It was Doug. And I and his words still haunt me. He said, I have the rest of my life to live. I will not give my heart to Jesus. And I remember him to this day. I remember his face when he said those words. And it burdens my heart. Listen. When one does not believe God's promise of salvation, they have to bear the consequences. Would to God that everyone put their faith in Christ. We can't control that. I can't make a person get saved. I can't, I don't have that power. But what I do have is the responsibility to tell the gospel to everyone around me, and then trust God to do the work. But if a person re refuses and rejects, it's on them. It's on them. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father Heaven, we thank you for this reminder in Scripture. All these Old Testament stories, Lord, just illustrate for us truth. Reinforced and taught again in the New Testament. Many of these stories illuminate and enlighten our mind. They help us to understand in a greater way. The things that you have done for us. And when we see the lives of these people and the decisions that they make, Lord, we're warned by it. We're blessed when we see people believe in your promises. Our faith is strengthened when we see, Lord, your word fulfilled exactly the way you said it. And it leaves us with the certainty, Lord, that you will do all that you say. And when we see people in Scripture, Lord, that turn away from your word and then suffer judgment. Lord, it should strike fear into our hearts that we never, ever deny your word. And understand that we must bear the consequences if we do. Because heaven and earth will pass away, but your word will not pass away So Father, remind us of this. Lord, help us from this story to have a burden, to share the good news with everyone around us. That's our responsibility, and I fear that we fail in that too much. So give us a bird to do that, Lord. And use your word in every heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.