It's been good to be here tonight to be a part of all this. Now here's what I'm gonna ask. I'm gonna take fifteen minutes here tonight to just give you the word of God. So here I'm gonna make a deal with you. Can you sit up straight for fifteen 15 minutes, young people. Look at these young cheerleaders up here. I like the way they're sitting up. They're doing better than these guys over here. Come on. Let's sit up nice and straight. Because here, let me tell you something. You know what upwards is all about Our primary purpose here, the reason Pastor Johnson, our senior pastor, put Upworth program in here, and the reason people work so hard, let me tell you what the reason of that is. So people can know Jesus Christ. That's the bottom line. So this is the most important part of our service. I know you've come to see your young people, it's wonderful. But the most important part of this service is now because for the next 15 minutes, I want to talk to you about Jesus Christ. And we want to give him preeminence in this service for just a little bit. So I want you to sit up straight and coach, if you see your guys doing really good, you let me know. I'll give them an extra hot dog after this is over with. All right. So nice and straight. Um I'll be I'll be gone after this, so you won't be able to find me. No, I'm I'm just kidding. So if you have a Bible, look in the book of Luke, chapter 23. If you don't, just pay attention. I want to read a few verses to you. And I want to talk about the cross that my wife Carolyn just sang about. In Luke chapter 23, in verse number 40, I'll start reading there. And this is when Jesus was on the cross, what was going on? Verse 39 says, but one of the thieves, the malfactors, which were hanging, railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us But the other answer rebukes him, saying, Dost thou not fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, uh, for we receive the due reward for our deeds. But this Man has done nothing. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily, I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. How many of you like baseball? Raise your hand. There's a baseball player, probably you young people have never heard of it. Some of you older folks might know The name Ty Cobb. He played for the Detroit Tigers. He played 12 years. He holds so many batting records. I mean, he was one of the he's considered to be one of the greatest baseball players to ever play. And yet he was also a very sinful and wicked man. And one day he was finally stricken on his deathbed on July 17, 1961. Someone Came to him while he was on his deathbed and began to share with him about Jesus Christ. And Ty Cobb prayed at that moment to receive Jesus Christ into his heart. And he got And then he said this. These were his last words. He said, You tell the boys I'm sorry, that it was the last part of the night that I came to know Christ. I wish it had taken place in the first half of the first half But I got saved in the bottom of the ninth. So here's a question I want to ask you tonight. Does Jesus save souls at the bottom of the ninth end? When there's two outs and two strikes, will Jesus still save them? This is the story here in the Bible of the thief on the cross. And this is one of the most amazing stories in all of Scripture. And I'll tell you why. Because the Bible says that when Jesus was crucified, he was crucified between what? Two thieves, right? And the Bible says, if you read in the book of Mark, that both of these thieves were insulting Jesus. They were railing on Jesus. But suddenly. something happened to one of those thieves. Immediately the Bible says he stopped railing on Jesus, and as a matter of fact, he rebuked his friend. He said to his friend, now picture this in your mind, Jesus is crucified in the middle. There's a thief on each side. As they're talking to each other, they have to look at Jesus And suddenly one of the thieves who was insulting Jesus and railing on him, finally something happened in his heart, and he stopped. And he looked at his friend and he says this. Said, don't you fear God, seeing we are in the same condemnation? Imagine that. In just a moment's time, he went from being a scolfer to a seeker of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Now here's the question we have to ask ourselves. What happened to him? What caused him to stop at that moment and suddenly recognize that there's something different About this one, this man that's dying on the cross. There's something unique about him. What was it? Perhaps they saw Jesus They saw peace about him. They saw love about him. They saw a majesty about him. They saw innocence about him. This one guy did it, we know. But the other guy, he continued to rail on Jesus. One thief He was changed. Let me tell you what happened to him. First of all, he realized that there was a judgment after death. said to Jesus, or he said to his friend rather, he said, Do you fear God seeing we're in the same condemnation, we're under the same judgment. Suddenly he realized that he was going to die and he was going to have to I want to say something, ladies and gentlemen. After death there is a judgment. There is a judgment. Let me ask you ask you a question, are you prepared for that? A lot of times we don't think about it. This all of a sudden realized that he's going to have to face Almighty God But there's a second thing he realized. He realized that he was a sinner. Notice what else it says. He said, We indeed justly, we suffer justly. We're receiving the due reward for our sins You know what he was saying? He's saying, you know what? I'm deserving what I get because I'm a sinner. I want to tell you something. Does Jesus save someone in the bottom of the ninth? He will if they realize that they're a sinner I want to tell you something. This is something that everyone needs to understand. If you don't understand what the problem is in your life, then you'll never understand the solution. And if you want to know Jesus as your Savior, if you want to have eternal life in heaven, you have to first realize that all of us are sinners. Of us. We're born in sin. The Bible says, for all have sinned. This man finally realized that he was a sinner. But I'll tell you something else that he realized. He realized that Jesus was sinless. Because this is what he said. Listen. He said, We indeed suffer justly, but this man has done nothing amiss. He hasn't done anything. Jesus was sinless. And that's the next thing you have to realize. You have to realize there's a judgment. You have to realize that all of us are sinners. And you have to realize that Jesus is sinless. Sinless. Because, friend, if Jesus were not sinless, he couldn't be the Savior. Just before Jesus went to the cross, Pilate said, I find no fault in him. And let me tell you something, young People. Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. Jesus was the sinless Son of God who came to this world so that he could take all the sins of the world upon himself. And in order for him to qualify to be the Savior, he had to be sinless. And this man suddenly realized that there was no fault in Jesus. Let me tell you something else he realized. Not only did he realize there's a judgment, that he was a sinner, that Jesus was sinless, let me tell you something else. He realized that Jesus Jesus was the Lord. Listen to what he prayed. Now listen, this is the most wonderful prayer for salvation in all of the Bible, in all the New Testament. This is a model prayer Listen to what he said. He said, Lord, remember me. Now think about that. Lord. He called him Lord. So what does this thief finally realize about Jesus? He's the Lord Lord. And if you call him Lord or my Lord, what does that make him? That may, by the way, the word Lord means master. If you're a master, that makes you the slave or servant. So he's calling Jesus now Lord. He realizes that he's Lord. You know what salvation is? Salvation is trading masters. You know what? When I got saved, I traded masters. You know who was my first master? Sin. Because I was under the control of my sin nature. And when I got saved, sin was no longer my master. Jesus became my master. That's what salvation is. So suddenly this man on the cross, he realizes that there's a judgment. He realizes that he's a sinner. He realizes that Jesus is sinless. And he also realizes that he's Lord. But let me tell you something else. Look at verse 42 again. Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. There's another thing that dawned on him. You know what it was? Jesus had the power to forgive sin. When he said, Remember me when you come into your kingdom, he was essentially saying, Jesus, forgive me and give me eternal life. I want to have eternal life, and I want you to forgive me. Now think about Who has the power to forgive sin on that kind of scale? Only God. So now the thief realizes that he's not just a man, he's Lord, but he's also God because he has the power to forgive sin. By the way, the Jews in the New Testament they understood that about Jesus. There's a story about a man who was lowered through a roof, who was paralyzed, and Jesus healed him, and then Jesus said to him, Thy sins be forgiven thee. And you know the Pharisees said, Who can say that? Only God has the power to do that But when Jesus said that, you know what he was saying to everyone around? I am God. And I do have the power to forgive sin. So suddenly this thief realizes this. He realizes that Jesus has The power to forgive sin. He realizes that there's a judgment, that he's a sinner, that Jesus is sinless, that Jesus is Lord, that Jesus has the power to forgive sin. And there's another thing that dawned on him, and that's this. He knew that Jesus was a king. Listen to what he said. He said, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy what? Kingdom Now listen, if you have a kingdom, what does that make you? It makes you a king. So now suddenly he realizes Jesus is the kingdom. King. He's king over all. You know what? You have to realize that if you want to have salvation, that Jesus is a king. And by the way, that's the whole purpose for the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus came as the Son of David, as the Messiah, as the King. And you must recognize his kingship. He realizes that Jesus is King, but then there's another thing that he realizes. He knows now that Jesus is going to come back from the dead. He's going to resurrect from the grave. You might say, well, where do you get that? Because he said unto him, he said to Jesus, Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Let me tell you something. Jesus can't do all these things that he asked if he stayed in that grave. He couldn't bring him into his kingdom if he was a dead Savior. He couldn't forgive his sin if he were a dead Savior. So now he realizes that this one, Jesus, although he will die, he won't stay dead. He's going to set up his kingdom so he realizes now that he has power over death. He knows there's a judgment. He knows that he's a sinner. He knows that he's uh that Jesus is sinless. He knows that Jesus is the Lord. He knows that Jesus has the power to forgive sin. Therefore he's God. He realizes that Jesus is the king. He realizes that Jesus has the power over death. But let me tell you the last thing he realizes. Listen, he knew he had absolute authority Because he said again, Lord, remember me, when you come into your kingdom. Now he realizes that Jesus is the one who determines where a person will go for eternity. You know Jesus will determine where you will spend eternity. He will say to one, Come here on my right hand, and to the everything that my Father has prepared for you. And he'll say to others, Come here Over here on my other hand, and you'll have to suffer punishment. You say, what's the difference? How does he divide between those who go to heaven and those who go to hell? It's just one thing When you acknowledge the Lordship of Christ, that Jesus died on the cross for your sins, and you pray like this thief prayed, Lord, remember me. Lord, forgive me. Come into my heart, forgive me, save me. Me. Give me eternal life. You know what Jesus will say to people like that when they come truly repentant and broken over their sin? He'll say, Come into my kingdom. Come here unto my right hand. Because he has the power. to determine whether a person goes to heaven or goes to hell. Now listen, let me tell you what Jesus said to him. Listen to the words of Jesus Verse 43, and Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, listen, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Isn't that reassuring? I want to tell you, no one had better assurance of salvation than that thief on the cross. Sometimes people will pray and then they'll doubt their salvation. This thief he didn't doubt because Jesus said directly to him, today you're going to be with me in paradise. And I want to tell you something, friend, if you receive Jesus into your heart, you Have the absolute assurance that you will spend eternity in heaven. So, what does this tell us about salvation? Let me tell you what it tells us: that salvation is all of God, it is all of His grace. Sometimes people will say, well, if you want to get saved, you have to do all these religious rituals. This thief could do no religious ritual. He was on a cross. Someone says, Oh, you have to be baptized in water before you'll get saved. This thief couldn't be baptized in water. It's not being baptized in water that makes you saved or going to a church or doing religious ritual. This thief could do nothing. He couldn't do anything except one thing. Believe on Jesus Christ. Put his faith on Christ. That's all he could do. He didn't have time for anything else. In fact, when he prayed that prayer, when you're on a cross, you can't hardly breathe, and so he had to push up and say, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And then he would, and Jesus said today, you'll be with me in paradise. All it took for this man to get saved was for him to acknowledge Jesus. Acknowledge that he is Lord, he's king, he's God, he suffered and died for this man's sin, and he will rise again, and he will establish his kingdom. And he will determine who goes to heaven and who doesn't. And those who put their faith in Jesus Christ will go to heaven. And you can hear the words to your heart spoken by God's peace, that you'll be with me in paradise. If you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to ask you a question. I'm done when I ask this question. Do you know for certain Are you absolutely sure? Now someone may be sitting here and thinking, well, I'll just wait. Friend, don't wait because you don't know what will happen tomorrow. You don't know. This could be the bottom of the ninth for you right now This could be the last inning. You don't know that. Something could happen to you and you say, well, I'm young. Death has no respect for persons. We just saw the testimony of a wonderful young man, Jordan Carter. And you know, I want to tell you something about Jordan. He's in heaven today, folks. He's in heaven. You know why? Because he put his faith in Jesus Christ. And we're going to see him again there in heaven. In fact, I think he's up there saving all the best faces for us in heaven. He's enjoying heaven, but he's in heaven because he did what this thief did. He said, Lord, remember me. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, that is the way that anyone will ever go to heaven. It's not by works, it's by placing your faith in what Jesus Jesus Christ did for you on the cross. So I want you to bow your heads with me and close your eyes. And I want to ask you, do you know absolutely certain in your heart That you're a Christian, that you're a child of God. If you know that, would you just raise your hand with no one looking around? I know that for sure. I know that. Put your hands down. Maybe you couldn't raise your hand. And again, I'm not here to embarrass your friend. As I said, upwards is about people knowing Jesus Christ. That's all it's about. And so friend, if you couldn't raise your hand, would you be willing to pray right there where you are? You can just pray this prayer in your heart. You don't have to pray It out loud. You can pray it right there in your heart. Say these words. Say, Lord Jesus, I know that you are The Savior. I know that I'm a sinner and that you're sinless. I know that you died for my sins on the cross, and that you're Lord. And that you're king and that you're God. And that you rose again from the dead. And right now I'm putting my faith in you as my only salvation. I'm putting my faith And what you did for me on the cross. Forgive me, Lord Jesus, save me. Friend, if you'll reach out in faith and pray and just say, Lord, save me. Forgive me. He'll do that right there where you are. He'll meet you right where you are. You know what I love about this story? It shows that Jesus is anxious and willing to save. He's anxious and willing to And friend, he'll save you if you'll come to him today. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. How many say that's my prayer today? Would you raise your hand and say, pray for me? God bless you. God bless you. Father, seal these words to those who are here today. May they see Christ on the cross. May they see that salvation is by grace through faith in what Jesus did, nothing else but placing your faith in Christ. And Father, may they like this Thief reach out in faith and say, Remember me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Bless these words to every hearing heart today. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.