Thank you, John. Take your Bible tonight, please. Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. We are doing a study called uh the Hall of Fame of Faith, and we're looking into this chapter and seeing how we can learn about faith, and hopefully this will encourage us and our faith so that it'll grow. The title of the sermon tonight is A Dead Man Still Speaks. There's an old saying that goes, Dead men tell no tales. I'm sure you've heard that expression, the idea that a dead man can give no information or witness Or anything like that. The problem is that's not true. Um dead men can speak, and this is precisely what the Bible is talking about here with regard to Abel. He died many thousands of years ago, and yet his story and his life is still speaking today. It's a message that we all need to hear, a message that is vital In Hebrews chapter 11, remember this is all about faith. This is called the faith chapter of the Bible. And last week we kind of looked at a description of faith. We said that faith makes the future unknown or present reality. Also that faith takes something hoped for and not realized and gives it substance. It sees it. We have faith, but our faith has substance. It has weight. Um, we have faith in things hoped for. That is things we haven't possessed, things that we don't have in our hands, things that we can't see with our eyes. And yet, our faith makes those things a present reality. Things that are in yet in the future, it becomes a present reality Things about heaven. I've never seen heaven, never been there, and yet I know that it's real. And it's my faith in what the Bible says about heaven is so real that that future reality is real right now. It makes it a present reality. Faith then is based on the revelation of God. It's based on the Word of God. We hear people say, well, you know, I have faith. You just have to have faith. And my big question is faith in what? What are you talking about when you say we just have to have faith? Many people have faith in the wrong thing. They have faith in self. I I don't have any faith in self. Faith in science. Science can only get you so far. Faith in uh a person or an idea or a philosophy, faith In faith, some people believe that faith in itself has some magical power that if you just possess this faith, that you're able to call into reality things that you can uh conceive in your mind. And that's simply not true. Real faith, genuine faith, is faith in the revelation of God. Faith in the Word of God. Romans 10:17. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. It is having faith in the promises of God's word and what God says. Now, the men and women that are mentioned here in Hebrews chapter 11 had nothing but God's promises. That's all that they had. And yet they believed so much. In fact, the promises that they have, many of them were not even realized. And yet their faith had substance. It made the future unknown, that which is invisible visible to them. It gave substance because they believed in what God said. And because of their faith, the Bible says that they had a good report. Again, look in Hebrews chapter eleven, look at verse number thirty-nine, and notice what it says. All these are the are excuse me, and these all having obtained a good report through faith received not the promises. Good report by God, that is. They believed in a promise that God made that had not yet been realized. They had no visible evidence that the promises would be fulfilled. Yet the promises were very real to them. They were so real that they made that future unknown a present reality. And God was pleased because of their faith. These people lived in promises, again, that they never ever saw. And it makes a uh the Hebrews chapter eleven makes an incredible statement about the life of Moses in verse twenty-six. We looked at this last week, but by way of review, just look at it again, verse twenty-six, where it says, Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt That is, Moses was willing to give up the invisible treasures of Egypt because he was the adopted son of Pharaoh's daughter. Which gave him privilege, it gave him treasure, it gave him opportunity, and yet he was willing to give all of those visible in hand things up for a promise about the Messiah that had not yet been realized All he had was the promise of messianic hope. But that hope was so powerful and the promise so secure and sure that again it had substance to him And it had weight. He was glad to let go of what he had in his hand to live for something that he had not seen with his eyes, and yet he believed. And that was the way it was with all these people that are listed here in Hebrews chapter 11. All these people were people of faith. Faith was trust in God's promise for the future as yet unrealized. And they took God at his word. Now, this kind of faith is contrary to the world. The world looks at us who believe in things that we have not seen and they think that we're crazy. They think that, you know, you can only believe in what you can see or what you can handle. So this kind of faith is against the world. Uh to to to believe in something that you cannot see, uh they just don't get that. The world, however, they have nothing uh substantial to believe in. We have the word of God. But also this kind of faith is contrary to the senses. Again, people say, I want something I can lay my hands on, something that I can see something empirical that I can uh uh uh uh uh you know know with my five senses. Uh something like that. But So that's why the world can't really accept this kind of faith. But notice what the Bible says about this faith. Look in verse 6 of chapter 11. But without faith it's impossible to please God, for he that cometh of God must believe that he is. You want to come to God, you have to believe that he is, even though you've never seen him. Even though you can't really know him empirically, you have to believe, nevertheless, that he is. And not only is he who he claims to be, and he exists, he is, but also that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him And we have to believe that. So this kind of faith goes against the world, it goes against the senses, and also it is belief against the present. The Christian sacrifices the pleasures of the present world for the promises of this future reality. And that's what we live for. Now the writer of Hebrews was telling these people that he was writing to to live by faith, to trust Christ by faith. And you remember he had a big challenge because who he was writing to were a group of people that had gotten connected with the church, and they had not yet made a full commitment to Jesus Christ, and many of them were considering the claims of the gospel in Christ, but they were also considering turning back into Judaism And the writer is saying to them, Look, you don't want to do that because that would be a big mistake. Look at chapter ten and look at number verse thirty eight. Now the just shall live by faith, and if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. The writer is reminding them, look, you have to come to God by faith, and the just will live by faith, and if you turn back, God will not have any pleasure in you. This is a warning. To come to the new covenant, leave the old covenant, leave the shadow, and come to the substance. All the old covenant pointed to the Messiah, Jesus Christ. Now it's time to come to Jesus, who is a better sacrifice. And he's better than Moses. He's better than Aaron. He's better than the prophets. He's better than Joshua. He had a better sacrifice than any sacrifice in the Old Testament. He sacrificed himself once for all. And that sacrifice paid the price for sin. The Old Testament sacrifices couldn't pay for sin. They can only point to the one who did pay for sin, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so don't turn back. And he points to the Old Testament. He quotes from the Old Testament in verse 38 of chapter 10. The just shall live by faith. That's out of the book of Habakkuk. It's as if he's saying to that crowd, look, just in case you think That the Old Testament was all about works and pleasing God through works. Just remember that people in the Old Testament live by faith. And he quotes this passage from Habakkuk, the just shall live by faith. You see, the problem was is that these folks were into a Judaism that was an apostate Judaism. It was not the Judaism of the Old Testament It was an apostate form of Judaism which twisted the Old Testament scriptures and said that you please God by works and you come to God by works and you have to make God satisfied by the works that you do. And the writer is trying to show that that is simply not true. It is salvation is always by faith. That is the way anyone has ever been saved. That is the way anyone has ever come to God in salvation, and that is through faith. And that's clear in the Old Testament. These people that that were that God was pleased with, these people that were justified, they came to God by faith. The same exact thing. And so he's making that very, very clear when he quotes from Habakkuk 2 4. Then in Hebrews chapter 11, he gives a list of people throughout the Old Testament who came to know God and trust God by faith, and God was pleased with them. And so chapter 11 then is loaded with one illustration after another of someone who lived by faith in the promises of God. Faith in the revealed word of God. By faith, Abel, verse 4, by faith Enoch, verse 5, by faith, Noah, verse 7, by faith Abraham, verse 8. Again in verse 17, ver Abraham, verse 20 by faith Isaac, 21 by faith Jacob and Joseph, and then so on. And it just goes all the way through the chapter until you get all the way down to verse 32, and he mentions a A whole host of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and David and Samuel and all the these great heroes of the Old Testament are people who please God not by works, but they please God by faith. They live by faith. They were saved by faith. So to get his point across, he starts in the beginning. He starts in the book of Genesis. And the first character that we're going to look at is in verse 4. He's talking about uh Abel in verse number four. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts And by it he being dead yet speaketh. Now someone says, well, if he's going to start at the beginning, he's going to start at the Old Testament, why not Adam and Eve? I had a little boy leave this morning. I was back in the back shaking hands. A little boy came up to me, because I had a question. I'm always a little nervous when a little boy asks me a question. They could come up with some waffers, you know. And he goes, you know, what about Adam? You talk about Adam this morning, you know. Did he ever get saved? Adam ever gets saved? That's a good question. Everything about that? Well, yes, he did get saved. He believed in the promise that God gave in Genesis three fifteen about the coming deliverer, the coming Messiah. God covered him with g coats of skin. And uh so but we don't start with Adam and Eve, however. They aren't examples of faith because they had the privilege of living by sight before the fall. They saw the presence of God. And you remember the Bible says that we walk by faith, not by sight. They walked and talked with God in the cool of the day in the garden, so they had the presence of God with them in the garden. Abel, on the other hand, was conceived and born outside of Eden after the fall. His parents were expelled from the presence of God, so he himself was raised. in that expelled situation. He had not seen a manifestation of the invisible God. And so we the writer starts then with Abel. And he mentions three things about him in verse four. He offered a better sacrifice, he obtained the testimony that he was righteous because of that, and thirdly, through faith, though he is dead, he is still speaking today. Because of his faith. So he's a model of faith in the sacrifice that he brought to God. He's a model in that way. He offered a better sacrifice. So let's look at each one of these things. First of all, number one, notice the sacrifice that he offered. The sacrifice that he offered. Look at verse 4. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. The way Abel offered is described in two ways. First of all, he did it by faith. Remember, faith rests in the revelation of God's word, right? So faith obeys God's word. And Abel offered a sacrifice in obedience to God's word So it was a by faith offering, and because it was a by faith offering, it was a better offering, better than came, more excellent. This is one word, fitting, appropriate. One word in the Greek, pleon. mo it more appropriate, better in comparison to the offering that Cain gave. So in order really to understand this, we have to compare the two. So would you just hold your place here? Go back to the book of Genesis, chapter 4. Go back to Genesis chapter 4. Let's look at these two brothers and see the contrast that's given. Now, the writer of Hebrews doesn't have to really go over this in detail because he's writing the Hebrews who knew this story very well But it's good to look at it. And so notice verse 1 of chapter 4. Let's look at what I want to call two brothers at work. Look at verse 1. Now faith is I'm sorry, I'm reading from chapter 11. Let me go back to Genesis 4. 1. Go back. Okay, chapter four, verse one. And Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. So there comes the birth of a baby. Adam and Eve has a son. And with the birth of Cain, Eve expressed really high hopes. Notice she says she names him Cain because she says I have gotten a man from the Lord. There's a play on the words in Hebrew here, Cain and Kanah. And so Caim means gotten, Kanam meaning acquired. So many Bible scholars think that Adam and Eve thought that Cain was the promised deliverer. And so we could really translate this. I have uh uh gotten a man, even the Lord. Is what some Old Testament scholars think that this is a correct translation. For example, the great Hebrew scholar Walt Kaiser argues that it should be translated: I have gotten a man, even the Lord. And so w if this is the correct meaning, what this means is that E thought that she was given the deliverer. Remember, God made a promise and Genesis 3. 15, that because of the sin of Adam and Eve, he was going to send a deliverer, a seed of the woman who would be the deliverer of them from their circumstances. And so here she has a son and she thinks that this son is the answer to that promise that God made, that Cain is the deliverer. Uh she felt that Cain was h the Messiah, so she has really high hopes. But as we're going to see, Cain was far from that, right? And there was a way off before that deliverer would come. But then she has another son, Abel. In verse number two. And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of the sheep, but Cain was the tiller of the ground. Now the name Abel means vanity or emptiness. That's quite a difference. From Cain. Why did she name him that? Well, I think by this time perhaps Adam and Eve saw the vanity that their sin had brought to all the world. They went from living in the presence of God in the Garden of Eden to be expelled from the Garden, living in a world where they had to till the ground and make get their own bread And they went from the fullness of the joy of being in the presence of God to living outside of Eden and seeing the vanity of a life outside of the presence of God. And a world that was very hard. So it was an expression of the hard life they were living and encountered outside the garden. That was all beginning to take its toll on Adam and Eve. And so she, while she had hope with the birth of Cain, there's none expressed at the birth of Abel. And the Bible says Abel was a shepherd, Cain was a farmer. So we see the first shepherd and the first farmer here in the Bible. Again, life outside the garden was difficult. They had to work for their food. Inside the garden you would never have those trades or those professions, but now they're outside the garden. And Abel's pre-occupation provided clothing and sacrifice. Cain's occupation provided food. So we see two brothers at work. Now, but secondly, two brothers at worship. Look at verse 3. And so it says, and in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. Verse 4, and Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel unto his offering. But unto Cain, unto his offering he had not respect, and Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. Now one of the central truths of this chapter is not only the effects of sin, but also the worship of God. And I want you to notice three things about the worship here. First of all, there was a definite place of worship. In verse 3, it says Cain brought fruit of the ground, and Abel brought. Brought where? That implies that they have to bring them somewhere, right? Well, where did they bring them to? This implies a definite place. And if you look at verse 16 of chapter 4, Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. Well now wait a minute, God is everywhere. So again, the idea is that there was a central place of worship where they went to meet with God. God had set up a d a designation. He had set up a location. And there was possibly there was an altar there that God had established at that place. We don't know where that place was located. There's ground for believing, however, that it was east of the Garden of Eden. There are some commentators that mention this, Jamison Fawcett and Brown in their commentary say this, and he that is God dwelt at the east of the Garden of Eden between the cherubim as the Shekinah. That is the flaming sword, the fiery sword, to keep open the way to the tree of life. Now, if that's true, that means that God dwelt at a certain place. He established there an altar. And literally, if you translate it, he dwelt between the cherubim, or v uh between the cherubim, that would be like God's Shekinah Gori Pleasant between outstretched cherubim wings, like you would see on the uh the Ark of the Covenant. That maybe that was the altar where God established east of Eden, where they were to come and worship and meet with God and bring their sacrifice to God that was pleasing to God. So there was a definite place Where they went to worship, but there was also a definite time. In verse 3 it says in the process of time. The Hebrew there is a case at the end of Time is the word yum, which is the plural form of day. So we could translate it at the end of days. At the end of days, and I think it means at the end of the week. So God had established a certain day for worship. He established a certain place where they are to come and meet with God and bring their sacrifice. He established a certain day when they are come to worship, and he established a definite manner in which they could approach God. Again in verse number three. Where it says that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel he also he also brought of the firstlings of his flock. Now, they could approach God and worship only by means of sacrifice. And so all this implies that the children of Adam and Eve had been definitely instructed by God As to how, and by Adam and Eve as well, as to how they were to approach God, the place they were to go, the time they were to go, and the manner in which they were to go and to approach God in worship. Neither Cain nor Abel would have known anything unless they were taught that. God taught Adam and Eve, and Adam and Eve taught their children. And I believe that God taught them what he expected. God told them exactly what he expected them to bring at the time of worship. You know, we we we can't punish our children for them doing something that we didn't make clear that they were not supposed to do. Right? I mean that would be unjust as parents. Surely you don't do that, mom and dad. You don't chastise your children for something they didn't know about. Unless they were clearly instructed and given specific instruction about what they were to do, and then if they ignore it, that's a different story. So I think that God instructed them about what they were to bring. He was very specific. And What we have then is a contrast between Cain, who did not follow God's instructions, who wanted to do his own thing and wanted to be accepted by God. And Abel, who offered a better sacrifice by faith because he followed the revelation of God. He did what God said to do. There's a contrast between the offerings here. Cain was bloodless. It was the fruit of his own labor. It was the fruit of the ground. By the way, God had cursed the ground. He cursed the ground in Genesis 3. 17. But then there's Abel's offering. It was the best of his flock. It was a blood sacrifice. The Bible says without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. And it was without Abel's labor of works. And so Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. It didn't say that Abel was more excellent, but that his sacrifice was more excellent, that God accepted Abel and the way he brought his sacrifice, but under Cain's he did not have respect. This wasn't personal. This wasn't the fact that God liked Abel better than Cain. It was that God had prescribed a definite means by which they were to worship and Cain ignored that way and tried to do it his own way and Cable and and Abel again their name's mix stuff there, not Cable, but Abel. He followed specifically what God said. Abel heard God's word and believed God, and he approached God the divinely appointed way that God prescribed. Cain did not. Cain thought, I don't need a blood sacrifice. Look at these vegetables. Look at these this fruit that I I uh I wrought with all of my sweat and all my labor and all my hands. Cain did not recognize the need for a blood sacrifice or atonement. And in this, Cain is the father of all false religion. And false worship. He was the first one, and many followed down that heretical path, to try and come to God their own way, based on their own merit and their own works. And he is the father of apostate religion. Jude wrote this in Jude 11, Woe unto them, for they've gone in the way of Cain. Talk about all these apostates later. that would come through the years, they have all followed in the way of Cain. There are many people today that want to come to God based on their own works, their own righteousness, their own terms. And Cain is the first purveyor of then this false religion. But Abel, however, his sacrifice was acceptable. Why? Because he simply obeyed God. He obeyed the instructions of Almighty God. There was the sacrifice he offered. But then notice the salvation he obtained. It says again in Hebrews 11, 4. that Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous Notice that he was righteous. When Abel brought his sacrifice to the altar, God gave a witness and testified that Abel's offering was accepted, and God therefore counted Abel righteous. And it was all by faith. Abel's faith in the word of God and obeying what God said. And God said, that act of faith means that you are now counted righteous. Now we said there was a definite place, a definite time, a definite manner of worship, but what we see here now is a definite acceptance. Because God again had respect unto Abel, but under Cain he did not respect his offering. And now you say, now, how did God testify? How did they know that Abel's offering was acceptable and Cain's was not? Was there some kind of visible demonstration that showed that God accepted Abel's offering and that he rejected King's? And what would that be? And what would that be based on? And I think if you look in the pattern in the Old Testament Anytime in the Old Testament a man made a sacrifice to God and God sh was wanting to demonstrate publicly before others that he accepted that sacrifice, what would take place? Fire would come from heaven and consume that altar We see that in several places. We see it in Leviticus 9. 24. There came a fire before the Lord and upon the altar of the burnt offering. And when the people saw that, they shouted, they fell on their faces. When Gideon prepared an offering, the Bible says that a fire rose up and consumed that offering. In 1 Kings 18, 24, there's another altar there, and they called on the name of the Lord, and they made a sacrifice there, and the Bible says the fire fell. David offered a sacrifice in 1 Chronicles 21, and the Bible says that fire from heaven fell upon the altar of the burnt offering. We also see this in 2 Chronicles 7:1. When Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the Lord fell upon the house So every time God wants to show that he accepts a sacrifice, firefalls. And I think this is what happened here in this story. I think that when Abel brings his blood sacrifice to the altar, the place God prescribed, offers it to the Lord, fire consumes That sacrifice showing that it was accepted by God. And when Cain comes and he brings this beautiful basket of fruit of fruit and vegetables, and he puts it down on the altar, and he waits, and guess what? Nothing happens. God does not accept that sacrifice. And the Bible says that Cain becomes very, very angry. He was very wroth. In verse 5, but under Cain to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. Cain was very proud of what he offered. He was very happy with himself, what he produced, and how well he had done But God was not. No approval from God. No heavenly fire. No visible token of divine approval. God did not respect that offering. Pride kept them from doing it the way that God wanted it done. And so again, you see here in the very beginning, the be the beginning of two religions, God's way and man's way, and there's always been those two. God's way and man's way. You don't find acceptance based on your own works. And you don't come to God on your own prescribed way. You come the way that God says. We still have that today. We have people trying to make up their own way of getting to God. Making up their prescribing their own way of worship, doing their own thing. And being very proud of themselves for doing that. And yet it's not accepted by God. And Cain is angry. And uh he has heard about this. Abel, on the other hand, he is saved by faith, by obeying the word of God, by obeying what God says. And so I want you to see the next thing here. We see the sacrifice he offered. We see the salvation he obtained. And by the way, that blood Sacrifice, that all points to Jesus Christ, right? Do I need to tell you that you all know that? It all points to what Jesus is going to do in the future. The only way we can approach God is through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, not our own works It's through Jesus Christ in Christ alone. Salvation is through him. But then there's number three, the sermon he outlined. Notice at the end of verse 4 it says in of Hebrews 11, and he and by it he being dead yet speaks. Even though Abel is dead, he's still speaking today. How? Oh he speaks to God Again, in Genesis 4, verse number 6, it says this. Now we know Cain was angry, his countenance fell. Verse 6: And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? Why is thou thy countenance fallen? This is this is the condition of Cain's heart. This he's clearly revealed He's his anger against God. He's so filled with pride, he's so filled with stubbornness, he refuses to humble himself, he refuses to admit that he was a sinner and do it God's way. I think that even then if he would have found uh a lamb from his brother's flock and take it to sacrifice, God would have accepted that. But he doesn't do that. This is the heart of a lost afraid sinner. They're hostile towards God. Their mind is at enmity against God. And so there's the warning that God gives. God is saying, you know, you need to be careful, because if you're not careful, sin will overcome you. Again, in verse number 7, if thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? If thou doest not well, sin lies at the door. God says, look, if you do the right thing, you will be accepted. If you come my way and obey my word, you'll be accepted. But if you don't, sin lies at the door. Now some interpret this as Where it says sin lies at the door, as if there's a sin offering. God is saying, hey, there's a sin offering there right at your door. You can take that and bring it to me and offer and everything will be all right. I don't think that's what's happening here. That's not the way to translate this. I think what he's talking about is this: if you don't do the right thing, sin is at the door and it's ready to pounce on you like a ravenous lion and overtake you. If you harden your heart and try to do things your own way, sin will overtake you. Sin's like a crouching lion at the door, like an animal. This reminds me of 1 Peter 5. 8. Satan's like a roaring lion seeking who he may devour. You better master your sin, or it will master you, it will rule over you. You give Sin an inch, it'll take a mile. And so God is warning Cain here to do the right thing. But he doesn't. Notice Cain's wickedness looking verse eight of Genesis 4. And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass that when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. His anger had boiled to a point to where he was out of control. And this anger caused him to do a wicked deed. He lures his brother into the field. Let us go to the field. And he slew him. The word slew here, the Hebrew word, murder out of hand. With his hands, he murders him. And I think that Cain probably just cut his throat. That was this is the first death in the Bible, first murder. How did they know how things died? The only way they could do that is When Abel would offer his lamb, he would cut the throat, probably instructed by God on how to sacrifice the animal. And Abel is a victim of what Cain saw Abel do with the animal. He takes and he cuts the throat of his brother, I believe that's what What's going on here? It's almost like this. Okay, God, you want a blood sacrifice? Here's one. And he cuts the throat of his brother. That's the attitude in which it happens here. And in 1 John 3, 2, the word meaning to slaughter, it has the idea of slaughtering a victim for sacrifice. When John later is commenting on this event in the Old Testament, The Greek word that he uses in 1 John 3. 12 has the idea of slitting the throat, like you're going to offer a sacrifice. So that's Cain saying, okay, God, you want to sacrifice? Here's one. Here's my brother. And this murder was done in anger. It was a wicked deed. And the Bible says in 1 John, Cain who was of that That wicked one slew his brother. He was no doubt inspired by the devil to do this very thing. And uh his deeds were evil, the Bible says. Abel's works were righteous. Cain's were wicked. Abel was accepted by God. Cain was not. And I think that this kind of bore over because, you know, there was there wasn't a whole lot of people to socialize with back there in that time. It was just Cain and Abel, two brothers. And if you had to live with a brother who was more righteous than you every day, you could probably get pretty angry at that guy You know, and it all boiled up. It boiled over, and Cain kills Abel. Again, Abel is an example of a, or Cain is an example of an unrepentant unbeliever who hates the believer. And John uses this later on in his epistle to talk about that. It's an illustration of the world and the world's hatred against those who are true believers, those who are godly. Now, what does God do with Cain after this. Look at verse 9. And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? Now God comes. No sooner had Cain done this awful deed than the Lord calls Cain into account. And this time Cain had not gone to the place of sacrifice to seek God, but God goes seeking Cain. Here's God coming after him. And he asked him a question: Where is Abel thy brother? Now God already knows. Why is God asking? He wants a confession from Cain. Even now God speaks in mercy, desiring to forgive Cain if he would repent, if he would admit it, if he would confess it. And Cain's answer shows the hardness of his corrupt heart. He lies to God. Look at verse 9. And he said, I know not. I don't know. I don't know where he is. That's a lie. And then he says this in total arrogance, his insolent words. Am I my brother's keeper? What's the insinuation there? Can't you keep track of your own creation God? Am I supposed to be the one following after or keeping after everyone? I mean can't you do that? I'm not my brother's keeper. You are. There's not one word of repentance. There's no contrition, no desire to do what's right. Unbelievers sometimes, even when confronted with the truth, refuse to listen and to accept their sin. Or acknowledge their sin. And so look in verse number 10. And he said, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. And this is a really important sentence in the Bible. Every crime committed, every sin committed rises to God. It cries out to God. That's why David said in Psalm 51: against thee and thee only have I sinned. Because he knew that every sin reaches to God. There's not one sin that goes unnoticed by God. They all cry out to God So this is a figure of speech to indicate that every sin rises to God. Every sin offends Almighty God. He knows everyone And so God then becomes the prosecutor here. And then he says this The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Verse 11. And now thou art cursed from the earth, which has opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. And so God take is is Abel's uh so Abel's first speaking was to God that his murder might be avenged. It is his blood crying out to God. We're talking about this able, though dead, still speaks. How does he speak? Here's the first way he speaks. It is his blood crying out to God. For what's it crying out for? It's crying out for vengeance. It's crying out for justice. And by the way, beloved, God will pour out vengeance on all murderers. He will. He's a holy God. He will let nothing go by. So he speaks to the Lord. He speaks to his brother. And verse eleven, God says this, Now that now and now art thou cursed from the earth, which has opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. Now you're cursed. You're brought in before the divine tribunal. You are indicted by God. You are cursed. And there's a two-fold curse that comes upon Cain. First of all, he will be a failed farmer. And he said in verse twelve, And when thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength. A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. There's two things that are happening. First of all You're not going to be able to produce any more fruit from the ground. By the way, this is the thing that Cain was proud of most in his life. What was he? He was a farmer that was able to give great produce. But God said no more. That thing in which you're most proud of, your greatest strength, you'll till the ground, but you won't yield a thing. This is the curse of Cain. Sometimes when I try to plant things, I think I have the curse of Cain on me. Because I can't get it to grow. It always dies. Anyone else here like that? Don't raise your hand. You know, but God said to Cain, Whatever you put in the ground, it's not that's not gonna grow. You have the opposite of a green thumb. Everything you touch will die in the agricultural realm. The ground will yield nothing to you. You'll never be able to survive as a farmer your cur your curses from the ground. And by the way, this is also a direct commentary by God on the offering of Cain. God would see that he never ever was able again to make another offering from the fruit of the ground. He'll never be able to do that again. No more hypocritical offerings It'll no longer yield to you. But then here's the second part of the curse. You'll wander around like a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth. You'll have no place of rest. You'll have no permanent place. Now, after all this, Cain still doesn't repent. His mind is occupied more with the punishment than his own sin. And verse 13, and Cain said unto the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bare. Look at verse 14. Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from before the face of the earth, and from thy face shall I be hid. And I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth, and it shall come to pass that everyone that findeth me shall slay me And so he says, Look, this is just too much. I'm going to have to live all of my life in hiding. I'm going to have to hide from you Try to get away from you, and then I'm also going to be everyone else around me is going to know who I am and they're going to want to kill me, and so I'm not going to have any place to dwell. I have no place in which I can live safely. I'll be a wanderer He worried about being slain by those he might encounter. After all, everybody was related back then. Right? They all came out of the same family. Everybody would have known what Cain had done. Can you imagine how tough it would be? You're the only um you know one that's running uh rejected by everyone else around you, thrown out on your own, you can't grow anything, you don't have any animals, a difficult way to make a living. And you have to hide and worry about someone killing you during that time. But here God is gracious even in this because look what God says to him in verse number 14. And the Lord said unto him, Therefore, whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him. And so God does something merciful. God is the avenger. God says, look, I'm the one that's the avenger. I'm not going to let anyone else do the avenging. So God put a mark on Cain. He doesn't allow blood revenge. In fact, in this case, God becomes the protector of this killer. He becomes the protector of Cain, and I call this common grace. This is the providential common grace of God. God let him live, let him wander. And he marks them with a sign. You say, why did God do that? Well, because God is basically gracious to sinners. And what does the Bible say in Romans 2:4? The forbearance and long-suffering of God should lead you to repentance. It should have led Cain to be repentant. But Cain leaves defiantly. Look at verse 16. And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwell in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. So he defiantly leaves the presence of the Lord. He dwells in Nod, which means wandering. He'll have no rest. And that's again the commentary on Anyone who rejects coming God's way. Anyone who rejects God's prescribed way of coming to Him through the blood through the shed blood of the innocent one through the Lord Jesus Christ. You reject that way, you will have no rest in this life. No rest. That's the devastation that sin brings and the refusal to repent and come God's way. And so Abel He spoke to God. His blood cried out to God. He spoke to his brother, but then here's the next thing. Abel speaks to us in this later generation. That's the primary meaning of Hebrews 11:4. By faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and he being dead yet speaks. Abel speaks to us today, and he says these things. First of all, what does he say? That man comes to God by faith, not by works. Abel was the first preacher that preached, the just shall live by faith. You come to God by faith. Number two, obey revelation above one's own reason and self-will. That's the other message Abel gives. You obey revelation above your own reason, above your own self-will. Some people think they can invent their own way. And reject God's word. If you do that, you'll pay the eternal consequences. And here's the third thing that Abel says: sin is severely punished. This is Abel's timeless three-point outline, a sermon to the world, and he's been preaching this for thousands of years to those who will hear. The sermon could be titled, The Just Shall Live By Faith. So because of Abel's faith, we see a dead man who still speaks. There is the sacrifice he offered, the salvation he obtained, the sermon that he outlined. Luther wrote this. He observed this when Abel was alive. He said, when Abel was alive, he could not Even he could not teach even his only brother by his faith and example, but now that he is dead, he teaches the whole world. And then he concluded he's more alive than ever. So great a thing faith is, it is it is life in God. So what about you? Do you have real faith? Faith in the revelation of God. Faith that believes and holds to God's word. Have you been saved? Have you come God's way? Are you worshiping God's way? That's what God wants of all of us. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Bow for prayer. And Father, thank you again for this reminder. in your word, that we all need to take heed to. The message that Abel speaks to us very loudly even today, that we come to you by faith That we don't trust in our own reason or revelation. We don't come strutting proudly to present to you our works in order to be accepted by you. No, we come the way you prescribed, the way of shed blood, the way of the cross, the way of Christ who bore on the cross. The penalty for all of our sins with his own shed blood and death. We come to you that way, and we live that way, and we obey your word. That is what faith is all about. Receiving your revelation, obeying your word. So, Father, bless these words to our hearts. May it increase our faith, we pray in Jesus' name