Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to First Peter, chapter number two, and uh we are dealing with First Peter. You remember that we're uh going through this book here on Sunday night. This is a wonderful epistle and we get a lot of instruction from it. And tonight we're going to deal with chapter two, verses one through three. And the title of my sermon tonight is very simple. It's a desire for the word, a desire for the word. I read a book years ago. The title of the book is A Quest for Godliness. And the subtitle of the book is called The Puritan Vision of the Christian Life. And this is a book written by J. Ipacker. And in the book, he talks about the godliness of Puritans. And that's the whole idea of the book, how that they were spiritual giants in a certain era of the church. And we would do well to imitate them in in in many ways. Of course, we don't agree with the Puritans on everything. Exactly, dot our eyes and cross our teeth see logically with them in every way. However, they were a great example of godliness And he tells a story in the book of a Puritan preacher by the name of Lawrence Chatterton, and he once apologized to his congregation for preaching two hours. Two hours. Wow. So you guys see how good that you have it here, right? And they when he apologized to them for preaching two hours, they responded by saying, For God's sake, sir, go on Go on. Every preacher's dream. You know. Two hours and they're saying, keep preaching. Well, when he was eighty-two years old, he decided to retire after fifty years of preaching in Chatterton uh received letters from forty clergy begging him not to testifying that their they owed their conversion to his ministry of the word. And this is what J. I. Packer writes in his book. He says this. Puritanism was, above all else a Bible movement. To the Puritan, the Bible was in truth the most precious possession that this world affords He goes on to say his deepest conviction, talking about the Puritan, his deepest conviction was that reverence for God means reverence for Scripture. And serving God means obeying Scripture. And to his mind, therefore, there could be no greater insult to the Creator than to neglect His written word. And conversely, there could be no truer act of homage to him than to prize it and to pour over it, and then to live it out and to give out its teaching. And I think that's right. We honor God by loving his word and by pouring over the scripture. And that was one of the hallmarks, according to J. I. Packer, of Puritanism. Now, I assure you, I'm not going to preach for two hours tonight. I'm not going to preach for one hour. In fact, I'm going to be kind of brief because I know we have a baptismal service, and I'm going to try to get all this done in 20 minutes you pray for me. But I would uh to God that He would use my feeble efforts to motivate every one of you to be in God's word consistently. To have God's word as a consistent part of your life. It should be such a consistent part of your life. It's just like eating. You know, breakfast, lunch, and dinner. We don't even think about it, we just do that. And friend, that's the way it ought to be with God's word in our life. It's more important than our necessary food. Job said this, right down Job twenty-three, twelve, neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. Listen, cut out your newspaper, cut out your television, cut out sleep, even food if you must, but don't cut out the Word of God. Make sure that that is a part of your life. You have to have the Word of God to grow. Now look at 1 Peter chapter 2. Look down at verse number 1. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and endings and all evil speakings, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. And so God's word not only imparts life to us, but God's word nurtures us God's word sustains us. Apart from God's word, we would shrivel up and die like a starving child who has been deprived of milk. And so therefore we must have God's word. That is the whole idea behind these verses here. That's what Peter's trying to tell us. His message to you tonight is you must have the Word of God. He doesn't mean have it three times a week, Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. He means you need to have it daily, continually, you must have the Word of God. Now look in verse number two. Look at the word desire. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. Now, that word desire there, did you know this? This is an imperative verb. In other words, it is a command. So he's not making a statement of fact. He's not saying it like this. You know, newborn babes desire milk. That's not what he's saying. He's saying this, like a newborn babe, you, Christian, you desire. I command you. To desire the Word of God. That's the way it's coming across. This is an imperative. It is a command. Did you know that tonight God is giving you a command? He is commanding you to desire his word. Now what does that imply? That implies that we can lack the desire for God's word. If he has to command us To do something, that means it's possible that we don't do it. It's possible that we don't desire God's word the way we should. It's possible that you can get to the point in your Christian life where you're not desiring the milk of the word, the word of God. And by the way, if that's the condition that you're in, that reveals that there's something wrong with you. Because, well, let me tell you one of the first signs of backsliding is when a person doesn't desire the Word of God. That's one of the first signs. Or it could be a sign that you've never been a believer to begin with. If you don't desire the word of God, any doctor will tell you that when you don't have a good, healthy appetite, there is something wrong. Physically. If you don't if you don't have a natural hunger, then there's something wrong. And the same can be said spiritually. If you don't have a desire For God's word, friend, there is something not right there. And so God is commanding us Now again, this word is a very strong word, the word desire. It is a word that has it's a it's kind of an intense word, and we could translate it like this, crave, to strongly crave God's Word. For example, let me just give you some how this word is used. It's used in the Old Testament Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament. In Psalm 42, where it says this, as the deer pants for the water book, so pants my soul after thee, O God. The word pant is the same word used here for desire. That's the idea. It's used in Psalm 119, verse 174. I long for thy salvation. Same word there. An intense craving, an intense desire. Now, all of us here, we know what it's like to crave something on a physical level. I mean, there have probably been times in your life when you are so hungry or so thirsty and you crave that. There are different kinds of cravings. It might be a craving for someone that you miss. It might be a loved one that you miss. Perhaps they live a long way away. And you just have such an inward desire, an inward craving to see them. It might be a loved one that is already in heaven and you miss their fellowship, you miss who they are, and there's this longing inside of you to really have a fellowship with that person. It might be a desire to see people, a person that you know come to know the Lord. Just a longing, a burden for them to get saved. It might be from that of a parent that longs for a wayward child to come back to God. I think all of us know those kind of longings, those kind of cravings. That's the idea behind the word here. We are to have a genuine longing for the Word of God. That's what Peter's telling us. Godliness, genuine godliness, is always marked by this longing, this longing for the word. And we see this. I don't have time to give you the verses tonight, but I let me give you some spiritual homework. Can I do that? How many of you are going to do it? All right? Good. Read Psalm 119 this week. Just read it. And you know what you're going to find in there? Over and over again, an expression that the psalmist uses where it says, I delight I long for thy word. I love thy word. That's exactly what Peter is talking about here. This kind of longing, this kind of desire this kind of hunger for the word. Do you have it? Is it a part of your life? Now I hope as a result of this sermon that God will stir up that desire if it's not there the way it should be. So I want to get I want you to see three things tonight. First of all, I want to talk about a metaphor to appreciate. That'll be the first point, a metaphor to appreciate, and I and I want you to look at this again in verse number two as newborn babes desire The sincere milk of the word. And this is, you know, the Bible uses many metaphors in Scripture about the Bible. We know that, right? The Word of God is like a hammer. that breaks the ro the rock. Scripture is like fire that melts. Scripture is like a sword that pierces. It's compared to water that cleanses. It's compared to a lamp that gives us light. And on and on it goes. But here, Peter compares the Word of God to milk. It's that will nourish us. Milk that will feed us. And this is not he's not giving a comparison between milk and meat like Paul does. Okay, what he's saying here is that this is it nourishes us and it can nourish us on all levels. You know, there's a sense in which you never really outgrow milk You know, and so the milk of the word is what nourishes us. And let me give you some characteristics about this milk. Look again in verse 2. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk. Look at the word sincere. First, the word is pure. And that's what the word here sincere means. It's dalos, but it has the alpha negative pure, not mixed, not deceitful. Uh pure. It's the same word as in verse 1 translated, guile, with the alpha negative in front of it, which negates the meaning. It means it's unadulterated, it's not watered down. Did you know that in that day there were dishonest merchants that would add water to their milk to make it uh to give it more profit uh from their sales? But that milk was deceitful milk. It was not pure milk. And Peter here is telling us That we are to long for the pure word. It's not deceitful. This means that the Bible, if you take it straight, it tells you honest truth about yourself. It is the pure word. Did you know the Bible will expose your thoughts and who you are? This is the only book that when you read it, it'll read you back. It'll tell you exactly who you are. It's like looking into a mirror, not a physical mirror, but a spiritual mirror. You see, with a physical mirror, we see the physical man, but with the spiritual mirror of God's word, we see the spiritual man. We look on the inside and it tells us who we are and what we've done There's been times when I've stood in the back and people have come through at the end of the service and they say, Did did did somebody call you and tell you about the week I've had? I mean who who's been talking to you? And of course we all say the same thing as preachers. I'm sure Pastor Johnson and Pastor Earl and others have had this experience where, you know, we've just simply preached the word and you know what? It has met that person right where they are. And it has exposed him right where they are. Friend, that's not us playing detective. We don't have time to do that It is simply the Word of God. Because that's what the Word does. You know, we tend to deceive and flatter ourselves, but the Word of God cuts through the deception. It lays out honest truth. Why? So that we can deal with our Problems. We can deal with who we really are. You know, there are legion of so-called churches where the Word of God is being watered down by upbeat preachers who want to be liked and who want everyone to feel good about themselves. And friend, that's not my job. I remember one time, not in this church, other church I pastored, one person came to me and said, I'm not coming back to hear you preach because when I leave, I don't feel good about myself. But I want to tell you my job, I I'm not trying to make you feel good about yourself. No, I hope you feel good. I'm certainly not trying to make you feel bad. But my job is not to meet either make you feel good or bad What I'm trying to do is just simply lay out the word of God, and the word of God will do its work. And if there's preachers out there that are just simply being upbeat trying to make you feel good, that's like a doctor. Who just simply gives you a lollipop and says, oh, you're okay. When when you, in fact, there may be a sickness. The Word of God exposes who we are The Lord said to Jeremiah, talking about the false prophets, they have healed the wounds of my people superficially. But the Bible doesn't do that. The Bible gets to the root cause of our problems. And beloved, write it down. Normally that is the problem of sin. So the word of God is pure. But also write this down. The word of God is rational. Look again in verse 2. As newborn-based desire The sincere milk of the word. Now, there's another word in the Greek here that's not evident in the English translation, and we could read it literally like this in the Greek text. It reads the pure spiritual milk. In fact, there's the Greek word there is logicon that is used. And it's only used in one other place in the whole New Testament. It's used in Romans 12, 1, where it translates the word reasonable. Or it's translated into the word reasonable. And that's the idea here. Paul is saying in Romans 12:1 that we are to present ourselves to God, which is reasonable. It's a rational thing to do after all that God has done for us. But here, what Peter is saying, he's using this word to say that the milk that he's referring to here is not literal milk, it's spiritual milk. And this spiritual milk is rational, that is to say, it's grasped by the mind. In order to understand it, you have to use your mind. That's why when you come to church, please don't put your mind in neutral. And then daydream. You have to use your mind. You have to think because that's what God's word demands. Someone wrote this: Christianity is essentially rational. But not rational in the worldly sense, rational in a spiritual sense. Human reason must be subject to the written revelation God has given of Himself in the Bible. But you cannot know God without using your mind. Since he has revealed himself in the propositional revelation of the written word. And that's so very true. Friend, when God starts to change you, you know what he's going to do? He's going to first work in your mind. And you're going to see the truth, you're going to understand the truth in your mind. You know what? It goes from the mind to the heart. And when you understand the truth in your mind, what it'll do is it'll stir your affections for God And so both of those things are true. There is the affection, the emotion that we feel as we worship, but that comes from what we understand and what we know, the truth that God has given us in our The Word of God ought to fill our minds with the knowledge of God and move our heart with majesty and love to God. So the Word of God is rational The word of God is, first of all, as we saw here, it is pure. The word of God is rational. But then write down the word is nourishing. Is nourishing. Again, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you might grow thereby. And again, Peter is referring to a mother's milk as the analogy of a newborn babe, and he makes that clear And he's saying that this milk will nourish you. You know, I've read this, and I'm sure many of you agree that they say that God has designed a mother's milk as the perfect food for newborn babes. It's just the perfect food. It will immunize the baby from many illnesses. It will nourish that baby for growth. And that's the way it is with God's Word. When you take in God's Word, you know what? It will immunize you against false doctrine It will help you to grow and flourish, grow towards salvation, and you'll see that growth in your life as you're in the Word of God. And so we have to look at this metaphor and we have to appreciate this. This word of God will nourish us. This is the pure word. It is the rational word. It is the nourishing word. But write down number two. Not only a metaphor to appreciate But then I want you to write down number two, a motivation to apprehend. Because what Peter is saying here, again, it's a command. He wants you to have motivation to desire God's word. It should be a longing and a craving that you have for it. Now, again, it's just like a baby craves milk. Now, I didn't really understand this till we had children of our own. And, you know, one thing about a newborn baby, they want milk. And it doesn't matter what hour of the day or morning it is. When they want milk, they want it and they want it immediately, right? And so ha some of you husbands, you get up and feed that baby, don't you? You good husbands, all right? Uh get up there and help that mom feed that baby and uh give that child milk. And one thing about a child, you know, you can you can you uh we used I used to do this from times. to my shame. Just stick a pacifier in there to you know keep 'em quiet for a little while. But you know what they're gonna find you're gonna find out? That's not gonna satisfy Because what will a baby do? Spit that out because the baby wants milk. And they will not be satisfied Until they get that milk. And so there's a sense in which, again, that should be our motivation. We shouldn't be satisfied with other things. We need milk. Now, how do we have this kind of motivation? Well, first of all, let's look at it negatively. First of all, Peter says there are sins to lay aside. Look again in verse 1. Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and evil speakings So Peter says this, if we're going to be motivated for the Word of God, there are sins that we have to lay aside. Perhaps the thing that's keeping the desire at a low ebb in your life is because there are sins That is keeping you from having that desire. And so part of longing for the word means putting aside. By the way, this is a participle. It takes kind of on an imperative tone here. So it comes across like a command. And the idea is you lay it aside, you lay these sins aside, just the way you would lay aside a dirty garment. You ever you ever work real hard and you know come in and your your clothes are all dirty because perhaps you've been doing a dirty job? I remember my dad, he used to work at the railroad, and he would come home, you know, just with his clothes black with dirt And I remember my mother saying to him when he got to the door, she said, Don't come any further into this house. She made him stand there on the porch and lay aside those dirty clothes. Because she didn't want that in the house. And there's a sense in which this is what Peter's saying here. We have to strip off those sins. We have to lay those things aside. This is the same language in Colossians 3. 8 where it says, um laying aside or putting off. And he named some sins. And Peter named some here. Look at them. All malice. And this is a word, it's a basic word for evil. And it means wickedness. We're to lay that aside. Put it off. We're talking about we're having baptism tonight. Did you know that in early Christian baptism when people came to be baptized, it was customary to take their clothes that they wore when they arrived and throw them away. And after they came out from being baptized, they would be wearing new robes as a symbol of the newness of life. that they have. That was typical in early baptism. And here Peter is saying the same thing. He's saying, look, you have to lay these things aside. Malice. Which is basic evil, guile. This is the idea of deceit, hypocrisies, this is spiritual phoniness Envying, this is wanting what others have, resenting the prosperity and blessing of others to it leads to a grudge. Evil speaking, this is just malicious talk behind someone's back. Peter says, you got to put all of that away. Get all of this out of your life. And by the way, this is not an exhaustive list. He's just naming a few things. The list could go on. But I would say this, whatever sin that's in your life, that's holding back that desire for the Word of God, you've got to lay it aside, Peter says. Get rid of it. Lay it aside. So negatively, there are sins to lay aside. But then here's the other side of the coin. Positively, there is a Savior to love. Look again in verse 3. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. And what does he mean by that? When he says, if So be ye. We could say since. So this is a first class conditional in the Greek, which means you could say it like this, because or since Since you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Because you've tasted, and by the way, I think Peter is making a reference here to Psalm 34, verse 8. Where it says this, O taste and see that what? The Lord is good. You see, you know what happened when you came to salvation? We could all say this. We've tasted of the goodness of God, haven't we? When we come to know Jesus. And the more of God's goodness you enjoy on your spiritual palate, the greater will be your craving for more. When you come to know Jesus, oh man, how good God is to us. And we just absorb that. And you know what? We want more of it. And uh the good of the goodness of God. And so um so basically we think about that. We think about how good Jesus is. And that should cause you to desire God's Word more because you know what? If you want more of Jesus, guess where you can find it in the Word of God. Tell me what you can learn about Jesus outside of the Word. Literally nothing. There may be a few historical references about Jesus in antiquity, but all that we know of Jesus, we learn it in the Word. And if you want to know more about Jesus, if you've tasted of the Lord Jesus and you found out that He's gracious and He's good and you want more, I can tell you where you can find it. Right here. Every uh passage in the Bible, we can find Jesus standing somewhere in the shadows of those verses. you find the Lord Jesus Christ. It teaches us all about Him. Someone said this book is a hymn book because it's all about Him. And if you want to know more about Jesus, you find it in the Word of God. And that should motivate us. And so negatively, there are sins to lay aside. Positively, there is a Savior to love. And when you do those things, you think about that, you know what? You're going to find out that the desire for the Word of God will grow in your life. And you're following the command where Peter says, desire the milk of the word. Now let me give you the last thing quickly. We said there is a motivation to approve a metaphor to appreciate, a motivation to apprehend, but number three, here is a method to apply And let me just tell you how you can appropriate God's word, how to drink it in. And I'm just going to give you three things and we're going to be done. First of all, read it. Just read it. I know that's not a new revelation. But I'm amazed at how many Christians do not read their Bibles. I'm just amazed at that. I'm amazed that people just go day after day after day. And they not pick up the Bible. Well, you say, Well, I'm not a reader. Well, you better learn to be one if you're a Christian. You better learn to read God's Word. God has chosen to communicate us through the written word. And so that means you have to learn to read the Word of God. But friend, there's more you can do more than that. We have the Bible now on CD on MP3. You can download apps on your phone. You can listen to the Bible all the time. There is no excuse for not. having the Word of God in your life. But I think you need to learn to read it for yourself. Find a plan. Find something that works for you. Read it systematically. Read it consistently. Read it. Prayerfully. One person said this. We have done almost everything that's possible with these Hebrew and Greek writings. We have overlaid them clause by clause with exhaustive commentaries. We have translated them We have revised the translation. We have quarreled over the revisions. Yet there's one thing left to do with the Bible. Just simply read it. And that's true. Just read it. And by the way, we have a nothingless translation, so we don't need any more. We don't need to rewrite it, we need to reread it. Just keep reading the Bible And so we have to read it prayerfully. And then here's the next thing. Just study it. Study it. This milk is rational. And so that means you've got to think about it, you've got to meditate on it. When you're reading the Bible, be very active. Ask the questions. You know, the basic questions. Let me let me give you a quote from Rudyard Kipling. He said something very profound, I think. He said this. Listen to what he wrote. I kept six honest serving men. They taught me all I knew. Their names are what and why and when and how and where and who. You got those men's names? Six of them. So when you read the Bible, ask what, why, when, where, and who. That's who. That's reading actively. Ask those questions. Dig into it. When you read, write down what you have, reflect on that passage, study it. You ever say uh listen to someone preach and you say, Man, I read that passage And I didn't get any of that out of there. What's the difference? Well, that one person is probably digging deep in and asking those questions, and he has the power to just observe. What's being written there. And then just meditate on what's being said there. And so we want to read it, we want to study it, we want to taste it for ourselves. Taste the Word of God. And friends it's it's very simple, but if you have that desire, you know what? You're gonna figure out how to get it. You're gonna figure out how to Find something that works for you. But friend, let me encourage you to do that. And so we see here then there's a metaphor to appreciate, a motivation to apprehend, a method to apply. Read God's Word, study God's Word, taste God's Word, make it a part of your life. You can't grow without it. That's exactly what Peter is saying. Now let me close with this and I'm going to be done. Again, referring to the book by Packer, G. I. Packer, on the quest for godliness, he tells of a Puritan preacher in the 1620s whose name was John Rogers. And John Rogers was preaching to his church of about 500 hearers, and he was basically rebuking them for neglecting the Bible. And this is the way he did it. First, he personated God to the people. He pretended to be speaking like God or being God. And this is what he said: I have trusted you so long with my Bible. It lies in such and such houses all covered with dust and cobwebs. You care not to listen to it. Do you use my Bible so? Well, you shall have my Bible no longer And then uh he took the Bible from the pulpit and he was pretend again pretending to be God. I'm going to take my Bible from you since you're not reading it. He took it. And he seemed as if he was going to walk away and take it with him. And then suddenly he spun around and then he impersonated the people to God. And this is what he said. He fell on his knees and he pleaded earnestly, Lord, whatever you do, take not your Bible from us. Burn our houses. Destroy our goods. Only spare us your Bible. Don't take away your Bible. And then he impersonated God again to the people. Say you so? Well, I will try you a while longer. Here is my Bible for you. I will see how you will use it. And whether you will love it more and observe it more and practice it more and live more according to it. Now, at this point in the sermon, there was a man sitting there by the name of Thomas Goodwin. who later became a powerful preacher in his own right. And he reported that when John Rogers went through this this whole thing before the congregation. He said that the congregation dissolved in tears. Thomas Goodwin himself later said that when he got outside, he hung on the neck of his horse, weeping for about a quarter of an hour before he had the strength to mount. Because what that man did was made such a powerful impression upon him. And so, if you don't have a craving for God's word, the question you need to ask yourself is why? Why? Why don't you desire it? Have you tasted of the kindness of God and your salvation? Don't you long to know more of Jesus? You want to know more of him? Then friend, you have to feed on the word of God. Maybe you don't have a desire because there are sins in your life. What's the old saying someone said to me long ago? This book will keep you from sin, or what? Sin will keep you from this book. Maybe it's just things you've got to lay aside in your life. Or maybe you've been feasting on junk food, spiritual junk food, and you don't have a good or uh appreciation of real spiritual truth. I hope you don't mind me saying I don't mean to sound critical, but I've been to some Christian bookstores lately, and not everything that's on the shelves there is worth reading. You need to be careful and discerning even in so-called Christian bookstores, because some of them offer spiritual junk food. Having said that, however, there are some excellent Christian books that will help us to understand and apply spiritual truth. But above all else, friend, read the Word of God. Have a hunger. For God's word in your life. Drink it in just like a nursing infant. And Peter says you need to desire the word of God. So let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. And while we bow for prayer, I'm going to ask if those who are going to be baptized, if you'll go ahead back, and Reverend Gorm, who's going to be doing the baptism tonight, if you'll go ahead back and Aaron, be ready to lead us in our hymn tonight while our candidates are being baptized. And while they're going back and getting ready, I just want you to bow your head with me tonight. And I want you to examine your own heart in light of what Peter tells us. And just ask yourself this question: do I have that hunger, that longing, that desire in my heart? For the Word of God. Is it there? If it's not, why not? Friend, do you know Jesus? Are you sure of that? Then if you do if you're sure of that, then why don't you ask God through the spotlight of His Holy Spirit to shine in your heart? What is that thing that's hindering that hunger, that desire for God's word if you don't have it? And would you pray tonight, God, give me a great hunger, a deep spiritual hunger for your word. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use your word, Lord, even this sermon tonight, to stir up. In our heart, a desire for the word. Father, make us people of the book. Help us, Lord, to grow more into the likeness of Christ. As we apply spiritual truth to life. And Lord, if there's someone here tonight that doesn't know you as Savior, I pray that tonight they'll make that decision to come to Christ. And again, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, are you sure of your salvation? And I want to give you an invitation tonight, right now. I want to give you this invitation. So just right where you are, which you reach out to Jesus and faith, you know, we encourage people to walk an aisle, but you know what the truth of the matter is, walking an aisle doesn't save you What saves you is when you put your faith in Jesus. And you can do that right there where you sit. You can do it anywhere. But the thing is, make sure that you reach out in faith to Christ. That's how I got saved. I wasn't when I first got saved, I wasn't in church. I later made a profession of my faith, but I heard the word of God, I heard the gospel, I realized I was not a Christian, and I asked Jesus to save me. I said, Lord, I know I'm a sinner. I know I don't deserve salvation. I don't deserve eternal life. But you died on the cross for my sin so that I could have eternal life. And salvation is a gift that you purchase with your precious blood. And Lord Jesus, today I received that gift. And I turned from my sin and I turned to you. Friend, I prayed and I asked Jesus to come into my heart. And you know what? He cleansed me from my sin. He gave me eternal life. He made me his child. And he will do that for you. If you've not done that, I want to encourage you right now. Is God speaking through your heart? Would you be willing to pray right there where you are, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. Come into my heart, Lord Jesus Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Would you just raise your hand? No one's looking around. I just want to pray for you. Anyone here say yes. That's my heart's desire. I want to know Christ. I want to know him. Father, we See it, we just give unto you now this congregation and pray for you to work mightily in every heart. And let this word, Lord, not fall on hardened soil, but let it fall on fruitful ground. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.