Take your Bibles out tonight and open please to the book of 1 Samuel, chapter 18. And we are in a study in the life of David. And we are in chapter 18 tonight as we go through this. And we're going to deal with chapter 18, but the title of the sermon tonight is A Few Warnings to Giant Killers. Hopefully after last uh Wednesday night sermon you are a giant killer because we learned from the life of David how to kill the giants in your life. And so we're going to follow up with what happened in the aftermath of David and after he killed the giant Goliath. And you know, there's an old proverb that says it's darkest before the dawn. And we could also add to that, or we could maybe change it a little bit, the toughest trials come after great victories. Have you ever noticed that When you have a great victory in your life, when perhaps you have killed that giant that has been getting you down, whatever that giant might be, worry, fear, doubt, sorry circumstance, some family situation, some financial situation, where you're finally able to kill that giant and you have victory, it seems like right on the heels of that, there that you face tough trials in your life You face difficulties. Well, this whole idea is illustrated in the life of David. And what we're going to see in this narrative here in chapter 18 is basically how David's life changed in the aftermath of killing Uh Goliath. Now, just keep in mind that when David jumped before David went to the battlefield there at the Valley of Elah and he killed Goliath. He was pretty much unknown. Not pretty much, but he was unknown. He was this shepherd boy that uh watched his sheep and he could play a mean harp and sing some good songs But really no one knew a lot about him. However, after he killed Goliath, that all changed. Overnight, instantly, David became a national hero. He was a celebrity. And everything in his life changed. And this narrative basically is going to tell us how all those things changed. And in fact, right after this, what we're going to see is that David is going to face some very hard trials some very difficult times in his life. You know, when you're a giant killer, you have to be willing and you have to be ready for the aftermath. And you have to realize that Satan is not going to leave you alone after you had a great victory. He's going to come after you. And so really here's the big idea. You know, whenever I go to a narrative in the Old Testament, what I try to do is just boil it down. What's the big idea? of this whole passage. What is the one thing that stands out? And here it is. David was able to survive. And the aftermath of killing Goliath And being exalted to fame and exposed to dangers because he behaved himself wisely. That's really the whole idea behind this. In fact, that one expression, behave themselves wisely, is found several times Look in chapter 18, look down to verse number uh five. And David went out with whithersoever Saul sent him, and behave himself What wisely. Look in verse fourteen. And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways And the Lord was with them. Look in verse 15. Wherefore, when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. And then look in chapter 18, look down to verse number 30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth, and it came to pass after they went forth that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul. And so he in wisdom conducted his life. Now, we all need wisdom, especially after we've had a great victory We need to learn to walk wisely because as I said there's going to be trials, there's going to be testings that will come to us right after we have this victory in our life. And this is what we're going to learn from the life of David. In fact, what I want you to see in our passage tonight are six tests, we could say, or six realities that David had to face. Because he killed John Goliath a giant. And if you're going to be a giant killer, you're probably going to have to face some of these same things. Number one, if you're taking notes, if you're a giant killer, number one, you will be evaluated You're going to be evaluating. Back up at just a few verses. We're going to look in chapter 18. Go back to chapter 17 and look at verse number 55. And notice what it says there. And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell. And the king said, Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul, with the head of the Philistine in his hand. And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant, Jesse, the Bethlehemite. Now, David's victory over Goliath, first of all, led him to be evaluated by Saul. Now you might look at this and say, well, wait a minute, doesn't Saul already know who David is? Why is this conversation in here in the Bible between Saul and Abner? Saul should already know who David is, because didn't David, after all, already play for Saul in his court? He already played the harp and he knew that he was the son of Jesse. In fact, there are some liberal scholars that look at this passage of scripture and they say there's a discrepancy here. Um this is really uh shows that the Bible is has some errors in it because Here's Saul asking about David. He should have already known about David if the Bible is accurate, because he already met the son of Jesse. But the problem with that view, of course, is that liberals are always looking for a reason not to believe the Bible So we automatically write them off, right? But it also fails to understand Saul's question. Now he wasn't asking who David was in a sense because he already knew David In fact, David had just talked to Saul before he went out on the battlefield to face Goliath. The question is really more about his background. Saul wanted to know more about David's genealogy. He wanted to know where he was from. He wanted to know now more about his family. Because remember, what did Saul promise the man who beat Goliath? You're going to be married to my daughter. Right? Don't you want to know something about a guy who's going to marry your daughter? More than just his name and he can play a harp? And so this is what this is about. He promised that he would give him high rank. He promised that his family would be tax exempt He promised that he would marry the daughter of the king. You're coming into the royal family. And so now Saul has to dig a little bit deeper about who this person is. But I think there's another thing here. When Saul witnessed the courage of David, and he knew that he was rejected from being king, I think he began to put two and two together This is probably my replacement here. This is probably the guy that I need to watch out for. And I think what we see here in this conversation between Abner and Saul are the first stirrings of perhaps jealousy in Saul's heart. You know, David was showing the courage that Saul should have had. He's the one that should have gone out to defeat Goliath. And so he says, Inquire. Look in verse number 56. And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the stripling is and the word inquire here means do an investigation look into this guy I want to know more about him It wasn't because Saul was really praising David for what he'd done. No, now he's looking at him like he could be a competitor. He could be a threat. And notice Abner's response. He goes and gets David in verse 57. And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. Picture that in your mind. He brings David right right be to Saul, right before him. And I don't know about you, but I picture this red-headed teenager. You know, remember he's ruddy, right? And he's got Saul's head right there in his hand, standing in front of the king. You know, blood splattered on his clothes. Who are you? Let me tell you, what's your family like? What is your background? I need to know more about you. And that's the scene that is here. But notice, look at verse 58. And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? You know what stands out to me is that Saul, what he didn't say. There's no words of thanks. There's no words of praise, just this one question. You know, there's no warm rejoicing. Wow, man, this is wonderful. You wrought a great victory for Israel. We're so happy that the Lord used you? None of that. Just a cold, calculating question. He's sizing David up. He looks at him. He kind of looks at him almost like a piece on a chessboard Someone he has to keep his eye on in suspicion. And really, uh what we're going to see here is a contrast between Saul's response to what David did and Jonathan's response. And we're going to see that in just a few minutes, how Jonathan responded so differently. Saul's so very cold. He's so very calculating. And he's sizing David up. In fact, he's kind of scrutinizing him. You know, whenever you have a big victory, you know what you have to look out for sometimes? Fault finders. People that might see the victory and they say, oh, you know, we've got to keep our eye on that person. They're not rejoicing, they're kind of looking at you as if to find some kind of fault or some kind of mistake in your life. And so fault finders are not hard to find, they're all around. But you've got to remember when you're a giant killer, you might have some around you They're looking to find fault. You'll be evaluated, but also here's the second thing. You will be embraced. Now go down to chapter 18. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. You see, David's victory over Goliath really also forced David to evaluate the people around him to find out who his real friends were. You know it's good to know who your real friends are. And now all of a sudden, David has all these friends around them, quote-unquote friends. John F. Kennedy once said this, victory has a thousand fathers, but the feet is an orphan. We could also say it like this: victory has a thousand friends, but defeat has none. Now, before David slew Goliath, he didn't have any friends. In fact, his only friends were the sheep out there in the field. But now that he slew this giant, there are people coming out of the woodwork, and they're all praising David, and they're surrounding David, and they're loving David. In fact The one expression that we see used six times in this passage or this chapter is someone loved David or the expression love David. Jonathan loved David, Saul's servants loved David, the women of Israel loved David. Six times we see people loving David. Look down at verse number 16 and notice what it says. And all Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and he came in before him. Now Now, all of them are not really his true friends. In fact, what we're going to find later on is some of these same people, some of the servants of Saul, that love David are plotting against him with Saul later on in the chapter. But however, there is one person that stands out as someone who really was a true friend to David. And we see this in the life of Jonathan. In verse 1, we see his response. Again, it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking on the soul that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Again, notice how different the response of Jonathan is to David than Saul was. It says his soul was knit. Someone said friendship is two bodies sharing one soul. And that's what we see here. Now, if anybody should have been suspicious of David, or jealous of David, it should have been Jonathan You say, why is that? Well, because Jonathan was the son of Saul. He was the royal prince. He was the one really next in line to inherit the throne of Israel. And and they shouldn't really have been friends. They they didn't their background was different. Their ages were different. Jonathan was much older They were from different tribes. They didn't really have a whole lot in common except this one thing. Jonathan had the same heart that David had. You see, Jonathan was concerned about the honor and glory of God too. He was concerned about the people of Israel too. He was totally selfless, as we see here in this Because he and he loved David. In fact, he wasn't jealous of David. He took off his royal garment and gave it to David. That's an incredibly selfless act by Jonathan, but it's because he was concerned about the glory of God. And what we see here in this passage of Scripture Is a friendship, a bonding between two men that is one of the closest friendships in all of Scripture. And we see this in the actions that were done here in these verses. You know, in the Old Testament days, when you wanted to make a covenant with someone else, notice it says that they made a covenant together. In verse number um one, and Jonathan was uh his was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved David as his own soul. And it says that in verse 3, then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved them as his own soul. You know, in the Old Testament, when you wanted to make a covenant, the word actually means to cut. We could literally say it to cut a covenant. You know, if you wanted to make a covenant with another man, each would make an incision on their right hand, they would hold the wrist together, their blood would mingle. Have you ever heard of the expression blood brothers? You know, you kind of get that from the Old Testament here. And that basically said there's an exchange of life. We're friends. And there's an exchange of person, we could say. They become united together. But also they would they would all and by the way, after they made that scar, they would rub some soot into it just to make it permanent. So all through their life they would see that star and remember they made a covenant. They had a friend. There would also be the exchanging of possessions. If a person had a coat, you would take off your coat and give it to the other man. That man would take off his garment and give it to you. And this is what we see here. with Jonathan and David. Look in verse four. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David and his garments, even to his sword. and his bow and his girdle. So there was the sharing of the outer garment, but also the sharing of weapons. This is the sharing of protection. And you say, what did all this say? It said to the person that you were making this covenant with, look, if you ever need anything, I'll be there to give it to you. And if you ever need my protection, I'll be there to protect you. And so this relationship had a new title. You know what it was in the Old Testament? It was called Friends. You know, we use the word friend so easily, so carelessly, but in the Bible, when it was used, it had the idea of two people making a covenant. Write down Proverbs 18. 24, a man that hath friends must show himself friendly, and there is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. And the actions between the two parties was you w was described by one word, loving kindness. Whenever you see that word, you uh think of friendship. And so David was embraced. by Jonathan. And you know what? He knew that Jonathan was his real friend. And so here's the lesson. It's good to know who your real friends are. Especially after you have a victory. Not everyone is going to be your friend, but it's good to know who your real friends are. You'll be evaluated, you'll be embraced, but here's the next thing. You'll be elevated. Look in verse five And David went out withersweather Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely. And drop down to verse number six. And it came to pass after they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine That the women came out of the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul with tablets, with joy, with instruments, with music, and the women answered one another as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands. You know, David's victory over Goliath presented a temptation. You know, if he's not careful, there could be pride in there. Here is David as he's coming back from the battle with Saul. And it was the custom of the ancient custom of Israelite women. to compose songs with lyrics after a military victory and to sing about the success of the men in the military? You remember in Exodus, right after the Red Sea miracle, and right after God defeated the Egyptian army, Miriam with the women, they all sang a song. And we also see that same thing happening in the book of Judges. You know, what do we do today when we want to celebrate victory? We have a tick-or-take parade, right? Well, here in the Old Testament, this is what's really happening here. Thousands of women come out. And notice in verse 6, when does this happen? Right after they were returning from the slaughter of the Philistines. So this is right after Goliath was killed. And if David of Saul is coming back, the women are coming out, thousands of mothers and wives and daughters with extreme Expressions of gratitude in their singing. And we can understand that. You know why? Because think of how many lives David saved by killing Goliath. And that single combat. And so they begin to sing, and notice what they sing in verse 7. And the women answered one another as they prayed. They said, Saul has slain thousands, and David his ten thousands. Wow, they really elevate David. Elevate him above Saul. And so, you know, pride is a very dangerous thing. And you know when p people praise you, you need to be careful that you don't get filled with pride. You know, you know what the problem is with praise is? We like it We all like to be praised. We all have a tendency to enjoy that. And if we're not careful, we can start to actually believe what people say about us. You know, think about what these women are saying. You know, David didn't really slay 10,000. Okay? They're using hyperbole here. I mean, they're really building them up And so we have to be careful about pride. And when you've had a great victory in your life and God does something great for you, you better be careful that you don't take the credit for it. And that you don't listen to what people say around you that praise you. You need to be careful about that very thing. In fact, later on in David's life When he's much older, he will be filled with pride. And you know what will happen in his life? He will take credit for the military strength that Israel has. And he and and the action that shows that is when he goes out and he does what? He numbers The people, who was he numbering? He was numbering all the men who had military strength, as if to say, I have built this great army, this great military. And you know what God did? God had to humble David. when that happened. Because he was filled with pride. So we need to be careful. This is one dangerous thing. You know what? God, if he wants to use us, you know what? He has to keep us humble. That's why God gave Paul a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan. You know what Paul said? To humble me, lest I should be exalted above measure. God gave me this thorn in the flesh. So if you're going to be a giant killer, you better learn not to be proud. about the victories that God gives you. You will be evaluated, you will be embraced, you'll be elevated, but also you'll be envied. Look down in verse number 8 And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom? And Saul eyed David from that day forward. You see, David's victory over Goliath placed him in an awkward and uncomfortable situation here now with Saul. This is the next test that he has to face. Now, obviously Saul did not like this song that was written to celebrate VE Day, victory at Elah Day And the women, in a way, they were giving a slight in the song. A slight against Saul when they said, well, he slain a thousand. But David has slain ten thousands, and so they're purposely giving more honor to David than Saul. And Saul, the Bible says, was wroth. And this word here means to burn in anger, to be kindled with anger. And so you can imagine how he didn't like that song. But it was number one in the in the in the in the charts in all of Israel. And they kept singing it over and over and over. And it infuriated King Saul. Now, so basically the relationship between Saul and David begins to sour. It gets bad quick because of this. Now, keep in mind, one of the purposes of the writer here is to show that when this relationship begins to unravel, it wasn't David's fault. I mean David wasn't the one behind this. This was not David, you know, through some secret propaganda campaign trying to get his name out there or get people to think about him more than Saul. You know, David really is the innocent victim here. And the truth of the matter is, if David was going to write a song about a victory after a battle, he would include God's name in it, and he would give God all the credit for it. You know, he knew who the who won that battle for him. But these women here, they're not doing that. And now, again, David really is a victim here, but Saul doesn't care. He doesn't care about any of that. He doesn't care about David's heart or David's integrity. All he cares about is that they're giving more praise to him. than to me. And the Bible says in verse 9, and Saul eyed David from that day forward. Now the word eyed there is there's a word play in Hebrew here. It sounds similar to the word transgress, and so really this is a subtle wordplay to let the reader know that Saul would carefully keep his eye on David for the purpose of committing a sin against him or for the purpose of hurting him. You know, envy is inseparably linked to anger. And normally with envy there comes a desire to hurt And this is what happens here with Saul. We're going to see this here in the story. This is why Shakespeare called jealousy and envy the green-eyed monster. Saul now wants to lash out at David. The Bible says this in Proverbs 14, 30, that envy is the rottenness of the bones. So when you're victorious and God gives you victory over giants in your life, you know what it might result in? It might result in a relationship going sour. It might result in someone envying you. That's another test that you might have to face if God's going to give you victory in your life. Let me show you another one. You'll be evaluated if you're a giant killer. You will be embraced. You will be elevated. You'll be envied. But then next you'll be exposed. Because next what we see here is David now is exposed to danger because of Saul's anger. Look at verse 10. And it came to pass on the morrow that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand, as at other times. And there was a javelin in Saul's hand, and Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it, and David avoided out of his presence twice. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him and was departed from Saul. And so, now here's David. To me it says a lot about David that after that great victory and now he's a national hero, what does he do? He goes right back to serving just like before. He goes back into humble service, and what was he doing before? Well, he was playing a harp, he was trying to help King Saul, because when the evil spirit from the Lord would come upon him, and why would God send that evil spirit? It was a punishment to Saul because he was disobedient and David would play this music and it would it would soothe him. And here's David doing that. Same thing. He's very humbly going back and doing the same thing. And Saul, in a fit of anger, does what? He picks up a javelin and he throws it at David, meaning to kill him. He wants to pin him against the wall. And notice where it says twice. This didn't happen just once. This would happen twice. Now think about that. Now if I'm David and he threw it at me once, I would be you know, I think I'm going to resign from this position I think I'm done. But no, what does David do? He goes back in, he's so loyal to the king that he goes back in a second time. He sits down and tries to play again. And again, Saul is filled with rage. And again, he throws the javelin at David. That's amazing to me. That it would happen twice. David was humble enough to forgive, faithful enough to go back. And again, what we see is the contrast in the character of Saul and David. Which one of these is really worthy to be the king? I mean it's very obvious, isn't it? Because of the spirit of David. But here's the thing. David was living in danger now. around Saul. And there was nothing he could do about it. Think of it like this. That one giant, Goliath, he was able to take care of with a stone and a sling and a prayer But this other giant, the giant of Israel, Saul, all he could do is put it in God's hands. He couldn't kill Saul. In fact, he wouldn't. He wouldn't do that to the Lord's anointing. He was in a position where all he could do is just say, Lord, the battle is yours. I don't know what I'm going to do about Saul And God, you're going to have to protect me. And so this was going to be one long trial for David, as long as he was around Saul, as long as he was in the king's court. In fact, all of the rest of This book, 1 Samuel, from chapter 18 and on, is just one long trial. Why? Because David now has to run from Saul. And he goes from one thing to another. He goes from dodging javelins to living in the wilderness of Vengeti and then living in a cave. He's constantly running now. The rest of it is just one big long trial. Why did God allow David to go through that? You might even be asking that question here tonight. You might be in the midst of a trial right now, a heart-wrenching trial, and you might be asking, why? Does God allow me to go through this? Well, you know, God was using all of this to prepare David for what was next in his life. You know, it's one thing to be a hero overnight. That's thrilling. That's exciting. But that is not enough to be a king. To lead a people under a new government, having all the challenges around them of enemies, having to uh let the na help the nation to go forward In order for all a man to be a leader like that, he would have to be tested. He would have to go through trials to be prepared to take that next position. You know the reason why you go through trials, Christian, is because God is getting you ready for the next thing that He has for you. And in order for him to get you ready, he's got to equip you. And in order for him to equip you, you've got to go through some difficulty. That's exactly what is happening here with David. Walter Blakey wrote this. He said, It pleased God in his infinite love to make David pass through a long period of hard discipline and training for the office. To which he was to be raised. But you know another lesson that David learned from this? Simply this. You can't put your trust in man. You've got to put your trust in God alone. Later he would write this in Psalm 146, verse 3. Put not your trust in princes, nor in the Son of Man in whom there is no Salvation. David was learning to trust in God and in God alone. Every once in a while, God is going to place you in a situation where all you can do is just trust God. You can do nothing else. And God wants you there. Because that's the time when He's building your faith And he's getting you ready for the next thing. David was exposed to danger, and all he could do is just put his trust in the Lord So, if you're a giant killer, you're going to be evaluated, you're going to be embraced, you're going to be elevated, you're going to be envied, you're going to be exposed. But here's the last thing. You're going to be exploited from time to time Now, because of David's victory over Goliath, it forced him to have to escape several of these plots that Saul had. Look down at verse 17. And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter, Mirab, Her will I give thee to wife, only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him Now, Saul is going to keep his promise. Well, actually, he's not really going to keep his promise. He's going to say he's going to keep it And really, what he's really when you think about it, remember what Saul promised? If you kill Goliath, you can marry my daughter. And so David should have been able to marry his daughter, you know, with with no other strings attached. But that's not what we see here. What does Saul say? Well, you know, you can marry my daughter, Amirad, but before you do that, you've got to fight more battles, David. You've got to kill some more Philistines. So really he breaks his promise here. He says, I'm going to keep my promise, but he puts more conditions on it. And why does he do that? Because he wants David to die in battle. Because he says again in verse seventeen, let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him. In other words, I won't kill him, I'll just let the Philistines do it. And Saul knew that if David's out there on these difficult battles enough, perhaps he'll die. Perhaps he'll be killed. And that this doesn't happen. So what happens? Look down in verse number um 18. And David said to Saul, what am I? Or who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king. But it came to pass at the time when Mirab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel. the Miholothite to wife. So what happened? It didn't work. Saul really never intended to give David his daughter. And when David wasn't killed, Saul gave her to another. You know, no doubt this was an attempt to humiliate David. Not only does he break his promise to him, he also exploits him by humiliating him. But you know what? David takes it in stride. Really he says nothing. In fact, we already saw in verse 18 where David said, Who am I anyway? That I should be a son-in-law to the king. You know, it's hard to humiliate someone who's already humbled. And David is humble here. He doesn't really care about that. But Saul's still using this for his own gain. So notice the next thing that he does. Look down in verse number 20. And Michael Saul's daughter loved David, and they told Saul the thing, and it pleased him. And Saul said, I will give him her that she might be a snare to him. That the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And wherefore Saul said to David, Thou this day be my son-in-law in one of the twain. And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son-in-law. And the servant spake those words in the ears of David, and David said, Seeneth it good y a light thing to be a a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am poor, a poor man and lightly esteemed And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner speak uh spake David. And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desired not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. Now, again, he's still after him. The first plot failed, so he had another idea. Since his other daughter loved him, he said, David, you can have her if you kill a hundred of the Philistines. David says, you know, I don't have enough for a wedding dowry. So I said, no problem. Again, you know, this should have been automatic. Saul should have just kept his promise, but he didn't. But if you give me evidence that you've killed a hundred Philistines, you can marry her. And David, you know what he does? He goes out and kills 200. Now, again, Saul's plot failed. Why? Because Saul wanted David dead He wanted him to die, but it didn't happen. But really the second part of the plot is, well, even if he doesn't die in battle, maybe my daughter Micah will be a snare to him. Well, he thinks a lot about his daughter, doesn't he? Maybe she'll just be a snare to him. And what he meant by that is, perhaps I can use her to get to David. I'll keep David close. Now some people think that when he said snare here, the word snare is used in the Old Testament to talk about idol worship. So perhaps Saul was saying, you know, she worships idols, and maybe she'll lead David to worship idols. And that way God will no longer be with him. Some people think that, and that very well could be. Later we're going to see that when Michael sees David rejoicing and worshiping the Lord, that she despises him because of God. that. That very well could be. But that was his plot. And yet the Lord still watches over David. Look down in verse number 20. Actually 28, and Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David. Nothing he did worked. Nothing he did. Got the victory. So Saul's plot failed again. And this was another test that David passed. You know, ironically, all these things that Saul tried to do, it didn't make David afraid. In fact, it worked in reverse. It made Saul afraid. Because he saw that nothing he did worked. And that the Lord was with him. In fact, we see that is another phrase that is repeated in this chapter in verse 12. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him. And then in verse 28 again, and Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David. You know, if you're a giant killer, God is gonna it and God gives you victory in your life. Don't be surprised when Satan comes and he uses all these things to try to bring defeat into your life. And we see this in the life of David. But now again, what's the lesson that we learned here from David? If you trust God and you seek his wisdom, Especially after a great victory, you know what? God is going to give you the wisdom to deal with all these things, to overcome all these trials And again, it may be that you're here tonight and you're maybe in a trial. You know what you need? You need the Lord to be with you, and for the Lord to give you wisdom, just like he gave to David. You know, uh now you might look at this whole story and you might say, you know what? Um it doesn't seem like God was really treating David right here I like what one man wrote. He said this, never interpret God's love by your circumstances, but always interpret your circumstances by God's love. God was working in David's life. God was preparing David and teaching David to cling to him, him and no other. And that's what God many times is doing in our life when he allows us to go through the So my question to you tonight is this are you a giant killer? You say, man, God's given me great victory. Okay, well you better watch out. You're going to have trials. And when those trials come, you know what you need? You need to behave yourself wisely and seek the Lord for His help to overcome these things. Let's bow for prayer So, Father, we thank you for the life of David and the things that we can learn. And Lord, now tonight I just pray for those who may be here tonight that may be going through a trial. Perhaps they've already had a victory in their life. And Lord, you've granted them great victory through your power. But in the aftermath, Lord, they're being bombarded. They're facing one test after another. They're facing one trial after another. Lord, I pray that you'll grant them wisdom To know how to walk, how to live, how to overcome. And Lord, I'm grateful. As I look at this story here of David, I see that he was not alone. He had a friend, Jonathan. Who helped him? And Lord, remind us that when we go through trials, we also have a friend. His name is Jesus. And he sticks closer than a brother. And he made a covenant with us long ago on the cross. And Lord, I pray that you'll remind us that our names are engraven on his hand. That's the mark of the covenant that he made with us. us. And I pray for those who are here tonight, Lord, that are just going through a difficult trial. Lord, remind them of your love and of your purpose for them. How many here with heads bowed and eyes closed will say, that's me. I'm going through trials. I need wisdom tonight from God. As only God can give it. God bless you. I need God's grace to help me through. I need his strength. To help me through. I'm being bombarded with trials. God seize your hands. Father, bless these, your servants, and help them and give them what they need. Help them to walk wisely. And Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.