Take God's word tonight. Open uh please to the book of Revelation. We are uh studying through this wonderful book and we come now to Revelation chapter four tonight and we're gonna look at this. We've been kind of going through a little bit s at a slow pace, I guess you could say, because we've been looking at the seven churches and taking kind of a paragraph about what John says about each individual church. And I think we're kinda going to kind of look at a a larger passage because we're going to look at Revelation four and five. This is a a scene in heaven. I titled the sermon tonight A Glimpse into Glory because really that's what we're doing. John, as it were, kind of pulls back the shades and gives us a look into some of the things that go on up in heaven. And so all of this is about heaven tonight. Um the beauty of heaven. Some of the things that we will see when we get there to heaven. And I'm convinced that as believers we don't think about heaven enough. You think about some of the newer songs that have been written in the previous years, uh a lot of them are wonderful songs, but I see very few songs about heaven. You know, a lot of the saints of yesteryear wrote a lot more about heaven. Many Christians today seem to be caught up in society's mad rush for instant gratification or material comfort or this narcissistic type indulgence that is so characteristic of America And if we're not careful, we can get caught up in that and we don't long for heaven the way we should. If you read the books about saints written hundreds of years ago, you'll find out they had a healthy preoccupation with heaven. And so uh the Bible tells us that we're to seek things that are above, where Christ sits on the right hand, to set our affections on things above. The word seek in Colossians is a Present imperative, we could say uh just continually seek those things which are above. And so there's there's a part of us, even though our outward man, we live down here in the earth Our inner man there's a part of us that should be living there in heaven and thinking about heaven. And passages like this certainly help us because we look Into heaven in Revelation chapter 4 and 5. In fact, the whole theme of chapter 4 is the throne of God. Whenever a preacher comes to a passage, that's the one thing he wants to find out. What's the one major idea? Well the one major idea is not hard to pick out here. It's the throne of God. Someone has said that the throne book of the Bible is the book of Revelation, and the throne chapter of the Bible is Revelation chapter 4. And so um and and really what we see we'll we'll see this as we study the book of Revelation that um you can really argue that the book can be divided up into three big scenes. If we were going to paint a picture of it, you'd probably have three portraits. One Focuses on the throne of God and all the things that go around the throne of God. And then you the cameras can kind of pan back and you get a wider glimpse and then you see uh the the uh the mountain of God uh which is mentioned in Revelation chapter 14. So it focuses on the throne and then you get a wider scope and it sees the mountain, Mount Zion And then it you you take a wider and even wider scope, you step back again, and what you see is the city of God Um by the time you get to the book of Revelation, it's just kind of this beautiful panoramic picture of what heaven is going to be like But tonight we look at Revelation chapter 4 and we focus on the throne of God because John literally ushers us to the very throne room of God. And as you study this, what you'll find is that there are just really five prepositions, or we could say prepositional phrases, that organizes the whole chapter. In verse 2, we see Who is on the throne? In verses three and four, we see what's around the throne. And then in verse five, we see out of the throne, the things that come out of the throne. And then in verse number six, we see the things that take place before the throne. So I want you to think about those five thoughts with me tonight as we look into this. And if you're taking notes, write down number one, first of all, there's the summons to the throne. Look in chapter four, look at verse one. After this I looked, and behold, a door was opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. Now this is the second vision that John had. The first vision we saw was of the resurrected, glorified Christ in chapter 1. He was walking in the midst of the golden candlesticks, the church. And now John sees a door open in heaven. And you know what will happen at death? If you're a believer, there's going to be a door open in heaven for you. You're going to be caught up into the presence of the Lord. We see here a door open for John. If you're not a believer, I hope you do know the Lord, but if you're not a believer, it will not be a door open to heaven. It'll be the gates of hell. I hope that everyone knows the Lord Jesus Christ. And so John sees a vision, and then John hears a voice. The Bible says in verse 1, it's like a trumpet. And this is the voice of sovereign authority And the voice says, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And so here's God saying to John, John, come up to me, come up with me to heaven. Come to my throne room and I want to show you things that are going to happen. This is an incredible vision that John has, an incredible opportunity to see things from God's perspective. He sees things now from heaven's point of view, from heaven's perspective. You know, I think when a believer goes to heaven They see things differently than they see them down here. They see them from God's perspective. I think that when we get there, we're going to understand things better by and by. And so we see then that John uh hears this voice, and then we see John makes a visit. John sees a vision, John hears a voice, and now John makes a visit because notice what it says in verse 2 And immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. And so John immediately is brought into the presence of the Lord. Now, those who interpret the Bible in a futuristic way and a more of a disposition uh dispensational way, See this as a rapture of the church because John hears uh in in verse one, he says, uh as is uh a trumpet. uh talking with me, he says, as if it were a trumpet. And then John is caught up to heaven, and this is right after the seven churches. And so a lot of people look at that and they think this Really is speaking about the rapture of the church. Some people want to insert the rapture in here when they look at this. This is more of the the the view that that that we take on this. Now there are some who look at this more of a predator's view and say, well this is really John being called up into the courtroom of heaven as God is going to judge uh Jerusalem and the things that are going to happen there. But I think that this is all future. I think this is what God is going to do. I think that this is yet to come into the future. And so uh John hears this voice, he's caught up to heaven, and one day the church will hear, as it were, the sound of a trumpet, and will hear a voice say, Come up hither, and we will be caught up into the presence of the Lord. And so really this is going to be us one day. All of us will be summoned to the throne of God. Are you ready for that? Isn't that incredible to think about? That we're going to see what John saw? So there's the summons to the throne, and then here's number two. There's the sovereign on the throne. Again, we see in verse 2, John is brought up and he says, God says, I'm going to show you things which must be hereafter in verse 3. Or verse 2, rather, immediately I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on that on the throne Now this is none other than God the Father. He's seated on the throne, and this is a picture of God sovereignly reigning over all. I love the song that we sing, Our God reigns. Isn't that a beautiful song? And this is a picture of that very thing right here. Our God is on the throne. He is reigning. And I want you to notice in verse 3, and he that sat was to look upon like a Jasper. Now, on one hand, I envy John because here John is called before the throne and he sees the glory of God. He sees God seated on the throne. What an experience this was But on the other hand, I kind of feel sorry for John because he's got to describe what he sees. Now how do you describe God on the throne? I don't think there's any words in any language in the world that could accurately describe the beauty of what John saw. right there. There's just no way. I this is what I call his indescribable presence. I kind of picture John before the throne Just with this look of awe, he's trying to fish for an adjective, you know, to describe what he sees. Beautiful's not enough. Awesome's not enough. Wonderful's too weak. Magnificent is not enough. There's just no word that can describe it. The Bible says in Psalm 89, verse 6: For who in heaven can be compared unto the Lord? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto him? And after John realizes there's really no superlatives that are going to accurately describe them, John thinks about perhaps the most beautiful uh jewel that he ever saw, and he says in verse three that he that sat was to look upon like a jasper. Now the word jasper there is uh uh is a crystal stone because this same word is used later in the book of Revelation. Uh to speak about being crystal clear. So this is not the jasper stone like we know today. I think this is more like a diamond here And uh a stone that shines with brightness and beauty and and glory, there's a luster to it. And I think John is describing Hear the indescribable glory of God that he sees seated on the throne. The Bible says in Psalm one hundred four verse two about God who covers thyself with light as with a garment who stretches out the heavens like a curtain And then he mentions another stone in verse 3. And he that sat on it was to look upon like a jasper and a sardin stone. Now a starting stone was red. It's a blood-red stone. And some some think they look at this and say, well, this speaks about the blood of Christ. This could speak about God's grace, whereas the Jasper Stone speaks about his glory The sardon stone speaks about his grace. And John may be using the Jasper Stone to refer to the holiness of God, and the Sardinstone to Sardinstone to refer to his Mercy. What's interesting is in the Old Testament the high priest wore a breastplate with twelve stones. The first stone on it was a jasper stone. The last stone on it was what was do you know what was a sardin stone. So it this is the first and last stone that was on the breastplate of the priest. But not only do we see his indescribable presence, and John just says it's it was just so beautiful, it was like to look upon like a a jasper and a sardin stone And notice what I call his indelible promise in verse 3 because it says, and there was a rainbow around round about the throne in sight like unto an emerald. So now add to that a rainbow, and this rainbow was a complete circle, was not merely an ark, for in heaven all things are complete, right? The rainbow reminds us of what? The covenant that God made with Noah, that God will always keep his promises. God would never destroy the earth again with a flood. And so it's a reminder of the faithfulness of God The complete circle, perhaps, maybe that could speak about eternity, right? Because there's no beginning and there's no end. Our God is eternal But the rainbow reminds us of the promises of God and how God always keeps his promises. He's faithful. And you know what else a rainbow symbolizes that the storm is over. You know, whenever a believer goes to heaven, the storm is over. For them, when they get to heaven, no more storms of life, only mercy, only love. only peace. And so this is a picture of God on his throne in heaven and all is at peace. There's no panic in heaven. The Trinity never meets in an emergency session saying we have to have an emergency meeting, something happened. God is in absolute control. He is sovereign. He is reigning on the throne. He is in perfect peace, he's in perfect blessedness, and his faithfulness surrounds the throne. Now here's the third thing. We saw the summons to the throne, and we see the sovereign on the throne But here's the third thing, the saints around the throne. Look at verse number four now. And around about the throne were four and twenty seats, and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting Clothed in white raiment, and they had on their heads crowns of gold. Now John sees around the throne twenty-four elders and their own seats. Now the word for seed here is the same word translated thrones in other passages. So we could say here, twenty-four elders And they're seated on thrones. Now, who do they represent? Now this has been a debate among scholars. Who do the 24 elders represent? Now some think that they're angels, and I don't think that they're angels here. You say, why? Well, because nowhere does the Bible speak of angels sitting on thrones and reigning. Angels are going to be servants to the heirs of the of the kingdom of God. They're servants to the children of God. And angels are not really numbered in Scripture. We don't see that And the word for crown is Stephanos, which is spoken in other passages as crowns for believers, not for angels And so I think that these twenty-four elders represent the body of believers. They represent the uh the church, all of God's people, the same way the twenty-four elders in the Old Testament represent the entire body of priests. I think that these 24 elders here represent all of us who are believers, all who know the Lord Jesus, you know, because the Bible says we're priests of God, right? And so I think this speaks of all the saints that are there in heaven, the reign of the saints. Notice that they're sitting on thrones. This is what I call the reign of the saints. Did you know the Bible says we're going to be kings and priests of God? Go back to Revelation 1, look in verse 6. Notice again what it says there in verse 6, and he hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. To him be glory, dominion, forever and ever. Do you remember in Luke 22 the disciples were arguing over who would be the greatest? And Jesus rebuked them, saying, The greatest will be the servant. And listen to what he said in Luke 22, verse 29: And I assigned to you, as my father assigned to me a kingdom. That you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So we're going to reign on thrones, the thrones that are appointed to us by our Lord. We will be a part of heaven's Government. I believe we're going to have assigned seats in heaven. Now I can't prove that, but I believe that. I think I'm right in my most humble and accurate opinion. We're going to have a sign cease in heaven. And I think the more faithful you are, I think the closer to the throne God will honor you with a seat. And uh you know it's kinda like we we do that down here, don't we? We have a you know an important banquet and you know the there's the head table. Oh I want to sit at the head table where all the important people are. You know, and of course uh I remember one time I was asked to sit next to the mayor. Um I had the honor of uh speaking at this and uh I had the honor See next to the mayor. I I will be available after the service to sign your Bible if you want. I knew that guy and I didn't really consider it an honor. He wasn't here in Baltimore, by the way. I appreciate that, but I think there's a sense in which when we get to heaven, I think that uh the more faith we are, the closer we will be seated on thrones next to our Lord Jesus. Now, um let me speak to you now about not only the reign of the saints, and by the way, Jesus said, do we think we know who's going to be the the ones that God honors the most in heaven? We really have no idea. We really don't. I think some of the most humble, godly, faithful servants. We we've never heard of them. We don't know who they are. They're serving the Lord faithfully somewhere. For the glory of God. We look at some of these celebrity Christians out there, and we think that, you know, those are the ones. Surely they're going to have the places of honor in heaven. We have absolutely no idea. Jesus said the last will be first and the first will be last. But then not only the reign of the saints, but the righteousness of the saints. And uh uh verse four it says That uh and I saw four and twenty elders sitting clothed in white raiment. Now I think this is symbolic of having been cleansed It speaks to us of the righteousness of Christ that is imputed to us at salvation. It's not our righteousness that we'll be parading around in heaven. It'll be the righteousness of Christ that is given to us, just like these robes are given. We are given the righteousness of Christ. My friend, if you try to make it to heaven on your own righteousness, you're not going to make it. When you're saved and you put your faith in Jesus, you are given that righteousness. So we see the reign of the saints, we see the righteousness of the saints, we see the reward of the saints, because again in verse 4 it says, and they had on their head crowns of gold. They're wearing crowns of gold. Again, the word crown Stefano is the victor's crown. We will get crowns according to our service to God on earth. The Bible speaks of these crowns not as a gift but as a reward. As a reward for faithfulness. So there's the incorruptible crown. To those who run a faithful race. There's the crown of rejoicing the Bible talks about in 1 Thessalonians 2. 19. Those who are faithful to witness will get that crown of rejoicing. There's the crown of life. James talks about this. Of those who persevere in trials, there's the crown of righteousness. For those who serve faithfully and love the Lord's return, his coming, there's the crown of glory. Peter talks about that's the pastor's crown. Be given to ministers who faithfully feed the flock of God. And so the crown will be given to those that are saints. That's why I think that these 24 elders here are the saints And we're going to be there one day. We're going to be in the presence of the Lord. Now here's number four. Not only the summons to the throne, and the sovereignty on the throne, and the saints around the throne. But here's the scene before the throne. Look at verse 5. And out of the throne proceeds lightnings and thunders and voices. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. Now this is an awesome scene before the throne. And all these are symbols that speak to us of things, of literal things. I think, first of all, what we see in this symbolism, we see the wrath of God. God is about to pour out wrath on the earth. In fact, go to chapter six and verse one, which says, And I saw when the Lord opened the one of the seals, and I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder. And one of the four beasts saying, Come and see And then we see again this later on. So the thunder and the lightning, I think it speaks about the wrath of God. God is about to pour out his wrath on the earth in judgment for those that have uh rejected the gospel and who have been ungodly. And many people see this as the time the Bible calls the Great Tribulation, the seven year period on earth. And so we thank God for God's mercy. We thank God for his love. But beloved, I want to remind you that God is a God of wrath. And God's going to pour out his wrath one day. And by the way, the gospel begins not with the love of God. A lot of times when we preach the gospel, we want to talk about God's love, and that's fine. But when Paul presents the gospel in Romans, he he begins with the wrath of God. You know why? Because it's the wrath of God that puts the proper fear in the heart of lost men so that they'll be ready to hear the message about the love of God. I think sometimes we overemphasize God's mercy and love. And I love that attribute about God. But friend, He's equally a God of holiness and wrath. And the Bible says that the wrath of God is an expression of his righteousness. It's an expression of his holiness. And theology recognizes several categories of God's wrath. There's eternal wrath, that's hell. And again, I pray that no one here will ever go there. There's eschatological wrath in the end days when God pours out his wrath on earth, and we're looking at that. There's there's uh consequential wrath. That's like the principle of sowing and reaping God has placed in the laws of the world the principle of sowing and reaping. You will reap what you sow. There's cataclysmic wrath like floods and other disasters that take place. They're an expression of God's wrath. And uh the Bible says that uh those who don't know God, those who haven't repented that the wrath of God is already on them. The wrath of God abides on them already, the Bible says. And so we have to understand this thing about God. So we see the wrath of God And then we see the wisdom of God. Look again in verse 5. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne. Which are the seven spirits of God. Now, this doesn't mean that there are actually seven Holy Spirits, but the number seven is symbolic here, right? And it represents perfection. And the Holy Spirit is like a perfect seven-pronged lamp representing the perfect wisdom of God. Now in the Old Testament, in the tabernacle, there was the lamp of God that was right there before the Holy of Holies. And the lamp of God was to cast light on the ark that was there in the Holy of Holies. And the Lamp speaks to us about the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit's job to cast light on the Lord Jesus. Christ, so we can see him better, so we can understand him better. And I think this speaks about the wisdom that we're given through the illuminating Holy Spirit that's a part of our life. And then there's the word of God. Look at verse 6. And before the throne there was a sea of glass, like unto crystal. And so here's this sea of glass. Now, remember in the temple there was a large basin, it was a large labor, it was like a pool of water. And you know that was where the priests would go and they would they would use it for cleansing, right? So in one sense, that represented the Word of God. The Word of God is what cleanses us. Remember, Jesus said, You're clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. And there's a sense now that this still speaks about the Word of God, this sea of glass, pure and clear. But you see, we no longer in heaven will need the word of God to cleanse us because we'll already be perfect when we get to heaven. We'll already be clean. The word of God that cleansed us here on earth will be the word of God that we stand upon in heaven I think that's the beautiful symbolism there. It is the very foundation of heaven. So we see in the thunder and the lightning, the wrath of God, and the seven lamps, the wisdom of God, and the crystal sea, we see the word of God. But then we see the worship of God and the four beasts. Look again in verse six. And in the midst of the throne and round about the throne were four beasts full of eyes before and behind, and the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast like the fa had the face of a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle And the four beasts had each of them six wings about them, and they were full of eyes within, and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. Now, here John sees these four beasts, and these are unique creatures that God created. Someone has labeled them as God's honor guard They each have a different face, the face of a lion. We could say that's the leader of the kingdom of wild animals, wild beasts. There's the calf, the leader of the domestic animals. The face of a man, of course, man is the climax of God's creation. And an eagle, that's the leader of the kingdom of the fowls of the air And someone could say that really these four beasts are a picture of all of God's created beings, and what are they doing? They are worshiping him They're worshiping him as the creator of all things. In fact, look at verse, drop down to verse 11, and notice what they say. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they were created. Now, it says in verse 8 that these creatures have six wings like the cherubim of Isaiah's vision, and they never rest. They constantly pour out worship before the throne. 24-7. They are worshiping God. Because it says that very thing in verse 8. They rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Now there's no day and night in heaven, but you get the idea. They're constantly Worshiping God in heaven. And so what does this tell us? It tells us that the worship in heaven is going to just be incredible there with these angel, angelic beings. Now that's the seeing before the throne. Now let me give you the fifth thing, the final thing here. The singing unto the throne. Because what we're going to see now is that all of heaven erupts and worship And in praise. Look at verse 9. And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worship him that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they were created. So In verse 9, the beasts kind of lead the worship before the four beasts. In verse 10, the 24 elders fall down, and they praise him, and they sing unto him. So again, what does this tell us? That the worship in heaven is going to be radical. It's going to be incredible. It's passionate. And God's people will worship him all throughout eternity. You know what? This is the practice time right here. We're to get ready for heaven. If you don't like worship, you're not gonna like heaven. If you don't like singing, you're not gonna like heaven. Sometimes I look around on Sunday morning and see people just not singing. You know, their mouth is closed. And it's okay if you're enjoying because sometimes I won't sing. Sometimes I'll just listen because I love to hear the Saint sing. And I'm just drinking it in. I'm taking it in, and my heart is filled with praise to God to hear so many of God's people joining in and giving God glory. But sometimes when I look around I don't get that's the imp that's the impression of what people are doing. Sometimes I think they're just not into it. They still have a little bit of a brain fog maybe. They're still not awake. But I want to tell you something, friend. God is worthy of our worship. And if you don't enjoy worship, if you're not into it, then you're not going to enjoy heaven because that's what heaven is all about. It's all about worshiping God, singing praise to God. Now, that's chapter four. Let's jump into chapter five here real quick because really it really continues. It continues. Look at chapter five, verse one. And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within an And on the backside, seven sealed with seven seals. So John is still in this vision. He's up in heaven. He sees these incredible things around the throne and before the throne. And now he sees the one seated on the throne and he has in his hand a s a scroll. And it's got seven seals on it. In verse 2, and I saw a strong angel proclaim without, who is worthy to open the book, to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And so here's this incredible scene. John is there in heaven. God the Father has on, who is on the throne, has in his right hand a scroll. The scroll obviously needs to be opened. Someone says, well, what is the scroll? Well, again, there's different interpretations of that, but some people believe this represents the title deed to all that God the Father promised The title be the His Creation, His Earth, and God is going to reclaim what sin has taken away. And as he opens the scroll, God's going to pour out judgment on the world. But someone has to be worthy to open this scroll, and John weeks because they could find no one worthy to open that scroll. Now The camera of heaven, we could say, now shifts. Everything was focused on the throne of God, all the things happening around the throne. And the one who's on the throne with the scroll, all of a sudden if you you know if you're a cameraman in heaven, it it it shifts. Because now Who's in focus? Look at verse 5. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold the line of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And here's the next huge scene. The camera turns in verse 6, and I beheld and lo in the midst of the throne. And out of the four beasts, and in the midst of this elder, stood a lamb, as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth And he came and he took the book out of the hand of him that sat on the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders fell down before the lamb. having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and Has redeemed us to God by thy blood, and out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us under our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. So this is just such a dramatic scene here. Here Jesus comes forth. Of course, he's the one, the lamb that had been slain. He's the one who's worthy to open the seals. Why? Because he bought our redemption through his own precious blood by his sacrifice. He was the Lamb, as it were, slain. If anyone's worthy to judge this ungodly, sinful world, it's Jesus, right? After all that he did. He's the one who's found worthy. He takes the scroll out of the hand of the Father, and when he does, all of heaven just erupts. And it's incredible praise. And the Bible says immediately the four beasts and the twenty-four elders fall down and they begin to worship. Why? Because of who he is. He's the lion of the tribe of Judah. He's the root of David, the Lamb, because of where he is, he's in heaven, having defeated all of his enemies, having defeated sin and death, and completed the work that his father gave him to do And because of what he had done, he redeemed us with his blood. And here's what I want you to see. Whereas the song in chapter 4 is directed to the Father as a hymn of praise. For creation. The song in chapter 5 is directed to the Son as a hymn of praise for redemption. And that's what we see. In verse 9, they sing a new song. The old song was a song Praising God the Father for Creation, the new song. Is a song praising the Son for redemption. For thou hast was slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Remember in John 17, Jesus prayed. And remember what he prayed? He said, Father, this is before he goes to the cross. Father, I would that they see my glory. I want my followers. I want these disciples. All they've seen about me so far is me as a servant, as me in humiliation. I'm about to go pay the price for sin. I'm about to die in a humiliating way. But here's the prayer that Jesus prayed before all that happened. I would that my people, my disciples, that they behold me in my glory That was the prayer of Jesus. And here's the answer to that prayer right here. Jesus now in his glory, he's exalted. Here it is, when he takes the scroll out of the hand of the Father, and all of heaven erupts in thunderous praise. This is Jesus receiving the glory due unto him. But that's not all. We see in verses 8 to 10 all the saints. The 24 elders represent the saints, right? We're the saints. We're going to really be praising God in that time. Verse 11 and 12, all the angels join in. Now, try to think about what that's going to be like. One time I was in uh New Orleans where there was a uh a convention of pastors. And the Superdome was where they hosted it, and uh they probably had about 30,000 people there in that Superdome. And they sang there's just this beautiful hymn, and you can just Imagine thirty thousand servants of the Lord in that superdome, which is acoustically pretty friendly when it comes to singing, and they're all singing and they're all praising God, and the sound was just incredible. Well, friend, that's nothing compared to this. Because now all the saints are singing, but in verse 11, all the angels join in. And I beheld and I heard of the voice of many angels Round about the throne and the beasts and the elders and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands You say, what's that number? It's a number that we really don't can't number. That's what that really means. Myriads, myriads upon myriads upon myriads upon myriads. It's just this huge number. I mean, all the angels are now joining in. And look at verse 12. Saying with a loud voice, worthy is the Lamb. that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Wow That's going to be wonderful. You know what? I'm going to be there. So are you if you know Jesus. But it doesn't end there. Because look at verse 13. Now all of creation joins in Verse thirteen, and every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and such there is in the sea And all that are in them that I heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and on the lamb for ever and ever. So now all of creation joins in To this incredible time of worship there in heaven. In verse 14, and the four beasts said, Amen, and the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that lives for ever and ever. Isn't that awesome? Say, why does God tell us this? Why does God reveal these things to us right now? So we can be encouraged, so we can be comforted. So that we can be strengthened, so that we can delight about our future. You know, one way to enjoy a trip is to anticipate it. I think it's good for us to anticipate heaven. I want you to think about the most joyful moment that you've ever had in life here. Just the joy that you had. The incredible joy that was in your heart. It's short-lived, isn't it? It may have lasted for a time, but then it kind of dissipated away. But I want to tell you that in heaven, the joy will not dissipate. It will not leave. It'll be there. You know why? You were created to enjoy God. And the more you enjoy God, the more you worship God, the more joy that you have in your heart. And that's why I think that our knowledge of God causes us worship And the worship brings us joy. And I think that throughout heaven, we're going to be learning more and more about God. Don't think that when you get to heaven, you're going to have everything figured out and you'll know everything about God there is to know. Oh no. The Bible says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. I think throughout eternity we're going to learn more about God, more about the Lamb, more about his wonderful plan. And I think that the more that we learn and the more joy that we have, the more worship that we have, our joy just increases. It just increases. This is something to truly look forward to. This time when we're going to be there together in heaven with the Lord. There was a book written called The Saints Everlasting Rest. It was written by Richard Baxter. Richard Baxter was a great Puritan preacher, but he was very frail, and at the age of 35 he suffered a total collapse of his health, and he was expecting to die. Expecting to leave this world and he thought that the best thing he could do is just to meditate on heaven, meditate about the joys of heaven. And he wrote out his thoughts. about it for his own benefit. But what he did was he collected those thoughts and he put them together and it became a book and now the book is called The Saints Everlasting Rest. And this is what he suggested to his readers. Following one of his meditations on heaven, he said this. He said, every believer should take at least just a half hour a day to think about heaven, to think about the joys of heaven. And he wrote this, quote, for one of this recourse to heaven, he wrote, thy soul is like a lamp that is not lit. Your soul is like a lamp that is not lit. In order to light your soul, think about heaven. Think about heaven. And then he wrote, God would not have withheld information from us about heaven, the New Jerusalem. Or I'm sorry, he could have withheld information from us about heaven and New Jerusalem, but he didn't. And God has filled us with information about our everlasting rest. And this is one final quote and we'll close. tonight. He said, it has pleased our Father to open his counsel and to let us know the very intent of his heart and to acquaint us with the eternal extent of his love. And all this that our joy may be full, that we might live as heirs of such a kingdom. And shall we now overlook it as if he revealed no such matter? Shall we live in earthly cares and sorrows as if we knew of no such thing? And rejoice no more in these discoveries, and if our Lord had never written it, oh, that our hearts were as high as our hopes, and our hopes as high as these infallible promises. Good word. God has a lot laid up for us. We should think about that and let these things encourage our hearts. You know, I know here we have family members, people that have lost loved ones, that are already there in heaven. And friend, I hope that this is an encouragement to you to know, you know what? They're they're having a wonderful time. They are in the presence of the Lord. And one day, if you know the Lord Jesus, you're going to be there with Him. We're all going to be there with Him. We're going to see these things. This is very exciting. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And think about this. Think about all the blessings. Now this is just a little bit. I mean we're really just haven't even scratched the surface. God has all kinds of blessings laid up. If you think earth is a blessing, you think there are things here that God's given us to enjoy, wait till we get to heaven. There's no comparison. There's no comparison of a joy and a fellowship and the peace and the love that we'll experience there one day. But my question is, do you know that you're going there? Are you sure of it? Don't just assume, take it for granted. That you're a Christian. What that takes is true repentance and faith in Christ. Are you sure that your full faith is in the finished work of Christ? Heaven is a gift that we get when we put our faith in Jesus. You can't work your way there. It's not a reward for our faithfulness. Heaven is a gift Because we repent and we turn to Jesus. We ask him to save us. He's already done the work. He did it on the cross. All you have to do is reach out in faith. And if you know that you're saved, Is your soul like a lamp that is unlit? So easy in this world today with everything we have going on to get caught up in earthly things. We have to live in this earth, sure. But we're to set our affection on things above. So easy to forget that. May this remind us. Father, help us now. Thank you for this incredible revelation of these things, things yet to come. Glories yet to be experienced, joys that we can anticipate now, rewards But the greatest thing is to be there with our Savior Jesus Christ. Thank you for these promises. May we meditate on these things as We've been given counsel from Richard Baxter to light our soul by thinking about these wonderful blessings that God has revealed to us. Thank you, Father, for revealing it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.