It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles open to Psalm 127. And those of you that have been with us, you know that we are on a journey through the Pilgrim Psalms. And from verse, from chapter 120 to 134, these are called Psalms of Ascens because literally they would sing these as they ascended on the feast days into Jerusalem. Tonight I want to talk about a God-blessed home. Psalm 127, verse 1. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. Lo, children are in heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that has his quiver full of them They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. Now leading up a home and building a home is a overwhelming and tremendous responsibility for parents. And I'll never forget the responsibility I felt when our first child was placed in my hands. And I know that many of you can relate to that tonight. I heard about some dads that were in a waiting room and the nurse came out and said, is Mr. Smith here? He said, yes. She said, Mr. Smith, you have twins. He said, Mmm, isn't that interesting? I work for the Minnesota twins And then the nurse came out again and said, is Mr. Jones here? He said, yes. She said, sir, you have triplets. He said, oh, I I work for 3M. Isn't that interesting? Then the nurse came out again and said, Is Mr. Monroe here? And no answer. And a man said he left. And she said, well where did he go? He said, I don't know. All he said was, Lord help me, I work for 7-Eleven That's a pretty cool quiver. Having a family is a huge responsibility. And we are to provide for our family. We're to provide for them physically with our work. I I feel sorry sometimes for young couples today with everything it takes just to make ends meet It just takes everything that you have, and I understand that, and the Lord bless you. It's going to take men who are strong, who provide for their families. Uh someone said a definition of a father is a father is a man who carries his pictures in his wallet where his money used to be. And then we have to provide for them emotionally with our warmth There's nothing that can replace the love and warmth of a father in a home. An old English proverb says, one father is worth more than a hundred schoolmasters. And and that's so very true. Uh there's a study according to UCLA, our families need eight touches a day, meaningful touches just to maintain emotional stability. So just picture in your mind that each child and your spouse it has a tank and that tank is running on E each day and you have to fill that tank And in order to do that, there has to be meaningful embraces from you, meaningful words from you to fill that emotional tank, just to keep them stable. So we provide for them with our work, with our warmth, and then also, of course, with our worship. We have to lead our families into worship. We don't send them to worship, we lead them. And this includes worshiping God personally, ourselves, spending time with the Lord in the Word. This includes worshiping God corporately, being in God's house. when you're supposed to be. And again, I know I'm preaching to the choir here on Wednesday night. Thank you for being so faithful to come. And we have to worship God as a family. We have to lead our family in family devotions, reading the scripture together, praying together having a family altar. Why all this? Why do we do all this? Well because we want God's blessing on our home And that's what this whole psalm is about. It's about getting God's blessing on your family. So let me ask you, do you want God's blessing on your family tonight? I know that you do. And I I certainly do as well. And so we have to ask ourselves, what are the characteristics of a God-blessed home? And what I want you to see in this psalm here tonight are three characteristics of a God-blessed home. And hopefully we can learn something from this. We can be encouraged. by what we read here in Psalm 127. And here's the first one. A God-blessed home is fully relying on the Lord. That's the first thing. Fully relying on the Lord. Solomon learned this lesson, and I, by the way, I think Solomon is the one who wrote this psalm here. In fact, in the subtitle Above verse 1, it says a song of degrees for Solomon. It could say from Solomon or written by him. But notice in verse 1, except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord. Notice that phrase twice. Except the Lord. We could say, unless the Lord And notice the word vain, it's used three times. Two times in verse one, once in verse two. If except the Lord build a house, they labor in vain, except the Lord keep the city, the watchman wakes But in vain. And then in verse 2, it is vain for you to rise up early and sit up late and so on. And so the point here is that you can labor diligently. You can do everything that you want to But unless you're fully reliant on the Lord, it's all vain. And really what he's giving us here is a broad principle And he'll narrow it down verse 3 to the home. But really, what he's saying is anything you do, whether it's building a house, guarding a city, working in your job, all of it is worthless unless the Lord is in it. Now, why does he make this point to us? Because we have to admit it that all of us here tonight have the sinful propensity to see ourselves and our efforts as the primary uh purpose and success and to relegate God to a secondary role We take the major credit for accomplishments, and by doing so we rob God of the glory that He rightly deserves. We all have that tendency So what he's saying here is it's it's just this is the Lord. It's fully relying on the Lord. Now this foundational principle is a very important factor, and we have to get it down Unless the Lord. You can go to all the conferences you want to about child rearing and about being a good parent. You can listen to all the tapes that you want to. You can go to all the seminars that you want to. You can listen to all the sermons that you want to, frankly. But unless you fully rely on the Lord, none of that does any good. None of it. You can read all the best books, you can meet in small group studies, you can have accountability partners, you can do all of that But the most important factor in a godly home is that you and I walk in genuine humility before the Lord, casting ourselves before God in faith. and in prayer and relying fully upon him to bless our home, unless the Lord builds it. There is a crest I read about this. The city of Edinburgh, Scotland has a motto. You can see it on its crest for the city It's also stamped on documents with the official seal. And this is what it reads in Latin, nisi dominus frustra, or we could say, without the Lord, frustration. Without the Lord, frustration. And it's really based on these verses that we just read here, verses 1 and 2. And this could be attached to the lives of many people who are trying to live their lives without God's help. It's frustration. Now the founders of the city of Scotland knew that everything they did was useless unless the Lord blesses and builds that city everything they do. will be frustration. And friend, so it is with us today. Now this goes against the grain of the thinking of many people in America. Many people in America think, man, if I can just come And just work hard and I can fulfill the American dream and I can have things and we can have a great house, a great home. And you know what we find out there today? There are many affluent families whose homes are in a mess They're in a mess. They have everything you could want. They have flash screen TVs, they have cell phones, they have uh internet, they have everything that all the technologies, all the the the the bells and whistles that a a modern home would want to have. But you know what? They might have a house, but they don't have a home. And there's a difference. Someone wrote, a house is a physical building, a home is a spiritual blessing. A house is designed by an architect, but a home is designed by God. A house is built from the ground up. A home is built from heaven down. A house is built on cement. A home is built on the solid rock Jesus Christ. A house is built by good construction. A home is built by solid conviction. A house provides a roof over your head, but a home provides a foundation for your feet. And that's the difference, and that is so very true. Now Solomon who wrote this psalm knows this above all, because Solomon was noted to be a great builder. We don't have to go over this a lot because if you were with us in our study in Ecclesiastes, you already know this, that he built so many things. He built gardens and vineyards and houses. His own palace was a uh a symbol of wonder. In fact, archaeologists today that discover some of the things that he built marvel today at the building that he was involved with. However, he had all those buildings, but you know what? He didn't have a good home. He didn't have a godly home. And so Solomon, above all people, knows this. So we have to be fully Relying on the Lord to do what? Well, to build the home, as I said. Look again in verse 1. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. And what I want you to see here is that it's God doing it. It's the Lord. I'll give you an illustration of this. When I read this verse, I think of this every time. When I was seventeen, My first car was a Buick. Pastor Johnson sold me this Buick. In fact he sold me two of them, twenty-five hours apiece. One could run, the other one was good for parts. And uh my brother took the parts and made a good running vehicle out of it. I was very proud of that car, I want you to know. And uh of course it did look like a preacher's car and I didn't really want that at age seventeen. So he kind of souped it up a little bit, made it a little nicer. But it had a 350 four-barrel uh 350 engine four-barrel carburetor. And as a teenager, I couldn't resist loving to hear that carburetor, you know, when you floored it. You guys know what I mean by that? So don't ever do that, kids. Don't ever, ever do that But I remember we would get on the exit on the beltway and I would just floor it and you'd just hear it, you know, just kick in there, and that was the coolest sound. And my father would tell me, he said, Jerry, you're gonna blow that engine. You keep doing that, you're gonna blow that engine Well I, like the typical teenager, ignored that parental wisdom. And sure enough, one day, getting on the beltway, I floored it and the engine blew. Now when that happened, I called my father. He didn't even ask what happened. He just said, Where are you? Towed the car back. Put it in the backyard and I went to bed. I thought it's over. The next morning at 4 o'clock, my father gets me out of bed. And he said, You're going to rebuild this engine. Now I want you to know something, folks. I can't build anything. You're looking at the worst mechanic that God ever made. You don't want me with tools in my hand. In fact, if you ever see me under a car, please dial 911. Because I promise you I'm not working on that car I can't even build anything in my house. He said when something breaks, who fixes it? My wife. She is a great fixer-upper. She can build. She learned that from her father. She used to hang around him. I in fact I bought her a tool set with pink handles on it. So I can't build anything. So but my father said, you're gonna rebuild this engine. Well, he stood over me all day long and said, do this, and then next do that, and then do this. So I just would listen to him all day long. Now of course he helped out with some of the harder things and he got involved, but I mean it was me. I mean my elbows were up in Greece. And I want to tell you by the end of the day, that car engine was running Now I want you to look at me folks. I rebuilt an engine. I did it. And yet it wasn't me. He did it. And yet I did it. You say, well who did it? He did it. But I did it. You say, how did you do it? I just listened to what he said. Step by step. By the inch, it's a cinch One command at a time. And you know what? That's the same is true of building a home. You say, I don't know how to build a home. Or I don't either. But you know what the Lord does. And if we just listen to him one step at a time, don't look too far down the road. Just live just like the song we heard tonight, day by day, take it a day at a time, and listen to what the Lord says Just read his word and let him guide you. In fact, I suggest that you make Jesus the head of your building committee in your whole life. You know why? Because he's the greatest builder. He built the world. The Bible says in Colossians that all things were made by him and for him. He is building the church. Jesus said, I will build my church. I don't know how to build a church. Jesus does. He's the builder of the church. And then he's building us a home in heaven. He said, I go to prepare a place for you. So he's the builder. And so all we have to do is just listen to him. But now the problem is that we think we can do it, and the truth is we can't do it. We can't. We have to rely upon the Lord. And so the question tonight is, do you realize your absolute need for God and for His blessings to be on your home? Because that's where it starts. You have to realize that And you have to pray frequently, fervently pray and say, God, please, you build my home. You be the builder of it. But not only building the home, but protecting the home. Look again in verse number one. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain to build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh, but in vain. Now ancient cities were protected by very high walls built around the city. Cities normally had these high walls with two gates, one in the front and one in the back. And on those walls there were towers, and in those towers there were watchmen. And you know their responsibility was is to watch, keep watch for the enemy. And if they saw the enemy approaching, what would they do? They would sound the trumpet They would sound the alarm. And so they had to be vigilant. Those city walls had to be high. Those watchmen had to be alert. And yet you can have high walls and you can have alert watchmen, but if still if you're not trusting in the Lord, all of that is vain. All of the defenses are vain. That's what it says, except the Lord keep the city. The watchman waketh but in vain. You can have the best defense system out there. The best security system for your home ever. But if you're not trusting in the Lord, it's not going to help. Remember how David sinned against the Lord when he numbered the people? I used to read that and think, well man, what's the big deal here? I mean he's just taking a census. I'll tell you what it was. It was David's pride. You know what? He was boasting in his military strength He was boasting in his military might. He was boasting in essence what he was saying is, I am providing security for this whole nation through my army, through my military prowess. And that was pride. Because he wasn't trusting in the Lord. And the Lord had warned about this. The Bible says in Isaiah 31. 1, he says, Woe to those who rely on horses, who trust in chariots, because they are many. And because they are very strong, but do not look to the Holy One of Israel. That's the problem. You're looking to all your supposed military might. But it's the Lord who gives victory. It's the Lord who is the defense. And so unless you're relying on the Lord to be the protector of your home. And let's face it, we need to protect our home. And we need to put in high walls of protection, standards and morals that we need to teach our children. But friend, you can do all that if you're not relying on the Lord. It's not going to work. So we have to fully rely on God, except the Lord do it. But now here's the second Mark of a home blessed by God. A God-blessed home is fully relying on the Lord. But here's the second thing: a God-blessed home is firmly resting in the Lord. Look at verse 2. It's vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. They say, what's he saying here? The principle here is simply this. Be responsible to do your part. Then rest in the Lord and trust Him to do His part. That's really the whole idea here. You can burn the candle at both ends. You can work long hours trying to provide everything. But if you're not resting in the Lord, if you're not trusting God to do his part, you're going to stay up pacing the floor, you're going to be anxious. In fact, look at verse 2 where it says bread of sorrows. What does that mean? That's a figure of speech in Hebrew called synecdoche, and it's a figurative expression that substitutes an idea for uh uh substitutes a f uh uh an image for a concrete idea, I should say. Bread of sorrows is simply a reference to worry, anxiety, restlessness, sleeplessness That's the thing. And so what's the principle here? Look, you do your part and then rest in the Lord. That's the idea. Do your part. Rest in the Lord. You say, well, wait a minute. We're supposed to fully rely on God. That's right. But fully relying on God doesn't mean you just fold your hands and do nothing. I mean Solomon here is not saying don't build or stop building the home or stop protecting and watching over the city or workers stop working. He's not saying any of that He's saying, go ahead and build. Go ahead and watch. Go ahead and work. But after you've done all that you can do, then rest in the Lord. That's the principle there. In other words, we say it like this: work like it all depends on us, but then trust and pray like it all depends on God. That's really what the idea here is. It's not either or, it's both and And what I see here is what I see in Scripture so many other times as I'm studying the balance between human responsibility and divine sovereignty. I see this so many places in Scripture. We have to be diligent to do our part, and having done our part, then we let God do his part. We just back off and say, okay, Lord, it's yours now. I see this in the sanctification of the Christian life. Let me ask you a question. Who lives your Christian life for you? Someone could say, well, I do. And I would say, well, you're right. The Bible says work out your own salvation. Someone else might say, well, Christ lives my Christian life for me. And I would say again, you're right, for it's God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And you might say, Well now who is it? Is it is it me or is it God? I would say it y it's both It's you, you've got to do your part, and then you allow God to do his part. And Paul said this. He said, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ lives in me That's the same principle there. This this this concurrence between our responsibility and God's work. Paul said this, by the grace of God, I am what I am And then he said, and his grace was bestowed upon me. It was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. I love that verse. Paul said, look, I am what I am because of God's grace. It's not me But because of God's grace, I'm working harder than anyone. And then he says, yet not I, but the grace of God in me. You say, well, Paul sounds confused there. No, he's not confused. He understands the dynamics between these things. And so it's the same principle with the home. You say, who does it? Do I do it? Yeah. You have to do your part. You have to be responsible. You have to lead your family spiritually. You have to teach them the word of God and teach them what the Bible has to say about morals and living a godly life. You have to lead them spiritually. You have to do all of that. But then, friend, after you've done all that, you know what? It's God who's doing it It's it's the Lord who's doing it all. And we have to resist both extremes. There are some people that think Well, it's all me and so I have to do it all. And some people say, Well, it's all God, so I'm just gonna leave it all up to him and fold my hands and do nothing. One time a pastor was talking to a man in his church who was having family problems, and the pastor said, What are you doing about all of this? And the man just simply looked at the pastor and said, Well, I'm just trusting the Lord. And the pastor understood what he meant by that. It meant that he was doing nothing. He was just folding his hands. You know what that's called? That's called presumption. God doesn't expect us to sit back and fold our hands. We have to be responsible to do the right things But then having done that, we have to trust the Lord. Then there's the other extreme, and I see parents do this sometimes, where they build these high walls of protection and they insulate and isolate their children and they have all these standards and they they have all these rigid rules But they're trusting in all of that to make their children turn out right. They're not really looking to the Lord. It's all on them. It's all they put all their trust in their high walls. And you know what? Sometimes kids rebel against that. And they they fight against that. Because really the home is not really a warm personal relationship, but it's really just a pl a castle of walls that's cold and rigid. Because the parents, perhaps out of fear, are over-protective and they over-punish. And it doesn't work. Why? Because you're putting all of your trust in yourself and not the Lord. Where do we get off putting our standards higher than God's anyway? Look, just teach what God says. Just do what the Scripture says. And then having done that. We commit the rest to the Lord. And that's really what this psalmist is saying. It's God who makes all of our labor meaningful. You understand that? He's the one that makes it meaningful. And that's why we trust in him. Write down Proverbs 37:5. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and listen, and he shall bring it to pass. Trust in him and he'll bring it to pass. When I think of this, I think of that story in Mark chapter 4. Such a beautiful passage where Jesus is tell teaching about the kingdom and he said the kingdom of God is as if a man would cast seed into the ground. He said this is what the kingdom's like. He just put seed in the ground. Here's a man who put seed in the ground and what's he do after that? Does he stand over the seed and watch it and worry and fret and say, when's it going to grow? Oh, I'm not sure if this is going to grow or not. Oh, please grow, please. Now what does he do? He puts the seed in the ground and then Jesus says, N should sleep. You know what he did? He put the seed in the ground and then he went to bed. You know why? Because there's nothing more for him to do. He put the seed in the ground. Now he would get up and check on it day by day, and the seed would grow, and that passage says he doesn't know how, and it grows of itself The Greek word automatos. Automatically, it's just growing. You know why? You know who's making it grow? God He already did his part. Now he's committing the rest of the Lord. And the Lord is doing his part. And he's doing it little by little, day by day. And so he just puts the seed in the ground and he goes to sleep. He trusts God. One of the best pieces of advice I ever got was from a professor who said to me one time years ago, He said, Jerry, just preach the word and go home and go to bed. Just preach the word and go to sleep. Sleep well at night, knowing that you have done your part. And that's very, very true. Friend, do your part and then trust the Lord. Firmly rest in the Lord. Now here's the third thing. Fully rely on the Lord and then firmly rest in the Lord. But then a God-blessed home also is freely rewarded by the Lord. Freely rewarded by the Lord. Look in verse 3. Now he talks about really these rest of these verses are talking about the blessings that God gives the home. Look at it. Lo, children are in heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that has his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate Now, again, these verses talk about God's blessings. Now, really, this song begins with a city and kind of moves to a family. But really, a city is just a makeup of a bunch of families, right? The family is the basic unit of society, the first divinely appointed institution. And so if a family is blessed by God, guess what? Or I should say plural families are blessed by God, then guess what? That city will be blessed by God. Because the city is made up of families. We hear so many problems in the cities. They're really not city problems, are they? They're family problems. Because the city is just an expression of that. But it starts with a family. I read one time of Richard Baxter, great preacher And he was called to take a church in a farming community in a town where it was very unruly. The the fathers didn't really care about their responsibilities. They were more concerned about their social status and their work than their home. The children were unruly, out of order, hard to handle. This made his work very difficult as a pastor. So he went to prayer And he got the idea that he needed to go to each home and ask them to establish a family worship, a family altar. And so for three years he visited all the families in his home. And he asked uh in his church, I should say. He visited all the families in his church and he asked them to establish just for a few minutes Each day, a family altar where they read the scripture and they prayed together. And you know what he got them to do it after three years of visiting And getting families to commit to do this, what happened was the congregation caught fire with new zeal for God. Revival broke out in the church. And you know what? It spread into the city. And revival broke out into that city. Why? Because as the home goes, so the church goes. And as the church goes, so goes the city. So in these verses, God blesses the home. How? By giving that home children for verses three to five. That's the whole point of this. How does God bless a home? He gives them godly children. Derek Kidners has a good word here. He says, these verses say nothing about wealth. Or position, an upstanding family is wealth and honor enough. That's true When God blesses a home, he doesn't necessarily do it with wealth and prestige. He does it with a family that is a godly family. Someone said, a happy family is an early heaven. Notice here the desirability of children. We have to have the right attitude and realize children are a blessing. Look in verse 3. Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord. And the fruit of the womb is his reward. We have to have the right attitude. And God says, look, children are desirable. They are a gift from me. A heritage means an inheritance. An inheritance is a gift that's bestowed upon you. And God in heaven, whenever He gives you a child in your family, He has just given you a huge gift, a wonderful reward. They're not a penalty or a burden, they're a gift. Now I know that we live in a culture today that treats children as if they are a burden. In fact, our hearts are sickened to hear some of what's going on in Planned Parenthood. We're a nation of bloody hands. And surely God is going to not hold us guiltless for the way we're treating the innocent, the babies of this country. They are gifts from Almighty God. They are rewards from God. But there are some people that treat children as if they're a burden, as if they're an expense. If I have a child, I won't be able to drive the car I want or live the lifestyle that I want. You've got it backwards. Children make a poor man rich, not a rich man poor. It's a gift. They are gifts from the Lord. The only thing that we can take to heaven with us is our children, if we lead them to Christ, if we lead them in the right way. And so they're not burdens, they're a gift from the Lord. Now, this is very clear to me. God kind of made that clear because our my firstborn, Abby, was born on my birthday. So I haven't had a birthday since she was born. She took that day over. But what a reminder that children are a gift from God. Now if they are a gift, we need to communicate that. And we need to let them know. We need to let them know with our words. You say what you mean just trying to build their self-esteem? No, forget that psychology junk. Just do what the Scripture says. Instill in them a realization that they are a gift from God. They were given sovereignly by God, and they're here with a sovereign purpose from God. That's what you say to them. They're a blessing from the Lord. And also we can communicate this nonverbally with the time and the effort that we put in to our families and to our children. Now let me move on here. Not only the desirability of children, but the directability of children. Look in verse 4. A beautiful analogy here. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Now, another attitude we must have towards children is that they require our time to shape them and to sharpen them. You know, in Solomon's day, uh you didn't just go to the local Walmart to buy arrows or to the local sporting good. If you were a mighty man, a warrior, and you wanted arrows, you went and you you got them yourself And you would take sticks and you would sharpen them. You would shape them into the arrows that you wanted them to be. This is the idea here. Our children are given to us, but we have to sharpen them. They have to be polished. They have to be pointed in the right direction. And then they have to be propelled from our home. Now, we are to train our children, to prepare them, to send them out. Selfish of us to want to keep them all in. You know, I've had those thoughts. I'd love to keep all of my children. But God didn't give them to me so I can keep them in the quiver. There are arrows that have to be pointed outward and then propelled. You know something about an arrow? It can go to places that the warrior can't go And the idea is that we as we train them, as we sharpen them, as we rear them, we our goal is to aim them at the enemy and then propel them So that they will be a force for God wherever we send them. They will carry the gospel that we have placed in them. Wherever they go, they'll be a blessing. They can go where we can't go. So we know I have a daughter in London. She she serves over there in a church. My son Jeremiah he sings for liberty, traveling and singing in churches. I can't do those things, but thank God they can go and do those things. And that's what God's plan is for us. And of course, there's a cost involved. We have to be willing to part with them. Someone say, well what if God calls my child to the mission field? You know, Sunday night we had a wonderful couple here, had two children, they're missionaries in foreign countries, one in China, one in Russia or Ukraine You say, well I well I'm afraid God might do that. You mean you would be blessed by God if he did that. Because they're going to be used by God in a great way. And and and what a blessing that is. Jim Elliott, the missionary that we know about, who was a uh a great man, His parents tried to persuade him to stay in the U. S. not to go in the foreign field. And this is what he wrote to them. He says, grieve not. If your son seems to desert you remember how the psalmist described children? He said that they were as a heritage from the Lord, that every man should be happy who had his quiver full of them. And what is a full quiver but of arrows? And what are arrows but to shoot? So with the strong arms of prayer, draw the bowstring back and let the arrow fly. In other words, let me go. Let me go and do what God has called me to do. And that's so very true. Notice the last thing Not only the desirability of children and the directability of children, but then the dependability of children. Look in verse 5. Happy is a man that has his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed But they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. And here's a picture of a man who has a huge quiver full of sons and daughters. And it's a happy family. And the implication here is the larger the family, the better. You need to remember that because one day, perhaps, our children may need to take care of us. So it's better to have a bunch of them taking care of you than it is a few of them. That's the idea here Uh a man who has a lot of children is a happy man. And if God has given to him and his family Good, godly children. That is such a blessing. You know why? Notice what it says in verse 5. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. So what does he mean by that? The gate was the place where the elders and the men would gather together to discuss matters, to counsel over matters. And so the idea there is if we if if you're in the gate there, uh you won't be ashamed of anyone saying negative of you because you have good children. And so you're very happy and proud of what is said by the elders at the gate. But not only that, it's the enemies that are there at the gate in verse 5. One day at the gate, an enemy will come knocking on the door or the gate. That happened often in the ancient world. Why would the enemy come to the gate? Well, they were wanting to take over the city This is a reconnaissance mission from the enemy. Look, check you out at the gate, the enemy's there. But you know what? A man who has his quiver full of godly good righteous children who have integrity. He's not afraid of any any enemy at the gate. You know why? He's got backup. He's got a bunch of burly boys behind him. That's the idea there. They're going to be ready for any war. They're going to be ready for any battle. That's our desire. We want our children, all of us here, we have the same desire. We want our children to know the Lord, to grow up. to be strong in the word, to be strong in integrity, to stand firm on the word of God. So when the enemy comes, and by the way, the enemy will come to the gate, we will not compromise the scripture. We will not compromise what God's Word says. We will stand firm at the enemy when he comes to the gate. You're not going to get in on us. And that's the idea here. I'm not going to be ashamed when the enemy comes because my family is standing firm. On what God wants. Isn't that what you want? And that's what I want. And friend, I want to tell you, we have to fully rely on the Lord. For that. Do our part. Let's do everything that we're supposed to do. But then having done all, let's rest in the Lord. And then allow God to freely reward us for doing what is right. By blessing us. Let me close with this. I was reading this story. It's an illustration that was given by Clovis Chappell, a minister from a century ago, and he would tell the story of two paddle boats. Riding down the Mississippi. They left Memphis. They were left at the same time. They were on their way to New Orleans. They were riding side by side. And sailors on one side of the boat were ridiculing the other boat for how slow it was going, and what happened was an argument ensued and then a race. They put all the coal in the fire to make the the paddle boats go fast. And one boat saw that they needed more than just the coal. They had already burned up all the coal. They had enough coal for the trip, but not for a race. So they started taking some of the cargo on board and putting it in the fire. And they saw how the cargo was making the ship go faster and faster. And so they put all of the cargo in the fire And they won the race, but they lost the cargo. There are many people that are like that. Many families are suffering because the father is trying to win the rat race of life. And you're and you're speeding and trying to do all these things that really don't matter. Don't matter anything. And in doing so, you're burning up the cargo. God has entrusted to us precious cargo to be delivered at the destination. at the right time. And that's our duty, our responsibility. I want all the cargo that God has entrusted to me to reach the destination called heaven. And and at the right time, at the right place, for them to get there safely. And in order for us to do that, we have to have the right focus, the right priorities. Accept the Lord build the house. They labor in vain. Let's bow for prayer. So Lord, we're thankful for this reminder to us tonight. And tonight, Lord, we confess together that except you build a house, we labor in vain. Except, Lord, you keep the city, the watchman, he wakes but in vain. So tonight, Lord, we confess together that we are fully relying upon you. To bless our homes, to build our homes. And Lord, we know that that doesn't relieve us of any responsibility that we have. We are still responsible to walk before you. As the scripture says, to walk before you in righteousness. As you said to Abraham, walk before me perfectly in the sense that we have to do what you command us to do. So Lord, help us to do that. Help us to be committed to teaching the Word, to living out the Word in our homes and our lives, and having done all that we can to rest in you tonight to rest in you for all of the results and allow you to reward us so that, Lord, when the enemy comes, we won't be ashamed. We won't be ashamed. We'll stand. Heads bowed and eyes closed. How many say that's my prayer tonight? To fully rely on God. Pray for me. With my hand lifted up to heaven, that's my desire to be for God. Fully rely upon Him. Father, you see these hands. Lord, help us to live out what you have taught us. And we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. In the supreme properties.