Well, it's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 9, as we continue our study. through Hebrews. And tonight we're going to deal with Hebrews chapter 9, verses 1 through 14. And I want to talk tonight about a greater tabernacle. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 1 through 14. But look at verse number 1. Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service. And a worldly sanctuary. For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein was the candlestick and the table and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. So I want to talk about this uh this idea of a greater tabernacle. Now everybody in the world has two basic problems. Um I mean do we have more than two problems, but there are two basic problems that we have, mankind has And I would just say that the first problem is what what how do I bring myself into fellowship with God? How do I have access with God? You know, man was created to enjoy God, right? The Westminster Confession says the purpose of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. That's man's ultimate purpose. And uh this is the way it was in the Garden of Eden. God had fellowship with man. Man enjoyed access to God. But as you know, when Adam sinned, man was expelled from the presence of God. And so the heart of man has been restless ever since then. It was Augustine who said, Thou hast made us for thyself, and our hearts are restless until they find rest in thee. Now the second general problem that mankind has is what sin has done to him on the inside. Remember that when Adam and Eve sinned, they felt something they had never felt before. When they sinned in the garden, before that time, of course, they were innocent, and uh they had a new emotion, however, after they sinned. When they lost their innocence, they felt shame. And so in scripture, the birth of the conscience then is seen in the Garden of Eden with the fall. With the eating of the forbidden fruit came the birth of the conscience. And before that the conscience was unnecessary because there was no sin. But with the fall came the sense of right and wrong. And came the conscience then. And so the sense of guilt over the actions committed overwhelmed man to where he felt this sense of of shame. And so man's conscience has been loaded down with guilt, this sense of guilt that the conscience or the soul bears. I was reading an interesting article Uh it said uh this, it was talking about um potato workers in a field. Uh it says this, years of hoisting these huge bags. have led to multiple complaints of neck and back problems by Colorado potato factory workers. And that's where the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health comes in. They did an exhaustive study, and this is what they said. They said the spine is a sensitive mechanism. Over time, improper lifting can cause irreversible damage that can lead to permanent injury. Necks and backs are not designed to carry one hundred pound loads in such a way. And uh they said you can handle that for a little while, but continually carrying that big of a load it does your your neck and your back much damage. And I was thinking reading that, our soul is much the same way. It is a delicate balance, it's as delicately balanced, I should say, as the body Perhaps even more. The soul can carry certain burdens, but there's one burden that the soul was never designed to carry continually, and that's the burden of guilt. And so guilt is the emotion and the spiritual weight of unresolved sin. And it is guilt that causes man to do all kinds of crazy things. to act irrationally. And so the question is, what do you do? What does man do with the guilt? Like physical pain is to the body, so is guilt to the soul. Sin has so stained the conscience and the soul of man that it's loaded down with this burden of guilt Now, thank God that before man even fell, God in heaven already had the solution. Did you know that? Before me man even fell, God had a solution. And in fact, in the Old Testament, God gave a giant object lesson to Israel. Which pointed to how he was going to deal with these two problems, the problem of alienation and the problem of guilt being loaded down with guilt. Now, let's remember the wr the purpose for the writer of Hebrews. What was he trying to do? He was trying to persuade Hebrew Christians who had made a profession of faith and who suffered persecution because of it And who were considering turning back into Judaism, he was trying to persuade them not to make that mistake. That would be a huge mistake to turn back around. The old covenant is inferior to the new covenant. Remember we looked at this in chapter number eight. Remember that we have a better covenant. It is ministered by a better priest it is mediated from a better place. It is made of better promises. And you remember the promises of the new covenant are written on the heart, whereas the promises of the old covenant are written upon stone And there really can't change who you are. The promises of a new covenant are written on the heart. There's the promise of grace and the promise of an inner change, the promise of the forgiveness of sin. In short, it's just a better deal. How many of y'all are always looking for better deals for things? Well, the Hebrew writer was saying to these Hebrews, look, the new covenant is just a better deal. And you're a fool if you don't take advantage of this new covenant. And you're even more of a fool if you have already made a decision to trust Jesus, to turn back away from that And to go back into the old covenant, because the old covenant is a shadow, it is a picture of the reality. Let me give you illustrations. I know you all know that my daughter Abby gave birth to our second grandson, uh Owen. And uh, you know, before that, leading up to the delivery of Owen, Abby had these pictures through the wonder of medical science, we were able to look at these sonogram pictures. We all have those, right, of our children before they're born, at least the newer generation. We didn't have that in my generation, right? But you know when you get these little sonogram pictures, they're really wonderful and we rejoice over them, don't we? We look at those things, we kind of hold them up into the light, and we can distinguish a little face there. We can distinguish a baby there. But let's just say that after Owen was born And by the way, I I rejoice in looking at those pictures, but after Owen was born, and and and Abby wants to bring Owen to me and say, Dad, would you like to hold Owen? And I say, Honey, I I I would rather look at this picture here. I would just rather look at the the sonogram picture. And uh I ignore the baby because I am obsessed over the picture. You say, I can't think of anyone that would be that stupid, that foolish, as to say I am more interested in the shadowy picture than I am the reality. But you know what? That's exactly the mistake that the Hebrew Christians were making. By turning back into the Old Covenant, in essence, what they were doing is they were saying, we're more interested in the shadows, the pictures in the Old Testament. the pre-coming pictures of the Messiah, than we are interested in the Messiah himself. Now by the way, there's nothing wrong with uh you know me looking back at those pictures and reminiscing about oh and before he was born But to but to ignore him and to obsess over the pitchers, that's ridiculous. That's what the Hebrews were doing. They were turning away from Christ and they were looking at the shadowy pictures. And so what the writer of Hebrews is doing is he's pointing out that very mistake. He's saying, you're making a foolish mistake. You're ignoring the reality for shadowy pictures. So in chapter 9, what he does is he compares the two covenants, we could say, he compares the pictures with the reality To show them the mistake that they're making. Now when he does that, he doesn't speak ill of the Old Testament pictures. He says they serve their place. They had their purpose. But that purpose is over. You know, when I look at the sonogram pictures of my grandson, they were wonderful in their time, but now that the baby has come, guess what? That's over with now. The reality is here. I'm more interested in the reality. And so this is what the writer of Hebrews is trying to teach to these Hebrew Christians. So I want to examine this tonight and I want to look at it under three headings. I want to talk about the sanctuary examine because in the first few verses he's going to talk about the tabernacle. He's going to talk about the pictures Secondly, I want to talk about the service explained. He'll talk about some of the services that went on in the tabernacle. And then thirdly, I want to talk about the Savior exalted. Because it he's going to compare the picture, so to speak, with the reality and show how the Jesus is so much better. So number one, if you're taking notes, write down the sanctuary examines The sanctuary examined, and what we're going to look at basically, then, is the tabernacle. And I think all of us perhaps have seen pictures of the tabernacle. We've seen um images of it that show us what it must have been like in Old Testament Israel. And of course you know that the tabernacle dwelt in the center of the camp. Did you know that semi-nomadic tribes when they traveled in the uh that world back in that day, the king always was his tent was always in the center of the camp. The fact that the tabernacle was always in the center of the camp meant that God was their king. And you know in the Old Testament it talked about the pillar of fire. the glory that dwelt right above the tabernacle right there in uh in the wilderness over them But notice what he says. Look at verse 1. Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein was the candlestick and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. And after the second veil of the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all, which had the golden censer and the ark of the covenant overlaid roundabout with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron's rod that budded and the tables of the covenant. So he's going to talk about different passages of the tabernacle, and first he's going to talk about the outer court. If you look in the picture, you'll notice just outside the tabernacle there, within the the fence and the gate, is the outer court. And the outer court By the way, we know where the tabernacle is. It was a movable tent that God commanded Moses to build. This is so God could dwell among his people, tabernacle among them. And of course later in the New Testament, the Bible would say the word became flesh and what dwelt or the same word there tabernacled among us and so it is a picture of Jesus but you can see the basic outer court there there's the uh bronze altar and the bronze labor That stood on the outside just in front of the first veil. And by the way, that's how it was set up. The tribes of Israel were situated around the tabernacle in a very specific spot that the Bible talks about On each side of the tabernacle. And again in the courtyard you had then the brazen altar where the sacrifices were made. And then you also had the the the labor, the bronze labor, where the priests would cleanse themselves, and you had the tabernacle itself. The altar of course was made of acacia wood, covered with bronze And had the four corners had horns where they would tie the sacrifice to. And I don't have time to go through all this in detail, but I just want to flip through some of this. The bronze labor was where the priest would come and he would cleanse himself. And the Bible made it very clear that if he came in before the Lord being unclean, that he could die. So he would go to the labor and he would cleanse himself there at that little pool of water, that little fountain of water. And so that was basically the courtyard Then there is the holy place. Look in verse number two where it says, first there was a tabernacle made. Um the first where it was the candlestick, the table, and the showbread. So when he talks about the first, he's really talking about the first room. When he says the first, he's not talking about the first tabernacle in the wilderness. He's talking about the first room. And what was the first room? The first room was the holy place. And what was inside the holy place, the writer of Hebrews here tells us, there was the can't the candlestick or the menorah, the seven golden candlesticks, there was the table of showbread. That was there, there was the altar of incense that was in there. All these things you could see they were labeled. So this is really a picture. If you're walking in on the left hand, there's the candlesticks. On the right hand There's the table of showbread. Right in front of the second veil is the altar of incense. Now all these things point to Jesus, right? The candlesticks, Jesus is what? The light of the world. The table of showbread, he's the what Bread of life, you guys are already ahead of me. Got an A on the exam already here. And the altar of incense, what does that represent? That represents the prayers of Jesus. That altar of incense was constantly smoking, and the smoke represented the prayers of the high priest the Lord Jesus really that are constantly going towards heaven. And by the way, the incense was a special mixture that was given in the book of Exodus that no one else could copy. And so it had a unique smell to it. The altar of incense represents the prayers. And so the writer of Hebrews talks about this. He says, of course you have the first room of the tabernacle and you have these instruments in there. And then he talks about the second look down at verse number three. And after the second veil, that is you come to the Second veil, and what do you go into? You go into the holy of holies. The first veil is coming from the outer court into the holy place. The second veil is right behind the altar of incense. If you go behind that veil, you come then into the Holy of Holies. And of course, the feature piece of furniture that was there in the Holy of Holies, as we know, was uh the Ark of the Covenant. And so he describes that. He calls it the holiest of all in verse 3. Look in verse 4, which had the golden censor. And the Ark of the Covenant overlaid gold round round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna. And Aaron's rod that budded and the tables of the covenant. So again, this is called the Holy of Holies, the most holy place. This of course is where the high priest went once a year. uh on the Day of Atonement to sprinkle blood. Again, you pass by the veil, which was a barrier between God and man, and you would enter into the holy place or the most holy place, the Holy of Holies, where the ark was the central feature there. And again, I don't have time to go through all of this. You're going to have to really read this fast. Done? Okay. What was in the Ark? There was the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments inside the ark. There was Aaron's rod that butted. Remember, some of the Israelites said, Who died and made you boss? Who who says you're to be the high priest? And they said, well, let's do an experiment. Let's put these, everyone put their rod in the holy place, and the one that buds will be the anointed priest. And whose rod budded? It was Aaron's. Which was also a symbol that God could bring life out of death. There was a jar of manna there to remind the people that God constantly provides for them. And so this was the ark, and inside then you can see those things that were there. And this is what the writer is describing in verse number four. He said, you know, you remember these things. You remember, and that he doesn't really go into specific detail here, does he? You know why? Because he's writing the Hebrews. They already know all these things. So he's kind of giving them a summary. I want to remind you of this Reminds you of this tabernacle here. Reminds you of the mercy seat there that was on top. Look down at verse number five. And over it the cherubims of glory, shadowing the mercy seat, of which we cannot now speak particularly. Again, he says, I'm not giving you all the details, but I just want to give you just the general um picture of the mercy seat where you have the the wings of the cherubim that are outstretched and right in the middle of that is the so-called mercy seat where the blood was sprinkled on that mercy seat And he says, I can't go into this all in verse number five in particular, but I'm giving you a general summary of everything that you already know. that you Hebrews know. So number one, then we see the sanctuary examined. He just kind of goes over it. But then I want you to write down number two, the service explains. Because what he's going to do in these next few verses is talk about some of the things that went on there. The services that went on inside the tabernacle. He'll talk about the ministry of the priests. What would they do? Well, look down at verse number 6 what it says. Now when these things were thus ordained, and when he says ordained there, this is a Greek word kateskuazo. Which means to fully prepare, or we could say it like this, put in readiness, or when everything was in place, if you will. Because you remember what did they do with this tabernacle? They would pick it up, right? They would they would fold it up and they would march and then they would set it back down. Can you imagine how much work was involved in doing all that? They probably had it down to a science. Every person every priest had his part. They would pick it up when the glory cloud picked up and went on. They would pick up and follow it. When the glory cloud stopped, they would pitch the tabernacle right there And so the writer here of Hebrews is saying, when all these things were ordained, when it was all set up, when all the furniture was in place, when everything was ready. Look at verse 6. The priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. So when it says he went into the first tabernacle, what's he talking about? He goes first into the old holy place, the outer court. The priest would first go in there. Now several priests could go in there. The tabernacle had a fence around it to keep the normal people, the common people away. Only the priests could go inside the gate. And a handful of priests could go inside the holy place. And they would go in there and they would do their service. There was a lot to do there in the holy place. There was the uh of course we know the table of showbread again and the seven golden candlesticks. Uh they uh this was the only light in that dark room. They had to constantly trim the wicks. Uh they had to constantly um replace the table of show bread with new bread. Actually that was done once a week. Do you know what they did with the old bread? The the priests had to eat it. They couldn't just throw it away. Be like eating day old donuts at Dunkin' Donuts, right? Only this was a week old. After a week, the priest would eat the bread that was there, Aaron and his sons. It was replaced every week there on the table of showbread. So, and then they also had to make sure that the altar of incense was constantly burning incense. They had to keep the coals hot on the altar. And replaced those coals with new coals. You know where they got the new coals to put on the altar of incense? Anybody know? They got them off the brazen altar that was in the outer court. You couldn't get them from anywhere else If you took coals from anywhere else and put it on the altar of incense, that was called what in the Bible? Strange fire And you remember Aaron had two sons, Nadab and Abahu. You remember they offered, what does the Bible say? Strange fire. You know what they did? They took coals from some other place than the brazen altar and put it on the altar of incense, and what did God do? In Leviticus 10, 1 and 2, God sh uh basically punished Aaron's sons. They were struck dead because of that And by the way, in the story in Luke chapter 1, Zachariah, the high f uh priest, or not the high priest, one of the priests who went into the holy place and he offered incense on the altar of incense and saw an angel there and became, you know, lost his voice. Couldn't speak after that. That was right there at the altar of incense, uh there in the holy place. Um course we know that story. And so what would they do after that was their service. They would take care of the things in the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 7. But into the second went the high priest alone. once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the heirs of the people. So here's the second room. The outer room, they would trim the wicks, they would replace the bread, they would put incense on the altar. The inner room, the Holy of Holies, now wait a minute, not everyone could go in there. You can have a bunch of priests in the holy place. But when it came to the Holy of Holies, there was only one priest that could go there. And he could only go there one time a year. One priest, one time a year, would go into the holy place. And again, we know that that was on the Day of Atonement, what is now called Yom Kippur. Yom is of course the Hebrew. Word for day. Kapoor is the Hebrew word for covering or atonement on the day of atonement. He would go in there and he would sprinkle blood on the mercy seat. to atone for the sins of the people. Now the priest would always wear his clothing, which was very majestic, very beautiful. Uh all these things had symbolism in it. The the uh the turban had inscribed on it, holy to the Lord. He had a tunic, he had Also the girdle and the ephod, or he could call it the sash and the robe, and then he had at the bottom of the robe, as you know, bells and pomegranates that were at the bottom of the robe Uh incidentally when I was over in Israel last year in Shiloh with over there with Brother Mark, uh one of the diggers found what they thought was a ceramic pomegranate that they thought could be one of the pomegranates that was at the bottom of a priestly robe because that's what they had at the bottom there. And he also, of course, had the breastplate with the twelve stones, uh with speaking about the twelve tribes of Israel worn over the priest's heart, which represented the fact that they were close to the heart of God. And of course they had Gurim and Thumin, which was the Some people feel the stones that they used to cast lots that were in a pouch right behind the priest's breastplate. But he would go in there one time a year. With all of his priestly garments on, he would take blood that was offered at the brazen altar that was now put in a bowl He would go into the Holy of Holies and sprinkle blood. Look what it says in there on verse 7. Verse 7 again. Once every year, not without blood. He went in, but not without blood He would go in there with blood, which he offered for who? Himself and the heirs of the people. And by the way, when he went in, he was very afraid. He was fearful. In fact, did you know according to one Jewish writing called the Tractate Yoma, the high priest would stay up all night before praying and confessing sin and reading scripture. He wanted to make sure that when he went in He was not going in in an unworthy way. And so you know the the the ritual they would take two goats at the entrance of the door of the tabernacle. They would cast lots, one lot would fall upon one goat, that goat became holy unto the Lord. That goat was taken into the tabernacle. His throat was cut, the blood was put into a bowl. The other goat, what would happen to him? The high priest would confess the sins of the nation. on that goat, and then he was led away into the wilderness, never to be seen again. That was called the what? The scapegoat, right? He was led away, led away. He would go out the eastern gate. He was headed west What does the Bible say? The Lord has separated our sins from us as far as the east is from the as far as the east is from the west. That's a picture of that scapegoat being led away because those sins were seen no more. He would sprinkle blood on The blood of that goat, the other goat, was sprinkled on the mercy seat, and that happened on the Day of Atonement. So the writer of Hebrews is reminding his readers about all these things, which they knew so very well. But now we see the ministry of the priest, but then I want you to write down the manifestation of the Spirit. Because now look what the writer of Hebrews does. Look at verse number 8. The Holy Ghost, this signifying. In other words, notice where it says signifying, signifying. This is the Greek word dailu, which means to make something known. It's almost like the Holy Spirit now comes forward and says, I want to make something known. After all of this that you are being reminded about under the old covenant, the service of the priests and all of the Furniture of the tabernacle, I do want to make this one thing known. Look at verse 9. That the way into the holiest of all was not yet made what You guys with me? Manifest. So what's the Holy Spirit doing? He's coming forward and he's saying, I want to make something very clear. Access to God. Was not available under the old covenant. Okay? Wasn't available there. In fact, who had access to God? Well, a handful of priests could go into the holy place, and only one priest could go into the Holy of Holies. All the other people had to stay back. The old covenant and the tabernacle system did not give you access to God That was not yet fully made what? Manifest. The word is thaneru in the Greek to make clear. It's still not fully clear how God was going to make complete, total access to him. Possible. We get a little shade of it. We get a little understanding of perhaps how he was going to do it. But look what he says in verse 8. The way unto the holies of all was not Yet made manifest, why watch this, while as the first tabernacle was yet what? Standing. What he's basically saying is, in other words, as long as the people were still dependent on that first Tabernacle. As long as the people were still dependent on that Levitical system with the ceremonies where the high priest went in one day a year. The people will not fully understand how they could have total access to God themselves That's what he's saying. As long as you're dependent on the old covenant system, your worship will be limited. Your access to God will be limited. Your understanding will be limited. This is the point that he's making here The old covenant system limits your worship and it limits your access. That's why he reminds them about all these things that they knew so very well. It's as if he's saying, Don't you remember there was only one guy that could come into the presence of God? once a year. And he offered blood for himself in the heirs of the people. Access was limited. Cleansing Was limited. Even with all the ceremonies and the rituals, perfect cleansing from sin could not be accomplished under the old covenant. The way to full access to fellowship with God was still not opened. Perfect cleansing and perfect forgiveness, cleansing from a defiled conscience. That was not yet. That's what he's reminding them about. Let me read to you what one writer said this. He said, The Israelites never really knew that they were forgiven. The scapegoat was sent out to be lost in the wilderness, but there was always the chance of his finding his way back to the camp. He said there was no freedom of the conscience, no assurance of cleansing. And the Spirit is teaching that the old covenant was temporary. This was all temporary, is what he's saying. In other words, to get back to my original illustration, this was just a shadowy picture. That's all it meant to do. It was a picture. To point to the reality that was going to come. So look down in verse number 9. Notice what it says. Which was a figure. Look at the word figure there. I want you to circle that. You can write, if you want to, in your bar margin, parabole. Parabole. What is that? That's where we get our word. What does it sound like? Parable. We get our word parable there. Now some of you might remember on Sunday morning a while back we did a s we did a series on the parables. Remember what the word terabole means? Terab means alongside of Right? What's a paralegal? That's someone who works alongside a lawyer, right? Or a paramilitary? That's someone who fights alongside the the uh the army. Or a paragraph, those are writings that are set side by side. Para means alongside of. Bole means to cast down. You're casting something down alongside. And in the case of a parable, what are you doing? You're putting down an earthly story alongside a spiritual reality. Why? So that we can understand the spiritual reality. And this is exactly what the writer is saying about the tabernacle in verse 9, which was a parabole or a illustration, a figure for the time then present. Which means that this was a common earthly illustration that was temporary. It was only for that time. That moment in time, it was an object lesson for everyone in Israel. It was never intended to cleanse people from sin. It was only a symbol that pointed to how God was going to cleanse people from sin, how God was going to give people access. How God was going to cleanse a person's conscience. So this was a parable for the time, it was temporary, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices. They could not make him that did the service perfect. In other words, the worshiper never did walk away with a conscience that was truly cleansed. In the Old Testament, when they went through this ritual, the worshiper never walked away saying, you know what, I have a feeling of total freedom of conscience Or total peace. That never happens. Because it says in verse number 9 that that could not make him that did the service or did the act of worship or the ritual perfect. As pertaining to the what? As pertaining to the conscience. So his conscience was never really fully relieved of the sense of sin. And look at verse number ten. Which stood only in the meals and drinks and divers washings and cardinal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. In other words, these regulations were really only regulations for the body. They didn't go down any deeper than that. They were only ceremonies. They provided ceremonial purity, not inward deep purity. of the soul and the spirit. And so this is what the spirit is saying, according to verse 8. This is what he signifies. Worship of God was eliminated under the old covenant. There was no real access. The cleansing was imperfect. The old covenant was temporary. It was only for time. The tabernacle in the old covenant was a parable, it was an illustration, it was an object lesson that pointed to the way God was going to actually completely restore man to have access to him and cleanse the conscience. But look at the end of verse 10. There's an interesting word there. The last word in the verse, imposed on them until the time of what? Reformation. The time of reformation. The Greek word here is die. Listen, di orthosis. Di orthosis. This is only mentioned once, this particular word in the New Testament. What is ortho? Does that sound familiar? That's a prefix that we use. Orthodox. Ortho means straight. Someone who's orthodox, it means that they believe correctly. They believe rightly. And orthodonists does what? Straightens out your what? Your teeth, right? It's not a really nice way to say that, but orthopedic straightens out your joints and your bones, makes them straight So the idea here is in verse number 10 where he says, until the time of the Reformation, we could say it like this, the old covenant points to who will come in the future, who will really straighten everything out. The tabernacle is not going to straighten you out, but it only points to the one who will come who will straighten you out, who will make all things right. That was the purpose of the tabernacle, to point to that time of reformation, that time of straightening things out. So let me give you the third point here. We talked about the sanctuary examined. And then number two, the service explained. But then write down number three, the Savior exalted. Because again, what does this do? This all points to the Lord Jesus Christ. I love the way verse 11 starts. How does it start? But Christ. But Christ being come and a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle. Not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. What a difference that Christ makes In our great high priest, the Lord Jesus, we have the remedy of those two problems, the remedy of access, for access, and the remedy of our guilt. And notice how he says this. First of all, he solves the problem of the access. Notice that he ministers in a superior place It says in verse number 11, He became a high priest of good things to come by a greater, more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands. Jesus is a greater high priest. Guess what? He doesn't minister in a tabernacle made with hands. He never ministered in the earthly tabernacle. But he is ministering in a tabernacle which one? Heaven. The one in heaven. This was a tabernacle not made with hands. This is God's dwelling place. And we already know that the writer of Hebrews says he's a priest forever after the order of who? Melchizedek, who is a king and a priest. So in that place in heaven, Jesus is at the right hand of the Father He's serving in the tabernacle called heaven. He's serving as a king ruling over all. He's serving as a priest. And he is praying for us. He's there in heaven. He rules and he ministers in that same place. And so therefore he's in a superior place. And by the way, in the Old Testament, the Old Covenant, a priest couldn't bring people with him into the Holy of Holies. The priest couldn't bring people into the holy place. If you were an Israelite standing at the door in that day, the priest couldn't say to you, hey, you want to come into the holy place with me? You want to see this? Check this out. Come on in. No, you can't come in. He couldn't bring anyone in with him. The high priest certainly couldn't bring anybody into the Holy of Holies with him. The high priest couldn't say to somebody, you know what, I'm afraid to go in by myself. Why don't you come with me? Can't bring him in, can't bring him in with him. He had to come alone. But you know what? Jesus brings us into the Holy of Holies. He's a greater high priest. That's what the writer is telling us. He brings us into God's holy place. In fact, go back to Hebrews chapter 6 real quick. Let me remind you of this. Look at Hebrews 6. Look down at verse number 19 Remember what the what he says there. Look at Hebrews 6. 19. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, which entereth into the Enter into that within the what? The veil. What veil is he talking about? He's talking about the veil in heaven. We have a hope that's connected behind the veil. This this anchor of hope that we have is connected to a cord that's connected to the throne of God behind the veil. Who put it there? Look in verse 20. Whither the forerunner is for us entered. Even Jesus made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. Jesus went into heaven. He went behind the veil. He went into the Holy of Holies. Went to the very throne of God. He connected our anchor of hope right there to the very throne. And guess what? He doesn't come alone. Guess who he brings with him into that place? He brings us with him. We are able to be escorted by Jesus into the Holy of Holies. And so he ministers there. You say, well, wait a minute, I'm not in heaven yet. In the mind of God, you are The Bible says that we are made to sit together in heavenly places in Christ. As far as your union with Jesus in the mind of God, you're already there. Christ has escorted you there in heaven. So he ministers from a superior place. He gives a superior payment, which would be the next thing there. I'm behind on my notes on my uh things here. A superior payment. Look down in verse number twelve for for the In chapter 9, verse number 12, where it says, Neither by the blood of goats and calves But by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. Of course, redemption means setting free by paying a purchase price The Lord Jesus made the eternal payment for our sins. First, he offered his own blood, not the blood of bulls and goats, which makes them superior. Second, he offered it once, that's all he needed to do, just one time, whereas the blood of bulls and goats was offered constantly in the old Tabernacle system, Jesus offered his blood one time. Thirdly, he obtained permanent, eternal redemption. He cleansed us from all sins, past, present, and future, in one eternal act of redemption. Which is what he's telling us here. Because the sacrifices in the Old Testament, they never really paid for anything. You've heard me say this before. They were like credit card purchases, right? How many of you how many of you ever bought a bunch of stuff at the store and when they they ring it all up and they say that'll be you know this much and you pull out your wallet and you pull out a credit card and you give them that and and they give you a receipt and you walk away and you say it's all paid for. It's not paid for. What does a credit card do? A credit card basically says a payment's coming later. Someone's going to pay this later. There's a sense in which the Old Testament sacrifices were credit card purchases Where sin was kind of rolled over. The payment for sin was rolled over another year. And every year they would offer blood again. And you know, they were rolling that debt over again and again until finally one came The great high priest Jesus who paid off that whole sin debt where it says he by his own blood Entered into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us all. His one sacrifice paid for all sins. It's that one moment in time. So we have a superior payment, we have a superior place, a superior payment, and then a superior purging. So the first problem is solved We now have access because of Jesus' death, because he paid the debt of our sins. Now we have access to the most holy place. He brings us in there. He escorts us in there, so now we have fellowship with the Father. What about the second thing? What about guilt? Look down in verse number 13. For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of it half are sprinkling the unclean, sanctify to the purity of the flesh. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living? God. I want you to notice the argument that the writer uses here. This is the how much more argument. This is a rabbinic argument from the lighter to the heavier. And he's saying this. If in the Old Testament these sacrifices basically um sanctified you outwardly They made you clean ceremonially. They did it on a superficial level. Where your body, your outward self, was ceremonially clean before God. If they had the power to cleanse you in a superficial way How much more does the blood of Christ cleanse you not outwardly, but what? To your very depths? The blood of Christ cleanses your soul, it cleanses your conscience. Look at how it's used in verse 14 to purge your conscience. It makes your conscience absolutely clean. The wonderful thing is our conscience is completely cleansed at salvation. You ever notice a person, they live all their life accumulating guilt, they accumulate shame, they accumulate self-contempt. And all these things that that have weighed them down and burdened them down. That's why you see so many people out there that don't know Jesus and they're miserable. They might try to put on a good smile. They might try to hide it But deep down in their heart, they're burdened down with the guilt of sin. They're miserable. And what happens when they come to Christ and they get saved? And they realize that all their sins are forgiven, you know what happens? Their conscience, the blood of Christ, cleanses them, not just superficially, it cleanses them down deep, and it removes every sense of guilt and shame in their very conscience. And they just look new. They act completely new. Why? Because all of that guilt is gone. Because the blood of Christ has washed their conscience completely clean. There's no more sense of guilt. There's what? There's a sense of forgiveness. A freedom of forgiveness. I think I told you about this before that one time I was ministering in a hospital for people who were very depressed and I was sharing the gospel to a whole group of people and one lady spoke out and she said, God can't forgive me I said, I don't know what you did, but he can forgive you. And she said, I murdered my boyfriend. And I began to share the gospel even more and say, you know, God can forgive a murderer. And she got down on her knees and she prayed and she cried and she said, Lord Jesus, forgive me. And I'm telling you folks, when she got up off her knees, she looked different. You know why? Because the blood of Christ cleansed her completely. Down deep. It cleansed her conscience. She looked free. I'll never forget, when I went in the next week to the hospital, the doctors met me at the door and they said, uh, what did you tell Deborah? What did you tell her? Because she's not the same person. And the reason she wasn't the same person is because of the blood of Jesus Christ that had cleansed her conscience. And she had a sense of access to God. And she had a freedom from sin and the guilt of sin. Isaac Watts wrote these words, not all the blood of beasts on Jewish altars slain. Could give the guilty conscience peace or wash away the stain. Christ, the heavenly Lamb, takes all our sins away A sacrifice of nobler name and richer blood than they. The conscience is absolutely cleansed. And this is what the writer is saying. Why would you want to go back into the old covenant. They can't do anything for you. Why do you want to look at the shadowy picture when you have the reality right there? It's a big mistake to turn back. Let's all bow for prayer together tonight. We're out of time. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for the precious blood of Christ that not only grants us access to the Father. But completely cleanses us and purges our conscience clean and makes us brand new and takes away the sense of guilt. The sense of punishment. And gives us a spirit of adoption whereby we cry out, Abba Father. All the fear of punishment is gone, all the sense of guilt is gone. And we have that under our Savior in this new covenant. And we thank you for that, Lord. And I pray if there's someone here tonight that's never truly come to Christ and had their sins. cleansed, deeply cleansed, and had their conscience renewed, and have had the sense of forgiveness, the freedom of total forgiveness of sin. I pray, Lord, that tonight would be the night of salvation for them And with heads bowed and eyes closed, and I just want to ask you, is that you? Can you really say that I have come to the great high priest, Jesus? And he has cleansed me, he has washed me completely clean. And I praise him for that. I know that I'm saved. Friend, if you can't say that, I would just plead with you to make that matter Right. Settle it right now. But the Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. So would you be willing to pray right there where you are? And would you be willing to say, Great High Priest, Lord Jesus, would you please cleanse me? Forgive me for my sin. Take away the guilt. Forgive me because of what you've done for me on the cross. That is my hope. That is my only means of salvation, is putting my faith in your finished work. Your redemption. Cleanse me and forgive me. Give me that access that I so desperately want. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it. Right there where you are. You don't have to say eloquent words. You can just pour your heart out right where you are. Lord, save me. Cleanse me. Forgive me. He'll save you right where you are. And if you've done that, if you prayed that, would you let us know? Would you come to one of us after the service and say, yeah, that's me, I. Came to Christ. Made that matter right. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.