Look in Nehemiah chapter 11. And tonight I want to preach on this topic, a heart for ministry. And actually we're going to be looking at 11 and 12, and uh this is these are a lot of verses, and obviously we're not going to touch on everyone. We're going to kind of give it a little survey here of chapter 11 and chapter 12. But I just want to ask you a question while you're looking at for Nehemiah chapter 11. Let me ask you this. Just think about this question. How does a person go into ministry? Now, a lot of times we would answer that question by saying, well, you know, the person needs to go to Bible college or seminary, and then after they graduate, they need to work Perhaps in a church for a while, and then after that they need to be ordained, and once that happens, they can go into ministry. And that's normally the way that we think about something like that. But really, it's it's kind of a trick question Because, you know, the question itself and the answer that I just gave kind of reflects a mentality that's entrenched among God's people, which divides the people of God into really two categories. There are those who are clergy and then those who are laity. And to the extent that we buy into that mindset is the extent to which the body of Christ will be crippled. And think about that. God doesn't divide us up that way, clergy and laity. And so if if we think that way, if we have that mentality, that means it'll just be a few, a handful of people that's doing all the work of the ministry And a lot of people that are just pretty much sitting back and letting others do the work. It reminds me of what one person said, if you go to a football game, it's kind of like a church. There are twenty-two people on the field that desperately need to rest. And 50,000 people in the stands that desperately need to exercise. There's a sense in which sometimes things are like that in the ministry of the church. What's the bu the Bible say about that? The Bible says that God raises up in the church pastors and teachers and evangelists to help equip the saints for the work of the ministry. And so the reason God gives pastors to the church is to teach you the Word of God because it's the Word of God that's going to do what? It's going to equip you, it's going to make you profitable to be used in the ministry of God. So let me ask the question again. How does a person enter into ministry? Here's how they enter into ministry. He or she trusts Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And once you trust Jesus Christ, you're baptized into the body of Christ. And once you're baptized into the body of Christ, the Holy Spirit gives you a spiritual gift. And you're to use that, you're to employ that for the body of Christ. And you're to serve the Lord in ministry. So you enter into ministry. The moment you trust Jesus as your Savior, you are called to be one of God's servants, one of God's ministers. Now we know that it's proper for pastors, teachers uh to get all the training that they need to build up the body of Christ. We understand that. But still it's true that every believer has a spiritual gift. And they're to use that in the ministry of God's work. And so I say that because when I think of that, when I look in Nehemiah chapter eleven and twelve. This is one of these sections of scripture that you read it and you think, man, why is this in inspired scripture? Because again, when you read it, it just looks like a lengthy registry of names of Jewish citizens. If you look in chapter eleven, you'll see that the second part of it, and then a lot of chapter twelve And really, these two chapters include the families who repopulated Jerusalem. They lived in the cities of Judah and Benjamin. They list a lot of priests and Levites. and others but really this whole group of people are people who are servants of the Lord that are willing servants to do whatever God wants them to do. And we can learn a lot about All these people that are named in here. Now, again, I'm not going to go through every name because that would take us until uh uh a month to get through all of those names, but we're just gonna kind of look at them in general, and we're gonna learn. Some things about a heart for ministry from these people here. I hope something that is going to help encourage all of us. And so we want to answer the question: what does ministry involve? What does it take to be useful in God's Word? Well, here's the first one: a willing heart. Just write down if you're taking notes of a willing heart. Look in verse chapter eleven and look in verse one. And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem, and the rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities. Now, let's remember the context. Nehemiah had already built the wall But the problem is there wasn't many people living in the city of Jerusalem. So think about it. Here's this wall. It's built around the city. All the gates are fixed. But if you look inside the city, there are not that many people there. In fact, go back to chapter seven real quick and look at verse number four. It kind of again, we kind of help set the context. Now the city was large This is Nehemiah 7, 4. The city was large and great, but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. That is, there wasn't a whole lot of houses there in the city. The ones that were there were pretty dilapidated and torn down. So here's this big city, the problem is it's an unoccupied city, and what good is a city if there's no people Now remember part of God's plan was to repopulate Jerusalem and make it once again the capital of the nation But how's he going to do that if there's no people there? People were needed to move back into Jerusalem, to repopulate the city They were needed to protect the city from the enemy. It may have been safer to dwell in the towns on the outskirts, but God needed people to be on the inside, and for no other reason to be a witness to the Gentile nations around. of what God was doing, making Jerusalem the center of his of worship and glory. And so God needed people, really simply put, he needed live bodies in the city You know what that makes me think of? Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body, a living sacrifice. If you just present yourself and say, Lord, here I am. What would you want me to do? Never underestimate the importance of simply being physically present in the place that God wants you. Do you know that even your physical presence matters? You know, sometimes when you're uh thinking about, well, should I come to church? I, you know, I don't think I really need it. Yeah, but someone else there might need you. Your physical presence really matters. And this is what we learn here. God says, look, there's no people in the city of Jerusalem. I've got to repopulate this place. I just need people that are willing to move back in to the city And so this was an unoccupied city, but also it was an undesirable city. Now, why were no people there? Well, because at the time Jerusalem wasn't really a desirable place to live And again, the reason for that is because there was a lot of rubble in the city from the previous destruction. So picture in your mind there's a lot of garbage and trash. uh and leftover things in there in the city. It would take a whole lot of work to kind of move all of that out and to make it really presentable the way that you wanted it to Again, the houses there were old, and some of them were condemned. They weren't really able to suitable to be lived in until you did a lot of work on them to repair them And so there was a lot of fix-up needed there. Also, it wasn't really a safe place to live. Why? Because the enemies of God's people would target Jerusalem, and so it wasn't wasn't really a safe place to be. And the and the truth of the matter is there wasn't a whole lot of economic opportunity there inside of the city. It was a whole lot easier to settle on the outskirts of Jerusalem. Where it was easier, you have your own plot of ground, you could uh you know raise a uh a crop on that. So most people were content, therefore, to live outside of the city. But Nehemiah knew. That if the city was to be strong and prosperous, and if the worship in the temple was to thrive, then the city had to be repopulated. So here's what he did. Now remember in chapter ten, the people pledged to give a tenth to support the Lord's work. Now here's Nehemiah in chapter eleven, and he's going to give a tenth of the population in a sense to the Lord. Because look what it says again in verse 1. Now we know that the rulers dwelt there. There were leaders who lived in Jerusalem, but the people did not. And notice what it says again, the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem. The rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city And nine parts to dwell in other cities. So what did they do? Nehemiah said, Let's line everybody up, let's cast lots. And one out of every ten families will move into the city of Jerusalem. So you can just kind of picture that in your mind. Now remember what casting of lots is kind of like stones. You kind of throw them almost like dice, but not dice. This is not uh But lots in the Old Testament was the way they found God's will. The Bible says in Proverbs 16, 33, the lot is cast into the lap But the whole disposing thereof of the Lord. And so they would take these stones and they would just ask yes or no questions. God, should this family move into Jerusalem? They would roll the stones. The stones would either say yes or no. Okay, this family is going to move back into Jerusalem. Next family, no. Yes, no. So one out of every ten was asked to go back into the city. Ten percent of the people would move inside the walls of Jerusalem Now think about that. They would have to pull up roots where they were already established. They would have to give up their acreage in the country. They would have to move into this city that wasn't very desirable at the time. And based on the number of men who moved, that was be three thousand and forty-four, overall there was probably ten thousand, someone had e has estimated. That moved into the city. That would be a total population of 100,000 Jews in the land. 10,000 of them had to move back into the city. Although it was inconvenient, it was less desirable. And here's the point. These people were willing to do it. They said, Lord, if this is where you want me to go, we'll go. If this is where you want me to live, Lord, then we'll pick up stakes, we'll pick up roots, and we'll go there and we'll live. You know why? Because they had a willing heart. And look at verse number two And the people blessed all the men that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem. When these men showed their willingness to follow the Lord and say, Lord, if this is where you want me to live, then I will live there. The rest of the people saw that willingness and you know what they said? They said, Praise the Lord. I know what some of you are thinking, some of them were probably thinking, Praise the Lord is not me. Praise the Lord as you. But the truth of the matter is, and here's really the point, all of them were willing. Everyone was willing. And the very fact that they submitted themselves. You see, God called 10% of them to go back into the city. The other 90%, he said, you can stay where you are. But you know what the Lord wants? He just wants a willingness. He wants a willing heart. And part of the willingness to serve the Lord is this question that we should answer: Are you willing to go wherever God tells you to go? Are you willing to live wherever God tells you to live? It might not be the best place to live, but if this is where God's calling you, are you willing to do that? Now again, he might not call you to do that, but he wants you to be willing. And if you're not willing, are you willing to be made willing? Are you willing to say, Lord, I'm not that willing, but I'm willing to be made willing. Now careful about that prayer, okay? Because God will make you willing. And so that's the thing that we have to ask ourselves. One of the first considerations of any servant of God is: where does God want me? Where should I live? And I know sometimes people will move away. You know, we have people that want to sometimes move out, and that's understandable, but uh do we ask ourselves the question, is this where the Lord wants us? Because the truth of the matter is, you know, a lot of times people will move, and it's not really a decision based on what the Lord wants, it's what they want to do. And they never really asked the question, is it are we going to be close to a church that preaches the word and where we can get involved and serve the Lord? Sometimes that question is the last question that is asked. But the first question we should ask is, Lord, where do you want me? And what do you want me to do? And that's what these people were like. They were saying, Lord, we'll go wherever. If you want us there, we will. And so we admire that willingness. God wants a willing heart. I remember one time when I was over in Cameroon, Africa, in a remote uh village, mountain village, preaching to pastors at a seminary up there I happened to come along a find uh alongside the road a house, and in that house I found a missionary couple from America That had a little two-year-old girl, beautiful little girl. They were living in a very difficult area, and I would say even a dangerous area because there were Muslims all around that had wrote written threatening letters about those that were sharing the gospel And here's this young couple, Americans, who went there because they felt God had led them to go there and just be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. They were just there because they wanted to share the gospel. They wanted God to use them. And I just remember being so impressed that they were willing to go there and sacrifice and be in that place because they believe that's what the Lord one of them to do. I remember I asked the young lady, I said, listen, is there anything I can get you while I'm here? And she said, Chocolate And uh I I want you to know that I was willing to sacrifice some of my chocolate candy for her. In fact, I gave her all of it. I know that was a big sacrifice for me. Gave her a whole bag of Reese cups that I had brought with me. I was going to suffer there in Africa for Jesus. But I just remember just being so impressed. with this godly young couple. Now again, God might not ask you to go across the sea. But the question is, are you willing? Do you have that willing heart? Now here's the second thing. First of all, there has to be a willing heart. And we see that. Secondly, there has to be a servant's heart. And look in chapter 11 and look down at verse number 12. And their brethren did the work of the house. I want you to know I'm going to kind of pick and choose as we go through these lists But I want you to see that one expression in verse 12. And their brethren did the work of the house. And what we see here is really a list of names. We don't really know these people. They're kind of unknowns. But they're different types of people doing different kinds of work. In the house of the Lord. All different kinds of work. There was menial service. Those who worked on the inside of the house of the Lord. Look in verse number 22. Or verse 21, rather, where it talks about the Nathanees, but the Nathanees dwelt in Ofel, and um they also worked there in the house of the Lord. It says in in verse number 21 and 22. And so these were just people who just did the menial task there in the temple. The Nethanes were temple servants. So they did menial service on the inside and outside of the house of the Lord. They were just servants that were saying, Lord, you know, whatever needs to be done, I'm willing to do it. It doesn't matter if it's a big thing or a small thing. What did Jesus say? The greatest among you are servants. They're servants. But then also there was those who did military service. Look in verse number 14. And their brethren, mighty men of valor, 128. And so there were some who were we could call them military personnel. And really what they were is they were the security guards for the temple They were men who were out to protect those that were there at the temple. There were a lot of enemies around, and so they were doing the protection. Then there were those who were doing ministerial service. Look in verse number 17. At the end of verse 17, there's a man mentioned who basically, or actually at the beginning of verse 17, Matanea And he was the one who began the thanksgiving in prayer, the Bible says there in verse 17. So here is this kind of an unknown prayer warrior, and he kind of led the prayer ministry there in the temple. You know what? Thank God for people who pray. Amen. Thank God for prayer warriors. And you know, if you've met someone that is faithful to pray and maybe they can't get out much, but they're there and they're prayer room and they're praying for things. That's a mighty person right there, a prayer warrior. And so here's a person who's praying. We need more saints like that. And then there was musical service. Look in verse number 22. And overseer also the Levites at Jerusalem was Yuza. And look at the end of verse 22. And of the sons of Asaph, the seniors were over the business of the house of the Lord. And so here the sons of Asaph, if you know that name, it's because He wrote some of the songs we have in the Bible. He was very musically gifted. And his children were musically gifted. They were able to use instruments and sing. And so they were using their gifts of singing and enriching people and bringing them into worship through music. And then there was management service. And again, I don't have time to go through all of this, but we can go and see all the different jobs that they're doing. You say, what's the major point? The point is that everyone had a place to serve. The point is that each had a gift and an ability that God gave them For the work, so that they could use it and employ it in God's work. And all of this that I see here in this chapter reminds me of what the New Testament says about spiritual gifts. And about using our gifts. In fact, there's a parallel between I think Nehemiah 11 and Romans 12. Because what does Romans 12 tell us to do? Present our bodies as a living sacrifice? Right? That's the first step. Total dedication to the Lord, right? The Bible tells us that. And then a thoughtful estimation. Paul says, I say through the grace of God In other words, Paul says, look You should look at your life and look at your abilities and think by the grace of God and sober estimation of yourself. You know, sometimes we think that you know we have more gifts than we really have And we need to be careful not to overestimate ourselves. We need to think soberly, Paul says. What gift has God given you? And then there should be a, after that, a truthful participation. We should get involved. Paul said, think soberly, think sanely about yourself. Look at how God has dealt to you the measure of faith and then a truthful participation. You need to jump in and do what however God has gifted you, whatever how He's made you, whatever service that you think that you can do that you're gifted for, just go in and do it. Everyone has a different office. Everyone has a different service. Just do it. Because you're in the ministry. You know, you know, a football team might have 40 players, but each player has a different role. Each player has a different position And unity comes when in that diversity everyone understands their role and they do that together as a team. That's called teamwork. And that's what's needed in the church. That's what Paul said. And by the way, in chapter 12, Paul goes on and lists some of the gifts. The list is not complete. But there's the gift of prophecy, that's someone who is able to see right and wrong and just be able to call it out. There's the gift of ministering. This is a a person who's just a servant who just serves in the menial task. There's the gift of teaching. This is someone who has a special ability just to make truths very easy to understand. Then there's exhortation. That's someone who is an encourager uh in the church. Then there's the g the the gift of giving. This is someone that God's given the ability to get great resources and then use them and employ them in the service of the Lord. And there's a gift of ruling which is really administration And the gift of mercy, that's you know, being able to weep with those. All of those gifts are important. And God combines those gifts together in a certain way. He'll give you a little bit of this and a little bit of that, a little bit of teaching, a little bit of mercy, a little bit of ruling and he'll combine it all together and he'll give you your unique gift so that the gift that you have is unique. It's kind of like the snowflake. No two snowflakes are alike And it's unique and it's given to you so that you can use it in the church of God for his glory. And that's what he wants. Because when you get saved, you are now in the ministry. And you know, it's it's wonderful to see how these gifts work together. And I like Bill Gothar's illustration. You probably heard me tell it before. Let's just suppose I'm at a church fellowship and I go and get a piece of chocolate cake because I love chocolate cake And I go over there and I get a paper plate and I put the cake on the plate and the cake falls onto the ground. And you know what's going to happen? A person with the gift of prophecy is going to come over and says, that's what happens when you get too much cake. Thank God for those people. Don't eat so much cake. Uh then a person with the gift of teaching is going to come over and say, You know why it sell, don't you? Because you you you put it too close to the edge of the of the plate. And it was a really big piece of cake. So you have to put it in the middle of the plate, and if you're gonna get that big a piece, you should get several plates underneath of it You know, he's teaching me. And then a person with the gift of mercy is gonna say, you know what, don't feel bad. If you want to cry, it's okay. And then a person with the gift of exhortation is going to come along and say, look, don't give up. Go back up there and get another piece of cake. Thank God for those kind of people, right? A person with the gift of giving will say, I'll buy another cake. Don't worry about it. And a person with the gift of administration will say, John, you get the broom. Uh Sue, you go get another piece of cake, and then, you know, let's clean this mess up. And you see how all those gifts kind of come together and they work. We need each other in the body of Christ. I like what one person said about this. um uh as far as giftings. Uh Carl George, he made this observation. He said that people usually complain And what they complain about in the church will probably be that person's area of spiritual gift. I thought that was a kind of an interesting way to put it. For example, if a person says If a person goes to a church and they say this isn't a caring church, that person is probably gifted in mercy because that's what they see. If a person says this church doesn't emphasize outreach enough That person probably has the gift of evangelism because they want to that's that's what they see. If a person says this church is disorganized, That person probably has the gift of administration. And so he goes on through that. And so the solution is not to sit around and complain. What's the solution? To use your gift and get involved and help the situation And that makes perfect sense. But here's the issue. The issue is that we're just faithful. And whatever however God has created us, whatever gifting He's given us. That were just faithful. You know, these list of people here, they're not famous people. We don't really know a lot about them. In fact, there are some people that are not really named. They'll name families and there'll be a lot of people under them But we don't really know their name. You see, it's faithfulness, not faint, but faithfulness. And you know what? If others people don't see you, that doesn't matter. God sees you. And that's what matters the most. Chuck Swindl wrote this, if you desire fame and recognition, you'll most likely fail as a leader, and your efforts will go unrewarded for all eternity. That's not a threat. It's a promise. And he goes on to cite Matthew 6. 1, beware that you don't practice your righteousness just before Men. And again, you are not anonymous. God sees what you do. Although no one else might see it, God will see it, and He will reward that. So there has to be a willing heart. There has to be a servant's heart. Let me give you the third thing quickly. There has to be a clean heart. Look in chapter 12. Look down at verse number 30. Notice what it says. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves and purified the people and the gates and the wall. Now they're going to dedicate the wall. They had already built it. And now a few months later, they're going to finally dedicate these walls. But before they do, they purify themselves. They cleanse themselves. Now, it doesn't tell us specifically how, but no doubt there was probably a lot of prayer here. There was maybe some fasting. There was probably making sacrifices, sin offerings before the Lord, and so on. And they were going to dedicate the wall, but before they did that, they wanted to cleanse themselves. And see, in the Old Testament, ritual purity symbolized the fact that our hearts need to be cleansed before the Lord. And that's basically true. If we're going to serve the Lord, we have to have clean hearts before God. We can't harbor sin in our heart if we want God to use us. Just this week I got another an email that someone sent about an article about a ministry leader that just had a moral failure. And it was just a terrible thing, and I I honestly I didn't want to read it because it just makes my heart sick to hear of those things, how that leaders, especially those that are well known uh just have a moral fall and a failure. And it brights my heart because of what it does to the work of God. But I'll tell you another thing is it it should cause us to fear because I want to tell you, any one of us, if we're not careful, we can fall. We need God's help every day because we can be that that failure. And so we don't want to be that, so we have to keep our hearts clean. Before the Lord, if God's going to use us, He wants a clean heart. He wants a willing heart, a servant's heart, a clean heart. Here's another one. He wants a worshipful heart. Look at chapter 12, look down at verse number 27. It says, And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all their places to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness. Both with thanksgiving and with singing with symbols and salfrees and with harps. And so here we sit see them celebrating before the Lord And look at verse thirty one. Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall and appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof one went on the right hand of the wall Toward the Dungate, and so he has basically all these people that are on the wall. So picture this in your mind. They're all actually standing now on the wall. And he divides them up into two companies Kind of picture this in your mind. And one company is led by Ezra, and he goes one way around the wall, and another company is led by Nehemiah. And he takes them the other way around the wall. So you had this big parade of people marching on top of the walls, going around the walls until they finally meet Where? At the temple. And there at the temple, you know what they do? They they finish their celebration. It was a time to really praise the Lord. So you have Ezra's company that went south Towards the Dungate. Then you have Nehemiah's company that went north past the old gate and then they're just marching around. When I was a few months ago there in Jerusalem, you know, you can actually walk around the old city walls. Uh you can do it just it would take you about an hour, probably hour and a half, if you walk like me. Some of you faster, but if you walk, you can just walk it around the whole thing in about an hour and a half And they were walking halfway around, they were meeting there at the temple site, and then they would begin to really celebrate before the Lord. Why were they doing that? Because they were dedicating those walls to the Lord. And you remember in the Old Testament, wherever you put your feet, you remember Joshua, God said to Joshua, every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, I've given it unto you. And there's a sense where you're claiming it for God. And you're saying, God, this belongs to you. We're going to use it for your glory. That's exactly what these people are doing. They're claiming every inch of those walls for God. And they're saying, God, these that we claim this for your glory. Also, this was a testimony to the unbelieving Gentiles about the power of God, that they were able to accomplish this. You remember what some of the criticism was when they first started? Sam Ballad said, oh listen, if a fox Brushes against the wall, that wall is going to fall in. Now here's the people of God marching on the top of the walls. Proves him to be very wrong. And so here are these people, they're just worshiping, they're celebrating. It was just a wonderful time of worship there to the Lord. And you know the kind of people that God wants to use? People that have a worshipful heart. That want to celebrate the great things that God has done. And that's exactly what these people were doing here. To worship God is to rejoice in and extol his greatness. is to reverence God above all else. And that's what they're doing. They're worshiping, they're celebrating. And this leads us to the next thing. If you want to be used by God to minister, you have to have a willing heart, a servant's heart, a clean heart, you have to have a worshipful heart. But here's the next thing, a joyful heart. Look in chapter 12, look at verse 43 Also that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. That the wise also and the children rejoice, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. Think about that. They're rejoicing, they're singing. In fact, the word singing is mentioned eight times in this chapter. Thanksgiving is mentioned six times Rejoicing is used seven times. And here in this one verse in verse 43, we see it used again and again. Rejoicing and great joy. They're just joyful before the Lord. And you just get this idea that they're just they're just having a wonderful time. They're just filled with joy. Chuck Swindon's book says it's kind of a sort of a Jewish Disneyland parade. That's the way he put it. And notice where it says at the end of verse 43 that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off. People that were far distance away, that were hearing this shouting, this rejoicing. You know what this reminds me of? You ever go to like a football game? And maybe you decide to leave early and you're walking out of the stadium and all of a sudden the crowd just erupts. And what are you thinking? Man, what did I miss? Something great happened in there and I missed it. This is what I think about when I read this. Because people on the outside of the city They're hearing this this crowd of people just erupt with joy. And they're wondering, man, what's going on? Those people are having a good time. Something good is going on in there. And you know, that's the way it should be in church. When people see us in church, the world should say, you know what, they look like they're having a good time there. There must be some really good things happening there because those people really seem happy. In fact, we are happy because God is constantly hitting home runs for us. He's constantly doing great things for us. And so we need to be caught up with what God has done. And joy needs to radiate from the church where God's people are, just like joy was radiating from that city of Jerusalem. Now let me give you the last thing. A willing heart, a servant's heart, a clean heart, a worshipful heart, a joyful heart. But then there was a giving heart. Because look in verse 43. It says, and that day they offered grey sacrifices, it tells us. And then in verse 44, it says And at that time some were appointed over the chambers for the treasuries, for the offerings, for the first fruits, for the tithes, to gather them out of the fields of the cities. the portions of the law for the priests and Levites and so on. For Judah rejoiced for the priests and the Levites that waited. In other words, here are these people and they're just giving To the Lord, they're just giving because you know giving is an act of worship, and giving is just saying to God, God, thank you for all that you've given to me. I wouldn't have anything if you didn't give it to me. And I'm just giving you a portion back. And you remember in chapter 10, they they made this vow that we're going to support the work of God. And many people began to uh to give. That weren't giving before. Because God had renewed their devotion. There was revival that took place. And so here are these people now, they're giving. And you know, really, that's what ministry is all about. It's just we just keep giving. We give to those that have needs. We give of our time. We give of our substance. Whatever we see in need, we want to give because that's the heart of ministry. And so finally, there's a giving heart. There's a willing heart. There's a servant's heart, there's a clean heart, there's a worshipful heart, a joyful heart, and a giving heart. I'll close with this. I think you know that one of my favorite missionaries is William Carey And before he went to the mission field, he was just a simple shoe cobbler who fixed and made shoes. And there in his shop, he would keep a map of India right up in front of him. And he would stop every so often to study that map and pray over certain places there in India. And he'd long to go there. He'd longed to go and preach the gospel there. And he did a lot of preaching and teaching on the side while he was uh doing his trade of of making shoes. And one day a friend came to him. And kind of rebuked him for allowing his business to kind of dwindle. And the man says, you should not neglect your shoe business. And this is what Kerry said. He said, neglect my business? He said, my business is to extend the kingdom of God. I only cobble shoes to pay for expenses. And you know what? Later on he did go to India and he became one of the greatest missionaries in the history of the church. But you know what? That should be our mindset. What is our primary goal, our calling? We're all to be ministers. We're all in the ministry. If you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are a minister. And so the question is, do you have a ministry mindset? Are you ministry mind Because that's what this chapter really challenges us to do. You see something that needs to be done, you're probably alerted to that because maybe That's your area. That's your gifting. And maybe the Lord is saying, you know what? The solution is, is for you to get involved I heard about a pastor whose son decided to go and be a pastor, and the dad said to the son, he said this, keep close to God and keep close to man, to people. And bring God and people together. That's really good advice because that's really what the ministry is all about. So we want to stay close to God, stay close to people, and bring the two together. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we are again challenged by the book of Nehemiah. We see it as a blueprint to help us build the kind of life that you want us to live. And Lord, may we take from this things that we need in our own life May we realize that it's all about people. The ministry is about people, helping people, loving people, having a willing heart to go where you call us to go. And a servant's heart to do, Lord, whatever you want us to do. And a clean heart. Keep our hearts cleansed before you. And a worshipful heart, that we might celebrate your greatness with great joy and be willing to give whatever is necessary. Lord, may we have that mindset, the mindset of this group of people that were revived by your word and renewed in their commitment and were used greatly to be a light and to repopulate the city of Jerusalem and to reclaim it for God. I pray, Father, that Lord, you'll use us in some way. To just be used in a great way into the for the kingdom of God in this ministry here, or whatever ministry you call us, Lord, that we would be greatly used by you. So Father, take these words and seal them into our hearts. For your glory we pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen