Tonight, open to the Old Testament book of 1 Samuel. I want you to look at 1 Samuel chapter 13. We'll start there. We're going to flip around a little bit before we settle into chapter 16 tonight But look at 1 Samuel chapter 13 and verse 14. And I want you to read that with me as I read. Follow along silently. But now that thy kingdom shall not continue. This is God speaking to Saul through the prophet Samuel. The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart Now we all like to receive compliments. I think it was Mark Twain that said, I can live a whole month on a good compliment And that's true. I think sometimes even longer, right? But as a Christian, I can think of no higher compliment to be dis than to be described as a man or a woman after God's own heart That's a serious compliment, a high compliment. And when that compliment comes from God Himself, we really ought to sit up and take notice This is what the Lord is saying here, and he's saying this about his servant David. He calls him a man after God's own heart. And if you want to write in your margin another verse of Scripture, Acts 13, verse 22 says pretty much the same thing. And it it says, And I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after my own heart, which shall fulfill all of my will. Now why would God uh put such high affirmation on David. And uh the other the other question that we need to ask ourselves as we come into this scripture is how can I have a heart after God's own heart like David. That should be the desire of all of us. Well in the next few weeks we're going to study the life of David. And we're going to look at his uh his character. We're going to see him in the pages of Scripture, and hopefully we can learn how that we can have a heart after God's own heart. And I would like really, uh especially those who are teenagers and young adults, to really pay attention here, because what what we see here and what we're going to look at tonight is that David was anointed as king by the prophet Samuel while he was still a teenager. He didn't really assume the throne until he was 30 years old, but he was anointed when he was young, probably in his late teens. It was in his late teens that he slew Goliath. Probably he wrote Psalm 23 and perhaps other psalms when he was a teenager watching his father's sheep. And when David went through trials as he was running from Saul, he was probably in his twenties during that time. And so I think this uh the life of David is instructive to all of us, but I think especially in these early stages it's instructive to teenagers and young adults, you know, because uh sometimes uh We you know people today expect for teenagers to rebel. You know, teenagers are supposed to rebel, right? Sometimes that comes a self fulfill becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, but that's not the biblical norm As we read through the scripture, we find many young people whose hearts were devoted to the Lord. And this is especially true in the life of David. Now David, he he wasn't perfect. He committed sins of his youth, you could say, and he had to learn some things, some trials, uh through some trials he had to learn to be spiritually mature But we see here a great story of a young man who had a heart for God. And that's what I want all of us to cultivate to be a person after God's own heart. Now, the the story of 1 Samuel is really a story of Israel search for a king. Now we know that ultimately only God can be our king, but God was his plan to mediate his reign on earth through a chosen king. It was always God's desire to give Israel a king. If you read back in Deuteronomy chapter 17, God had already spoken that. And uh it was so that was part of the plan of God In fact, the book of Judges was written to show why Israel needed a king. It was kind of a justification to get everyone ready for the king that was to come. The verse that is repeated in Judges is this, in those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what? That which was right in his own eyes. And so the writer of Judges, which I think was Samuel was really preparing the people for the king who was to come. The book of Judges shows the need for a king because after Joshua died There was no leadership, there was a void there, and Israel slid off into apostasy very early after the death of Joshua, and Israel needed a king. However, Israel's first choice of a king was not God's choice. It was a failure. In fact, go back to 1 Samuel chapter 8. We're going to give a little introduction before we get into chapter 16, but I want you to see the background of this. 1 Samuel chapter 8. Samuel was a prophet in Israel, and really he was a judge. We're still in the judges period, really, as you come to the first part of 1 Samuel. But Samuel was a man of God But now he had grown old, and it appeared that he was not going to live much longer. So look in chapter 8, verse 1. And it came to pass that when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel. Verse 3, and his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after Lucre, and took bribes and perverted judgment. Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel unto Ramah. And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. Now, the key phrase here is like all the other nations. You know, God didn't want Israel to be like all the other nations. God wanted Israel to be different. They were to be God's light. They were to be his peculiar people, a nation of priests that would show forth his glory. And so this thing displeases Samuel in verse 6, but the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. Look what the Lord says in verse number seven. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people and all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. Now again, it was always God's plan to provide Israel with a king, according to Deuteronomy chapter 17, but it would be God's king. It would be the one that God would choose. And in his own time, in his own way, God would raise up a king for himself. And that king would mediate God's reign on the earth. And so the request For a king in and of itself was not necessarily a wrong request. What was wrong was the motive and the timing that they had. Their motive was not so that God could reign over them through this king. It was quite the opposite. They didn't want the reign of God. They wanted to be like all the other nations. Israel was a theocracy where God was in control. The other nations were not. There was a monarchy where the a man was in control, a king was in control. And so their motive is wrong here. And God tells Samuel, they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. And so give them what they want. Look in verse number nine. Now therefore, hearken unto their voice Howbeit, yet protest solemnly unto them and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. Go ahead, Samuel, give them what they want, but warn them they are not going to want what they get You ever get what you want and not want what you get, ultimately? That's the case of this right here. God says Samuel will warn them what they're going to get. And look in verse number 10. And Samuel told all the words of the Lord unto the people that ask of him a king. Now here is here's the warning. You want to know what kind of what's going to happen if you get the king you want, your chosen king? Here's what's going to happen. Verse 11. And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariots Drop down to verse 13. And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries and to be cooks and to be bakers. Look at verse 14. And he will take your fields and your vineyards and your olive yards, even the best of them, and will give them to his servants. Verse 15, and he will take The tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give them to his officers, to his servants, verse 16, and he will take Your men servants and your maidservants and your goodliest young men. Verse 17, and he will take. What's the key word here in this? He's just going to keep taking from you. He's going to take all of these things for himself. This is the kind of king that you're going to get. He will be a dictator. He will take your sons and press them into military service and your daughters and press them into domestic enterprises. And he will appropriate your property unto his own. And he will inflict upon you heavy taxes. This is what you want? But notice the response of the people in verse 19. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And they said, Nay. But we will have a king over us. You know, sometimes the most severe form of judgment against a nation or against a people is when God gives them what they want. Or he gives a le a nation the leader that they want. Not the leader that they need, but the leader that they want. Sometimes that's the most severe form of God's judgment. And so The rest of we don't have time to look at all this, but just you know, some time on your own, just read through the rest of 1 Samuel here, you'll find that Saul now comes onto the stage And he's the man that they choose. Uh they choose him based on his physical appearance because he's head and shoulders above everyone else. He has a good physical appearance. But as you'll find, his reign was marked by failure. Why? Because Saul was constantly doing what he wanted. Not what God wanted. He was not obeying God. He was a he was doing what he wanted to do. He was a very selfish King, a very self-serving and self-centered person who cared only about his own reputation, not about the glory of God And he disobeyed the Lord. So go back to 1 Samuel 13, look at verse 14, because here God says through Samuel to Saul, but now thy kingdom shall not continue The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart. This is kind of a key verse. God announces that you're going to be And then when you come to 1 Samuel chapter 15, we know that story there, right? This is a story where God says to Saul, go and smite Amalek. destroy them all, don't take anything alive. And Saul again disobeys the Lord. He's more concerned about the spoil. He seizes the spoil. He takes King Agag. as a trophy unto himself. He's more concerned about making a good impression to all the people than he is about obeying the voice of the Lord. And so God rejects him utterly. Look in 1 Samuel 15, verse 26 And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return for thee, for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. And so what's God looking for now? He's looking for a man after his own heart. You know, God is still looking for that today. He's still looking for that today. Most people are like Sauls in this world. They're more concerned about their own agenda, their own reputation, their self. They're not necessarily concerned about the things of God. Times really haven't changed that. much. God is still looking to use people that have a heart that is after his own heart. That's what he wants. Write down 2 Chronicles 16, 9. For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong in behalf of them whose heart is perfect towards him. Or we could say whose heart is completely his, or we could say whose heart is after God's heart. God is still looking to and fro for people whose hearts are just like his. Now with all that in mind You say, well, what is a heart after God's heart? I want you to see five characteristics of a heart after God's own heart. And here's the first one. Number one, just write down a selfless heart. A heart that is selfless. That's what God's king would be like. Look in chapter 16, verse 1 now. We'll stay here in chapter 16. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long will thou mourn for Saul? Seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel. Now after this whole episode, Samuel is deeply grieved. He's mourning over the rejection of Saul. Samuel had so much hope for Saul that he would be the king that the people needed. But he didn't fulfill that role. And Samuel understood very well the kind of king that God wanted. And the kind of king that God would need. He knew, he had a clear picture of that. You say, where did he get that vision from? How did Samuel know exactly the kind of king that God wanted? Well, he got that from his mother I told you we were going to stay in chapter 16, but I was wrong. Go back to ch uh first I want you to see this. Look at 1 Samuel chapter 2 real quick. This is how Samuel knew the kind of king that God wanted. You remember, this is a song of his mother Hannah. This is a song of prayer, of rejoicing after The Lord answered her prayer, and she's singing to the Lord as she dedicates her son Samuel to the Lord. And we won't have time to read all of it, but look in verse number 10 of chapter 2. Actually, back up to verse 8. He raises up the poor out of the dust. Talking about God. He raises up the poor out of the dust. And lifted up the beggar from the dung hill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the word upon them And he will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength shall no man prevail. Verse ten. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces out of the heaven out of heavens Shall he thunder upon them? Watch this. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his what? His king. He'll give strength unto his king. And exalt the horn of his anointed. Here, God is going to do all these things, but he's going to do it through his king This is kind of a prophetic word from Hannah that the Lord is going to bring a king who will fulfill the will of God in doing all these things, and what's he going to do? He's going to lift up the lowly. He's going to be with the poor. He's going to raise people out of the dust. He's going to exalt those that are lowly. He's going to be concerned. He's going to minister to the poor and the needy. Really, that's the sum of it. This one who's going to come, his king, is going to have a selfless heart. That's the heart that's after God's own heart. It's the heart that cares about the hurting. It cares about those that are down and out. You remember Proverbs 31? This is the mother teaching her son, preparing him to be a king. And you remember what she said to him, Proverbs 31, 8, Open thy mouth for the dumb and the cause of all such as are appointed for destruction. Open thy mouth, judge righteously, plead the cause of the poor and needy. You know what she was teaching him? She was saying, if you're going to be a good leader, if you're going to be a good king, you better open your mouth for the poor and the needy You better speak up for those who cannot speak up for themselves. Stand up for the weak, speak up for the meek. Make sure that you defend those that are defenseless. In other words, be selfless and think of others When we talk about selflessness, who comes to mind first, or at least should? The Lord Jesus Christ, the most selfless person there ever was. And Paul said to the Philippians, let this mind be in you that was in Christ Jesus. He said in Philippians, look not every man on his own things, but on the things of others. Think of others. Be selfless. That's to have a heart after God's heart. But number two, not only a selfless heart. Go back to 1 Samuel 16 now. Not only a selfless heart, but a serving heart. A serving heart. Write that down. Now, let's go back to the story. God says, Samuel don't mourn over Saul anymore I want you to go to Bethlehem, I've provided a king, my king, my chosen king, the man that's after my heart, is there among his sons Go see him. Now look at verse 2. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I have come to sacrifice unto the Lord And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do, and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. So God says, Samuel, go to Bethlehem. Samuel says, Lord, if I go there, Saul is going to find out he's got spies all over, and anointing another king could cause a civil war. And God says, Well let me give you an alibi for going. Take with you an animal for sacrifice and go and have a large sacrifice. This would be a big occasion for the whole city. They would all come out for this this sacrifice and later on they would perhaps have uh uh a sa a a sacrificial meal, a feast afterwards, which was the custom in that day. But look at verse number four. And Samuel did that which the Lord spaith came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest thou peaceably. Can you imagine here Samuel is going to town And the elders come out and they're afraid, they're trembling. You say, why would they be afraid of him? Well, Samuel uh he had um a habit of getting angry over sin. I mean, just a while back in chapter 15, what did he do to King Agag? He took Saul's sword, and what did he do? He hacked him to pieces. Kind of gives you an idea he was not a man to be trifled with. Earlier on he calls down th thunder and lightning from heaven This wasn't the first time the town was afraid at the coming of Samuel. It had happened before. And so they said, are you come peaceably? What did we do? No, it's I'm coming peaceably. I'm coming to sacrifice. Look at verse 5. He said, Peaceably am I come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice. He especially wanted Jesse and his sons to be there, because remember, God said, I provided a king among his sons. Verse six. And it came to pass when they were come. That he looked on Eliab and he said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Here comes Eliab. This is the oldest of the sons of Jesse. And Samuel thinks, this has got to be God's anointed. Here is this Handsome, strapping young man. He looks like King Material. But God immediately gives a mild rebuke in verse 7, and you know this. Verse. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him, for the Lord seeth not as a man seeth. For a man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the what? The heart. God doesn't look on the outward appearance, he looks on the heart. This was the same mistake Israel made with Saul. They judged basically on the outward appearance. And here Samuel was kind of falling into the same trap. And the Lord says, No, look on the heart. I look on the heart. And so, one by one, the sons of Jesse come before Samuel. Somewhere in the story, I think Samuel goes back to Jesse's house and share the sacrificial meal. And as he's there, the sons pass before him. Look in verse 8. Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. And then Jesse made Shama to pass by, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. And again, Jesse made seven of the sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. And so here are all these sons, one by one, no, no, no, none of these. The Lord hasn't chosen any of these. And you know, so Samuel is perhaps perplexed at this moment because God said among one of his sons there's going to be a king. So you can imagine Samuel saying to Jesse, isn't there a chance that you forgot one of your sons here? Perchance? Oh yes, I almost forgot. I do have one son. He's the youngest. He's watching the sheep. Think about this while everyone else is enjoying the sacrificial meal, kind of like a Thanksgiving feast What's David doing? He's the youngest. He's out watching the sheep. He wasn't even important enough to invite to the feast. That kind of gives you an idea of how highly they thought of him or if they thought he was king material at all. And so Jesse says, Oh yeah, I got one other son, and that's not in the text, but I can just I know how big brothers are. I can just imagine them rolling their eyes Oh yeah, real right. Yeah, he's gonna be the next king. This is really an Old Testament version of the Cinderella story, right? Where all the brothers are trying to cram in their foot on the glass slipper of royalty here And it doesn't fit any of them. And so they they bring in David. There's some things in the text that show us why they overlooked them. In verse 11 it says, And Samuel said unto Isaiah, here are all thy children. He said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Look at the word youngest there It's the Hebrew word katan. It means small. It means insignificant. David is basically the run of the litter here. Very small, insignificant. The way he's presented is as a boy, a kind of a weak boy. And then the fact that he's out minding the sheep. Now keep in mind that this was not a coveted position in Israel. Minding the sheep was a job that was saved for slaves or social rejects Though it was a demanding job, it was still a job that was really had no real specific skill set, and it was normally delegated out to uh the younger brother or someone that didn't really think a lot of. And here's David. But you know what we see about David? He's a he's faithful in these small things. He's serving faithfully and obediently. And what he didn't know is that this was his apprenticeship. This was God getting him ready for something else. Let me tell you something. If you think you have something that's very small and insignificant, don't look lightly upon that. It may be God using that to lead you to something greater. And David took it very seriously. He said, how do you know? Because later he's talking to Saul in chapter 17, and he says, I was out minding my sheep, and a lion came and Thy servant went out and he took care of the lion and delivered the sheep out of the paw of the lion, and then a bear came and I delivered him out of the paw of a bear. Now what would the average teenager do? I'm not risking my life for one sheep No way. A lion, are you kidding? I mean, help yourself, Mr. Lion. But not David. He took it very seriously. He protected the sheep. And uh I'm sure that while he was out there in the field, that's probably where he honed his skill playing the harp. I'm sure he never dreamed that one day he would be playing before King Saul And so he's out there and he's very dutifully serving, doing what his father commanded. He's taking it serious, and in that time God was honing him. You know what we see here about the heart of David? He has a servant's heart. He's willing to serve. He's willing to submit. And even after he's anointed, he doesn't go around, he doesn't go down to the local jeweler and then start trying on crowns. You know what he does? He goes back out to the field and he continues watching the sheep. He was a servant, a dutiful servant. Here's the third thing. A heart after God's own heart is a selfless heart. A heart after God's own heart is a servant's heart. But then here's the third thing. A heart after God's own heart is a spiritual heart. And look again in verse 11, where it says, There remaineth yet the youngest, and behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither. Now Again, the text doesn't say this, but I think that while David was keeping the sheep, this is where he wrote some of his Psalms This is where he had that solitude, that alone time with the Lord. This is where he developed a spiritual heart Psalm 23, the shepherd Psalm, flowed out of these times when he was out there in solitude, alone with God. Psalm 19, perhaps, was written while David was under the stars and he looked up and he saw the beautiful heavens. And he thought about the glory of God. I imagine David probably had a a scroll of the writings of Moses that he would read as he was out there in the field alone. This was a time when I think David developed that spiritual heart when he had solitude and quiet time alone. Let me tell you something. I remember when I was a teenager. saved here in this church. Hadn't been saved very long. And we went to camp. We used to go to the camp of the nations. Some of you remember that. And that that first year after I got saved, I went to camp to camp of the nations And while I was up there, they taught us teenagers how to have a quiet time or devotion time. I had never heard of that concept before. I never heard of a quiet time or devotion time, but I remember them teaching us how to do that. And then this is what they did. They lined us all up and they took us out to the woods And they said, You stay here, and they would just put us in all these places in the woods so we could be alone. So they took me to a certain spot and they said, Stay here in an hour we will come back and we will pick you up. So there I was alone in the woods. I had my Bible And this was the first time I've ever had a quiet time with the Lord as a saved teenager. And I started reading in the Bible, and guess what chapter I started reading first? 1 Samuel 16. This is the first chapter I ever read as a teenager having devotions. And look at verse number 12. This verse really jumped off the page to me. And talking about David when they brought him in. And they sent he was sent and brought him in. Now David, he was ruddy and with of a beautiful countenance. And goodly to look to. Now my Bible had a marginal note. There was a letter after the word ruddy. I wanted to know what that meant. And the marginal note, guess what it said? It said redheaded. So here I'm in a teenager in the woods, first devotion, reading this, and I see that word ready and I look in the margin. It says redheaded. Now I have later learned in studying Hebrew That it could mean red complexion, but I choose not to believe that is the interpretation for obvious reasons. But I remember as a teenager, I read that verse and read the marginal note, and I just remember thinking for the first time in my life, wow, David was redheaded. Maybe God can use red-headed kids. Maybe God has a purpose for my life. Maybe God can do something in me. I remember there in the woods that day making a decision that I was going to spend one hour a day with God I was going to do that through my teen years. I made that commitment to the Lord as a teenager. And I want to tell you something. I kept that commitment to the Lord. And you know what? That was the best decision I had made since coming to Christ? That I was going to spend time with the Lord, reading the Word of God and praying at least an hour each day. And you know what? If we want to be men and women of God, then we have to spend time with the Lord. We have to seek his face. You know, there are some people that just can't stand being alone They gotta have the television on all the time. They have to fill all the moments with some kind of a noise. But I think that sometimes we drowned out the voice of God. And we need to have that solitude, that quiet time. So I challenge you, learn to enjoy reading. First and foremost, read the Bible. Read it over and over again. Have that quiet time. That's where you get a heart after God's own heart. I read once where George Mueller read his Bible over 200 times through. Just read the Bible. Someone wrote this, we've done almost everything that is possible with the Hebrew and Greek We've overlaid them clause by clause. We've exhausted commentaries. We've translated them. There's one thing left to do with the Bible. Simply read it. Just read it. Read it, record, reflect. What is the Lord telling you? I would also encourage you along, read your Bible first, but along with that, read good Christian classics. Stop wasting your time with some of this junk reading out there. We don't have that much time in a day. Read things that are going to edify you. Read Pilgrim's Progress. Read sermons from preachers of yesteryear. Read uh the quest for godliness by J. I. Packer and things like that that will challenge your heart in your life. Learn to enjoy reading and also learn to pray Learn to pray each day. Seek the face of God. Learn to worship. You know, the worship that we bring on Sunday should be a reflection of our private worship Our private worship should prepare us for our public worship in the house of God. If all you do is just come to church and publicly worship God and that's it, that's not enough. You've got to have your private worship. And then learn to think. When you're alone with God, you can think through things that you have learned in church. You've been taught in Sunday school. or taught in the in the in the service through the preaching of the word. Think through the truths of God. Learn to meditate. But have that quiet time. And so a person after God's own heart has a selfless heart. They have a servant's heart, a spiritual heart. But then here's the fourth thing. Look at verse 13. They also have a spirit-filled heart. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. David was anointed, and the Bible says he was filled with the Spirit there. This was before Pentecost. The Spirit of God did not permanently indwell believers as he does today by grace if you're saved today. The Holy Spirit lives inside of you, and he is a permanent resident there. But back in this day, at this time, he would come upon men for certain tasks. Sometimes he would leave Especially if there were sins, if they were not walking uprightly, doing the right thing, the Spirit of God could depart from a person. In fact, look in verse 14, we see this. Saul was anointed, but notice what happened. But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. Saul was not walking uprightly. He was not obeying the Lord. So the Spirit of the Lord left him. Now again, today the Spirit of the Lord is not going to leave us because we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. But I want to say this, if you're not walking uprightly in your life, if you're tolerating sin in any way in your life, the Holy Spirit is not going to leave you, but you can grieve the Holy Spirit of God. You can grieve his working in your life. You can quench his work. That's why we have to confess our sins. That's why we have to consciously claim the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Ask yourself this question: if the Holy Spirit were to be withdrawn from my life, how long would it take me to miss him? Would I even know that I've quenched him or that he's not working in my life? If my life becomes so routine, so self-dependent, that I can go on for weeks not having realized that I've quenched the work of the Spirit of God. in my life. We all need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And what's the big mark of being filled with the Holy Spirit? The fruit of the Spirit in our lives. I heard about a committee meeting of men who wanted to have a revival, and they all started bringing up the name D. L. Moody, and one man got up in frustration. He said, Deep Moody, Moody, Moody, all I hear about is Moody. Does Moody have a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And one man stood up and said, No, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on him. And that's why we want him. A person after God's own heart Is the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on them. They're filled. Let me give you the last thing. A heart after God's own heart is a selfless heart. It is a servant's heart, a spiritual heart, a spirit-filled heart. But here's the last thing, finally, and this is very basic: a saved heart. A saved heart. Now David was not by nature a man after God's own heart. He didn't possess some inherent goodness that no one else had. That's not the case. In fact, in Psalm 51, David said this: He said, I was shapen in iniquity. And in sin did my mother conceive me. In order for David to have a heart after God's own heart, he had to realize that, first of all, he was a sinner. And he needed God's grace. That's the first thing we need to realize. There's nothing good about us. We're sinners. We need the grace of God. But listen to what David said. He realized that it wasn't going to be through his works or anything like that. In Psalm 32, he said, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. You know, later on the Apostle Paul used these verses in Romans 4 to talk about that doctrine of justification, where that you're saved by putting faith in what God has done in God's provision. So David understood That he was a sinner, that he needed God's forgiveness, and that's how it all began for David. And that's how it all will begin for you. If you don't know the Lord, the very first step you have to do is to make sure your heart is a saved heart. That you come to Jesus in repentance and that you trust in what He has done for you on the cross, not by your own works or anything good in us. We're sinners and we need to be cleansed of our sin. We need to be saved. Now, if you compare the life of Saul with the life of David, you're going to find this. Both men Struggled, both men fell into sin. Both men had pride. Both men were anointed by the Spirit, but there's a key difference. Whereas the pattern of Saul's life was disobedience The pattern of David's life was obedience. He wanted to do the will of God. I want to tell you that's the telltale sign of a true believer. You will want to do the will of God. That'll be the first sign right there. You know, when I first got saved, I didn't know a lot about the Bible, but I knew this. I wanted to do whatever Jesus wanted me to do. I wasn't sure what that was. But I just wanted to do whatever he wanted. That's what I wanted. And friend, that's true of a believer. You'll want to do the will of God. And that's still true of me today. I want to do the will of the Lord. Whatever his will is, that's what I want. And that will be true of any person. who has a selfless heart, a servant's heart, a spiritual heart, a spirit-filled heart, a saved heart. I failed in a lot of ways. I don't want to set myself up as being an example, but I will say this I'm a sinner, but it's been the Spirit of God that's given me those desires, and he'll do the same for you as well, friend, if you come to Him tonight. Let's bow for prayer together Father, thank you for your word. And thank you, Lord, for how you can make our heart clean and new. Cleansed of all sin. And you can make our heart like the heart of David, a heart that is after your own heart. And Lord, I pray that'll be true of every person here tonight. That their heart will desire that very thing. And may they pray even now, oh God, give me a heart that's after your own heart. Let that be true of me. Let that be my testimony tonight. I'm speaking especially to young people and young adults. This is what David was. Ask yourself this question. Can I honestly say that about me? My my heart is a heart that's after God's heart. I want to do what the Lord wants me to do. I want to tell you something, friend, if that's not true again, you're missing out on blessings. You're missing out on God's blessings in your life. Would you be willing to say, Lord, make my heart like that? I'm not like that now, but Lord, give me that desire. That I would have a heart after your own heart. May that be true of me. How many say that's my prayer tonight before God? God, give me a heart after your own heart. Anyone here say that's my prayer? That's what I want. That's my desire. Father, bless your servants. Bless these hearts who have raised their hands. Lord, may this be true of all of us. And may we learn as we study the life of David how this can be true of all of us. How we can make sure, Lord, that we want nothing more, nothing less, but your will in our life. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.