All right, would you take God's word tonight? Open please to the book of 2 Kings chapter 8. 2 Kings chapter 8 tonight, and we're going to look at uh verse 7 down through the chapter. As you're finding that, uh I read one time there was an emperor of Rome, his name was Julian the Apostate. On June 27, 363, he was at war with the Persians And he received a mortal wound. He was run through with a spear. And he lay dying on the battlefield. He had only reigned for two years, and he was only 32 years old when that happened. The reason he was called Julian the Apostate was because at one point he professed to be a Christian and he was baptized and he was even ordained as a lector in the church. But at some point in his life he turned from Christianity and and then he began to s uh with with all the power that he had to try to stamp out the name of Christ in Christianity, which is why the Christians of that day ultimately called him Julian the apostate. What caused him to change sides? Well, there were several things. He fell in love with the world and Hellenistic society. And also he just felt like that the pagan religions were to be the heritage of Rome, not Christianity. And so he spent his two years trying to replace Christianity with pagan religion. But God had other plans. And that day on the battlefield, as he lay mortally wounded, uh historians tell us that he reached inside of his his uh armor and he flung his blood up into the air and he said You have conquered Old Galilean, referring to Jesus. You have conquered Old Galilean. You have conquered Jesus. Well, Jesus will always conquer. The sin and failure of earthly kings cannot thwart the purposes of God. And that's really what we learn here in this chapter today. We're going to look at four kings, four evil kings. Each of these kings will rule and reign according to his own will. And by the way, he has no reg they have no regard for the will of or purposes of God. They reign according to their own evil uh desires and free agency. Yet what they plan to do and what they try to do cannot thwart the purposes of God. As a matter of fact, a key verse in this whole chapter is chapter eight down in verse number nineteen where it says, Yet the Lord would not destroy Judah for David his servant's sake, as he promised to give him always a light And to his children. The word for light there is a Hebrew word which means lamp. God promised to give a lamp for David. And this is a messianic title, and of course it refers to the coming of Jesus Christ. God will not allow the failure and sin of earthly kings to in any way thwart his purpose in bringing his Messiah into the world because God was preparing the world stage to bring in the King of Kings, the Messiah. That's God's overall purpose. And in the story of Kings, what we see with the failure of one king after another, one king after another, all this Serves to show the world that there's only one true king. There's only one real godly good pure king, and that is the Lamp of David, that is the Messiah. And so we're going to kind of that's going to be emphasized here. That's what the writer is trying to emphasize and get everyone to see. And so let us look at these stories here, or really just one long story that has several parts to it about these kings and some lessons we can learn about God and about evil. We can divide it up into three parts. Number one, the sickness of Ben Hadad, and with this we learn a m a lesson of the mercy of God. Look in verse number seven. And Elisha came to Damascus, and Ben Hadad the king of Syria was sick, and was told him, saying, The man of God has come hither. Here's the first king we look at, Ben Hadad. And this is an evil king. He's the king of Syria. And if you've been with us in our study, you know that he's a man who tried to fight against God. But in the end, he was converted. This is really an illustration of the mercy of God, an illustration of conversion. Again, Ben-Hadad is the king of Syria. He was perpetually at war with Israel. He it was the king you might remember that surrounded Elisha's home when he was at Dothan. You might remember that story And he was also the king that laid a siege to Samaria and was brought the people of God to the brink of starvation by having an army surround that city and trying to take it Yet for all his aggression Ben Hadad was never able to defeat the people of God, or God for that matter. For example, you remember when he surrounded the home of Elisha, God surrounded him with an invisible army And when God and when uh uh Ben Hadad took his army and surrounded Samaria and wanted to besiege the city, you remember that um God frightened his army one night. They heard all kind of a noises as if there was another army around and they fled in terror, leaving all their supplies behind for some lepers to find and later tell of the other people And so although Ben Hadad opposed God at every turn, he could never defeat him. And finally, here, he's laying on his deathbed. And he had given up fighting against God altogether. And he heard that the man of God, Elisha, was in town, so he wanted to find out what was going to happen to his own soul. When he heard that Elisha was come, look at verse eight. And the king said unto Hazel, Take a present in thine hand and go and meet the man of God, and inquire of the Lord by him, saying, Shall I recover of this disease? Now Bed Had does the right thing here in his illness by turning to God for his help. Elisha was in town. This was not uh this was not something that happened often. We don't read about Prophets of Israel uh traveling to foreign capitals. It happens from time to time, but not often. And here is a rare opportunity to go and find out a word from the Lord and ask help of Almighty God. And so here's this pagan king who was worshiping his pagan gods who suddenly turns from all that and turns to God for help. You might remember earlier on in 2 Kings chapter 1, there was a king of Israel named Ahaziah. He fell through a window and he was laying on his deathbed. Remember what he did? Rather than seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, what did he do? He sought Ekron uh the gods of Ekron, Baal Zebub, and he sent some servants here to ask uh Baal if he was going to recover. Rather than turning to God, he turns to the devil. Well, evidently Ben Hadad learned from that. He knew better. And so he sends His servant to Elisha. And he don't s he doesn't send them empty-handed. Look at verse nine. So Hazel went to meet him and took a a present with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels burden. And had came and stood before him and said, Thy son Ben-Hadad, king of Syria, hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recover of this disease? This is quite a gift that he sends with his servant. This gift, see how large is it? It's so large that it took forty camels to carry it? Are you kidding me? That's a serious gift. You you you you drive up to church with forty pickup trucks full of gifts from me, I'm gonna do whatever you want. Maybe he was trying to um get a good positive answer out of Elisha, but my my my thought here is that he's not trying to bribe Elisha. He's just sincerely showing honor and respect. Now to this man of God. Compare the way this pagan king is treating the prophet of God compared to how some of the other kings of Israel treated Elisha. I mean one of them wanted to cut his head off They didn't appreciate Elisha at all, but here's this pagan king sending huge gifts. And notice his his terminology. He says, uh, and say thy son Ben Hadad, king of Syria, has sent me to thee There's humility, genuine humility in the words of the messenger. Your son Ben Hadad, king of Syria, has sent me to you. And so Ben Hadad, he was used to being served rather than serving, yet his appeal to Elisha is as a son coming to a father. And so he shows honor to this prophet. He shows humility to this prophet. Evidently, God has done a work in the heart of this once evil king. Ben-Hadad was the kind of man who would not come to faith without a struggle. And so for a long time he struggled against God, and he resisted the sovereignty of God. He was so bound to and determined to rule his own life that he would not allow God to be the king of his life. But in the end, he gave up the struggle and he let God be God. You know there are some people like that, they they don't seem to give in to God, they seem to struggle and fight against God until they lie on their deathbeds. You know, this is an example to me. This whole story of Ben Hadad is an example of hope for every unsafe person who maybe even be wrestling with a mortal illness. Where there's life, there's hope. Even for the most wicked person, there's hope. And this encourages us to keep praying for the sick and the dying and to ask God to turn them from the evil of their way and to turn them to good. as he has mercy on Ben Hadad. Dr. James Dobson tells the story of his grandfather's deathbed conversion. For most of his life the family patriarch who was a very moral man saw no need for the Christian faith. And then James Dobson wrote this. He said at sixty nine years of age my grandfather suffered a stroke and for the first time in his life he was desperately ill One day his daughter came into his room to clean and straighten, and as she walked by his bed she saw tears in his eyes. No one had ever seen him cry before. Daddy, what's wrong? she asked, and he responded, Honey, go to the edge of the stairs and call your mother. My grandmother ran to her husband's side and heard him say, I know I'm going to die, and I'm not afraid of death, but it's so dark. There's no way out. I've lived my whole life and missed the one thing that really matters. Will you pray for me Will you pray for me, exclaimed my grandmother. She had been hoping for that request throughout her adult life. She fell to her knees, and the intercessions of forty years seemed to pour out through that bedside prayer R L. Dobson gave his heart to God that day in a wonderful way. And then he goes on to write, during the next two weeks he asked to see some people of the church. people whom he had offended and requested their forgiveness. He concluded his personal affairs, and then he died with a testimony on his lips, before descending into a coma which would be w which from which he would never awaken, my grandfather said this, now there is a way through the darkness. That was his last words. You know, thank God that God is so merciful. Thank God for deathbed conversions. By the way, it would be foolish to count on that. It would be foolish to say, I'm going to put off my conversion until I'm ready to die. You don't know when you're going to die. This is the only really the second deathbed conversion I see in the Bible. We know the thief on the cross, and now we have an example of one here in the Old Testament. I think God gives a few examples of this So that people can have hope, but only a few, so that people might not be presumptuous. Don't put off settling your relationship with the Lord. Make sure you've repented of your sin and you're trusting in Christ. Confess that you're a sinner. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, just like Ben Hadad. So we see in the sickness of Ben-Hadad a lesson of the mercy of God. But secondly, I want you to see the sin of Haziel, and in this we see a lesson of the depravity of men. We see the lesson of the mercy of God and now the depravity of man. Now it's a good thing that Ben Hadad turned to the Lord when he did, because you know, again, we never know when we're going to die. And Ben Hadad was going to die only twenty-four hours from that moment there. But it wasn't the sickness that he had that was going to kill him. Notice the subpoint here, what I call the trustworthiness of God, because Elisha is going to give a prophecy. Now in verse nine, the messenger asked through Elisha, the king's question, Shall I recover of this disease? Notice verse ten. And Elisha said unto him, Go and say unto him, thou mayest certainly recover Howbeit the Lord has showed me that he shall surely die. Now what's that? Elisha says, you go and tell your king that he will recover. But also tell him that he's surely going to die. Bible scholars have been puzzled over this yes but no answer. Now some have even accused Elisha of deliberately deceiving the king. In fact, Richard Nelson in his commentary said this, that this statement that Elisha said was, quote, an outright lie, end quote. Well that's ridiculous, Richard. I don't know where you are. But that's ridiculous to say that. In fact, this whole story is in here again to show the reliability of the Word of God. Whenever a word is spoken from a true prophet, it always comes to pass. That's one of the major themes that I've hammered again and again in the books of 1 and 2 Kings. When a prophet says something, he means it And it's the word of God and it will come to pass, just as God said. And in fact what we're going to see is that Elijah is going to make two statements that prove the complete accuracy of what he says. First of all, he says in verse 10, he says, you will certainly recover. That is to say, you're not going to die of this sickness. The sickness that Ben Hadad had was not fatal. He was not going to die of that illness Howbeit he was going to die, this is the second thing he said in verse 10. Howbeit the Lord has showed me that he shall surely die. You're not going to die of this illness. Well, if he doesn't die of the illness, how does he die? Again, this is going to show you how accurate the Word of God is. How it took turned out to be absolutely true because again in the following morning Ben Hadad would die But he didn't die of the illness. What happened? Well, this is the rest of the story. This is the other other subpoint I call the tears of Elisha, not only the trustworthiness of God. But the tears of Elisha. Right after Elisha gives this word of prophecy to Haziel, he does something that might seem strange. He stares Haziel down. He stares right into his soul. I mean you could just picture that, you know, a stare down. Here's Elachie. He's just looking through him with searching eyes He fixed his gaze on him as if to look inside of his heart, as if he could see what no one else saw He stared him down so much that the Bible says in verse 11 that until he was ashamed, he settled his countenance steadfastly until he was ashamed. Who's the he there? Haziel. Haziel's seizing Elisha staring him, staring him down. And to the point to where Hezel is ashamed or confounded. It doesn't say it, but he might have said, what are you looking at? You know, why are you staring at me? Well, Elisha could see again what no one else could see. When I was going through seminary, I pastored a small rural church in the Delta of the Mississippi River. And we had a lady in our church who was a godly woman and she was kind of the church matriarch. Everyone loved her and respected her. She kind of headed up to Sunday school. She also served as the district judge for the state of Missouri. She was a fiery old lady and her name was Jackie Barnes. Everyone called her Judge Jackie. Everyone was afraid of her too. I mean everybody in town knew her And they knew her her fierce countenance and you didn't you didn't mess with Judge Jackie. That was the word in town. And I remember one time she was telling about some of the cases that she was she would adjudicate and Judge, and she said, Preacher, if I can just get them boys to look me in the eyes. She said, I can tell whether they were lying to me or not. All I had to do is just look them in the eyes And I knew and they knew. I think of that when I look at this story here. Here's Elisha, and he's looking into the eyes of Hazel, and he saw his soul. He saw down deep. And notice what he does after that. After he looks at him, it says in verse 11, and the man of God wept. And then Elisha started to weep. And Hazel in verse number 12. 12 says, And Hazel said, Why weep at thou, my Lord? And he answered, Because I know the evil that thou wilt do unto the children of Israel, their strongholds wilt thou set on fire And their young men wilt thou slay with a sword, and will dash their children, and rip up their women with child. And Hazel said, But what is thy servant a dog that he should do this great thing? And Elisha answered, The Lord has showed me that thou shalt be king over Syria. Why are you weeping? And Elisha tells him, because I know what you're going to do. I can see in the earth's soul. I know the atrocities you're going to commit. You're gonna burn cities, you're gonna kill many of our young men, you're gonna kill the little children, you're gonna you will abort pregnant women, you'll kill mothers and babies and children You see, Elisha saw the depravity of this man's heart. He saw how sinful he was. Now, Haziel, he rejects this in verse 13. What You think I'm going to do that? I would never do these things. What is I serving a dog that he should do these great things? No, Haziel, you're worse than a dog, frankly. But Elijah wasn't finished yet. Again in verse 13 says, The Lord has shown me that thou shalt be king over Syria. What? How could this man become a king? He was not of royal blood. He was not the rightful heir to the throne. This had to shock Pazio for two reasons. First of all, he might have been shocked because this is the first time he ever heard such a thing. You know, uh the only way he could ever be king is through assassination or if the king died and then he had to usurp the throne. But Elisha said he wasn't going to die of that illness. So how is this going to happen? More likely, however, is that Haziel's shock because maybe in his heart he was already contemplating how he was going to usurp the throne. And he saw that Elisha saw deeply into his soul. Either way, either way, what we see here is the depravity of Haziel's heart and the accuracy of The prophecy. Because notice the next thing I call this the treachery of Haziel. Because look in verse number 14. So he departed from Elisha and came to his master, who said to him, What saith Elisha to thee? And he answered, he told me that thou shouldest surely recover. Goes back to the king. What did Elisha say? Oh Ben Hediad, he said that you're going to recover from this sickness. That was good news for him, I'm sure. But then notice verse 15. And it came to pass on the morrow that he, that is Haziel, took a thick cloth. and dipped it in water and spread it on his, that is, King Ben Hadad's face, so that he died, and Haziel reigned in his stead. What happened the following morning as the king slept? Hazel smothered him with a heavy, wet piece of thick cloth He basically assassinated the king. And this was a devious way to do it, leaving no marks. It was done in a way that made it look as if Ben Hadad had died of the sickness or of natural causes. But this was an act of murder. This was assassination by suffocation. He then usurped the throne just as Elisha predicted. And again, we see the accuracy of the word of God, the word of Elisha that was revealed to him by Almighty God. And by the way, historically speaking, Babylonian records confirm this. According to an inscription on the statue of Shalmaneser, Haziel was quote the son of a nobody, unquote. That's what they called him. What does that mean? He was not the rightful heir. He came to power through a coup d'etat Azeel thus became the second evil king that we look at here. And what do we learn from his kingship? Well we learn from the previous one of Ben Hadad that of the mercy of God, but here we learn of the depravity of the human heart. Has he didn't realize how sinful he really was. And you know what? Man does not realize how truly sinful he is. That's generally true of all of us. But Hazel was just acting according to his sinful heart. What am I here is Charles Spurgeon preached a sermon on this text, and he called it, he named the title of the sermon Startling. Startling is the title of the sermon. And the theme of the sermon was when we truly begin to grasp the sinfulness of our own heart. We will be startled like Haziel was here. This is what he says. Let me quote you a little spurgeon here. Ah, my brethren, the ignorance of Haziel is ours to a greater or less degree. In our natural state we are oblivious to the depravity of our own hearts. How commonly we hear men deny that their hearts are depraved. They tell us that though he be a little injured by the fall, he is still a noble creature. Such foolish conceits we impute to ignorance. And he goes on to say, these do not know the innate plague of their own heart. They have not yet learned that their own heart is base and depraved. Hence they challenge the doctrine when we state it because they are unconscious of the fact. And he's right. People don't like to hear about the doctrine of the depravity of man, the sinfulness of men. But the Bible teaches this. Man is depraved because of the fall. This is called inherited sin. Man before God is totally depraved. And what we mean by that is simply that man is as bad off as he can be physicianally before God. Man may not live out the full measure of that depravity, practically, but positionally, man is completely, totally depraved before God. Every part of man's being was corrupted by sin and is corrupted by sin. And the only reason we don't fully live out the full measure of our depravity is because God in his grace has put some restraints into us and into society. What are they? Well number one is conscience. God gives us a conscience that keeps us from crossing certain lines, as long as we obey that conscience, as long as the conscience is functioning the way God designed for it to function, that conscience is a hindrance against living out the depravity of our sin nature. And so if we live according to our conscience, our our sin nature will be put in check. But then there's also family. God has uh ordained family because the family unit, the way God ordained it, is designed to teach children right from wrong. To teach children the laws of God. Remember, God said that many times in the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 6. These words which I give thee, teach to your children, teach them diligently to your children. And that includes all the commandments, the laws of God, submit to authority. All of these things are to restrain the evil that is in men. He uses conscience, he uses family, but sometimes families get dysfunctional. And rather than teaching children to do right, families can actually um encourage depravity and teach them to do wrong. And then there's another restraint God put in is human government in order for society to function the way God design, evil has to be restrained and the government is there to punish evildoers. Not to promote evil like a And again, when governments don't fear the Lord and don't do the will of God and they turn values upside down, they do the reverse. They teach evil. Thank God. uh that our Supreme Court is considering overturning Roe versus Wade. We've we've murdered enough in the US. Our country, our government has murdered enough It it it's i i you know no wonder God is judging this country for the this country has blood on its hands. And every politician has ever voted for that, and by the way, you hear them coming out of the woodworks, these are murderers They're bloodthirsty murderers, that's all they are, who do not fear God. You can quote me on that. I'm not running for anything They are. They're murderers. It's an abomination before Almighty God. The fact that there are people now speaking up so they can protect their abortion. They can continue murdering babies. That's a disgrace. And I'll say this, any Christian that supports that, I don't care where you stand, what other excuse you use, you're a disgrace to Almighty God too. How dare you support any politician that supports abortion Don't send me no letters or emails. Just hold on to them. It's a disgrace before God that Christians don't stand for what's true and right, what's pure and holy and moral before Almighty God. It's a shame. Human government doesn't function the way God has designed it to function. And you say, well, I think you offended some people. I couldn't care less. I could not care less, to be quite frank with you. Well, there's another thing that restrains evil, and that's the gospel. That's the gospel. And this is the greatest restraint against evil. In fact, I want you to go to Romans chapter 3. Look in Romans chapter three The greatest restraint is the gospel when a person truly gives their heart to Christ. But before a person can truly be saved by the gospel, they have to repent of their own sinfulness. And before they can repent of their sinfulness, they have to come to the realization that they are depraved sinners. And in my opinion, one of the most important doctrines in the scripture is the depravity of man. Because if a person does not understand their sinfulness, they will never understand their salvation. I think a doctor's greatest responsibility is to correct is to diagnose correctly an illness. I read where people die every year because of a misdiagnosis. But I want to tell you the greatest thing we can do is diagnose the human heart correctly. And here's Paul's diagnosis. Look in chapter 3, look down at verse number 9. What then? Are we better than they? No, and no wise. We have both before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way, they are altogether become unprofitable, there is none that doeth good, no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre, with their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of ass is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. And the way of peace have they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. There's the diagnosis right there. That's the heart of man. And before anyone can ever truly turn in salvation, they have to understand their sinfulness. And again, I'm quoting Spursion here. God only knows the vileness of the human heart. There is a depth beneath a hidden spring into which we cannot pry. In that lower depth, there is still deeper a deeper abyss of positive corruption, which we need not Wish to fathom. God grant that we may know enough of this to humble us. And based on this, Spirit says we should all do two things. Number one, knowing the depravity of our heart. We should never play or toy with sin. He says he who carries gunpowder about him had better not stand where there are sparks. So very true. Don't play with sin. But number two, we should daily mourn before God. Understanding our depraved heart, every day we have to go to God for fresh grace to overcome our own sinfulness, he says. O brothers and sisters, let not a day pass without commending yourselves to God. Let no hour be spent without resting under his wing. May that be our daily habitat, to cry unto him. And say, hold thou me up and I shall be safe. Let me give you the third thing here. Now no, we saw the sickness of Ben Hadad, and a lesson of the mercy of God, and the sin of Haziel, a lesson of the depravity of man. But here's the third thing. The sons of Jehoshaphat, and in this we see a lesson of the victory of Christ. And Again, we look here in 1 Kings 8, and we're going to look at the last two kings, and we'll kind of summarize this, these two kings. First of all, what we're going to see here, this chapter ends with two more evil kings. Both were kings of Judah. Both were sons of Jehoshaphat. Jehoram was the son of Jehoshaphat, and Ahaziah was the grandson. Ironically, Jehoshaphat was a good king, but his heirs were opposite. They were evil. Now, the writer's purpose here in recording these two evil kings is twofold. Again, to demonstrate The sinfulness of these kings and how the sins of the northern kings of Israel were beginning to have an influence on the southern kings of Judah. They were beginning to metastasize And so you remember that Isra the nation is divided into two. There's the northern tribes of Israel, the ten tribes, there's the southern tribes of Judah, the two tribes. For the most part, the kings of the northern part of Israel were evil, not one good king among them. The worst, of course, was King Ahab. The southern kingdom, however, had at least two good kings, Asa and Jehoshaphat. But now the southern kingdom is beginning to look like their sisters to the north. And the reason for this is the evil influence of Ahab and his family. Look at what I call the Jehoram's unholy marriage. Look in verse number 16. And in the fifth year of Joram, or we could say Jehoram, son of Ahab, the k king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then um or excuse me, yeah, that is Joram. This is the Joram of Israel. Jehoram, son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign. So this is kind of a co-reign here at first with Jehoshaphat and his son. Verse 17. Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. Look at verse 18, and he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and did the the hout did the house of Ahab, and did as the house of Ahab for the daughter of Ahab was his wife, and he did evil in the sight of the Lord. Yet the Lord would not destroy Judah for David's sake. So here we see an unholy marriage. Jehoram was married. This shows us the danger of marrying an unbeliever. He was married to Atheliah, who was the daughter of Ahab. And Ahab's family, their ungodliness influenced this man, this king, so much more. And so here, because of this, the Bible says he was an evil king. And we again we don't have time for it, but there's many passages that talk about the evil that he he did. He slaughtered all of his brothers so that there would be no rival to the throne. And also the Bible says in 2 Chronicles 21, 11, he turned away from the God of Israel to serve the gods of the Canaanites. And because of this, God will punish him. Later on in 2 Chronicles 21, the Philistines and the Arabians killed nearly all of Jehoram's sons. And Jehoram also receives a letter from Elijah. This is all the way back when Elijah was alive. And in that letter, this is 2 Chronicles 21, 12 to 15. Basically it pronounces judgment on him. It says, Behold, a great plague will the Lord smite thy people with a great plague, thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods, and thou shalt have a great sickness by disease in thy bowels until thy bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day. Well needless to say this is exactly what happened to him. He died a horrible death, a painful death And this was God's judgment on him because of his sins. But then his son begins to reign. Look in verse 25. This is Ahaziah. This is the last evil king. He was every bit as evil as his father. Look at verse 25. And in the twelfth year of Joram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, did Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, begin to reign. Two and twenty years old was Ahazi when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Athaliah, the daughter of Amri, king of Israel. Again, Athalai was a a a wicked woman, a daughter of Ahab, granddaughter, and these were evil days for Judah because here's another wicked king that was influenced by the evil of Ahab. and his family as one commentator described it. This is one big evil family. And so the chapter ends basically with um again another sick king. Because Joram, who is the king of Israel, and is the uncle of Ahaziah, they meet together and they fight against the Syrians, and Joram is injured in battle, and he goes to his winter palace to try to recover. And Ahaziah goes to be with them just to kind of encourage him. And that's how it the chapter closes in verse number twenty-nine. And King Joram went back to be healed in Jezreel, the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah. When he fought against Ahaziah, king of Syria, or excuse me, excuse me, Haziel, king of Syria, and Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went down to see Joram, the son of Ahab, in Jezreel, because he was sick. And that's how it closes. But what God's doing, he's setting up what's going to happen next. Here are these two evil kings together, one from Israel, one from Judah, and now they're together, makes it a whole lot easier for God to judge them. Because that's gonna go that's gonna what's gonna happen in chapter nine here. But what we see here again in this Is the big the b the picture is of these evil kings one after another, one after another. And when you read things like this, it can kind of be a downer to be honest with you. To see all this evil coming from people who should be spiritual, godly leaders. And they promote evil. And God's people follow it. We witnessed similar evils in our time. We're looking for godly leaders, and you know what? I look around, I don't see a lot of them. We're looking for people who fear God, who love justice, who do what is right, but the world seems to be filled with brutal men of perverse power who Turn moral values upside down and promote their own way rather than the way of God. That's what we see. And from time to time we may wonder Whether the whole world has gone mad. I tell you, sometimes I look at things and I think this world is insane. It's insane. It's ridiculous what we're seeing here. And the church needs to stand up and stand for truth and stand against it. Will evil kings prevail? Well the answer is, thank God, no, they will not. They will not prevail. The Adolf Hitlers, the Vladimir Putins of this world, they will not prevail. And the author of Kings gives us one little glimmer of hope in the midst of the all this darkness of these evil kings. Again, look in our text verse, 2 Kings 8, verse 19. Yet the Lord would not destroy Judah for David, his servant's sake. as he promised him to give him always a light and to his children. This is a beautiful verse. God will never forget his covenant promise. He will not forget to send to this world his good and perfect king. This would be the Son of David, the Lamp of David, the Messiah. Even in the darkest days, God would not allow the light of David's lamp to be extinguished. You remember in this story, Jehoram killed all of his brothers except one. There was one left alive at one point. Had he killed him, the light would have been extinguished. God's promise of a Messiah Would have not been fulfilled, but God will not allow that to happen. God will not allow the evil of wicked kings to hinder his plan and his purpose whatsoever. They can do what their own evil hearts want to do, but the choices that they make do not thwart the plan of God. They simply uphold it. Because God is in control. And all of their plans are defeated in Christ. Now I want to tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. Jesus Christ is going to return and he's going to reign victorious. And he's going to put down all of this evil and he's going to judge this world. And although we might weep tears of anguish in this wicked world, we know that every evil king will be vanquished. They will be judged. We believe this because you know what you know what the Bible says? Jesus must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. He will put all enemies under his feet And you know what? Haziah will be there on that day, and so will Jehoram, and so will Ahaziah, and so will Stalin, and so will Hitler, and so will Idi Amin, and so will Kim Jong un and Vladimir Putin and all the rest of their brutal uh colleagues, all these evil rulers who do not fear God, Christ will put his foot on their necks and they will never rise again. They will never rise again. If it is true that on the day of judgment every person who ever lived will see that Christ alone is king, then we should take courage from that. That's what gives me hope. That's what I take courage from. The sorrowful days of evil kings will soon pass. And then the good and rightful king will rule on his throne. And you know what? All will be well. All will be well at that time. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the promise of our Messiah. And just as surely as he came the first time, we know he's coming again. And he will rule. And all the evil kings will hear the words of Julian the apostate who says, Thou hast conquered, O Galilean. Our Savior, our Messiah, will always conquer. Until that time, Lord, help us to persevere in hope, knowing that the kingdom of our Lord is on its way. It's being fulfilled right now. The king reigns right now, but one day he will come back physically and literally and judge the world in righteousness. And for those who do not know Christ, Help them to realize that now is the day of salvation. Now is the day to call upon Christ as Savior. Tomorrow he will be the judge. So, Father, speak to hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.