Good to see you tonight. And uh I invite you to now take your Bibles open please to the book of Nehemiah. As you know, we're studying through Nehemiah on Wednesday night, and tonight we're going to be dealing with Nehemiah chapter 7 Nehemiah chapter 7. And the title of my sermon tonight is A Life That Counts for God. Now let me ask you a question. Have you ever struggled with feelings that your life is not worthwhile? Uh I think sometimes we all feel that way. You know, life goes by so quickly. Sometimes I ask myself the question, what am I really accomplishing that that really matters and matters for God? And how can I spend my life so it counts for something worthwhile. Well, the correct answer to those questions is to spend our life, you know, so that they count for God, is uh is to is to give our life to God. to be involved with his purposes. And uh if our if our lives count for God, then they'll not j count just for this time. but they'll also count for eternity. And so really the key question then becomes, how can I live a life so that my life counts for God? And really, believe it or not, Nehemiah chapter 7, I think, has some answers to that one important question Now, Nehemiah chapter 7, let me just warn you going in, this is not the kind of chapter in the Bible that you're excited about reading if you're reading through your Bible. Because I don't know if you kind of look through from verses 61 down through verse 73. And by the way, we won't hit all 73 verses tonight. But they're really just a list of names. And this is one of those chapters that makes you wonder why God, you know, put this in the Bible. Why is it here? Now we know that there's nothing in the Bible that's not significant But we still question, Lord, you know, this is just a list of names. And also what's interesting about Nehemiah chapter 7 is that it is also essentially the same as Ezra chapter 2 Sometime later you can compare the two chapters and you'll find out that the list of names is pretty much the same. So why would God put this long list of names that we can't pronounce in the Bible once But if he did it once, why would he do it twice? You know? Those are kind of some of the questions that we ask. Well, uh this chapter here in Nehemiah, I think kind of serves as a transitional chapter. It's kind of a pivotal chapter in the book. And what I mean by that is that chapters one through six describe the restoration of the wall. He rebuilt the wall. We saw that. In chapter six, he finished it. And then in chapters eight through thirteen It's going to deal with the restoration of the people. So in chapters 1 through 6, he rebuilds the wall, and chapters 8 through 13 will be the restoration and the revival of the people. In chapter 7, what this does is it kind of serves as a transitional chapter, because if you look at the first three verses, it's describing the precautions that Nehemiah took to guard the newly walled city from attack. He's really making preparations for what's going to happen later on. And and he's he's going to make precautions about the the the city wall, but also the city of Jerusalem at this time is not very highly populated. And he wants the city to become what God wants it to become, and that is the again the spiritual and national center of Israel. But you can't do that if there's no people in the city, right? So now he wants to repopulate the city of Jerusalem. And basically, in verses 4 down to verse 73. Then it looks forward to the reforms of what's going to take place in the rest of the book. Now, this list of names that we see here in chapter 7, which we also see in the book of Ezra. This is a list of names of the people who came back from Babylon from the captivity. And so Nehemiah is going to use this list To designate people that will go back to repopulate the city. This is what he's going to use this list for. And basically what he's going to encourage these people to do is fulfill God's purpose. You know, you're not just to be back into the land of Palestine, the Holy Land, and do nothing. No, there's a purpose. There's a reason why we built the walls. There's a reason why this city of Jerusalem exists And there's certain things that God wants to see happen that really matter to God. And so Nehemiah is going to challenge him to get involved with what God is doing. These are things that matter to God. And here's the point. If you want your life to count for God, then you need to commit yourself to the things that matter to God. You know, we just don't exist. We just don't, you know, live our life and eat and drink and pay the bills and that sort of thing. No, that's not what life is about. We're here to commit ourselves to things that matter to God. And that's what Nehemiah is going to ask these people to do. So, really, that's the whole message of the chapter. Commit yourself to the things that matter for God. And as they look here in chapter 7, what I'm going to see are five things that really matter to God. That we can see in this chapter, okay? I want you to see them with me. So here's number one. If you're taking those right down, worship matters to God. Look at verse number one. Now it came to pass when the wall was built And I set up the doors and the porters and the singers, and the and the Levites were appointed. Now Ne Nehemiah mentions that after the walls were rebuilt The doors were installed. He appointed gatekeepers. He appointed singers and Levites. Now, most commentators say that these worship leaders were also a sar uh assigned, excuse me, guard duty at the city gates. And that might be true, but I agree with Derek Kittner who wrote this, that these men take priority here because worship was the city's reason for existence. So do we have singers and Levites? And it's that's because that the city is there To protect the walls were there to protect the temple and the city is there to be a place of spiritual worship for God. And so worship really matters. The worship of God in the temple needed to take place. And so this was the reason for it all. It was if Nehemiah was Beginning to show the people that look now that we got the walls rebuilt and the temples here, it's time to get back to worshiping God. Because that's what really matters to him. Do you know what the reason for your existence here is to glorify God and to worship Him. That's what the Westminster shorter catechism and will ask the question, what is the chief end of man and the answer to that question is man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. We are made to worship. There's something in the heart of man that makes him a worshiper, and you'll notice that if man doesn't worship the real God, he'll worship something else But there's something in him that makes him want to worship because God created man with that desire to worship. And so The real the right worship is to worship the God, the only God, who is worthy of all of our worship. Did you ever notice that when you come to church? and you really meet with God and you have a wonderful experience of worship that it energizes everything else in your life. It's not hard when you come to church and you really worship God to go out and share Christ with others. Because evangelism flows out of worship. Submission and surrender flow out of True worship of God. Repentance, contrition over sin comes out of true worship of God. And what is worship? Well It can be defined the New Testament word just means to kiss towards or to bow down. The Hebrew word actually means to bow And we know it's just basically giving the honor and the glory that is rightfully due unto God. Now, Charnot, he uh Stephen Charnot called it this. He said, It's nothing else but a rendering to God of the honor that is due to him. And that's what we do when we come to God's house. We give to God the rightful honor that is due to Him. And what I see in Scripture is that it's really defined in two ways. First of all, it's defined in who we are. Not just an activity, although it includes an activity, but it's who we are. When people ask you, you know, who are you? One of the things that could come to mind is I'm a worshiper of God. It's what I do. For example, I think I've told you this before that Jonah You remember that story of Jonah when the mariners brought him up on board and they said, Who are you and what do you do? And Jonah responded by saying, I am a Hebrew and I worship God. What an answer I'm a Hebrew and I worship God. Now he wasn't doing a very good job of it at the moment. But what he was saying is normally what I do is I'm a worshiper of God. In other words, it's not just an activity that you do once a week. It's who we are all the time. We're constantly worshiping the Lord. So the Bible defines it as something that we are, an overall way of life, but also it is also defined as an activity. Write down Psalm 100, verse 2 Worship the Lord with gladness, come before Him with joyful songs. And so here it's defined as a specific activity that we do when we come together, when we congregate here in the church, we Worship. That's a specific activity. But it's both of those things. It is who we are, a way of life. It's also what we do here at church. And here's the way we need to think about it. When we come to church, we don't come to church to get worship. We come to church bringing our worship with us. Sometimes people say, well, I didn't get really a whole lot out of that service. Well the question is, what did you give to the service? Not what did you get out of it? Because if you come to God's house ready to give to the Lord your worship, you know what? You're going to get something out of it. And you know why I know that? It's because whenever you give to God the worship that He deserves, God always gives back something in return. That's what the psalmist meant when he said, I'm going to put the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand. I will not be moved. That's what he was saying. I'm going to keep God to be the focus He's going to be the center of my heart and my affection. I'm going to worship him. And in return, the Lord gave him gladness of heart. So whenever you come to God's house and you worship him, then God will always give you a blessing in return. But here's the problem. You can't just come and worship one day a week and then go out and live any way you want to Because, friend, if that happens, then you're not going to be able to bring true worship to God because you're not really worshiping the Lord. It's just not something that you do on Sunday. It's something that we do all of the time. Jerry Bridges wrote this. He said, I cannot judge the hearts of people, but it seems many of our churches today are full of this kind of hypocrite. People who appear to worship God on Sunday, but live for themselves the rest of the week. And so we see then worship defined, and then it's demonstrated all over in the scripture. And Psalm 138, verse 2, I will worship toward thy holy temple and praise thy name for thy loving kindness. Psalm seven, verse 17, I will praise the Lord according to his Righteousness will sing praise to the name of the Lord the Most High. And on we could go. But the point is, worship is important to God. Worship matters to God. And are you a worshiper? Here's the second thing I see from this chapter. If you want to have a life that counts, do the things that matter to God. Worship matters to God. But here's the second thing. Godly character matters to God. Now look in verse number two. That I gave my brother. Hananai, and Hananiah, the ruler of the palace, charged over Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many. And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot, while they stand by. Let them shut the doors and bar them, and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch Everyone to be over against his city. Now notice that in these verses, Nehemiah, being a great leader, knew that to be effective as a leader, he couldn't do it all himself. He knew that he had to delegate to other men who were good and men that he could trust, men and women that are faithful, that are confident, that are responsible. And so as a leader then he picked two men. And notice the two that he picked. He he calls one Hanani. This was probably his blood brother. This was probably the guy that came to him when he was in Shushe in the palace and reported the condition of the city of Jerusalem in the first place. He was appointed as the civil leader in Jerusalem. And then there's Hananiah, who's appointed in verse number two as the military leader. And notice what it says in verse 2, for he was a faithful man and feared God above many. So basically these two guys together were charged to do their job, and verse 3 it says, And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be open until the sun be hot. And this verse can mean that the gates were to be shut during the hottest part of the day or during the de the time after lunch when the guards uh tended to be a bit lax. It could mean, you know, other things, but I think that's probably the the most uh uh accurate way to look at that. And so These men were to be men who had responsible positions. But what I want you to see are the three characteristics that Nehemiah points out about them. He's got these men in important positions But notice what he says about them. First of all, there are three qualities of a godly person. There's faithfulness. Look again in verse 2. For he was a faithful man. You know, the Hebrew word here means reliable, it means truthful, it means firm. So Hananiah was someone that you could trust if you Gave him a a job to do, you can depend upon the fact that he was going to do that job. If he told you he was going to do something, he was going to do it. If he spoke the truth, he spoke to you about something, you can bank on it, it was the truth. He was reliable. He was faithful. And so if you want your life to count for God, then you need to learn to be a faithful person. And you need to ask yourself this question: Am I that kind of person? Am I reliable? Am I truthful? Am I dependable? You see, all of us are stewards of the gift that God allots to us. And Paul said this: he said that it's required of stewards that they be found trustworthy or faithful. Did you know that God has already entrusted you gifts? The question is, are you being faithful and reliable and dependable with those gifts that God has already given you? to work for him and his kingdom. And so God is looking for people to be faithful. Vance Habner said this. He said God is faithful and he expects his people to be faithful. And then he went on to say this. What terrible times we have in our churches trying to keep people Faithful in attendance and loyalty. How we reward and picnic and coax and tantalize church members into doing things they don't want to do, but which they would do if they love God The only service that counts is faithful service. Those are strong words, aren't they? And really they don't belong to a Wednesday night crowd. I should be preaching this to the Sunday morning crowd, right? Because you guys are here. So I want you to take this and give it to them on Sunday morning, all right? But you understand the point that he's trying to make. And I think he's showing a little bit of frustration there as a servant of the Lord when God's people are not faithful the way God would expect, you know, and I agree with him. There's a certain point where I don't want to have to keep pumping people up to do things that you ought to do naturally because you love God Just because you love the Lord. You just want to do that. And by the way, we have a lot of people here that are like that. And I'm so very grateful to God for you. But let me just suggest four ways to develop faithfulness. And just I'll go over these quickly. Number one, recognize and define the responsibilities that God has given you to do. Just know whatever responsibilities you have. If you're a father, recognize that's a responsibility. Lead your family in the way of God. If you're a Christian, you have been given gifts to serve the Lord. Just be faithful and know what they are and serve the Lord. Uh you've been given certain responsibilities. Just know what they are. That would be the first thing. Secondly, start with and don't neglect the small things You know, if you're faithful in little things, God is going to bless you and He'll put bigger things over you, right? Luke 16, 10, we saw that passage Sunday morning. Jesus said, if you're faithful in little things You will be ruler over many. You'll be faithful over much. If God can trust you with the little things, then he can trust you with the big things. And that's a sign of your faithfulness. Do you pay your bills on time? Are you honest in financial matters? Do you keep your word? Do you live an orderly life? Do you keep your appointments on time? All of those might seem like little things, but friend, they add up. Are you faithful in those things? And here's the third thing. Keep your relational priorities straight. Your relationship to Jesus is always first. And then your relationship to your family. That is so very important. If I don't have my family relationship right, then I can disqualify myself from being a servant of the Lord in the church. And so I want to keep my relationship to Jesus first. I want to keep my relationship to my family right. But here's the fourth thing. Just learn to use your time effectively. All these things add up to being a faithful, dependable person. And Nehemiah said, this is the kind of man that Hananiah was. But also, notice the next thing. Look at the end of verse 2. He was a faithful man, and he feared God above many. That's the other thing. He feared God more than many. Some fear God a little. Others fear God more. A fear of God comes really out of knowing God, knowing who he is, that he is a holy, righteous God, and that he sees all and he's watching me and he will bless when I do right. And friend, he will punish me if I don't walk in his way. And that's even that's out of love, because he wants me as his child to produce the fruit of righteousness. But a man who fears God is someone that is going to want to please the Lord. The fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. And so here's a man that feared God. But then not only his faithfulness. And his fear of God, but his watchfulness. Look in verse three. And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be open until the sun be hot, while they stand by. Let them shut the door and bar them, and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Everyone in his watch, everyone to be over against his house. And so here's the next thing. They were watchful. They were to appoint watches all over Jerusalem And to keep an eye out. Now Nehemiah, he had just built these walls, but he knew that the enemy didn't like that. And he knew that the enemy was out there and they were looking for an opportunity to do something. To stop the whole program, to keep uh Jerusalem from being the city that God wanted it to be. And so he gave instructions for them to watch, to be alert Now he trusted God but he also set up a watch. The truth the two are not in opposition. You know you can trust God but you can also Make sure that you're doing all that you need to do, taking all the precautions that you need to take. I think the soldiers in the Revolutionary War used to say, pray and keep your powder dry. And I think that's true. We trust God, but also we make sure that we stay alert and watch, you know, because the enemy is always around And Jesus frequently warned us to be on the alert. Peter said, be sober, be vigilant. So we need to watch out In our relationships, we need to watch out as married couples and avoid any dangers that would cause a problem. We need to watch as parents because Satan is out to get our children. We need to watch as church leaders and know that Satan wants to damage the flock. We need to watch because there's a lot of false teaching and false doctrine out there. And we don't want that coming in here So we need to be alert. There he needs to be a watchfulness for the people of God. We need to be on guard. And notice in verse 3 where he put people Everyone over against his house, it says in verse 3, the places where they worked by their homes, he set them on guard right there because he knew that they would be more vigilant there with their own home. And let me ask you a question. Are you vigilant to watch over your own home? That's a message there for all of us So to have a life that counts, we need to worship God because worship matters to God. We need to have godly character because godly character matters to God. But here's the third thing I see in this chapter Your place in God's plan matters to God. Now look down at verse number four. Now the city was large and great, but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles and the rulers and the people that they might reckon by genealogy, and I found the registrar, the genealogy of them, which came up at first and found written therein. Now what's going on here? Now again the wall was built, but as I said before, the city was underpopulated. There were not that many people living inside the walls of Jerusalem. The people that came, they preferred to live in the surrounding villages just because it was Easier. And also, if you'll notice where it says in verse 4, and the houses were not builded, that simply means there were not enough houses inside the walls of Jerusalem for the people to live So there were relatively few people living there in Jerusalem. So Nehemiah, what's he want to do? He wants to repopulate the city. He wants to make it a bustling city again. And he wants to repopulate the city with people who are of Jewish descent because this was the city of God. This was the city of God's people. So he wants to make sure to get some of those from the Jewish population into that city. And notice what he says in verse 5. And And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles and the rulers and the people that they might be reckoned by Genealogy. And so what happened was Nehemiah found this genealogy, this list of names, and this was the same list again that we see in Ezra chapter number two. And he wanted to use that list as a guide to select people to put them back into the city. To have them move back into Jerusalem. You see, at this time living in Jerusalem would kind of be a sacrifice, since you know there were really not enough homes there. The people would have to build their own homes. They would have to make do for themselves. And so Nehemiah wanted to divide the sacrificial living in Jerusalem among the families. He wanted to distribute that among certain families. And so he sees this list And he decides to choose people who would live in Jerusalem. By the way, that's why there's differences between the list in Ezra II and the list here in Nehemiah chapter 7, because these are the ones that that Nehemiah chose to be in the city of Jerusalem. Now Now, why did he do this? Well, it establishes the city, its continuity with the past. In other words, some of the people on the list, their families had lived in this city before. And so now Nehemiah wants to put those families back in the city. So there's kind of a continuity there. And the other thing is that it became the basis of this reorganization of the population for Judah. And so these families would be given this special thing to do, this special purpose to do. But also there's something interesting that we see here, and that is some of these families did not really know Some of these priests, their genealogy. In fact, look in chapter 7, look in verse 61. Let me just show you this real quick. And these were they which went up also from Telmelah. And tell Harasha and Cherub, verse sixty one, and and Adon and Emir, but they could not show their father's house, nor their seed So here's a group of people that could not prove their genealogy. Look at verse 64. And these sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. Therefore were they as polluted put uh from the priesthood. And and Tir Shah Shah said unto them that they should not eat of the most holy things till there should Until there stood up a priest with Urim and Thumbin. You say, what's going on there? Well, here's a group of people, and they can't prove their genealogy. They came out of Babylon, they're ready to go into the city, but they can't prove their ancestral record. There needs to be some evidence from somewhere to prove that of who they are. And so and these were priests And so, because they could not prove their tribe and their genealogy, the Bible says they were put out of the priesthood until They could stand before a priest who had Urim and Thummon. And what was going on there was that the priest would give a divine means of showing them that they were truly God's child. In other words, that they were a descendant, that they were of the tribe of Levi, or that they were from a priestly family. And so basically they would stand before the priest and the priest would use these two stones. This was probably like casting lots. He would probably ask questions, is this guy truly from the from the nation of Israel? Cast the stones and they say, Well, yes. Is he from the tribal so-and-so? And they would cast the stones, and they would say yes. And so there was a divine means of showing that they were truly in the family, so to speak Alright? Everybody get that? If not, I want you to go home and restudy this for homework, all right? You say, what does that mean to us Well let me just give you a little spiritual application to all this. You know, far more important than proving your physical ancestry, it's much more important to know your spiritual heritage. Than your physical heritage. And here's the point. There has to be some evidence in your life that you really are in God's family You know what? Are you a priest of God? Are you part of God's family? Well then you know what? You need to show that, you need to prove that in order to be used of God. You say, well, how can I do that? The same way they did it here It's a divine means. You say, how can I know for sure that I'm in the family of God? Very simply, God shows you whether you're in his family. God reveals that to you. And we see this in the New Testament. There is the subjective internal evidence that God gives that we are in the family of God. You know what? I don't have a written document that tells me the day that I got saved. I don't have I if you wanted me to prove it through through paperwork, I couldn't do it. Or if I could tell you this, I know I'm a child of God. You say, how do you know that? Well, because there's two ways. There's a subjective evidence of the Holy Spirit who lives inside of me. And the Bible says that the Spirit bears witness with my Spirit that I am a child of God. There's that inward evidence, and Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 1:12. He said, our rejoicing is this: the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity Not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have behaved ourselves. In other words, Paul's saying, my conscience bears witness with me that I'm living a godly life, and the Holy Spirit also bears witness with my conscience. That I am a child of God. That's the subjective evidence. You know, sometimes I meet Christians and they are wrestling with this thing of assurance. Well, friend, just remember it's the Holy Spirit of God that teaches you to cry out, Abba, Father. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever had a desire in your heart? Just to crawl up to God in prayer and just pour your heart out to Him. Have you ever had that sense of intimacy with the Father that makes you want to cry out and say, Abba, Father? Well, you know what? That doesn't come from you. And that certainly doesn't come from the devil. That comes from God. That's the Holy Spirit of God showing that you are a child of God. And then there's also the outward objective evidence. I have internal subjective evidence. I have the Holy Spirit in my conscience that bears witness. That's the divine means of God saying to me, you are in the family, you are my child, you are my priest in my service. But then there's also the outward evidence, and what is that? An obedient life. Remember what I taught you in 1 John? Hereby we do know that we know Him. Here's how you know that you know that you're a child of God. Listen, if We keep his commandments. Is there a lifestyle of obeying Jesus? Because, friend, that's the outward evidence. And so there's this evidence of your spiritual heritage, but also there's another thing that I see here. These people were chosen To fulfill a special service for God. They were to go back into the city. They were to live there. They were to repopulate the city. They were to worship God there. They were to make it again a light and a glory. To the world, that was what God called them to do. And so that was why they were there. And by the way, do you know for you, God has a special calling on your life? You don't have to be in full-time Christian service to have a special calling. If you're a child of God, every person here, if you know Jesus, God has given you a purpose in his kingdom. A calling, something that you fulfill, something that you do. He has gifted you in that way. And you need to know what that is and just do that. That's what's happening here. These people are fulfilling what God wants them to do. Now let me move on real quickly to number four. You see We have to worship God because worship matters to God. Godly character matters to God. Your place in God's plan matters to God Fulfilling that role just like these people. But here's number four. Your commitment to God's purpose matters to God. Look at verse number six. in in chapter 7. And these are the children of the province that went up out of the captivity of those that had been carried away. from Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had carried away, and came to Jerusalem into Judah, every one into his city, who came with Nerebal, and Jeshua, and Nehemiah, and Azariah, and then there's y and so on, these names here. And then in verse 8, you'll notice that he gives a bunch of names on down to verse number 73, and we won't even attempt to read that. But these are the people that return from Babylon to Jerusalem. Now here's the point. They didn't have to come back. They could have easily stayed in Babylon. In fact, these families had been there in Babylon for several generations. It's safe to say that they had put down roots, that they already had a good living there in Babylon. They were established. They were comfortable. It was, you know, it's not easy to pack up and move uh across uh a desert several hundred miles Back to kind of a hostile territory, kind of a desolate city, a place that had been devastated by war. But this is what these people did. They left that comfortable place of Babylon where they had their homes, they were established, and they Pulled up roots, and they went all the way back to Jerusalem to this difficult place to live. Now you say, why would they do that? Why would they leave Babylon? Well, because they understood and committed themselves to God's purpose. And what was God's purpose? God's purpose, again, was that his people Israel be a light and a glory to the rest of the nations. They remembered the covenant that God made with the people, that the people would be a chosen people, they would be a royal priesthood, they would be a holy nation that would show forth the praises of God. They still understood that purpose. And so therefore they were willing to go through all that hardship, to go through all of that discomfort. to pick up roots, to move and to resettle in a very difficult place at a difficult time because they were committed To God's purpose. And again, there's a lesson there for us. Are you committed to God's purpose? You say, what's the purpose of God? Same one, we are now to be a glory to God in this world. We are to be his people. We are to be that light. And this should be the thing that's foremost in our mind: the kingdom of God. What did Jesus say? Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And all these other things will be added unto you. Friend, if you want a life that really counts for God, then you need to commit to God's purpose. And God's purpose is his own glory. Everything is about the glory of God. Now, let me give you the last thing. Worship matters to God, godly character matters to God. Your place in God's plan matters to him. Your commitment to God's purpose. But then let me give you the last thing. People matter to God. People matter. Because again, if you go down from verse six all the way to verse seventy-three, there's just a long list of names. In fact, and these names, these listing of inhabitants come from 20 towns and villages. Priests are mentioned here 4,289 times. Levites 360 times. I didn't actually go through and count all those myself. But there's a lot mentioned here. But as I look over this list and I look at, I peruse through it. There's several things that I glean from it. You know what? God knows every one of these people by name. He knows everything about them. That's just always fascinated me. God knows everything about you. He knows your ancestry. He knows where you're from. He knows every hair on your head. And so the first thing I see here is that individuals are important to God. These names are of are of individual people, and God knows his people by name. Did you know Jesus is the good shepherd and the Bible says he calls his sheep by name? And he knows you by name And uh, you know, uh I I try to learn all the names of people, especially on Sunday morning when they're going out, I try to learn names. And I just want you to know that I'm failing at that. I I haven't been able to learn all the names You know, I'm not all that good at that, but let me just encourage you, even if I fail to remember names, there's one who never forgets your name. He knows exactly who you are and he loves you. He created you in his image. He put you here at this time and at this place to help fulfill his purpose. And so he knows you. And I would also say this: make sure that Jesus knows you by name. You say, wait a minute, you just said he knows me by name. Well, there's a sense in which he's omniscient and he knows everyone, but there's also a sense in which there's a personal knowledge. That on judgment day you will not hear the words, depart from me, because I never what? I didn't know you. There's a knowledge of Jesus that is very intimate and very personal. Does he know your name in salvation? So I see the individuals are important to God. But also if you read through this list, I see families are important to God. Because you see the expression used the children of in verse 9 and verse 10 the children of and so on on down all those verses the children of and what we see here there are families and so this list contains families This is God's design for the basic building blocks of society and the church. If the church is going to be strong, we need to have strong families Families are important to God because God created that family unit. But then let me also say men are important to God because if you look down here in this list, you're going to see the men are mentioned many times. And this list here. And so the men of the this is a list made up of men. This doesn't mean that women are unimportant. It just simply means that in God's order, God has a role for men in the family, and that is to be leaders. Men, do we understand that? That it's important to God that we take our responsibility as the leader of the family and lead in the way that God would have us to lead in a godly manner. And so all these things are important to God. And so people are important to God. And that means they have to be important to us. Everyone around has to be important to us because they're important to God. So are people important to you? Now I'll just give you this one illustration and then we'll we'll close. But um again I sometimes I get lost in the omniscience of God, how much he knows people. And have you ever flown in a plane and look down and just see hundreds of homes? And ever have this thought, God knows everybody in those homes. He knows them by name. He knows every detail about them I remember one time I was in Africa on a mission trip. This was m several years ago when I was pastoring down in Tennessee, but I went on this mission trip And I was in Uganda. And I was going to preach to a pastor's conference in this remote place called Arua. But we started off uh flying from Entevi Airport in Uganda, and we got into a smaller plane. Um to fly to this remote place called Arua. And when I got into the plane to fly, when we took off everything was fine. But a storm came very, very quickly. And it was so fierce that the pilots decided they had to land the plane in the jungle, which I wasn't really thrilled about. at that time. And so they looked down and they found a mud strip in the jungle and they landed the plane safely on that mud strip. And they waited out the storm. And they took off again. And this time they decided that they weren't going to fly very high, just a few hundred feet off the ground for the rest of the trip into Arrua. But I remember looking out the window of that plane when we were flying over the countryside there, and I saw hundreds and hundreds Of homes and villages. I saw smoke coming up out of fireplaces. Thousands and thousands. As we were flying. It was just the most incredible thing. All dotted along the mountains and the countryside. I could see these homes and these villages and these people. And it occurred to me when I was flying there at that moment that God knows every one of these people He knows them intimately. He knows everything about them. He knows the number of hairs on their head. That's amazing that God knows them. And not only that, but each one of those people matter to God. God loves every one of them and he wants them to know him. People matter. I was just overwhelmed with the thought that people really matter to God. He loves them. And friend, that's what matters. And if you want to have a life that really counts for God, people need to matter to you. Do you love people? Do you want to see them come to know Jesus Christ? As their Savior, because that's certainly what God wants. He wants them to know Him. And so if we're going to have a life that matters for God, we have to invest our life in those things that matter to Him. And this is what matters to him. Worship. Godly character. Your place and his plan. Are you committed to his purpose? People matter to him. That's what we learn here from this chapter. And you can have a life that's meaningful, that A life that's worthy, a life that counts, because we invest in these things. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, uh, help us to take these things to heart. And may these things that matter to you matter to us. Father, give us a heart of worship. Perhaps there may be some here tonight and the worship in their heart The passion to praise you and to glorify you has been waning. And that needs to be renewed. We need to have a desire to know you more, to worship you in spirit and in truth. And I pray, Lord, that you would give us godly character, that we might be faithful, people that fear you, to be watchful. That Lord, we wouldn't understand our place in your kingdom, that you have a place for us, and that we would fulfill that role. with all our heart, that we would be committed to your purpose. And that we that people would matter to us as much as they matter to you. Let that be our Our testimony, Lord, our prayer. We need your help in this, Lord, because we fail often. So many times, Lord, we think of our own things And not the things of God. So help us tonight. And how many will say with an uplaid raised hand, that's my prayer? I want God to help me to make these things matter in my own life. And so, Father, bless these hands and do us with your grace. And we thank you and we praise you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.