Do you uh take your Bibles tonight, please, and I'll ask you to open to the book of Psalms, chapter forty-two, and we're gonna be looking at verse eleven, but actually we'll be looking at many verses in Psalm forty-two and and maybe a few in verse thirty And tonight I want to talk about lifting up for the downcast, lifting up for the downcast from this passage of scripture. So let me ask you a question. Have you ever had to battle with depression in your life? It can happen to you. Don't get the idea that it can't happen to me. Some people sometimes will think, well, it's not in my personality. It's not in my temperament to be depressed. But I think if we're honest, all of us would say that we've all had to deal with seasons of depression in our life from time to time. Seasons that will come. As I read this psalm here, I read about a man who uh who loved God, who had a hunger for God in his life, and and yet he went through a time of being cast down and being depressed. Um who was the psalmist who wrote this? Well, if you notice the subtitle to the psalm, And uh chapter 42 it it um it it tells us it's a s it's a song of Dave uh excuse me, uh a uh of the sons of Korah, I should say. They were Levites who descended through Kohath, Korah's father. They were employed in the performance of temple music, so they were basically temple musicians. And an interesting thing was in was uh Korah was the man who led a rebellion against Moses in the wilderness. You might remember that story in the book of Numbers. He led 250 community leaders to rise up against God's servant And God severely judged Korah and uh from that, and you you read that I'm sure in numbers 16. The ground opened up and swallowed them. Uh not a good thing to happen. uh shows you about rebelling against God. But for some reason God spared the sons of Korah, and in gratitude to this, they dedicated themselves to worshiping God to music and to singing his praises. There's a lesson there that even uh devout children can come from rebellious of fathers, and that's what we see here. And so they were being used of God. They were obviously godly people. And so this tells me that even godly people can get depressed. Old Testament saints, as I read in the Bible, got depressed. I think about Elijah. That's the first one that comes to mind. Right after the victory at Mount Carmel, he fell into a depression and asked God to take his life. And then Moses, the greatest prophet in the Old Testament, the lawgiver, he was a man also who at one point said, Kill me, I pray thee, in Numbers eleven fifteen. He became suicidal. He was so depressed with all the burdens that he had. And then also we think of Job, who uh opened his mouth and cursed the day where he was born. And I also turn to the New Testament. I find New Testament saints also that went through times of depression. Paul wrote to Timothy, said, uh, Timothy, I'm mindful of your tears. I'm mindful of the difficulty that you're going through. Paul himself said that at one point he despaired of life. He was so pressed down and overwhelmed by the circumstances, by the burdens in his life, that he despaired of life And so also I read of cr great Christians in history. I like to read a lot of biographies and I read uh of great men and women of the faith, and you know what I find? All of them went through times of s depression. They all went through seasons of depression. Um great missionaries Adniram Judson, um was America's first Foreign missionary suffered from a deep depression following the death of his wife. And also I read of Charles Spurgeon, one of my heroes in the faith. He went through seasons of depression. That was due in part to his physical condition. He he uh suffered from gout, which was very painful for him, and so he went through a very, very difficult time. And uh he wrote this. Uh uh uh uh regarding his depression, he said, there are dungeons beneath the castles of despair. And of course he was referring to the story of Pilgrim's Progress about the castles Despair in the dungeon. He said, there are dungeons beneath the castle of despair. So the question is not, do Christians go through seasons of depression? We all understand that we will deal with it from time to time. The question is, when it comes, how do we deal with it? What does the Bible tell us to do with respect to depression when it comes upon us? Now, we've been doing a series called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits, and this is where I kind of defer to the Puritans on this because they've helped in in this area for me as I've been reading. There's one book that was written by a Puritan by the name of William Bridge. He lived from 1600 to 1670 He was educated at uh Emmanuel College in Cambridge. That was a Puritan stronghold. He was a faithful preacher. He was called a tender shepherd of souls. He pastored a church on a seaport city where there were sailors and merchants and laborers and people who frequently went through very, very difficult times and were exposed to hardship and a lot of anxiety in their life And because of that, that context profoundly influenced the tone and the content of the way he preached to people. He preached very compassionately, and he preached a series of sermons on the verse, Psalm 42, verse number 11. I want you to look at it. in Psalm 42, verse 11, where the psalmist says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance Now that is a refrain that we see three times in these two chapters, the same exact verse. We see it in verse 11, but if you'll back up in Psalm 42, verse number 5, look at verse 5. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God For I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. And then if you look in Psalm chapter 43 and you look at verse number five, look at what that verse says. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Sound familiar? Same exact verse. Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God. And so that's why some people treat Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 together. as uh uh either twin psalms or one psalm because it has this refrain, it's kind of like bookends that kind of binds these two chapters together and it deals with this issue of being cast down Now William Bridge was a man who understood this in his own life. He uh suffered a lot. He was uh thrown out of his own pulpit because he refused to conform to the established church. He spent years in exile ministering in Holland before he returned home to England. He preached through seasons of persecution, through political unrest, and through personal trial. And his message was simple, and yet it was profound. His message was basically this. There is no reason for the believer to be cast down. For every cause of depression or discouragement, there is a divine remedy. For every depression that you go through, every season you go through of depression or discouragement, God has a remedy for you. And that was his simple proposition. And Bridge wrote this, let me quote. He said, quote, There are three enemies to the peace of the Christian: sin, temptation, and desertion. What he means by desertion is when you feel like God has departed from you. when he's left you alone. And then he says this, against all these, Christ has provided a lifting up. And so God has a way of lifting you up. Through whatever season of depression you may be going through, whatever the cause may be, the Lord is able to help you through this. So I want us to consider then this whole subject of depression. And we'll look at maybe some of the quotes from William Bridge, some of the things that I learned from him, and some of this is studied that I have learned just by studying these two chapters together. But first of all, I want to talk about the reality of depression. Just if you're taking notes, just write down the reality of depression. Again, we see in verse 11, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? This is an honest question. The psalmist starts out by interrogating his own soul. Why are you cast down? He's talking to himself here This is self-examination. And a lot of times this is the first step to healing. You have to examine yourself. You have to ask yourself the question: why am I cast down? Why am I depressed? Now normally when people come to me uh because they're depressed and they want counsel, the first thing I do is I do this little self-examination with them and just talk about the different reasons or causes that depression might come. And we can really put them under four different categories. Some depression is uh physical. Sometimes if your physical body is not well, that can have an effect on you spiritually. You understand that, right? So the first thing I'll ask them, have you been to a doctor? Have you gotten a physical examination? And make make sure that you are, you know, well physically because there if you're physical body, if you're lacking something then that can cause depression in your life. So and I'm not a medical doctor, so I'll send them say, hey, go to your doctor, make sure you get a good examination. Maybe there's some things you need to change in your life physically that's causing you to be depressed spiritually or mentally. And then another cause would be temperamental. And that is to say that there are just some people that are more given in their personality to being melancholy. They just have that type of nature. Or maybe it's that there are just certain seasons of the year where you may battle this. For some people it might be around the holiday season. Um or when it's uh winter. A lot of people seem to battle with depression during the winter time. Or, you know, it may be a certain time of day. You know, um, you know, some people At certain times of the day, know that that's a weaker moment for them. You need to understand yourself, understand who you are. Me personally, I'm not a morning person All right. So I I'm I'm ready when I wake up. I know the devil's waiting there to bark out orders and tell me all the things that I have done wrong and the things I have waiting for me and how w you know f how foolish I am and all that sort of thing. So in the morning I I just get myself ready. I have verses that I just quoted my mind because I'm not a morning person. And those of you who are morning people We who are not morning people, we hate you. We just want you to know that. All right. Please don't come up all bubbly with smiles in the morning to us, all right? Please don't do that because you tempt us to Smite you. I'm just kidding. But anyway. So you have to understand yourself. You have to understand your personality, your temperament. For some it's just temperamental. And then another reason for depression for some is just circumstantial. Look, if you're going through difficult circumstances It's understandable why you may be going through a time of sorrow and a time of depression. That's understandable. Um for the season of Christmas, if it's different for you this year because there are certain people that are no longer in your life because the Lord called them home. And now everything seems different. That's understandable. We we understand that there are circumstances that cause depression if you're going through a very difficult time. and hardship. It may be circumstantial. And then another reason it could be it could be spiritual. And uh that's really I think For the most part, uh the the the I think the biggest reason why a lot of people are depressed, and this just comes on speaking out of experience here by counseling with people that go through depression. I find that most of the depression that I deal with is a spiritual issue. It's spiritual. And so if it's spiritual, then we know that the Bible has an answer for that. And bridges recognize, bridge recognize that even the most spiritual Christians uh can go through again through these seasons And he says this, quote, It's no new thing for God's choice as saints to be under the hatches, he said, to be cast down in spirit, even when their judgment stands right with God. And so look at how the psalmist describes being depressed. He uses the word cast down. Again, look in verse number, chapter 42, verse five or verse eleven, either one of those will do, but why art thou cast down? The Hebrew word here, shall call, means to be bowed down. Extreme dejection. Peterson uh paraphrases it like this. Why are you down in the dumps? Again, he's examining himself. Why are you so sad? Why are you so discouraged? That's part of what being depressed is. You're feeling of helplessness or hopelessness, that there's no real future uh in mind for you. And so you give in to negative thoughts. Negative thoughts bombard your mind. And also just remember this, beloved, that your Your emotions are still part of your fallen nature. Okay? That's why you can't give in to those negative emotions because that's part of your sin nature. And if you do that, it'll batter you down every time. Don't allow yourself to be driven by your emotions that are controlled by your sinfulness and your sin nature. But also he uses the word disquieted. Why art thou disquieted? And the word here means roar or noise, it means a a murmuring, and the Hebrew term conveys the idea of an unpleasant sound, a commotion, or a clamor. um can be used to refer to unpleasant music in the soul. Again, Peterson paraphrases this, why are you singing the blues? To be depressed is when in inwardly when you're singing the blues in your soul, that sad song that plays over and over again inside of you. That noise of your soul. Again, it's interesting to see that this word is sometimes translated to murmur. But another thing that we see here is that a lot of that can be due to the fact that we may be too focused on ourselves. Now we do need to examine ourselves spiritually, and we need to examine why we're depressed, but a lot of times why people are depressed is because they're too focused on self. They're too much thinking about, you know, their future and what's in it for me type idea. In fact, we you we we as we look at um Psalm 42 of Psalm 43, we see that there are 51 personal pronouns. The writer uses I 14 times, me 16 times, my 21 times. He mentions God only 20 times. He seems to be more focused about himself. His plans had not been fulfilled. So he was murmuring inside. He was singing the blues. And then another word for is is mourning in verse number nine. And the Hebrew word means to be ashen or dark. It's a reference to one's facial expressions. Maybe you you know you can identify with that. Sometimes when a person is depressed, it just shows up on their face. You can't really hide it. There's a darkness that seems to come over them. And so that's the reality of depression. And the psalmist was going through that time in his own life. But let's talk about number two, the reasons for depression. What are the reasons for it? Now, again, Bridge identified several in his book. He talked about the consciousness of sin. When there's sin in the life of a believer and it's not dealt with, that sense of guilt lies heavy. He says, and it causes the soul to sink down low. And if you're a child of God and you're not dealing with sin in your life, that sin will rob your joy. It can cause you to be cast down. It can cause all of these symptoms of depression. Another thing that he mentioned was Satan's accusations. Satan can constantly batter you inwardly, putting thoughts into your mind How many of you know that Satan wants you to be depressed? He is out to get you depressed. He wants you to feel miserable. He wants you to feel hopeless and helpless. That is his desire. That is his goal. And it's even Satan's desire that people take their life. I think suicide is a satanic attack. That's exactly what Satan wants. First of all, he tells you lies. And the Bible says he's a liar and a murderer. He gives you lies and he wants to take your life. And if you believe those lies and you sink down low enough, sadly a person can end up uh taking their life, which is uh just devastating. When we hear about that those sort of things happening, it's devastating. But that's what Satan wants. Satan attacks your soul. He wants you to be depressed. But also another reason that Bridge gives is that the hiding of God's face, like we said, desertion, when you feel like that God has withdrawn himself from you and you can't seem to find God, can't seem to find him in prayer You had a sense, maybe a subjective sense of his presence in your life, and that's gone. And you feel like you're on your own. And you feel like the Lord's not with you. That can cause depression. But as I look here in this psalm, I can see that the psalmist was cast down in mourning for other reasons. Here's some reasons from the psalm that I want to give you. First of all, forced absence from the temple of God where God was worshipped Go back to Psalm 42, look in verses 1 and 2. As the heart or the deer pants after the water brook, so pants my soul after thee, O God So the writer, one of the sons of Korah, a renowned musician, a worshiper, we don't know which one, but he felt cut off from God. He had a desire to worship God, but he was cut off from God. Look at verse 2. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? So he begins this song by telling us he feels separated from God. He feels exiled spiritually. He's not able to be in the temple. He's not able to be in part of the worship. When you're not in God's house worshiping God's people, do you miss it? Do you thirst for God in that context? That's what this psalmist was doing here. But he felt exiled. He had been taken from Jerusalem. He was away from his normal ministry in the temple courts. According to verse 4, where is he? Well, verse six offers a clue. Look in verse number six. He says, O my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan. and of the of the Hermonites from the hill Mizar. Now, the place he's describing in verse 6 is far north. And Israel at the headwaters of the Jordan and the foothills of Mount Hermon. Mizar means little, perhaps referring to a small hill in the Mount Hermon range in the area known as Cassaria Philippi. or also as Banas, before it was named Caesarea Philippi. And that was an area that was given to false worship It was given. In fact, during the time of Jesus, that was a place that no devout Jew would go to. They wouldn't go to Caesarea Philippi because there was so much false worship that was going on there. So this is a a region known for that. And here the psalmist is away from God, and he's around ungodly people, and he's in this region with these folks, and he misses Being in the temple of God, being with God's people in worship, and that was part of the reason why he felt cast down. He missed his own temple. He missed being around people he loved. He missed corporate worship. The problem I have with some people is they don't miss worshiping with God's people. And um that is a a spiritual problem. But here the psalmist, he thirsted for God. And he wanted to be with God's people in God's house because he loved worship, but he couldn't go there. Another reason was the taunts of unbelievers. If we look in verse three, he said, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? Who's the they? These are the unbelievers he's around. We see this again in verse number ten As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? So he's in this distant land. He's surrounded by unbelievers. They were taunting him with the biting question, Where is your God? I mean you're so sad. Where is your God? This only added to his misery. You know, why isn't your God answering for you? Why isn't your God helping you. It was Martin Lloyd Jones who in his book, Spiritual Depression, that said that sad and depressed Christians are are a bad advertisement for Christianity. He basically said, they're a poor recommendation for the Christian faith. That's part of the reason why the devil wants to depress Christians. Because that is i it gives a bad light on the gospel. Um so Martin Lloyd Jones basically said in his book, um the unsaved will see that and they'll say, There goes one of God's people. Do you want to be like that? What is there God doing for them? And here the psalmist, he was being uh be because he was uh in a difficult circumstance, he was being taunted by unbelievers. But another reason for his Depression was memory of better days. Look at verse four. When I remembered these things I poured out my soul in me, for I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude of them that kept holy day. What's he doing here? He's remembering better days gone by. He's remembering the past. And he remembers times when he was with people in God's house. Remembering when he was with the multitudes at the house of the Lord, Holy Day here refers to the feast and the festivals celebrated by Israel. He's remembering those joyful times when he celebrated the feasts. and various uh festivals when he had people around him that he knew and he's remembering back to that and now here he is far away from that and that's causing him to be depressed. Again, we can apply this because when Christmas season comes around and certain people that were a part of your life are no longer there, it changes things, doesn't it? It has a different feel to it And that we could it could be a source of sorrow. It could be a source of depression. You know, here's a guy far away from home, and he's remembering, you know, maybe uh Thanksgiving Um we'll put it in our context. You know, he can't he can't be home for Christmas. He's away. He can't be there with the family. He's remembering those days. And it's sad. Because he can't be there. And he's looking at the past and he's allowing the past to cause him sorrow. Now, there's nothing wrong with looking into the past, but you don't you can't let the past pull you down. And you can't let the past weigh you down in present sorrow. That's not a good use of the past. The key to it is that when we look to the past, we look at it through God, and we look at what God did and we praise God for what He did. And we also praise God that He's got blessings for us yet in the future. But we don't look at the past in a way that will cause us to be depressed or to be cast down. That's what the psalmist is doing here. And, you know, self this is self-pity. Self-pity is uh self-pity is the opposite of having faith. Someone says self-pity is crying on the devil's shoulder. Stop comparing your circumstances that you're in now with the past that maybe were seemingly better to you. And by the way, you ever notice how that our memories are a little bit defective? And selective. We remember all the good things about the past. We don't remember some of the bad things. We select all the good things out and say, oh, the good old days. Everybody talks about the good old days. You know, well there were problems in the good old days too. You just don't remember some of them. But stop allowing the past to pull you down. But then another thing, he was overwhelmed by the trials of life. Look at verse number 7. Deep calleth on the deep at the noise of thy water spouse, all thy ways and thy billows are gone over me. And the psalmist here is using a poetic metaphor to speak of the trials of life that are overwhelming him. He refers to the trials like waves and billows, breakers. Uh like in the sea, like he's drowning in water and those waves and those billows are just flowing over him. Reminds me of the song that we sang it as well. That line in the song when sorrow's like sea billows w roll. The psalmist is using the same metaphor right here. That sorrows are overwhelming him. He's drowning in his sorrows. He's drowning in his trials. If you're going through a trial, a difficult trial, that can depress you. And he's depressed because of that. But also another reason I see here is the failure of God to act quickly on his behalf. Look at verse 9. I will say unto God, My rock, why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? This is a painful cry for God to move quickly on the psalmist's behalf. He feels that God has forgotten him. And again, this is what William Bridge writes in his book: that desertion, the feeling that you're on your own, that God's not with you. And here the psalmist certainly feels that. And usually a depressed person feels forsaken by God. But the believer is not abandoned. Just know that. You may feel that way, but God never abandons his children. You may feel that, but it's not true. Bridge explained it like this. God may be present with the man and yet hide himself from the man. There's a difference between God being gone and God hiding himself. He says there are times in his life when God will hide himself from you, but his presence is not gone. And what does he mean by that? Well, when God hides himself, you may not sense his presence, you may not feel like your prayers are being heard or answered, but God will, he says, purposely withdraw himself. Why? To teach you faith and more dependence on God. Perhaps you haven't been depending on the Lord like you should. So God will withdraw Himself so that you'll stay close to Him. The best way I can illustrate this is I remember when I was a kid, um pretty young, uh I think I was like maybe six or seven years old. We were at a we were at a s a circus, one of these local um things where you go and there's rides and there's all kind of things and there's a big crowd and I remember my dad saying to me, you know, Jerry, stay close. I don't want you wandering off. But I would continue to wander off and wander off. And he had to pull me back. So he said, I said, stay close So one day, as there one time when we were there, I'd wandered off. Suddenly I looked around, I couldn't find them. Everybody was gone And you know, panic struck my little body. I was terrified. I was by myself You know, and that is just a terrible feeling. And right when I had big old tears coming down my face and, you know, Dad, where are you? Suddenly I had this big hand grab me. Now he had been there the whole time watching that whole thing, hiding himself That is terrible, Dad. You shouldn't have done that. But I got the message and from then on I did not wander far from him anymore. I stayed right there. I grabbed his pants leg the whole rest of the time. But you get the message, sometimes God will withdraw himself from his children. Why? So that we will run to him. that we will depend upon him so that we will trust him all the more. And here, this is why the psalmist is uh Uh is feeling deserted. God may have hidden himself. And Bridge says that there are several reasons why God does this to humble the believer. As I said, the sense of felt nearness can foster a spiritual pride. You can be, you know, spiritually proud at times, and God might withdraw himself so that you will run to him. He also writes to increase hunger for God Just as physical hunger intensifies desire for food, desertion deepens the soul's longing for God, he says. And also to loosen the believer from earthly comforts. He says when spiritual joys eclipsed, believers often discover how much they had rested on secondary comforts rather than God Himself. And also, he says, to teach us to live by Faith and not by sight. And so another reason for the psalmist oppression we could say is attacks from ungodly, deceitful people. Look in chapter 43 and look at verse number one. Again, we treat these s these two Psalms as one really. Verse 1 he says, Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. To add to his other heartaches, he's being attacked by an ungodly man. He is called deceitful and unjust. And the implication is that there are lies being spread about the psalmist. And so he's the subject of attack. And that is another reason why he's so down, cast down. But let me just add some others that are in not here in the psalm. Just a few more things to list. And one I already really went over is just its temperament. You have to know yourself, know your temperament. Some people in their personality, again, are more given to being down than others. So know yourself. Know what gets you down. Well, when are you most vulnerable? Understand those times and discover how God made you, how God wired you. We're all different. We all have different personalities. Thank God for that, right? God made us all differently, but you need to know yourself. But also again physical conditions as I said before, physical weakness can deepen spiritual heaviness. And I think we see that in the scripture of men like Moses, who was physically exhausted because of all the burdens he had to bear, that caused him to be really cast down. And another thing, in fairness, a down reaction after a great blessing. After you've had a real spiritual victory in your life, God's done something wonderful, you better watch out. You've been on the mountaintop, you know what follows a mountain, the valley. So be careful after you've had a real spiritual victory. There's kind of a postpartum depression sometimes that comes after God has given you some great spiritual high or victory in your life. Again, we think of Elijah after uh basically stamping out Baal worship on Mount Carmel. which was the spiritual high point, he falls into a deep, deep low where he feels forsaken and um he asks God to take his life And then, as I said before, the attacks of Satan. He wants to make you depressed. And then another would be simple unbelief. A lack of faith in the promises of God will leave us open to depression. So if you don't believe God's word, if you don't believe his promises, then that will make you very vulnerable. If you don't use the shield of faith, you're going to be hammered by fiery darts. Okay? So we talked about the reality of depression and the reasons, but here's the third thing and most important, the remedy for depression. The most important part of this whole message and what Bridge writes, how do you deal with it when it comes? Now let me just say the world has a lot of cures But a lot of those are false cures. Many don't know how to deal with depression, and so they kind of try to do things just to escape. So rather than deal with the problem, and by the way, God's sovereign will allow us to go through these seasons. These are appointed seasons by God. Why? Because He is using that to do a work in us But that work is not going to take place. That sanctification is not going to take place if we try to escape rather than deal with a problem and learn to grow in our faith. That's why, you know, worldly remedies really do no spiritual good for a person. And again, there's a lot of false cures when people don't know how to deal with their depression, they try to manage it on their own. Some people try to uh uh just escape the realities by just divorcing themselves from life. They just quit on life. They just you know huddle into their home, craw up underneath a blanket, and just don't do anything. They they they try to just escape. They try to hide from their sorrow and there's no hiding from it. A lot of people, you know, they'll try to take frequent vacations. Some people just take all kind of medication. They get a habit forming drugs or they use alcohol to drown their sorrows. But you know what? Back in the psalmist day there was no Xanax Uh there wasn't any in the Puritan's day of William Bridge either to deal with that. One woman said this, when I get depressed, this is really scary. She said, when I get depressed, I go shopping. She said, I buy new things, new clothes, new toys. Feel sorry for that husband, right He's got a big credit card charge. If his wife's depressed and she deals with it by going out and just charging it, charge it away. These cures are ineffective. Now that might lift your spirits for a time, but normally your latter end is worse than the first. They're temporary fixes that really don't deal with the root issue of your depression. What does the soulmate do? What does he do here? Again, he teaches us how a godly person can conquer depression when it comes. And the key to it is found in this verse that we've seen repeated three times. Two times in verse in chapter 42, once in chapter 43, why art thou cast on, O my soul? And what he's doing here is, here's the first thing. He refuses to give in to his negative emotions. He's not going to give in to that. If you allow yourself, you can give in to all these negative thoughts, and you can allow yourself to be overwhelmed with sorrow. You can indulge that sorrow And if you're not careful, this can become your default mode. You become unhappy. And you live in that unhappiness. And that becomes normal for you. And if you're not unhappy, you're not sure how to feel. You're uh you're kind of insecure when you're not unhappy. Because you've learned just to give in continually to the negativity and the negative emotions that sometimes come from From your own sin nature that wants to pull you down. But here the psalmist, he refuses to give in to his negative emotions. He knows how to talk to himself. He's learning to master his emotions. And based on this psalm, William Bridge recognized that spiritual depression often gains power because believers listen to their emotions. without questioning them, or without talking to themselves. In other words, he says that you have the believer has to take himself in hand. And that is, you know, uh my mother used to say, get a hold of yourself. Get a hold of yourself. That's what he's doing here. He's getting a hold of himself. Self-control. Get a hold of yourself. This is not a denial of emotion. We're not denying the emotion, but we're disciplining that emotion. And the remedy is a deliberate, faith-filled self-address. Why are you depressed? Why are you so what he's doing is rather than listening to himself, he's talking to himself. Alright? He's preaching to himself. You ever you ever preached yourself? Alright, you should I mean, I'm I'm I shouldn't be the only one preaching to you. You should be preaching to yourself. You should be taking the truth of God's word and you should be telling that to yourself continually, reminding yourself. Every once in a while, to my own shame, I might um murmur a little bit to my wife, you know, about something, and she will say something like, I just heard a good sermon on that. She's putting it back in my face. What I just the woman's impossible. She expects me to live everything I preach. But she'll just bring it back. Well, yeah, I heard a good sermon on that Yeah, you you know, you gotta you gotta practice what you preach there, big guy. And so sometimes we just need to just preach to ourself. Remind ourself of the truth, question yourself. We have the mistaken idea that we have to give in to our emotions. No, not at all. And again, if we allow our emotions to master us, we will be unstable. We'll be driven. Like the wind will be completely unstable. Don't give in to self-pity. Don't give in to depression Elizabeth Elliott was the wife of the missionary Jim Elliott. We all know that story, right? Where he was uh martyred by the Alka Indians when he was a young man. And um she was a woman who after that A young woman lost her husband. She had to wrestle with a lot of deep sorrow and grief. But she learned not to give in to self-pity and de and depression. And this is what she wrote. Quote, Self-Pity is a death that has no resurrection It is a sinkhole from which no rescuing hand can drag you because you have chosen to sink. That's a good quote. Most people choose to allow themselves to sink into the pit of despair because they can't they haven't learned to get a hold of themselves. To get a hold of their emotions. But the psalmist here, he refuses to allow his emotions to dominate him. He talks to himself. He will not allow those negative emotions to win out. So we're to argue against our own emotions. Now, following the lead of William Bridge, Martin Lloyd-Jones wrote a book called Spiritual Depression. And he wrote he read a lot of the Puritans and so really he gets his ideas from that book from William Bridge. And and Martin Lloyd Jones again says the same thing. We must talk to ourselves instead of allowing ourselves to talk to us. He writes, Do you realize what this means? I suggest that the main trouble in this whole matter of spiritual depression, in a sense, is this that we allow ourselves to talk to us instead of talking to ourselves. Most of your unhappiness in life is due to the fact that you're listening to yourself instead of talking to yourself. Alright? Everybody with me? The main art in the matter of spiritual living is to know how to handle yourself. So he goes on to say you have to turn on yourself. When you start feeling depressed, turn on yourself. Hey you. What's your problem? Why are you cast down? Stop it. Stop that. Don't do that. He says, upbraid yourself, condemn yourself, exhort yourself, say to yourself, hope thou in God. I will choose to hope in God. And that's the second point here. Make a deliberate choice to trust in God. And that's what the psalmist is doing here. Hope thou in God. Bridge found in these three words the key to lifting up the downcast soul. He found that that was the key. The cure for a troubled heart is not to look inward, but to look upward. Look upward. Make a choice, a deliberate choice. I am going to trust in God. I'm not going to allow this to Overpower me. And it was William Bridge that first used the expression that has been repeated by many others. When you can't see God's hand, trust his heart. Bridges wrote, hope in God, for he is better to you than your fears. And so the psalmist here Makes a choice to simply trust in God and he declares it out loud. Maybe you need to do that sometimes. Talk out loud The best praying that I do, I've got to tell you, when I try to pray quietly inwardly to myself, I kind of start to uh get distracted. So the best way for me to pray, honestly, is to just talk out loud. When I talk out loud, I I I stay focused, I don't get distracted. I I find that I'm able to pour out myself better, more articulate to God to really express my and there are times in your Christian life when you just need to say out loud, God, I choose to trust in you. I choose to put my hope in you. I refuse to give in to this emotion. I I I make a choice to trust you And I know that in time you will bring the joy, and I will trust, I will wait upon you until you do that in my heart. I I'm willing to wait for you to bring that joy because that's exactly what the psalmist says here. Again, if you look in verse number five, where he says, hope in God, for I shall yet praise him. Even when you're down, you're going to make a choice to praise God in that, who is the health of my countenance and my God. When he says health of my countenance, that's really a reference to you are the renewing of my joy You're the one who renews my joy. So when I'm going through the dark time, I make a choice Do not give in to the emotion. I make a choice that I'm going to trust God and wait for Him and His own time to bring back the joy that He will do Because he is the health of my countenance. He's the one who renews my joy. And guess what, beloved, he always does. He always does. Cory Tinboom said something really wonderful. She said when a train goes through a tunnel and it gets dark You don't throw away the ticket and jump off. You sit still and trust the engineer. Right? And that's so true. And that's what the psalmist is doing here. Make a choice to hope in God. When you're depressed, get alone and say these words out loud. I refuse to give in. I will put my hope in God. And we see this so many times in the Psalms. Psalm fifty-six verse three. With what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee In Psalm fifty six, eleven, in God I put my trust. I will not be afraid what man can do to me. In Psalm seventy one verse fourteen, but as for me, I will hope continually and will praise thee yet more and more We hope in God's nature because He's merciful, He's kind. We hope in His promises because we know that they're true, they're unshakable. We hope in God's Son, who is the anchor of our soul, and the one who renews us. So, and here's the last thing quickly, and I already really alluded to it, but wait on God to give you a renewed joy. Wait for the Lord to give you that renewed joy. You know, We all had this idea that we should be happy all the time. That we should never experience these down times. But God has ordained those times in our life, just like the happy times. Because it's in those times when he's still doing his work of sanctification. So he will bring allow the sorrow, but also he will bring the joy. He'll bring the joy as well. And faith looks forward with certainty. This is when the psalmist says, you know, I shall praise him. I'm going to praise him. He is the one who will renew my joy. And so you wait for God to renew that joy and know that, you know, this is a season. It's not going to last forever. And in that time, draw near to the Lord. Learn to have faith in God. Learn to rein in your emotions. Learn self-control. That's part of your sanctification. That's part of what the Holy Spirit is trying to do in your heart and in your life. And trust God to bring the joy when he's ready. But stop looking inward and start looking upward. And trust in the Lord. I know when we were depressed, we want it to go away immediately. We want it tomorrow. That's why, you know, we people take a pill or they drink something, they want it gone immediately. But God in his time, he will bring the joy. Trust him for that. And if you're a believer, you have so many blessings, and God has so much laid up for you. And just remember that. Keep your eyes on Christ. Keep focused on Him. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the wisdom of your word. Thank you for godly men that you have raised up in the church that teach us spiritual truth, men like William Bridge and others who were physicians of the soul who lived in a time when there were so many burdens and anxieties and trials, heartaches And a man who learned to shepherd the souls of people and has passed on some of these skills to us. Principles that are from your word, like we read here in the psalmist. Who evaluated his own heart and said to himself, why are you cast down? Why are you disquieted? Hoping God. Hope in God. Praise him. He is the health of your countenance. Your joy will come back. Just trust in the Lord. Father, I pray that you'll help every soul here and those who may be listening through our live stream or other ways. to practice this discipline that the psalmist teaches us, to make a choice, to not give in to our emotions But to hope in God and wait upon Him to bring the joy that He will bring to those who are His. And Father, if there's sh some Christians that are holding on to sins in their life, they're not walking in your ways, help them to realize that joy will never really return until they get their own heart right with God. Sometimes depression is a work of the Holy Spirit to get us to turn to you, Lord. To let go of the things that we've been trusting in that are empty and have no meaning and no value. And to hold on to you, Lord. It's designed to drive us to you. And Lord, may it do that in every heart, in every life. So, Father, use this word in every heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right.