It's good to see everyone here tonight. Take your Bibles, please, and open to 1 Peter chapter 4. 1 Peter chapter 4. And tonight we're going to be looking at verses uh 7 down to verse 11, as we continue our study through 1 Peter tonight. 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 7 down to verse 11. And let me just read these verses with you. But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer, and above all things have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging, and as as every man hath received a gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. So I want to talk tonight about a lifestyle for the last days. According to an article in Time magazine called The End. Astrophysicists sat uh down and they figured it out for us. They say they now can tell us finally how it's all gonna end. How the universe is going to expire. It's not going to be with a big bang. It's going to be according to this article, the big burnout. They say that the universe will burn out. And about ten thousand trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion years Uh so those who believe the these uh scientific facts, so-called facts, we can be uh at ease because most of us won't be here at that time. And so that's according to their study. That's how it's all going to happen. Now there is, however, another opinion about how things are going to end, which I think is a bit more reliable than this article from Time magazine And this is the the opinion of Peter. And Peter tells us it's not really just his opinion, is it? It's the inspired word of God. And Peter tells us And verse 7, but the end of all things is at hand. Peter says that it's not going to be trillions and trillions of years away. It's going to be at hand. The Greek word here for at hand is the word which means to come near or approaching. It's the same verb used in James 5a to speak about the second coming of Christ, where James says, be patient Establish your heart, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. And so all these things are going to happen, but are going to be very, very close. The end of what? Notice again where he says, the end of all things. And so we could say it's the end of all of human history. God's plan of redemption is going to come to a climax, and with it there comes the end of all human history as we know it here on the earth. And with the end of all these things here, there's the beginning of the eternal things that God has for the people of God. God has already in the past determined the end of all things. And everything, according to Peter, is drawing near to the end. It's not far off. Each day we live one day closer to the end. We're one day closer to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're one day closer to God fulfilling his plan. Now if in Peter's day, if in Peter's time Peter is telling the believers there that it's near, it's at hand, how much closer is it in our day than it was in Peter's day? I mean it's late I heard about a farmer who had an old grandfather clock that malfunctioned. It chimed twelve times, thirteen times, fourteen times, fifteen times. He jumped out of bed and said it's later than it's ever been And friend, that's very true. It is later than it's ever been. And Peter's telling us this that we are now living in these last days. That's very clear in the Scripture. Paul said the same thing. He said this in 1 Corinthians 10 11. He said, Now all these things happen unto them for examples, and they're written for us, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Paul said that. All these things written are for us, this group upon whom the end of the world, end of the ages or world, are come. And John said the same thing. He said, Little children, it is the last time. So we're living in these last days And all around us we see signs that the Bible tells us. In fact, Jesus said that. Won't you hold your place here in 1 Peter 4 real quick? Go to Matthew 24, and let's take a look again. We know these verses, but let's look at it again in context of what Peter is saying. Because Jesus was giving one of his Mount Olivet discourse signs of the end, signs of the times, and he was answering the question that the disciples asked. And verse two of chapter twenty-four, and Jesus said to them, See not uh see ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you, there shall not And then in response in verse three, the disciples said, Tell us when th shall these things be. And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? And then Jesus began to give a list of things here to look out to let you know that we're living in those last days. What's one of the things? Deception. Look at verse 4. Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many. Let me ask you a question. Have you seen that? Has there been people out pretending to be the Messiah? When I was over in Israel, there was a billboard signs about some character over there now that's claiming to be the real Messiah. And there are people that are believing that But that's nothing new. That's happened throughout history. We know people that have claimed to be the Messiah. And Jesus said there's going to be a lot of deception out there. There's going to be a lot of people claiming to have the truth, and they don't have The truth. There will be deception. There will be division. Look in verse six. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet Uh there's going to be rumors of wars. Uh again, have you heard about that? Have you heard about any rumors of war lately? Have the uh the uh drums of war been sounded? Are we hearing about that? We hear it all the time in the news. If you do a study according to um uh one study done that in the last 500 years there's been an increase in wars and rumors of wars. In the 20th century alone, there have been 278 wars already in the 21st century. Uh we're on par to to beat that. And so that's all around us. There will be deception, there will be division, but then deprivation, there will be famines. Look what Jesus said in verse seven for nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquake and divers places. There'll be famines all over. Again in the 20th century, there were 44 famines that took millions of lives. Someone did a study and and has they found out that there's actually been more famines in these latter days than there has been in all of human history. Uh famines have been coming. And then disease, pestilence talks about disease. We've seen the rise of disease, according to the CDC, the Center for Disease Control. There's always new strands of bacteria, new diseases that are breaking out. They can hardly keep up with all of these diseases That are happening all around us. Infectious diseases killing people all over And then there'll be destruction, where the Bible says, and earthquakes in diverse places. Again, the twentieth century saw 123 earthquakes. The first decade of the 21st century has already witnessed 144 earthquakes. And so these things are coming more and more. And Jesus said, look, when you see all these things. All these things are the beginning of sorrows, he said. Look at verse 8. All these things are the beginning of sorrows. Now the word for sorrows there is a word that actually speaks about birth pains. These are the birth pains. When a woman has birth pains, what do we know is going to happen pretty soon? A baby's coming, right? When we see the birth pains all around us in the world, what do we know that the Lord Jesus is coming And these things are all around us. Now go back to 1 Peter chapter number 4, because this is what Peter is saying. He's saying, look, the end of these things, the end of all things is at hand. The signs are all around us. Now, knowing this, here's the question: how are we to live? What's to be our lifestyle, our manner of life, knowing that we're living in these last And what Peter's going to give us here in these verses are basically three commands to help us live in these last days. And here they are. Here's the first one. And knowing that we're living in the last days, be focused in prayer. Look in verse 7. But the end of all things is at hand at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Here's the first thing Peter says, that knowing we're living in these days, you know what this should provoke in us? A more fervency in our prayer life. How much were you praying, beloved? Are you praying like you should as a believer? Peter says, look, be focused. First of all, notice he says, be sober. This is a Greek term that means be sound of mind. It refers to guarding your mind, keeping it clear. This was a word that was used to speak about the maniac that Jesus healed, and he was in his right mind, in a clear mind. You know, a lot of times in Bible when we hear about Bible prophecy, if we're not careful, we could run off on a tangent And we could do things that the Lord never intended, and we have heard in church history about people that want to go out there and set dates Of course you know the famous illustration that happened the most recently in church history about setting dates, a man who wrote the book Eighty Eight Reasons Why Jesus Would Come in nineteen eighty eight And of course he didn't come in nineteen eighty eight, but he sure did make a lot of money selling that book. And then when he didn't come in nineteen eighty-eight, he wrote another book saying eighty-nine reasons why he's going to come in nineteen eighty-nine And the sad part about that is he made more money on that book. You know. Uh and so you know, we shouldn't be running around setting dates. But again, that's not new. On April the third, eighteen forty-three, the New York evangelist William Miller uh gathered together his followers and told them that Jesus was going to come on the very next day And he gathered all his people around him. And then of course journalists back then had a field day. They reported that some disciples were on mountaintops hoping for a head start. You know, if Jesus is coming, I want to get up as high as I can to get a head start on his coming. And then others were in graveyards planning to ascend in union with their departed loved ones. Some of the high society ladies clustered together outside of town to avoid entering God's holy kingdom amid a herd of commotion. And when the next day dawned, April the 4th The people were disillusioned that nothing had happened. And you see, friend, that's the kind of thing the Bible tells us we're not supposed to do that. That's not a lifestyle for the last days. What should be part of our life? We should not be running around with headline hysteria, wondering about no, what should the last days cause us to do? Peter says it should cause us to be more focused in our prayers. We should be praying more. You say, well, what should we be praying about? Well, I'll give you one good thing. We should be praying for the salvation of the lost. We should be praying for more people to come to know Jesus Christ. You should be praying for your loved ones. How many family members do you know that are not saved? We should be every day praying for God to open their eyes, to bring salvation to our family, and then our neighbors around us who don't know the Lord. We should be praying for their soul. And so Peter says, be fervent in prayer. But most of all, don't be an apathetic person, a careless person. Paul said this in Romans thirteen, knowing that the time is that now is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. We're one step closer, we're nearer. And so awake out of your sleep. And so we have to be fervent in this matter of prayer. One time they asked Martin Luther, they said, What would you do if you knew the end would come today? And Martin Luther said, I would plant a tree and I would pay my taxes. In other words, I would just continue to live a consistent life. And so Peter tells us that therefore we should be sober and watch unto prayer. Notice, be sober, notice where he says, watch, in verse number 7, watch under prayer. And this term is in close meaning to be sober. It means to be alert. Be alert. Watch. Jesus said, therefore, for you know not what hour the Lord doth come. Peter uses a similar expression in chapter 1 when he said, gird up the loins of your mind. Now again, Peter is talking about the context of prayer. And so we should be really focused in our prayer. Now let me just say that this is probably a weak area for many believers. Because when it comes time to pray, if we're not careful, we allow our mind to wander. And the next thing you know, we're not really focused. We're not really fervent in our prayer. You ever pray like that with a cluttered mind? I mean, uh, you know, you start to pray, and the devil reminds you of things to do. Instead of praying over your prayer list, you're thinking about your to-do list. And your mind is cluttered with all these things. That's a cluttered mind or a cluttered heart. Or there's also a careless heart. One man wrote this, he said, I throw myself down in my chambers and I call in and invite God and his angels thither. And when they are there, I neglect God and his angels for the noise of a fly, for the rattling of a coach, for the whining of a door. We're like that, aren't we? We let the least little thing distract us from being focused and fervent in our prayers. But Peter's saying, look, if you really believe this is the last days Then it's time now to get serious about praying. More now than ever before. There could be a cluttered heart. We can have a careless heart. There can be a cold heart where we lose our passion and our desire for prayer, and we allow the coldness of our heart to keep us from praying the way that we should. I read that where is that it's estimated that 500,000 tons of water rush over Niagara Falls every minute. But on March 29, 1948, the falls suddenly stopped People that lived within the sound of the falls were wondering what happened. They were overwhelmed by the silence. Some actually believed it was a sign of the end of the world. But what had happened uh was that the heavy winds set the ice fields on Lake Erie in motion, and that those ice fields blocked up the flow of the water, and so for 30 hours there was no water coming over Niagara Falls. The flow had been blocked. And the point is this, you know what? The flow of God's grace in our life can be blocked by our coldness of heart. And so we need to avoid that. We need to ask God to forgive us for being indifferent in this matter of praying And praying for his purposes to come. Sometimes we get so caught up in earthly things that we forget about the most important things, the eternal things. And so Peter here tells us, be Focused in your prayers. But then there's a second command that he gives. Be fervent in love. Look again in verse number 8. And above all things. Have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Now Peter first he talks about our Relationship to God, and we should be focused in our prayers. We should have a sober mind, a watchful mind. But now he says we need to be fervent in our love. He's talking about our relationship with all of our fellow believers We need to make sure that we're loving one another as believers. And he says, have fervent charity. And so the Bible tells us, it warns us that at the end, that there's that the this age will grow cold in its love. The Bible speaks about that. Love will be in an all-time low. And the Bible says in Matthew 24, 12, and because of the iniqu because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax. Cold. This will be a loveless era in which we live. And Paul also told Timothy about this. He said this, knowing also that in the last days, perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves. People will know how to love themselves, but they won't have fervent love for others. And so Peter says we need to be fervent in our love. Now notice here what I call the priority of love. Notice where he says this, and above all things. He says, make this a priority. Above all things, have fervent love. Do you love the way you're supposed to? The Bible says that everything that we do should be done in love. 1 Corinthians 16, 14 And so we uh have this love that the Holy Spirit has given us. We just need to share that love. Let me give you some verses here. We're told to pursue love, 1 Corinthians 14, 1, to put on love. To increase and abound in love, 1 Thessalonians 3. 12, to be sincere in love, 2 Corinthians 8. 8, to be united in love, Philippians 2. 2. and to stimulate one another to love. Hebrews 10, 24. So the New Testament talks about this a lot And Peter here says, be fervent. Look at the word fervent there. It's an interesting Greek word. It means really to go all out. It's really an athletic term. It was used from an athlete stretching and straining every muscle towards the end of the race. And so this is a decisive thing that we as believers are to do. We are to, in this race of life, be fervent Give all that we have in our love towards others. Now, this tells us several things. First of all, it implies that love is not a warm, fuzzy feeling, doesn't it? Because we can't control those kind of things in us, those those warm feelings. And Peter's not saying that here. You see, love is what we do. And remember, I told you before that the biblical idea of love are selfless, sacrificial acts for other people. When you sacrifice, when you do selfless things for others, that is actually love. And Peter here says, look, you should use effort to love people. It should be strenuous. As much as an athlete extends energy. To get across that finish line, you should extend that same kind of energy in this matter of loving God's people. So how much are you trying? You know, sometimes people will say, you know, I I I love Jesus, I just don't love his church. Well, there's a problem there, friend, because Jesus is called the bride of Christ. Right? So you you do me no compliment if you come up to me and you say, boy, you know, Jerry, I love you, but I just don't love your bride. I don't love your wife. You're not honoring me. And by the way, most of the time that's reverse. People say, you know, Carolyn, we really love you. We just can't stand your husband. You know. That's how that goes. But if you don't love my bride, you don't love me. And Jesus says the same thing. How can you say you love me if you don't love my people, the church? You see, you can't divide those things. Christ is the head of the church. And so some people say, oh, to dwell in love, to dwell above with the saints in love, all that will be glory. But to live below with the saints I know. Now brother, that's another story. But you know what? It shouldn't be, should it? We should have this wonderful love. And by the way, that That's one of the natural things that happens in the Christian life. You know, I I remember when I first got saved, and it's still true today, I I couldn't get enough of being around God's people. And just being there with the people of God and enjoying fellowship together and the encouragement of the people of God. I didn't have to learn to love God's people. That came naturally But you know what the Bible says? You take what God has put in your heart as salvation and you continue to work on that and you strengthen that love, especially in these last days. Because things are going to get difficult in these last days. I imagine that when Peter wrote to these believers that were going through such fierce persecution and difficulty, that things were so difficult that maybe at times the believers were at each other. And that's very possible. And so Peter here is saying, look, be fervent in your love and your charity one towards another. So he talks about the priority of love. Be fervent. This should be, above all things, love one another. But then he talks about the practice of love. And how do what does it look like? Well, look again in verse 8 He says, and above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity or love shall cover what? The multitude of sins. And so what does this fervent love look like? Well, it's actually it shows it's forgiving. It shows itself in forgiveness. Love shall cover a multitude of sins. Now it's easy to love people who do not sin against you But it's more difficult to love people who do sin against you. And Peter is saying here, what happens if someone wrong us, wrongs us, or sins against us? What should we do? And Peter says, love covers a multitude of sins. And I've said this before, that the default mode of the believer should be, I just forgive you automatically. You know, I you know, as believers, we shouldn't be holding grudges against people who do maybe little things. You know, it always Uh it always is kind of comical to me when sometimes people will come up to me and say, you know what? I just want you to know I forgive you for what you've done to me. I have no idea what I did. I always want to say, well thank you. I really, really appreciate that. And by the way, please don't do that. If you're gonna forgive me, just forgive me. Don't tell me that you forgave me, all right? Because then you'll get me wondering, what did I do Alright, just forgive me. You know what? That's to be the default mode. You don't need to go up and tell people, oh, I forgive you for how you've offended me or wronged me. No, don't do that. You just cover it over. You just say, I give that person a pass. You know, if you've wronged me, I forgive you automatically. And that should be how we operate continually as Christians. We're not holding grudges. And by the way, when you get around the people of God in a church, there's going to be something where someone might wrong you in some way, unintentionally, or maybe even intentionally But friend, if that happens, you just let it go. You forgive automatically. And Peter, by the way, is quoting here from Proverbs 10, 12 That's the verse in Proverbs 10:12, love covers a multitude of sins. But there are other verses in the New Testament that confirm this. 1 Corinthians 13, 5 says, love does not behave itself unseemly. Uh seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked. And we could say it like this it doesn't keep a record of wrongs. It doesn't take into account a record of wrongs. I don't keep a tally of the things that people have done against me, saying, you know what, I'm going to get back at this person somehow, some way. No. A loving and forgiving heart keeps no tally of sins. There's no prisoner that I keep in my heart and the unforgiveness of my heart. You know, I release all those prisoners. I don't try to get back at someone. In any way. And you know, there's ways that we do that. When someone does something against us, we have our little ways of getting back at that person. You know, there are aggressive ways to take revenge. Gossip, you can gossip against that person, you can slander them, you can be critical or condemn them Uh there could be angry, harsh words against them. You can purposely set out to try to destroy their reputation Or put questions in other people's minds about this person's character. That's aggressive ways that people use to get back at someone that they haven't forgiven for some offense. But then there's also passive ways. Ignoring them, acting like they don't exist, or feeling proud and self righteous And thinking I'm glad I'm not like that person. Or withholding love from them in some way. But you see, love does not act that way. As a believer, you're not to act that way. Again, Peter says love covers a multitude of sins. I said this before when I was teaching about forgiveness. There's only certain times that the Bible teaches that our forgiveness should be conditional. Normally, our forgiveness is just unconditional all the time. You say, Well, when do I withhold forgiveness? When is my forgiveness conditional? And the answer to that, I think the scripture is clear. Whenever a person Sins against you in a way that's ultimately going to hurt them or hurt the name of Christ. In some way, shame the name of Christ Then in those situations, my forgiveness has to be conditional. I can't give you my forgiveness in that situation until I approach you. on kind of like a Matthew eighteen type basis where I go to you one-on-one and I remind you of that offense in a very meek and gracious way, not in a judgmental way, not in a condemning way, but in a gracious way, hoping to restore the individual. Then I have to withhold my forgiveness until that person officially acknowledges that what they did was wrong. And then they repent. Then I give my forgiveness. In that case, my forgiveness is conditional. And again, it's because what they've done can shame the church. It can shame the name of Jesus. It's a pattern of behavior that could hurt them ultimately. And I don't want them hurt through what they're doing. So then I have to approach him. And my condition, my my excuse me, my forgiv forgiveness has to be conditional in that case. But other than that My forgiveness is unconditional. I just forgive people all the time, of all things. You know, that the little slights against me, the things they've done against me. It's gone immediately. I forgive it immediately. And this is what Peter means when he says love covers a multitude of sins I'm just going to keep forgiving. Why? Because that's what love is all about. I'm not going to hold these offenses against you And by the way, let me just say this in the context of marital relationships. I've done a lot of marital counseling, and a lot of times, this is the problem in a marriage, is when there's these little offenses that marriage couples are unwilling to let go of. And they hold it against one another, and rather than just being c unconditional in their forgiveness, they allow these little offenses to mount up in their heart. And then that next thing you know, there's a wall of bitterness there because you don't practice this unconditional forgiveness that Peter is talking about here. No one wants to be in a relationship where every little thing you do, you're reminded about how you've been wrong you've wronged them. And you're approached about that. That relationship is going to grow old very quickly. I'm glad that in my marriage my wife doesn't do that to me because she would be approaching me all the time. You know understand what an imperfect person I am. If every t every time I did some little thing uh that she was approaching me about that and I had to acknowledge that and then I would she would elicit an apology from me, I couldn't live under that And most people can't live under that kind of relationship. And so we have this attitude of our heart where we just forgive offenses. We just let it go. Why? Because I love you, that's why. And I'm not going to let this come between us. I'm just going to overlook it. I'm going to allow this to go without uh me saying anything about it because love covers a multitude excuse me of sins. And that is to be our our way of uh dealing with these things. And Colossians says it like this, for bearing one another. Forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ also forgave you. Again, that is our uh default mode as believers. And so there's going to be this forgiveness that we're constantly rendering to those around us. Forgiving, but then giving is the next thing. Look in verse number nine. Using hospitality one to another without grudging. And this is the next thing. Here, Peter is commanding believers to be hospitable. to one another. That is to give when there's a need. And when they see something with a need. Uh you're just Willing to give of your resources. The word hospitable here is actually a word that comes from two Greek words phileo, love, xenos, stranger, love of a stranger. And so I think what this talking about is you be kind and gracious and you meet the need of people who have needs, even if it's a stranger, you're being hospitable, you're giving to them. And this was very needful in the early church. I think I told you before that the traveling missionaries, when they traveled those Roman roads that were built by the Romans uh and going from town to town sharing the gospel couldn't stay in uh inns because they were wicked places to stay in. They depended upon the hospitality of believers And so if they were traveling on the road and they perhaps saw some little sign on a house, some little memento, some little symbol that let them know that there was a Christian living there, they would stop at that house and ask for hospitality of the believers and these believers were to basically uh receive them unless you know there was some uh evidence that perhaps they weren't really preaching the gospel. By the way, did you know that there's a whole vocabulary in the New Testament that talks about this receiving missionaries or traveling preachers or being hospitable And that's by the way why you carried letters of recommendation back then. Because if you were a traveling missionary on the road and y people didn't know who you were. And you had this letter of recommendation that was signed perhaps by one of the apostles, maybe Paul himself or John. You remember that was the problem in Third John. Diocles wouldn't receive Missionaries that John sent, even though these missionaries had in their hand a letter of recommendation from John himself, Docaphys would refuse to receive them. And he would forbid anyone else to receive him. Why? Because he was on an ego trip, that's why. That was a power play on his part But as believers, they were to be hospitable. They were to receive people that had needs. And this is another way that you show love. And the early church now. Now, the way we apply this today is as believers, if we see another believer in our church family that has a need, we, if we have the ability to meet that need, we do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't make a big deal about it. We don't make a big fanfare about it. We just meet that need, especially if God puts that on your heart. You just go ahead and meet that need. The Bible says, uh withhold not good to them to whom it is due. When it is in the power of thy hand to do it. If God has given you resources to help someone and God puts in your path a believer that has a need, the way you show love in that situation is you just meet that need. And again, you do it unto the Lord. You do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, remember, Peter's writing to believers who are being persecuted. This is a very difficult time. And some of them scattered. They were running for their life, out on the road, living in from place to place. There was the need for believers to help one another, to be hospitable. And so Peter says, be focused in your prayer. Be fervent in your love. Love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to those who have needs. But here's the last command that he gives Be faithful in service. Be faithful in your service. Look at verse 10. As every man has received a gift Even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. And here Peter is speaking about using the spiritual gift. That God has given to you as being a child of God. In verse 10 again, as every man has received the gift. Are you a child of God? Do you know the Lord? Then he has given you a gift. A spiritual gift. And as you have received that gift, even so you're to do what? You're to minister. You're to use it to serve So again, the question that you need to ask yourself is, am I using the gift that God's given me for his church? This is how we live in the last days. We got to get busy serving the Lord. In whatever capacity he's given you, are you doing that? He's not calling us to go wait on some mountaintop, do nothing, and just wait. That's certainly not the way we're to live. We're to be busy. We're to use that gift that God has given us. Notice the sovereignty of the gift. It's the word charisma there in verse number ten, which speaks of a spiritual gift. sovereignly, freely given. This emphasizes the freeness of the gift. You know what spiritual gifts cannot be earned and they cannot be really pursued. It's something that God gives. We see this in verse 10 with the word received in verse 11, which God giveth. Peter emphasizes that in verse 11. In verse 11, he says that God may be glorified. God gives the gift as he sees fit. We're to use it for his glory so that he's glorified. Now again, I don't get to choose the gift that God gives me, and you don't get to choose yours. That's a decision that God makes. And so whatever gift He's given you, don't complain about the gifts that you don't have. Just use the gift that He has given you for His glory. The word giveth is an interesting word. It's a word that was used to speak about a man in that day. Where you know they would have these theaters back in Peter's day. I remember when I was over in Israel, we went to Bethshean, the city that actually is looks like a little Roman city of the earthquake that hit there and you you can tell how the earthquake hit. But there's this huge theater there. An ancient Roman theater. And these were and and towns all over, and the Decapolis especially. And they would give these big, huge dramas and plays. But in order for that to happen, someone has to be able to bankroll that. Who's going to pay the money to have this huge production? And the word that's used to speak about that is this word giveth here. There was a man who normally would fund or bankroll the drama. He was called a chorias. And basically, that's the word that's used here. You see, in this drama of redemption, you know who's giving the resources for us? It's God. God's the one who's giving it all. He's giving us of his riches. He's giving us of his goodness to us so that we can use the spiritual gift that God has given us and we can employ that gift We can serve the Lord for his glory in these last days. And I don't need to take the time. I think we did this when we were going through 1 Corinthians 12, sometimes when you get a chance, read over that passage again. Look at all the spiritual gifts that are in there, and then ask yourself, what is my gift? If you don't know what your spiritual gift is, friend, you should learn that And a lot of times it's connected with your desires. One of the areas that you see are where there are needs, things that have to happen, your spiritual gift may be connected to those things, what you see, what you desire. You see, because when God gives the gift, he also gives the desire to meet that need along with the gift. And by the way, look at notice that the word gift is not Plural, but it's singular. And what that means is, and I again I've told you this before, that spiritual gifts are kind of brought together God sovereignly will bring together all these spiritual gifts in a way where what he gives you is unique. It is a gift. In other words He will take a little bit of teaching, a little bit of exhortation, perhaps a little bit of mercy, put it all together, and say, This is your spiritual gifts. He will combine those gifts into one gift In a very unique way, where the gift that you have is yours personally. God designed it for you. It's according to your personality. It also may be linked with some of the natural abilities that you have But it's a spiritual gift that God has given you. And now Peter is saying, look, use it. Use it. Look again in verse 11. If any man speak. If you happen to have the gift where speaking is involved, where you're teaching or preaching or exhorting, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. That is, speak the word of God. You know, don't waste time when you speak. Speak the word of God. That's the best thing to do. If any man minister, Let him do it as of the ability which God giveth that God in all things may be glorified. If you have a speaking gift, speak the word of God. If you have a serving gift, Then you do it, and you do it as unto the Lord for his glory. That's what God expects of all of us here as we're living in these last days. We see the singularity of the gift, the gift singular, and the stewardship of the gift in verse 11. Even so minister as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We are being entrusted with this stewardship. Are you employing it? Are you using it? One day when you get to heaven, you don't want the Lord to say, you know what, I gave you this gift, but you never ever used it And who suffers, by the way? The body of Christ does. The church does. If you have a gift, you're not using it. People around you are suffering because God put you in the church, gave you the gift, so that you can edify others. You see, it's not for your benefit, it's for the benefit of others. So the question is, are you helping others with doing this spiritual gift here? And so this is what Peter tells us. If you want to be ready. For the Lord when he returns. You be focused in your prayers. You be fervent in your love. You be faithful in your service. That's how you're ready for the Lord. There's an old first-class hotel in Chicago called the Drake Hotel. And one year in 1959, the Queen of England visited Chicago. All of the city was getting ready to receive the Queen of England. Elaborate preparations were made for her visit. The waterfront was decorated and made ready. Other tote hotels began to get themselves ready. And the red carpet was just rolled out in many places. But when someone called the Drake Hotel and talked to the manager there, and they asked, Are you getting ready? For the visit of the queen. The manager said this: we're making no special plans. We're always ready for royalty to come. That's a good advertisement there, isn't it? We're always ready for royalty to come. But you know what? That's a good motto for us as believers. You know what? The king is coming. We should always be ready for royalty to come. We should live in a way where we're always ready. And this is what Peter's telling us. Here's how you be ready. Just just be prayerful Love others. Use the spiritual gift. Employ it for God's glory. And you'll be ready when the Lord comes. Don't let him catch you unprepared Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this exhortation from the Epistle of Peter for us. Lord, may we take it to heart. We know that we're living in the last days. We've been reminded of it again and again. And so, Father, help us to take this to heart. And help us, Lord, to always live in a way where we're prepared and we're ready for the coming of Christ. And Lord, I pray for souls that may be here tonight. And they're not ready because they've never trusted Jesus. I pray, Lord, that you would just speak to their heart. And then, Lord, for those who do know you, may we have a passion and a burden for those who don't. May we be prayerful and pray especially for our loved ones and friends that are yet lost and without. Lord, that they would come to Christ. And Lord, help us to be fervent in our love. Faithful in our service. And we pray, Lord, all of this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.