And it's good to have the family together tonight. So take your uh family bible, please. Open to the book of Philippians, chapter one. And look down at verse number 27. Now, if you remember on Sunday nights we've been looking at Philippians, and it seems like it's been a while since I've been here on Sunday night preaching out of Philippians. We had a lot of different activities on Sunday night. But I want to pick up where we left off, and we're going to look tonight at verse 27 down to verse 30. And let me read a few of those verses. Verse 27, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. And here Paul is emphasizing the gospel. You ever think about how precious the gospel is? The greatest message this world has ever heard is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. And our lives had all been changed by it. Thank God for it. That is the source of our hope. That is the thing that we uh live for. and strive for and love is the message of the gospel. Now Paul is challenging these believers at Philippi to make sure that your life measures up or is worthy of this wonderful gospel message that God has entrusted to you. In fact, the word conversation, only let your conversation be. Now conversation is a word that we use today in our modern context to talk about two people talking together. But the King James Version, when they translated this, this was a word that was uh not necessarily that had that nuance of meaning. It actually really refers more to your conduct or your way of life. We could say it like this, it refers more to your walk than it does your time. Talk, how you live your life. And look at the word become it, means worthy of, or in equal way to. It's a word that refers to a balance scale. So picture in your mind the ancient scale of little cups hanging from each end of the crossbar. On one side is the gospel, on the other side is your life. And the question is, does your life Balance out the gospel. Does your life measure up to the gospel? There are many Christians who are not living a life that is worthy of this wonderful gospel that God has given us. When I think about this uh imagery, I think about the story of Belshazzar in Daniel chapter five. He was the king of Babylon. You might remember this story. And one night the Bible tells us that the armies of the Medo-Persians were had surrounded that seemingly invincible city of Babylon. Inside, King Belshazzar was not concerned. He felt like the city could not be taken. In fact, he was having a drunken feast, and at the same time he was mocking God in that feast. But suddenly, right in the middle of that, a hand just shows up and on the back of the wall of that banquet hall There was written by this hand, mene, mene, tekel you forisin, which simply meant you have been weighed in the balance and you have been found wanting. What a fearful thing that must have been to see that. The hand just writing that out. And he was basically saying that this night, Belshazzar, you are going to be judged. You've been weighed in the found in the balance and you have been found wanting. Well, may it never be said of us that we have been weighed in the balance of the gospel and our life is not living up to this wonderful message of The gospel. Mahatma Gandhi once said, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christians. At a time in his life when he was searching for some truth, some something that could unify the people of India He saw some of the European Christians over there and how they were acting. And he said, you know what, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christian. What a sad testimony for the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, friend, people, when they look at our lives, they get an impression of the gospel. So what kind of gospel are you preaching? What is the gospel according to you? Someone wrote, You're writing a a gospel, a chapter each day, by the do by the deeds that you do, by the words that you say. Men read what you write, whether faithful or true. Just what is the gospel according to you? What kind of gospel do the people see in your life? Do you know that 80% of all people come to church because of someone that goes to that church? Because someone in the church invites them to church That's how eighty percent of people come to the church. A lot of times we think it's the job of the pastor and the staff, you know, to get people to come to church, and we certainly want to do our part in inviting people out, but the truth of the matter is The greatest impact is going to be from you in your life. And you inviting people to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. So with that in mind, I want you to see three characteristics or three portraits If we could say that the Apostle Paul gives us here in Philippians of a life that is worthy of the gospel. I don't know about you, but I want a life that is not out of balance with the gospel. I want a life that measures up to this precious message that God has entrusted to us. So let's look at these portraits here and let's examine our own life. Here's number one. He gives the portrait of a citizen, citizens. And then right next to that consistency in conduct. Again in verse number 27, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Now, the word conversation is, let me get dig a little bit deeper into that word there, because it's an interesting word, and it's the Greek word polis. And it's the noun form the noun form of this word actually is where we get the word city or citizenship. And uh we hear this sometimes with the cities that we've named here in our own country. For example, here in Maryland, there is a city by the name of Annapolis. That is, we could say the city of Anne, Annapolis. And then of course there's Minneapolis, a city in Minnesota and Indianapolis. a city in Indiana. And so the the the word here polis um it means city. But the verb form of this is really what we're looking at. It is an imperative or a command, and it's kind of in the passive or middle voice. We could translate it literally like this. Let your citizenship be made known. Let other people know about your citizenship. That's the idea here. Or let your citizenship be clearly seen. Or we could even say it like this, live like a citizen of the gospel or a citizen of heaven Now, I think this word would have a deep impact with the Philippians. And they could relate to this very easily. You know why? Because they were very proud of their citizenship. And when I say that, I don't mean that they were proud that they were uh Philippians. They were proud because they had a citizenship that was a Roman citizenship. This meant a lot to the Philippians because even though they were 800 miles away from Rome, they were actually a colony of Rome. And so therefore the people at Philippi were citizens of Rome, even though they lived 800 miles away. And we see this in the book of Acts. Look in Acts chapter 16 real quick. Just slip over there real quick. And let me just show you this little dynamic that is there In Acts chapter 16, and we could look at several verses of this, but in verse number twelve, just look at that first of all, and from then to Philippi, here's Paul and Silas and their Leaving from Trias, they're going to this Macedonian city, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia and a colony. So just mark that in your Bible. It's a colony. And then later on, if you drop down to verse number 22, this is right after Paul and Silas were arrested because their message was creating some uh some confusion in the city with some people and he was actually uh taking away some profit from some of these businessmen. And the Bible says they brought them to the magistrates because they were troubling the city the city. And look down at verse 22. And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates ran off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And then it says this, and when they had laid uh many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charged the jailer to keep them safely. who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the and they and they were heard. And so they're there in that prison, they're singing praises unto God. But uh they are actually They are doing this because they feel as if they have the ability to treat Paul and Silas this way. Because back up to verse number 21, this is what I want you to see. They're teaching and teaching customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being what? being Romans. Hey, we're Romans. We don't have to tolerate this. Uh and so they were proud of the fact That they were Romans, citizens of Rome. But here they were again, 800 miles away, living in Macedonia, but they were living as if they were Romans Uh they lived according to Roman law. They dressed like Romans, they wore the white Roman toga, they talked like Romans, they walked like Romans. Someone said if you go into that city back in that day, it would be like going to a a little was a Rome away from Rome. They were trying to be just like Romans in every way. They were so very proud of that citizenship. And we have that same tendency today. I mean I wear my Baltimore Oriol shirt whenever I have an opportunity. I let people know that I'm from Baltimore. I'm a even though they lost to the Yankees this afternoon. I'm still proud to be a Baltimore fan. And I you know, I'm reasonably proud of that And we all have this sense of pride in our citizenship and where we're from and that sort of thing. And Paul's kind of playing on this, and he's saying, look, you ought to be more proud of your real citizenship, which is not here on this earth. Your citizenship is in heaven. Look in chapter 3 of the book of Philippians and look down at verse number 20 and notice what Paul says to them there. Chapter 3, verse number 20. He reminds them, for our conversation, same exact word, our citizenship is where? Is in heaven, from whence we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. You're citizens of heaven. You know what? I'm a citizen of heaven. So are you. If you know the Lord, we're a colony of heaven here on Now heaven's pretty far away, but that's all right. We are a colony right here on earth, but our citizenship is there in heaven. You understand that? And we we sing the we uh sing the songs of heaven, not the songs of this world. We're just passing through. We've got heaven on our mind. We've got our future home on our mind. That's the thing that should dominate our thinking. Our treasures are laid up there in heaven. We're seeking first the kingdom of God. That's the thing that should consume us, not the temporal pleasures of this world. Oh, we're pilgrims, we're passing through, and God gives us pleasure in this world, things to enjoy. But you know what? We are not to tie our affections to those things. And you know, the moment we start to try to settle down in this world, God's going to do something to unsettle us, to remind us that this world is not your home. This is a temporary place for you. Don't try to build your nest here in this world. You're out of place. Your citizenship is in heaven. And so just focus on that. So we ought to live by a different set of laws. We live by a higher set of laws than the laws of this earth. We are to dress like citizens of heaven. People should know when they look at us and they hear us talk, we should talk like we're citizens of heaven. Christians shouldn't talk like the rest of the world There should be different something different about the way that we talk. Let your citizenship be made known to everyone around you. They should know you're not from here. I'll never forget years ago when I was a younger preacher, um not so young anymore, but I was down in uh Louisiana and uh I was invited to this church where I had to drive to and I wasn't and this is before the the days of GPS and all that sort of thing. And I'm just surprised that I was able to get to where this place is I'm talking about driving all the way back in the woods and finally I made it to this church and when I got out there were some people on the porch and I walked up and I said hi my name is Jerry and I'm here to preach for you And I'll never forget they looked at me and with a strange look. And their first words were, you're not from here, are you? How could you tell so quickly? I mean my whole talk was different from their talk. My whole dress was different. The way I acted was different And that's that's pretty true of us. We are citizens of heaven, and people should know that there's something different about us. The way that we look, the way that we dress, the way that we talk. The things that come out of our mouth reminds me of a guy who was visiting California and he was looking for El Cahoon, but he mispronounced it. He's he stopped at a gas station. He couldn't find it. He said to the gas station attendant, Can you tell me where El Cahon is? And the guy said, It's not El Cajon. You're in California because of the Spanish influence. You pronounce your J's with a H sound. It's El Cajun. He said, How often do you come out here? He said, I come out every hoon or hulai People should know us by our talk, right? They should know us by our taste. The things that we taste, the things that we desire are not like the rest of the world. We have a different taste I notice when I take these trips over to other countries, uh, I don't have this taste for some of the food. Uh now I try to eat if I can what they put in front of me. Um I've had a lot of different things in different countries. I think the the most difficult thing for me to swallow And you know the old saying, where he leaves me I will follow what they feed me, I will swallow. And uh I remember being in the Philippines and they served me uh uh octopus boiled in its own ink or squid boiled in its own ink and it was all black and and it was I felt like I was eating an eraser in ink, you know, basically But anyway, I don't have the same taste when I go to other countries. And you got you understand the analogy, right? Our tastes are different because we're citizens of heaven. Once you become a citizen of heaven, you no longer have the appetite for the things of this world. Your appetite is just different. First Peter 2. 11, dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. My talk is different. My taste is different. My treasure is different. I don't treasure the things of this world the way The world does. Oh, I'm grateful for every blessing that God gives me. And believe me, every day God daily loads us with benefits. Every day He blesses us in so many ways. But friend, I'm not latching on to those things, holding on to them with all my might. I recognize their gifts from our Heavenly Father, but my real treasure is laid up in heaven. Our treasure is the Lord Jesus Himself. So there's our conduct, but then our consistency. Look again in verse number twenty-seven where it says, Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Price. Now this word might not look my like much only. But in the Greek it means no matter what happens And I I it's placed in the beginning in the Greek sentence for emphasis. Whenever the Greek writer puts it in the front of a sentence, he wants to add a little emphasis there. And when he says only, he's saying no matter what. Let your citizenship be seen. Live out the gospel no matter what. Make sure. And I think this refers back to what Paul has already said, if you've been with us in our study of Philippians. Remember the context. Paul is under house arrest. He's waiting to appear before Caesar. He knows that Caesar has the power to take his life. Paul could stand before Caesar and say, you know what, I don't like the gospel and I don't like you, and boom, his life is over. Caesar had the ability to snuff his life out. So Paul knows that he could die. He also knows that God could spare his life and he could live. And you remember Paul's great mission statement for me to live is Christ. Christ and to die is gained. Look, if I live, I can tell you this, it's all gonna be Christ. I love that. Whatever days I have left are gonna be belonging Christ. All those days belong to him. And if I die, well that's even better. That's all the better. And so I think Paul's worried about the Philippians. I think he's worried about it how it uh it would affect them if God chose to take his life how are they going to live? What are they going to do? And Paul's basically saying look no matter what, no matter what happens, live out the gospel. Don't let anything stop you from living a life that is worthy of the gospel. That's exactly what he's saying there. What is it going to take to stop you from living the gospel out? Is it going to be just a little bit of uh derision from the world, ridicule from the world? Friend, if the world ridicules you for your faith, you gotta thank God because they see Jesus in you. Discouragement. If you live for Christ, there's going to be days of discouragement, friends. They're just going to come. It's just going to happen. Don't let that keep you. From living out the gospel. What about depletion? Sometimes the money runs out. Sometimes we go through a poverty cycle and God in his providence will allow that to happen. A lot of times it's to test our faith. Is that going to cause you to quit on God and not live out the gospel? What's it going to take to stop you? How faithful are you going to be? You need to make those decisions, those determinations right now that you're going to live a life that's worthy of the gospel. I love reading Christian history and there was an interesting story that came up that I read one time about the life of Charles Simeon, who was a pastor of a church Called the Holy Trinity Church. This was in 1782. He had an incredible ministry there. He was there for such a long time and he had an influence on many people. But when he first went to that church, uh the people didn't want him there. They didn't like him And did you know this was back in the day, and this was interesting for me to find out, that the seats in the church actually they had locks on the pews. You could actually put a uh a lever over the pew and you could lock it. So that no one could sit in your pew. I I think some Baptists would probably like to do that today. I mean you could just uh just just imagine it was kind of in a little square shape and you could just lock it and so no one can sit in your pew. That was your pew. And I think you had to purchase it, by the way, which is a good idea. I think I might try that. No, I'm just kidding. And when the people didn't want him there, they basically locked their pew. And they didn't come. They didn't come and they didn't want anyone else sitting in their pews. Can you imagine trying to build a church when people are coming to church and the pews are locked and no one can sit down? And they have to stand to hear you. In fact, I want you all to stand the rest of this service. I mean, just to stand and listen to the to the pastor preach. And it was that way for ten years. Ten years. Most pastors would have probably left, but Charles Simeon did not, because he thought God had appointed him to be there. And you know what? He continued to preach and he continued to be faithful, and by and by things turned around, and that church became a robust, healthy, loving church. Because he just persevered. He just continued on. What an incredible testimony that is. So there's the portrait of citizens. We need to be consistent in our conduct. But here's the second portrait that Paul gives: athletes. And then right down next to that, cooperation and contest. Again, look at verse 27. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you or else be absent. I might hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the Now here, in the latter part of verse 27, Paul switches metaphors in one verse, and now he uses the language of an athlete. And he gives the picture of an athlete in contest. And Paul's saying again, no matter what happens to me, whether I come and see what's going on or be absent and just hear of your affairs, I want you to strive together For the faith of the gospel. Striving together is one word in the Greek, soon, which means with athleto, which is where we get the word athletics. And so you kind of get the idea here. It's a really a word that speaks about teamwork, striving together and teamwork like a team. It's a world from that field of athletics. Literally, it means to wrestle together, or wrestle in harmony. And it pictures the athletes all working together for one goal. And so that's what he's saying here. You work together, be of one mind and one spirit, striving together. This is total unity, this is total love. And the church needs to emphasize this. During a Little League baseball game, the coach asked one of his young players, he said, Do you understand what cooperation is? The little boy, just a little boy, looked up at him with big eyes and he shook his head. He said, Do you understand what a team is? And the little boy nodded and he said yes. He said, Do you understand that what matters is winning together as a team? And the little boy again nodded and he said, Yes, sir. He said, so when a strike is called or you're out at first, you don't argue at the ump, you don't attack the ump. Do you understand that? The little boy said, yes, I understand that. The coach said, good. Now I want you to go over there and explain that to your mother As you'll see uh in our study of Philippians later on, we're gonna see that there was kind of a little division brewing in the church. In fact, turn to Philippians chapter 4 and look at verse number 2, where Paul said, I beseech Yodius and I beseech Senechi that they may be of the same mind in the Lord. Paul here mentions two women who are not getting along. And their division was having an impact in the church in a negative way. And church members were taking sides. Some some were taking the side of one, others were taking the side of the other. You know, Satan's goal is to divide and conquer. And Paul is saying to these two women, I beg you to be of the same mind. I beg you. And throughout this letter, Paul will use a device to emphasize teamwork and unity. And we can't really see it in the English, but in the Greek, it's the prefix soon, S-U-N, which means togetherness. Sixteen times in this letter to the Philippians, Paul will use this prefix over and over again. Together, together, together. He keeps emphasizing unity, being together. You need to be together. Teamwork is what brings the victory. Vince Lombardi is considered one of the greatest football coaches to ever coach. And some of you men might recognize that name. Ladies, I want you to go do some research on that. But during a a speech he gave, he was asked to come and speak to some some some people uh about success And uh in the speech he basically said this, he said, there are three ingredients for a winning team. He said, first of all, there's fundamentals. Any team is going to have to know the fundamentals, they have to learn the game. He said, secondly, unity. They have to play together. There has to be teamwork. And he said, here's the third thing. And he said, by the way, this third ingredient is what separates a good team from a great team And you guess what the third ingredient was? He said it's love. He said great teams have teammates that love each other. Not just play together, but genuinely love each other. Now when I read that, I thought, you know what, he's not seeing anything new. This is exactly what Jesus told his disciples, isn't it? Jesus told his disciples, look, you have to know my doctrine You have to know what I say. He said, secondly, I want you to be one as I and the Father are one. I want you to be one. And then he said, I want you to love one another as I have loved you. Those are the same three things Jesus tells the church. And so we need to practice that teamwork in God's Work in the kingdom of God. A great church is a church where the people love each other and with a true Christ-like love. So let me give you the third thing quickly. Citizens, we need to be consistent in our conduct. Athletes, we need to cooperate in contests, but here's number three, soldiers. We need to have courage in conflict. Paul again uses another metaphor. He's switching here now to being a soldier. And look in verse number 28. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries. Which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. And so, again, Paul is using this analogy now from military, uh, the military world. And one thing that cripples an army is fear. It spreads. It's contagious, and it will cripple a believer. It will cripple a church. Now evidently the church of Philippi was experiencing some conflict from outside enemies, and we don't know for sure who they were. Perhaps they were the magistrates that opposed Paul. Or perhaps they were the Judaizers that just seemed to Paul follow Paul around wherever he went. But one thing is for sure, they were bringing some fear into that little church, and Paul is encouraging them to uh to stand strong. To stand together. Again in verse number 28, when he says, and in nothing terrified. The word terrified here means to be intimidated, or be frightened, or to be startled. This was used to speak of a horse that was And then start a stampede. And Paul's saying, look, don't don't panic. Don't lose your head and lose the battle. Uh some uh scholars think that Paul may be referring to a battle of Philippi. There was a uh a battle that was very well known by the citizens there, a battle where where there was a man in the battle by the name of Cassius who was so filled with fear that he committed suicide um out of fear of being defeated, he panicked before the battle. And decided to end his own life. And Paul is saying, look, don't be terrified. Don't be afraid. In fact, your courage in the face of the enemy is what is required. And there's four reasons, Paul. says to be courageous. Number one, our boldness in battle is a sign that we're on the winning s winning side. Look again in verse twenty eight where he says, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which to them is an evident token of perdition, but of But to you of salvation and that of God. Your boldness or your refusal to be intimidated was evidence that the gospel message is true. Friend, when you're bold for the gospel, you know what it says to the world? He believes what he says. That message, there must be something about that message because that person really believes that. Here Paul says it's an evident token Now, the Greek scholar Leif says that what Paul is referring to here is an ancient custom. And according to Leiflet, this is what he's referring to, when two gladiators fought In an arena. It soon became evident that one gladiator was going to win, and he dominated his opponent, to the point to where the opponent was kind of lying defeated And he would look to the crowd, the winning gladiator would look to the crowd to get a token from them of whether he should end this man's life or let him live. And if the crowd, sometimes it was even Caesar himself that was in the crowd, that he looked for a token from, and if the crowd gave a thumbs-down sign, that meant end this man's life. Or if they gave a thumbs up sign, it meant spare them, be merciful. And Paul is using this word here according to Lightfoot. And the idea then is that Our boldness is a thumbs-down sign to an unbelieving world, to the enemies of the cross, that our gospel is true and they will face judgment. That's what he's saying here. It is an evident, look again in verse number 28, an evident token of perdition. It's a token of judgment to those that are lost, but to you of salvation and that of God. And again, the word prediction here, eternal destruction, it literally is talking about hell. So our boldness in battle is a sign that we're on the winning side. But our boldness in battle reveals that we are truly saved. Look in verse number twenty-nine. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him But also to suffer for his name's sake. It is an assurance that God has given you the real thing. You see, when persecution comes, the false believer, the fakes, will run and hide. But those who are truly gods will not. You'll stand. And so that's the whole idea here. The uh we've been talking about Ephesians six on Sunday morning about the Christian life being a real spiritual war, and beloved, indeed it is. The church is not a cruise ship, it's a battleship. On a cruise ship, you wait to be uh enter entertained and served. But on a battleship, you're trained and you take your battle stations And you prepare for the battle. And that's what the church is. But then also, here's another thing. Our boldness in battle demonstrates that we count it a privilege to suffer for Again in verse number twenty-nine, where Paul says, you know, not only has God given unto us the uh the ability to believe. And let me just let me just talk about that a little bit. The word given here carries m cares Omai, which is where we get the word charismatic. And it simply means a gift that is graciously given. God graciously gives us this gift. What does he give us? According to verse number 29. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ two things that God gives. First of all, not only to believe. That's the first gift. God gives you the ability to believe. You see, I can't even believe unless God gives me that ability to do that. That's a gift from God that He'll give me that ability to believe. But then the other thing is. But also to suffer for his sake. Our boldness in battle demonstrates that we count it a privilege to suffer for his sake. This is another gift that God graciously gives us according to this verse. Now let me just clarify here, not all suffering is Christian suffering. Sometimes Christians suffer because of the mistakes that they make Or maybe they're not walking in fellowship. But when he's talking about Christian suffering, he's talking about a believer that stands firm in the truth, and because you are holding to the truth of God's word, you suffer for that. Don't assume that if you walk in truth, that everything is going to be roses and no thorns. Because remember, you live in a fallen world where the world hates Christ and they hate the Word of God. And if you stand for truth and you stand for Christ, you may have to pay a price for that. But if God singles you out to suffer on behalf of the gospel, that is a privilege. That is something that God has entrusted to you as a gift. It again is counted as a privilege. Remember, write down Acts chapter 5, verse number 41. And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. This is when the Jewish council called the apostles and they beat him. And the and uh for what they were doing and they didn't leave discouraged. They said, no, that what a privilege that we could suffer for the sake of the gospel. But then here's the last thing. Our boldness in battle shows our willingness to stand beside our brothers who have been in conflict. Look at verse number 30. Having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now here to be in me. And Paul's basically saying to the Philippians, you have enemies. You have people coming against you. You're in a spiritual battle. Join the club. Join the club. I was there first. You remember? You saw the conflict in me. You saw what I had to go through. You knew how I was beaten. And so you saw all of this. And so now you are suffering some of the same things. You have the same conflicts which you saw in me, and now here to be in me. So The whole idea is this. When you suffer for the sake of the gospel, you are joining an elite club. You are part of an elite group of people that God has counted worthy to suffer for. the gospel. And so, friend, don't be ashamed to stand in that line. It's a long line. And you know where it starts? It starts at the cross. Our Lord Jesus Jesus himself. And that line continues on to Paul and to Peter and the Apostles. Uh if you study the life of the apostles, each one of them were martyred. They died for the faith. And then we could continue on. Uh, you know, the persecutions that many believers have gone through down through church history, John Wycliffe, John Huss, Martin Luther, um, Hugh Latimer. and others who were faithful unto death. And we again we stand in that line of believers like that. What a privilege it is. And you know, we have it, honestly here in America, we have it pretty easy. I read of Christians in other countries all the time that are facing severe persecution. That are it's costing them their life. In places like India, where I've been to, where I minister to pastors, some of who have been beaten for the gospel. Places in uh Africa, when I was in Cameroon uh teaching a pastor's conference, uh we received a certified letter from the Muslims saying, stop what you're doing or we're gonna kill you. Now I could go home, but they they had to stay. But there are places in the world where Christians are being persecuted for their faith. And uh to be quite frank, it puts sometimes us to shame Because we so easily are offset or unfaithful because of the least little thing that happens when Christians in other parts of the world are paying with their very life. And so we ha we need to d determine that we're going to live a life that measures up to the gospel. It's not measured by the standards of others. It's measured by the Word of God, by what God expects us. of us. We need to be citizens. We need to be consistent in our conduct. We need to show the world that we're citizens of another country, heaven. We need to be athletes and we need to cooperate in contests and we need to be soldiers courageous in conflict. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this encouraging word from the Apostle Paul. Lord, thank you for the precious gospel that we have. There's no way in with words to truly describe the beauty and the and the glory And the amazing love that's contained in this gospel message that you have given to us. What a precious message. about our Savior. Lord, help us to live up to it. Thank you, Lord, that you've entrusted it to us. Thank you, Lord, that you've opened our eyes so that we can believe And that you've rescued us from damnation. Lord, help us to live now as citizens of another country. Help us, Lord, to strive together as athletes, cooperating together for the faith of the gospel. Help us, Lord, to be courageous soldiers, standing firm. And a hostile world. And Lord, if you do call upon us to suffer for the sake of the gospel, what a privilege that is. So Father, help us. To heed to these words spoken so long ago but are so relevant today. May we apply them to our life, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen