Hope uh all you men in here, you've treated your wives and your mothers good today. All right? Take them out to eat, right? Or fix dinner for them. That might be dangerous, right? But uh I hope you had a great day. And it's always good to end uh even a special day like this especially on a special day like this in the house of the Lord. And I thought, you know, it's you know, when you have a special day like this, you always kind of Struggle sometimes to know exactly what to preach on. And you know, on Sunday night, if you've been here with us, we've been going through the book of Jude, which is pretty strong. It's pretty heavy. It deals with the issue of apostasy and it warns us about all the deception and the error that is out there. And uh I thought perhaps, and by the way, we have one more sermon in Jude. It's going to be on the uh the doxology, which I think is one of the great doxologies in all of the New Testament. And we'll do that next week, but I thought a more appropriate thing would be to deal with 2 John. It kind of matches Jude in that in 2 John. John is warning about false doctrine. He's warning about all the errors that are out there and telling you to be careful. But specifically in this letter, he is writing to a woman. And he's writing to her about walking in truth. And the title of the sermon tonight is A Mother Walking in Truth. And I thought what we'd do is just look at it kind of in a bird's eye view, kind of get a little survey of it. uh get the essence of the letter and also learn a little bit about this woman. We can just learn about her by the verses that we're looking at, the kind of person that she was And as we're getting into it again, I I want to express my thankfulness for mothers and for all that moms do. I think motherhood is a special gift from God to this world. It's a special grace from God. And we thank God for all they do. If you doubt what a mother does, have you ever heard of the expression the mother load? Okay, doesn't that say it all? A mother does so much. And so we do give honor to moms, but we especially want to give honor to ladies, all ladies in general. that walk in truth and that love the truth. And that's really what this whole letter here is about, 2 John. And I want us to look at it closely tonight. First of all, when we look at a letter, we want to look at the author. Who's the author? Well verse 1, the elder. And that's the only really uh uh uh evidence that we get here, or indicator of who the author is But who is the elder here? Well, this is simply the Apostle John. And John never really refers to himself. He doesn't like to refer to his name in other letters. In the Gospel of John, he refers to himself as the one whom Jesus loved. And here he identifies himself as the elder. Now those who received the letter know that title because they know that's perhaps what John how he would describe himself or what he would call himself And the word elder here is a word that is is the Greek word presbyteros, and it really talks about a pastor. It can mean it's someone in up an age And certainly most of the uh pastors in the early church were men who had physical years on them. But more importantly, this is really referring to a spiritual maturity a uh a leadership that comes from wisdom. And we see this in the New Testament, this word used as a synonym for a pastor. So we could simply say that this is really a short letter from a pastor, and he's going to give some advice to this woman. Notice where it says in verse 1, the elder, now who's he writing to? Let's look at the audience, unto the elect lady and her children. The elect lady. Now again, who is this? Now I've basically already told you who I think he's writing to, but let me just touch on quickly some of the debate out there as to who John might be writing this letter to. There are several views. There are some that believe that this is a figurative view, and that the elect lady here that he's referring to is actually the church. That he's using a figurative expression to speak about the church. After all, in the New Testament, doesn't the New Testament teach that the church is the bride of Christ? Well, there's some problems with that view And first of all, the first problem we can see in verse 1 where it says the elect lady and her children. Not only is this a lady, but it's also her children. And if the lady is the church, then the children then must be in that figure the believers that are in the church But there's a problem with that because nowhere else in the New Testament are believers referred to as children of the church. We're not children of the church, we're children of God And so there's a problem there. And also, John refers to this lady's sister. Look down at verse 13. The children of thy elect sister greet thee. And so this elect lady then has a sister. And so this is referring to the church, then who is the sister? And someone says, well, this is a sister church. Well, again, we don't see that terminology used in the New Testament. So there's a problem here with the figurative view. You have all kinds of problems if you take that view But then there's a second view, and that is, since we know that this is a person, there are some who say, well, this is referring to none other than Mary, the mother of Jesus. After all, it says in verse 1, the elect lady, not just any lady, but the elect lady. And so there are some who say, this is Mary. Because after all, when Jesus was on the cross, didn't Jesus charge John with taking care of his mother? You remember when Jesus was on the cross that Jesus said, woman, behold thy son, and he said to John, behold thy mother. And that was Jesus giving John the responsibility of taking care of Mary. And by the way, church tradition does teach us that Mary died in Ephesus, the very place where John pastored, and I think John was faithful to that charge all of his life. However, there's a problem with that view. There's no indication that this would be Mary. That's really simply speculation. And if it was Mary, she would be very, very, very old at this time. And in fact, at the dating of this letter, no doubt she had already passed away. Well then there's a third view. And that view is that this is a personal letter from a pastor to a godly woman, a real person, a real woman. who has children, and John knew this woman, and she knew uh he knew that she was walking in the truth And so he writes her this personal letter, a very short letter, and you'll know that you'll see that how short it is. In fact, this is the second shortest book in the New Testament. It only has 245 words in the Greek text So that would have easily fit upon one piece of papyrus paper, one small piece of paper. And some have rightly called this a postcard because it's so very, very short. Another scholar says of this letter that this has more of the form of a Hellenistic private letter than any other letter in the New Testament. So here's a short letter that John is writing to this woman. But friend, we dare not judge the importance of the message by the size of the manuscript. Because this is a very, very important thing that he's going to talk to this woman about. So we know the author then is John. And the audience is to this woman and her children, well, what's the aim? What's the reason for this letter? What's the purpose of it? Why was John writing this godly woman? Well, he's writing her in response to a letter that he had received from her. And she was looking for godly counsel. From a man that she loved and she respected as her spiritual leader and her elder in the Lord, her pastor Let me read to you what A. J. Arnside said. He said, now she has evidently written to him for advice on how she uh she is expected to act when asked to open up her home Listen to this to false teachers. And John's letter is clearly an answer to hers. So here's this woman, and she has a question about who to entertain in her home, who to be hospitable to. This is a godly woman. She's very careful. She doesn't want to allow bad influences into her home. And so she has questions about this. We're going to find out as we kind of go through here. She has got a great testimony. She loves the truth. She loves other believers. She's overflowing with love. She's very hospitable. And the Bible teaches that we should have hospitality. That should be part of our love for other believers. But there were many false teachers going around in the world at that time And there were perhaps false teachers who were coming in the guise of being real, of being teachers of the true doctrine. And she was questioning who she should have in her house, who she should entertain. And so really we see in this at the beginning already the heart of a mother. Because she wants to protect her home from the wrong influences. And isn't that what a mother does? She protects the home. She watches over the home. and she guides the home. 1 Timothy 5. 14 says, I will therefore that younger women marry, bear children, guide the house. And the word guide here means to govern. It's the idea of a captain of a ship, keeping the ship away from the dangerous rocks and the shoals. That's the idea. And here we see this woman, she wants to do that very thing. So John writes her this letter And he's given her advice. Now, let me give you just three indicators as to the type of woman that she is that we see in the text. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, the commendation she received. The commendation she received. Look again in verse 1. The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not only not I only, but also all they that have known the truth. John's letter is friendly, it is joyful. He expresses admiration at the very beginning that he had for this woman. And he s shows first of all she's a respected person when he calls her the elect lady. This is an adjective that really has the idea of someone of quality. Some of a someone of excellent character. Not just any average person, but she was above average. A cut above the rest. And she was known and respected in her Christian community. Therefore, John honors her in the very way that he addresses her in the beginning of the letter as the elect lady. And really, isn't that what Mother's Day is all about? We give honor to whom honor is due. And that's what John is doing right here. And so notice what it says that whom I love in truth. John certainly loved her because she had a heart for God and she walked in the way of God and she had a tremendous influence obviously on others But also, notice that others loved her in verse 1, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth. That is, anyone who knows the truth and loves the truth loves this woman. Isn't that something that unites people together, the love for the truth? I don't want everyone to love me. You know, the Bible says, uh beware when all people speak well of you. But I certainly want people who love the truth to love me. There should be that common bond of love for truth. And that's what John says. All these people love her because they love the truth. And so she was a respected person. But also she was a refreshing peer. And look at verse 2. For the true sake which dwelleth in us. And shall be with us forever. Notice the us there. That's here. John is linking himself with her. He considers her to be a co-laborer of the truth. The truth dwells in us. John was saying, the truth dwells in me, but I know it dwells in you. It dwells in us together. And the word dwell meno to reside, to abide. This tells me that this woman knew the truth. She had a wonderful grasp of theology and the teaching of the word. And she knew doctrine. She knew the deep things of God. Thank God for women who know the truth. Thank God for women who know it. It's very important. You know why? Because women are the greatest teachers out there. They teach truth to their children. They teach it to others. And so here is a woman who knew the truth, and she no doubt had a grasp of it, and she knew how to teach it to others. One time the great preacher G. Campbell Morgan had four sons. And they all became ministers, and one time at a family gathering a friend came over and said, Which one is the great preacher? And all the sons looked at the father and they all agreed together, the greatest preacher in this family is mother. She preaches better than any of us, and she lives the truth. And that's what John is talking about here. But also she's a resourceful parent, not only a respected person and a refreshing peer, but a resourceful parent. Look in verse 3. Grace be with you, mercy and peace from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. I rejoice greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth. And we have received a commandment from the Father. So John here commends this lady because her children were walking in truth. And this means that John is giving her some credit for that. Why commend her if she had nothing to do with her children walking in truth? But John understands the influence of a good mother. And he understands that here's a woman who taught her children to love the truth and to walk in the truth of God's Word. And notice where it says walking in truth in verse number four. That's a present tense. That is, it's continual action. And so her children and her are continuing to walk in the truth. That's a characteristic of a true believer. A person who's a true believer doesn't just walk in truth at one point and then don't walk anymore. They continually walk in truth And this woman's children were certainly doing that. And let me just say that this is the greatest calling, I think, of a mother to teach her children to walk in the truth. You remember what Uh Paul said in First Timothy, he said, talking about womanhood, that she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and love and he names uh other virtues. What he was saying was there's a sense in which the stigma of womanhood was pretty much uh uh basically in a presented in a negative light because of what happened in the Garden of Eden. There there became a stigma with womanhood. However, that stigma is removed When a mother bears children, in other words, she shall be saved, that is, the stigma of womanhood shall be saved, when she bears children who continue to walk in truth as she walks in truth. And the whole point is this, you realize that mothers can bring salvation and revival to this whole nation and this whole world, you say how? By teaching truth to their children. By walking in truth and teaching their children to do the same, salvation can be brought upon the whole human race, and the whole stigma of womanhood will be removed. And we'll see great things happen as a result of women who walk in truth and teach their children to do the same. That's the point there. And so this woman is doing that. Now, what I notice here is that there's no mention of a husband. There's no mention of a man. And that would seem to me to be somewhat unusual if she was married. at this time, but there's no mention of that. Now it could be several things. It could be that she has an unsaved husband who doesn't really care about the things of God. And so John doesn't really mention him Uh and and he's directing it to her in answer to her uh questions. And that that could be the case And if that is the case, then that should bring some hope to maybe women who are who don't have a husband that knows the Lord. That should bring you some encouragement and hope to know that even though your husband may not be saved, you can still walk in truth. And you can still teach truth to your children. It only takes one Christian parent to make a Christian home Now, also it could be that her husband died. And she was left to rear these children on her own. And if that's the case, that should also give women some hope who may be in that situation, perhaps A tragedy has taken place in your family. Perhaps a husband died and you're left as a single mother to do all the all that what is necessary and certainly women like that we should pray for. There's a special grace that I think they have from Almighty God. But here this woman, even though that may be the situation, she still manages to walk in truth and teach her children truth. So that shows the grace of God that is able to accomplish that. Or it could be that she's just a single parent because of her past life before salvation. And and then uh she's just simply a single mom. Or maybe she's divorced. We don't know. We just know that pretty much on her own With the help of the Lord, she learned the truth. She walked in the truth, and she taught her children. And if she can do it, that means you can do it. God's grace can be with you as well. And so John commends her. So there's the commendation she receives But then I want you to see the second thing in this letter. There's the commandment that she respected. Look at verse 5. And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning that we love one another, and this is love that we walk after his commandments. And this is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. Now, another indicator of this woman's godliness and character is that she practiced Christian love. And this is one of the major themes of this letter, practicing Christian love. And John says, you know, this is the mark of a true child of God that you love one another. That you walk in love. And this woman seemed to overflow in love. Notice what I want to call the continuation of love in verse 5. He said, I'm not writing a new commandment unto you But that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. What does John mean by that? Jesus said, A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another. But here John says, this is not new. Is John contradicting Jesus? Of course not It was not new for two reasons. It's not new in its essence. That is the the quality of love is the same. This is the same love that She had already been taught that John had taught her, that Jesus had taught John. And so John's not saying, I'm not asking for a new level of love. Or a new kind of love. This is the same love that you have been taught, that was taught to us by our Lord, and it's not new in expression. That is, this woman had already been practicing this love He's not asking her to do something new. This is something she's already done. She's already been acting in love since the day she was saved. She was practicing Christian love. Now, what is specifically John referring to? He's referring to hospitality. Here's what she would do. She would help traveling ministers You see, back in that day, um hospitality was necessary for uh missionaries and preachers that would travel They were dependent upon the hospitality of other Christians. That's why in the New Testament we see so many verses that talk about hospitality. Being hospitable. The Bible says in Romans 12. 13, we are to practice hospitality. 1 Peter 4:9 says we are to be hospitable to one another without complaint. That is, if you have to be hospitable to someone coming in, don't complain about it. Just just do that. In fact, in 1 Timothy chapter 5, the Apostle Paul wrote that a woman couldn't be on the put on the list of widows in the church When her husband died, if she hasn't shown hospitality to others. This was such an important part of the Christian life. And certainly this woman was doing it Now remember back in this day the Roman Empire had just built Roman roads all over the world. And missionaries and preachers would take advantage of these roads. They would travel these roads and carry the gospel. In fact, if you notice in the book of Acts, Paul established churches along the main trade routes on these Roman roads because it just made travel easy. Now, all along these roads, however, there were ends, but Christians and traveling missionaries did not like to use these ends because they were in terrible shape. And there was a lot of ungodliness that went on in places like that. And so they just didn't want to stay there. And so these traveling missionaries then would be dependent upon people for their hospitality. In fact, did you know in the New Testament there are certain vocabulary words that we pick up on in the New Testament that were words that were used to speak of being hospitable to traveling preachers. For example, there's the word limbano, there's the word decomai, and other words like that that specifically refer to receiving a missionary or a preacher that's on the road and then sending them away. These words all refer to that. And that's exactly what this woman was doing here. She was receiving godly people. And she was being hospitable to them. You know why? Because she loved the truth And she loved the gospel and she wanted to get involved in sending the word of God out. She wanted to get involved in the missionary cause, and so she would receive them and she would be hospitable to them and she would send them out That was a beautiful practice. That is the law that John is talking about. And John says, this is nothing new for you because you've been doing this. You've been practicing this. This is not new. However Let's clarify this. Look in verse 6. And this is love that we walk after his commandments. And this is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. John here clarifies love. What is love? Love is not how you feel Although love includes feelings, it's not primarily an emotion. Love is what you do, it is how you act. I think the best New Testament summary of love, of what it is, I think is found in this verse, but let me just also say that it's practical sacrificial acts towards others. It's what you do. And notice what John says, and this is love, that we walk after his commandments. You know what? Part of love is regulating every relationship in life according to the Word of God. And if you ever step outside the boundaries of God's word, you can call it whatever you want to, but don't call it love. Because it's not love. You can't truly love if you're disobeying the Word of God. And so everything that we do should be brought under the harmony of obedience to God's word. Now we're getting at the very purpose of this letter. And because here is the purpose in and the heart of this letter. Remember, she said a letter to John because she had a question And what was the question that she had? Should she entertain strangers in her home who were not true preachers of the gospel? But should she do it in love? I mean she was a little bit confused on this because she wanted to show Christian love. She wanted to show hospitality, but some of these people that came through She questioned in her mind, were they really preachers of the gospel? And some of them she had doubts about. And so she questioned, in the name of Christian love, should we entertain false teachers? False preachers that would take to these Roman roads? And should she do that in the name of love? And John here is clarifying love. Whenever you transgress a commandment of God, that is not love. Everything that we do has to be brought under the harmony of Scripture. And so if you're doing something in the name of love that opposes Scripture, that's not real love. And that's what he wants to clarify. There are limits on love. You can't say you're acting in love if you're disobeying the commandment of God. So let me give you the third thing. There's the commendation she receives. There is the commandment she respected. But then here's the third thing. There's the counsel that she requested. So John then in the rest of this letter, from verse 7 on down to the end, begins to tell her how to act. When a false preacher or a false teacher comes to your house expecting hospitality, how should you act? What should you be aware of And so John answers her question. Now again, remember this woman, she didn't want anything to hinder the truth or the work of God. That was her heart She wanted to be a partner in spreading the gospel, but she did not want to be a partner in spreading lies and mistruth. And you know what I like about this woman? She was not too ashamed to ask her pastor counsel. And say, what should I do? Because she wants to do what is right. She wants to learn. She wants to be guided. And and so We also should want the same thing. As Christians, listen, we never sacrifice doctrinal purity on the altar of love. We never sacrifice doctrinal purity on the altar of love. And notice there are two words in this whole letter that we see over and over again, truth and love. Truth and love. They're both important. But they had both had to be kept in balance and in harmony. Love without truth, that's compromise. Truth without love, that's cruelty. But truth and love together, that is conviction. And so notice what he says in verse 7. For many deceivers are entered into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ is come into the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. In fact, there are many Gnostic false teachers roaming the Roman roads under the label of Christian. Who were denying the deity of Christ, who were denying that Jesus Christ came into the flesh and a body because Gnosticism did not teach that God became a man. And these, John says, are Antichrist. And so really, John in verse 7 gives her one simple guideline to know whether a preacher is true or not, and that is, do they confess that Jesus Christ is come into the flesh. Because if they don't confess that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came into the flesh, you can rest assured they're Antichrist. That's one test there. And so John gives her that. And notice also he shows her that there's a danger and losing spiritual progress. Look at verse 8. Look to yourselves that we lose not those things we have wrought. John says, you know what? You can lose spiritual ground if you're not careful. The church can lose spiritual ground. That's why false teaching is so so insidious, it's so dangerous because it can cause a whole church to lose spiritual ground. It can cause a family to lose spiritual ground. It could cause a person, a believer, to lose spiritual ground. So he said there's a danger in losing spiritual progress. There's a danger in losing your reward. Look again in verse 8. Look to those things that we lose, not those things which we have wrought. But that we receive a full reward. Now, friend, you can't lose your salvation. If you're saved, you're always saved because God is holding on to you. But there are some other things that you can lose. You can lose your reward if you're not careful. You can be involved in a ministry thinking that you're helping the kingdom of God when actually you're hindering the kingdom of God. Because there's no sound biblical teaching in it. I want to tell you something, beloved. Be careful who you support. Be careful who you send your money to. Because you might think that you're sending money to an organization that is biblically sound when in fact it's not. And you're not helping the kingdom of God. In fact, you're hindering truth. And John says, you can lose your reward if you're not careful. What a tragedy for a person to be so faithful and desire to see the church and the kingdom grow, but actually they're being fellow helpers Of that which is not helping the church. You can lose your spiritual progress, you can lose your reward. There's a danger in losing the truth altogether. Look in verse 9. Whosoever transgress And abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God, and he that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. The word transgress there is again a word that c means going beyond the bounds of teaching and instructing, the established bounds that are revealed in Scripture. That is, you are not to go beyond what has been established in the bounds of God's word. And by receiving these people that are teaching false doctrine, you're going beyond the bounds. And you're receiving enemies of the cross and enemies of Christ. In Philippians, Paul called the false teachers dogs and enemies of Christ. Be discerning. Love is not blind. And so he says, be careful of this, that you don't lose the truth. You know, sadly we've seen churches do that. They lose Out on the truth. It doesn't happen all at once. It's very subtle. It's a very subtle thing. They begin to receive ideas. And philosophies that are not of God. We've seen this happen to churches. We've seen this happen in seminaries. Where you let people come in that are not sound in the Word of God that have questions about the Word of God. And by the way, you have to be very careful here. You know why? Because a false teacher will use a Christian vocabulary, but he'll use his own definitions. He'll say the same thing that you'll say, the same word that you use, he'll use, but he has a totally different definition in his mind And so you have to be very careful that you don't lose the truth. Don't lose spiritual progress. Don't lose your reward, John says. Don't lose the truth. But then don't lose your family. Look at verse 10. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God's speed. For he that biddeth him God's speed is a partaker of his evil deeds. Don't receive them into your house. And John's very clear here to this woman. Don't show hospitality to these false teachers. Your place, your home will be under the influence. A false doctrine. Can you imagine a Christian in this day receiving a Gnostic false teacher into their home to stay there for several days and to feed them and to allow these teachers to be around their children and to teach things and put things in their mind that are not truth. How that could be so detrimental, that could be so harmful. And I want to tell you we're living in a day where it's even more insidious. You know why? Because error can get into our home via the radio, via television, via the internet, all these other things, we have to be careful of the influences that we allow into our home. And there's a danger in losing your testimony. Look again in verse 11. For he that biddeth in God's speed is a partaker of his evil deeds. Look, if you bring them in, if you rejoice to have someone like this come into your house and you take care of them and you help them out, you have become a partaker of their evil deeds, John says, and you lose your testimony. Well, sister so-and-so, she was a godly woman, but you know what? She's helping out the Gnostics. She's sending them on their way. And so, and by the way, where it says bid them godspeed, that's one word in the Greek, cheren, which means rejoice, and it was a common Christian greeting in that day, conveying joy. And so you should not in any way affirm them or affirm what they do. So you say, well, what if a False teacher comes to my house. And by the way, I've had some come to my house. I've had Jehovah's Witnesses come to my door. You say, what do you do? I stand there on the porch with them and I tell them very clearly What I believe and that what they're pushing is false doctrine and they better wake up. I don't do it in a condemning way. I do it in a loving way. And I tell them, here is the truth about Jesus Christ, and you better get that settled, because if you don't, you're going to die and go to a real hell. I warn them, but I don't bless them. I don't bring them in and say, how can I help that help you out I don't want to be a part of that. I don't in any way affirm them and what they're doing. And that's what John is saying here. What if some cult or some false teacher came to my door and I welcomed them into my house Tell them who I am, tell them that I minister at grace on the pastoral staff. I entertain them, listen to them, bless them, and then send them out. And then they go to another house. Now, they didn't hurt me because I know what I believe. But what if they go to the house of a weaker believer? They just a few doors down, they knock on another door. And they start to say what they gotta say and they say, oh well, we can't receive you. Well, do you know Pastor Harmon? Well, yes. He ministers grace by what he just received us. He in fact he had us in and he listened to us and he blessed us and he prayed for us. And so if Pastor Harmon receives us, surely you can receive us. You see the danger in that? If I give affirmation to them in any way, it'll hurt the cause of Christ. It'll hurt the truth. And so John says, don't even bid them God's speed. Don't affirm what they're doing. This doesn't mean that we can't be nice. This doesn't mean give them a kick in the rear as they're getting off your porch, all right? It doesn't mean any of that. We are to be nice, but we're to be firm. Sir, what you're teaching is damnable heresy. It's not the truth. And here's the truth of God's Word. And I would encourage you to get out of that. Your soul is in danger. Run from it. Get out of it. But don't affirm them. And then having said that, John gives us a closing. Look at verse 12. Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink, but I trust to come unto you and speak face to face that our joy may be full The children of thy lect sister greet thee. So what do we see here? We see a woman who was a godly woman, who wanted to guard her home from error, who loved the truth. who practiced Christian love, who got counsel from a pastor so that she could do what is right because she wanted to be a helper. in the kingdom of God and not hurt it in any way. And a woman who had a profound influence on others that were around. Thank God for women like that. We have many around here that are like that. Thank God. And as the Apostle John would say, just continue walking in the truth. Continue walking in the truth. And I'll close with this. Four scholars were arguing over which version of the Bible was the best version. One scholar said, well, I like the King James Version because of its majesty and its eloquence and its reverence. And another scholar said, well, I like this version because it's so literal in the way it translates. Another scholar said, well, I like this version because of the penetrating use of the words. And then one scholar says, Well, I like my mother's translation best. And the other man said, Did your mother translate the Bible? He said, Oh yes. She translated each page every day of her life in the way that she lived. She lived it out. She walked in the truth. I like my mother's translation the best. That's the best translation, isn't it? What we see out of godly women. Thank God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for women who walk in truth, mothers who walk in truth. May we learn from their example. May we also follow that pattern And Lord, may we heed the words of John and be careful that in exercising Christian love, we don't go beyond the bounds of Scripture. But that we balance all of our love with truth. That we hold fast to your word. And Father, again, thank you for this wonderful example that we read about tonight. May this be a part of all of our lives. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.