Would you take God's word this morning and open please to the book of First Corinthians chapter twelve? And I want you to drop down to verse thirty-one of First Corinthians chapter twelve. I know we've been doing a series in um First Thessalonians, I'm going to set that aside just for a week and look at this one passage of scripture. I so appreciated um Brother Tom Homan's sermon last week on love, and I want to kind of kind of continue on that same thing. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? 1 Corinthians chapter 12, and look at verse 31. Where it says this, but covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet I show you a more excellent way. Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith so that I can remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profits me nothing. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us give us understanding in His Word here today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the joy of studying Scripture, worshiping you, Lord, through the Word of God, and learning more of you. And so, Lord, would you teach us today, instruct us, we pray, and help us to be more like Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Well I have been recovering from this surgery. I have been binge watching the Andy Griffith show. It's kinda hard to find good stuff on TV, you know. There's one particular episode that I was really liked. It's called The Choir. And in this episode, Barney Fife decides to join the choir. And it's because, you know, the lead singer from the choir dropped out. They need help. The only problem is Barney thinks he has a beautiful singing voice. The only problem is he can't sing. Now, you know, the choir director is ready to kick Barney out, but no one has the heart to tell Barney that he can't sing. So finally, Sheriff Taylor comes up with a solution. He convinces Barney to sing a solo instead of singing with a choir. And uh he also tells Barney that there's a special mic that he's going to use. That is uh so sensitive that you gotta you can't sing loud. You have to sing just below a whisper in order for the mic to pick you up And the lower you sing, the better it can pick you up and it'll it'll give you the true sound of your real voice. Well the day comes for Barney to sing and And so he's up there and he's ready to sing and he opens his mouth and and of course he's not singing, you know, he's just mouthing words. But a beautiful music, a beautiful male singer comes through the speakers Well it's not Barney, it's a guy in the back that they put on a on a microphone. But Barney thinks it's his own voice. So he's up there waxing, you know bold s singing, you know, and the show kind of ends with Barney bragging about what a greater singer he ever thought he was, you know. He's in other words, he's a greater singer than he thought he was, I should say When I saw that, you know, it reminded me a little bit of 1 Corinthians chapter 12. You know, I think that there were some Barney face at the church at Corinth. There were some people there at the church that were bragging about a gift that they really didn't have. And that's what Paul's addressing here. There were people who were convinced that they had gifts and they wanted to show off these gifts to the congregation. There were certain spiritual gifts that they thought were more important than others. And they happen to be these showy gifts, you know, the ones where, you know, you're standing in front of people. And so um they loved to stand and and use their quote unquote gift in front of the church. And uh the only problem was, again, they did not have this spiritual gift. And they were abusing spiritual gifts. So the Apostle Paul writes to clarify to them What are spiritual gifts? How does a person get spiritual gifts? How are they distributed? And most of all, what is the attitude that a person is supposed to use while they are using their spiritual gifts? And so Paul talks about this in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, but he sums up his whole argument in verse number 31 that we just read where it says, But covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet I show you a more excellent way. Now, the question is, when you read verse number 31, is Paul making a command here? Is he commanding the people to covet earnestly the best gifts? Or is the Apostle Paul simply making a statement saying to the Corinthians, you are coveting the best? Now that's the question that scholars deal with when they come to verse number 31. Is this a command or is this a statement of fact? And the reason that there's a little bit of confusion over this is because in the Greek, the you can determine the tense of verbs by the endings. The word the letters on the end of a verb determines whether it is an imperative or an indicative or subjunctive or optative or so on. But the only problem is that the endings on the imperative verb and the indicative verb are exactly the same. So this can be an indicative, a statement of fact, or it can be a command. The question is, what is it? Now how do you know which one it is? Well, it's the context that determines whether it's a command or whether it is a statement of fact. So what is this? Well, in chapter 12, we have to get the context of it. In chapter 12, Paul made it clear that guess what? We don't get to choose our spiritual gifts. Did you know that? You don't choose your spiritual gift. I don't get to choose my own spiritual gift. Where do we where do they come from? How are they distributed? Well, it's given by the Spirit. Look in chapter 12, look at verse number 8 of 1 Corinthians. For to one is given, what's the next three words? By the Spirit. It's the Spirit that gives these gifts. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the selfsame Spirit. That's a key phrase that you'll see throughout chapter 12. By the Spirit, by the same Spirit. It's the Spirit that gives the gifts. Look in verse number 11 of chapter 12. By all these, but all these worketh that one and selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. Whose will? The Spirit. It is the Holy Spirit that divides these gifts separately. This is the Greek word ideos It means uniquely one's own. Exactly where we get our English word idiot. You know, when you call a person an idiot, you know what you're actually doing. You're saying, you know what, there's no one just like you That's what the Greek word here means. Unique, you know, j no one no two gifts are exactly alike. In other words, the spirit puts together a combination of these gifts and gives it severally idios to everyone according to his will. So again, I don't get to choose my gift. You don't get to choose your gift. This is something that is given by the Holy Spirit. Now knowing that then, it would not make sense for Paul to command the Corinthians to covet the best gifts. Why would Paul in chapter 12 say it's the Spirit that gives the gifts, and then at the end of the chapter say, but you are to covet the best gifts? So this is not a command. This is a statement of fact. What Paul is saying is you are coveting the best gifts. But look at the rest of verse 31, and yet I show you a more excellent way. There's something better than that. In other words, you Corinthians, you're putting some gifts more superior to others, and you're coveting after the best gifts, the showy gifts. But there's something better. There's a more excellent way. If you want to covet something, if you want to desire something, let me show you what you should desire. And then look in chapter 13, verse 1. Though I speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not what? Love or charity, here in the King James with that's a love agape, and have not love, I become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal What's Paul saying here? That what you need is love. That's what you should be desiring. That's what you should be coveting. That's what you should be going after, pursuing. In 1 Corinthians 16, 14, Paul said, let all that you do be done in love. There's no substitute for love. None. Right? Theology is not a substitute for love. Religious works are not a substitute for love. And when you are using your spiritual gift, it's not for your own edification, it's for others. And you are to do it in love for others. And so Paul is going to talk about this importance of love and pursuing love. And what we're going to see here are just three ideas in chapter 13. Number one, the priority of love. And then number two, Paul will talk about the personality of love. And then finally, number three, we'll spend some time on the perpetuity of love. But here's number one the priority of love. And we see this again in verse number one. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I'm become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal Now, Paul is calling attention to the priority of love by kind of giving out a hypothetical situation. In which there are spiritual gifts being used, but there's no love. Paul's saying, look, you can be incredibly gifted. And yet, if you have these incredible gifts and you don't do it in love, it doesn't profit anything And Paul's kind of thinking using a bit of hyperbole here when he begins to give these these scenarios. First of all, speaking gifts without love is simply noise. He begins by talking about the gift of tongues which the Corinthians were fixated upon because of the influence of mystery religions back then. Back in that day in the Greco-Roman world, there were many mystery religions and part of their rituals was to speak in a unknown tongue They they deemed it as some kind of a divine language, some kind of ecstasy that a person was caught away in a religious ritual and they began to speak gibberish. It was not a earthly language, but to them they were getting in touch with the divine. They would go out of oneself literally. That's the Greek word ek ecstasy that's used so much in chapter twelve. H. Wayne House wrote this. He said, with the aestheticism of the Dionysianism, that is uh called of D Dionysius, And the emphasis on tongue speaking and oracles in the religion of Apollo, it is not surprising that some of the Corinthians carried these pagan ideas in the church at Corinth. Especially the practice of what the Greek word is glossolalia, which is this unknown tongue, this this unearthly tongue. that for which both of these religions are known. Everybody in the church seemed to want it to want to be able to speak in this gift. And Paul's saying, look, let's just suppose, and by the way, there was a legitimate gift of tongues And there's a false gift of tongues. And Paul, when he writes to the Corinthians, he wants to confirm the legitimate gift while at the same time debunking the false gift. And that was what was, you know, why sometimes 1 Corinthians 14 is difficult for people to understand, because you have to know when he's talking about the real gift or the false gift. And so Paul is saying, look, let's just suppose that I could speak with the tongues of men. That is, I knew all these languages. The tongues of men are earthly languages. Let's just suppose I could speak with the tongues of men and of angels You know, some people believe that this ecstatic language was the language of angels. And Paul plays along and says, let's just say that I have the gift where I can learn all the languages of men and of angels. I can do all of that. I wish I had that ability when I was going through seminary with studying Hebrew and Greek, that I could learn the tongues of men, you know. But let's just say that I was gifted enough to learn every language on earth. And I knew all of it. And yet, if I did not have love, Paul said it's like a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. Again, these were instruments that were used in the in the mystery religions. These rituals were accompanied with smashing gongs, clanging cymbals, blaring trumpets. Paul said, all it is is a bunch of noise. If you have incredible speaking gifts, but you don't have love, it's noise. And then supernatural gifts without love is nothing. Look at verse 2. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. Here again, Paul is using hyperbole. Let's just suppose you have the gift of forthelling the Word of God, and you know all mysteries. There's a lot of mysteries in theology. I don't know. But let's just say that you know you have the ability to know all mysteries and you have all knowledge. Do you know of anyone that has all knowledge? I know some people who think they have all knowledge. But only God is omniscient. Only God knows all things. But Paul said, let's just suppose that you had the ability to know all mysteries and you had all knowledge and all faith. This is not saving faith. This is the ability to believe God for great things, to trust God to do miracles so that you could remove mountains. And here Paul is referring to what Jesus said, faith that can remove mountains, that's obstacles in your life. Let's just suppose that you had enough faith so that you could exercise it and remove any obstacle out of your life. You had all of that. And yet Paul says if you have that and you don't have love, it's nothing. It means nothing. And then serving gifts without love is nothing. Look at verse 3. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity or love, it profiteth me nothing. Here's a person that's able to give all of their possessions. Again, Paul I think continues to use hyperbole. He imagines someone Who had the gift of giving and they were able to give everything away. Now I've known some generous people that have given so graciously, but I don't think I've ever known anyone to give everything except Jesus. He gave it all. But I don't know of anyone else that gave all of their possessions. And then Paul says, though I give my body to be burned. This is the ultimate sacrifice. giving one's body away. And we could even read of Christian martyrs who have been burned at the stake standing for their faith. William Tyndale, who uh wrote the first English Bible from the Greek language into English was burned at the stake. The Bohemian the Bohemian reformer John Huss was also burned at the stake. He stood over the issue of Jesus being the Lord of the church. The church didn't belong to the Pope. It belonged to Jesus Christ. And for that John Huss was burned at the stake. But if you're able to do all of that and not have love, Paul said it means nothing. He makes a good point, doesn't he? I mean he gets his point across. This is incredible. You have all these things. If you don't have love, it doesn't profit. So this is how important love is. A church without love is like a body without blood. It's dead. It's no life. And so this is the priority of love. But I want you to see the second thing, the personality of love. Because in verses four to seven, what Paul does is he's now going to try to help us understand what real love is looks like, what it acts like, how it's demonstrated. You know, it's hard to define love. One person was asked to define love and he said, well it's a feeling that you feel when you feel like you're going to feel a feeling that you've never felt before. That doesn't quite get it. One little girl said, a little seven-year-old girl named Karen said, Well when you love somebody, your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you. But you know, love is best understood by what we do. And there are certain characteristics to love and And what Paul does is he kind of goes through a list of characteristics of love. And this is kind of a checklist. And so I want you as we go through this, we're going to go through it kind of quickly. You can spend weeks just on this list here. But you check your own self against this list. If you're anything like me, I get convicted every time I go through this list. And the first one hurts. Verse 4. Charity suffers long. Love is patient. Ouch. Why does that have to be first on the list? This confronts me with my own failure. Love is patient. To be impatient is to love yourself. To be patient is to love others. Love is patient, Paul says. This comes from two words meaning long-tempered. You're slow to anger. You're able to endure personal wrongs without retaliation. And we could go on. But then love is kind in verse number four. And is kind. That's just, you know The word here actually means helpful or useful, and that's kindness when you're just doing kind acts to others. Uh love is kind. Love is not jealous. Verse 4. Envy it not. This is actually the word for jealousy here. This is where, you know, someone else has something you you uh Are you jealous of that? You want that. That's one form of it. But another form of jealousy is even worse. And that is you don't want them to have anything good. You want them to have bad instead of good. That's not the way love acts. If someone else's gain is your loss, that's not love. But then love does not brag, it's not arrogant, again in verse number four. Look, charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. The first statement is actually verbalizing of pride. And then the second statement is kind of the attitude of pride, what comes up from deep down in, a kind of a puffed up attitude. And this is someone who is always bragging about their accomplishments. Their bragging is an effort to make them feel superior to others, to make others feel inferior. But love does not act that way. Love doesn't build up oneself. Love tries to build up others. Not not yourself. But love is humble. But then it's love is not rude. Look at verse number five, where he says, does not behave itself unseemly. Or we could say rude. It doesn't act in a way to embarrass others. It's courteous in little things. Love does not needlessly offend anyone. Love has good manners. It's courteous, it's polite. But then we could also say love does not seek its own, again in verse number five. Does not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, and that's just plain old selfishness. And beloved, we all have it. We all, because of our sin nature, have this selfishness that is in us. And it's something that we have to constantly deal with. Since the fall of man, selfishness has been a major problem in mankind. Alan Redpass said: the secret of every discord in Christian homes and communities and churches is that we seek our own way and our own glory. It's the root problem of many other problems. Love is not selfish and is not provoked. In verse number five, we see the expression is not easily provoked. This word here, we could say it like this, you know, not sensitive, not touchy. You ever meet someone that they're easily offended? It just seems like you're always walking on eggshells around this person because no matter how you say something or what you say, it just seems like they're going to be offended by it. And then you say something and they explode S someone explained him as having the personality of a double barrel shotgun with a hair trigger. They just easily they explode and they say, Well yeah, I well I got over it quickly though, yeah, but look at all the dead people laying around afterwards, you know. That's someone who is easily provoked. But love is not easily provoked. Love does not take into account a wrong suffered. Look in verse 6. Thinketh no evil. And this is really an accounting word used with a numerical calculation. It doesn't keep a tally of wrongs. You're not keeping a list of all the wrongs that were done against you. You ever meet those people like that where they just never seem to let go of maybe some things that have happened to them in the past? They can't seem to let it go. They always kind of have that tally in their heart. And there's the joke you probably heard a thousand times about the marriage counselor and The marriage counselor asked the husband, he said, What's the problem? He said, Well my wife, every time we argue, she gets historical. And he said, No, you mean hysterical? He said, No, I mean historical. She she brings up everything I've ever done in the past But that's not love. Love doesn't keep a tally of wrongs. Love does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices in truth, verse six, rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in truth. We grieve when we see someone else fall. We don't ever rejoice when we see iniquity abound in someone's life. If someone acts that way, that's not love. If you rejoice when you see the fallenness of others. You rejoice in truth, but then love bears all things, verse 7, that is to bear up, to endure. Has the idea of hanging in there. Love doesn't bail out at the first time difficulty comes. You know, there just seems to be an epidemic. among people of bailing out of tough situations as soon as difficulty arises. But that's not love. Well actually, when you choose to love, you choose to suffer. Because you make yourself vulnerable. C. S. Lewis said to love it all is to be vulnerable. Love anything in your heart will be wrong and possibly broken. If you want to make your s sure of keeping it keeping it intact, you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries, avoid all entanglements, lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it'll change. It will not be broken. It will become unbreakable. But if you want to really love, you choose to be vulnerable. You choose that. But then also love believes all things, verse 7. That is, we could say it's always trusting. And then love hopes all things. It's not pessimistic. It does not expect the loved one to fail, but to succeed. And then also love endures all things, as we see there. And verse number seven, endures all things. And the word endure here is a military word meaning to sustain any kind of assault. So how do you do on your checklist? Convicted yet? And really what we could say is this really, all these things are really the characteristics of Jesus Christ. I mean you can replace the word charity with the word Jesus, and it absolutely is exactly how Jesus is. He's patient, Jesus is kind, he's not jealous, he doesn't brag, he's not arrogant. He he doesn't act unbecomely, he does not seek his own, he's not easily provoked, he does not take into account a wrong suffered, he does not rejoice in unrighteousness, he rejoices in truth. He's always protective, always trusting, always With filled with hope and always persevering. That's Jesus. And that's the personality of love. And we have to focus on that kind of love. So our prayer should be, Lord, make me more like Christ. Help me to love the way Jesus loves. Now let me give you the third idea here. We see the priority of love. We see the personality of love, but here's number three, the perpetuity of love. Look in verse number eight, where it says, charity never faileth. That is, we can say, love never fails. Now often this expression is misapplied or misunderstood. When people use this expression, they use it normally something like this, you know, here's a here's a parent who maybe has a prodigal child. And this child is going astray. And the parents, sometimes parents will say to me, you know, if I just continue to love them, everything won't work out in the end because love never fails. That's not what that means. Hopefully it will work out in the end for you. But this is not a promise that if you love, everything's going to turn out good in the end. That's not what this is saying. What it's saying is that love Will always be around. Love, when everything else is gone, love will still be here. When all these other things are abolished or they come to an end, love will still be here because love is eternal. Will never be done with love. Well it'll never be abolished. That's the idea here. Actually the word here is literally to fall to the ground. It was used of a of a flower that petals decayed and fell to the ground. What it's saying is love will never fall to the ground. Love will never decay. Love is like a flower which there is no decay, never has to do with time. So we could say it like this love at no time will ever come to an end, will ever decay, will ever be abolished. Ever. Now, why is Paul saying this? Well, because these gifts that the Corinthians were coveting after, Paul wanted to make a point that all those things eventually are going to come to nothing. They're going to cease. Look in verse number eight again. Charity never fails, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. All these other gifts that you want, all these things eventually are going to come to an end. Love, however, will never come to an end. Okay? Love outlasts the gifts. And again, he mentions three that were probably the showy gifts prophecy, standing up. foretelling or forth telling you know in front of a congregation or you know tongues. Paul says you know tongues will cease. Knowledge, giving a word of knowledge, that's very impressive in front of a group of people. But Paul said, these things that you value so much that you put as superior, these things will come to nothing eventually. In other words, there'll be a time when they're not needed. You know, there will be something that will cause them to come to nothing. What is it? Look at verse number nine. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done away. What's going to do away with these gifts? When will we not need these things anymore? When the perfect has come. The question is what is the perfect? There's been a lot of different translations on that the perfect some people say well that's when the you know the completed revelation of scripture others people say no it's talking about the maturity of the church Other people say no, it's talk about the rapture. Let me say what I think the perfect is. The perfect is when we are finally in heaven and we are perfected. When we're finally there in heaven, in the presence of Christ, we will be perfect. And when the perfect has come, that which is in part shall be done away. When I get to heaven, you know what? I won't need th those other spiritual gifts. Neither will you. You won't need prophesying in heaven. You won't need a word of knowledge in heaven because you'll know all things there at that time. You won't need tongues in heaven. You won't need these other gifts in heaven. All these things will come to naught. But look what he says in verse number 11. When I was a child, I spake as a child, understood as a child, I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as I am known. What's Paul saying? He's comparing our time when we get perfected in heaven to maturity. You know, here's a child, you know, in a Jewish life they go through a bar mitzvah where they're they're declared an adult I think Paul's referring to that here. He's referring to kind of a spiritual bar mitzvah. When you finally get to heaven and you are perfect. Then you are completely mature. You've gone into spiritual adulthood completely. You are perfect in Christ. And then you put away childish things. Right now, these these things we have here, these gifts, it's kind of a childish thing. We're doing this, we're trying to mature in Christ while we're doing these things, but one of these days we're going to put away childish things. Right now we see through a glass darkly. I see Jesus through the precious mirror of Scripture. It reflects the glory of Christ. But you know what? One day I'm going to see him face to face. And at that time I won't need all these other things. And love will outlast the gifts. But then also we could say this love Will outshine the graces. Because look what Paul says here in verse 13. And now abideth faith, hope, and charity, these three. But the greatest of these is charity. And so out of the three great graces, faith, hope, and love, Paul says love is the bet the greatest. Why? Well, because when I get to heaven and I see Jesus face to face, my faith will end in sight. I won't need faith anymore I won't have faith anymore because I'll see Jesus face to face. All my hopes will be realized. I won't need hope anymore. But you know what will continue? Love. Because when I see Jesus face to face, I'll love him more than I ever have. And you know what? When I get to heaven and I see my loved ones there, I'll be able to love all of them with a perfect love. Not the love that I had here that was, you know you know, weighted down with my own selfishness. Even on my best days of loving others, there's still it's still tainted with my own sinfulness and my own selfishness. But one day when I see my loved ones in heaven, I'll be able to love them with a perfect love. So love will continue. It will endure. We'll always have love throughout heaven. And in fact, I think that our love in heaven will do nothing but grow. And get more wonderful as we know one another there. That's why Paul says the greatest is love. Love never fails. It will never, ever fail. So there is the priority of love, there is the personality of love, there is the perpetuity of love. And really Paul sums up his argument In chapter 14, verse 1, where he says, follow after charity, follow after love. That is to be your pursuit. That is to be my pursuit as a believer. That's to be our goal. To love one another, to love God with all our heart, and to love one another. And let me just say, I'm so grateful for a loving church. You are a church that loves one another. I would just encourage you to continue on because you know why? Our love is not perfect. And as we went over this checklist, we can see there's areas where I'm short. But the goal of the Christian life is to be more like Jesus Christ. And that should be our prayer, our passionate prayer, to love like Christ did, to be more like the Lord Jesus Christ. May that be our prayer. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we are so thankful for the love that you have given to us that is truly, Lord, beyond comprehension, that Christ would love us so. To come to earth, to lay aside the glory of heaven, to come to this place, Lord, and to live a sinless life and to take the sins of the world upon himself on the cross. to pay our sin debt that we might have salvation as a gift paid for by Christ. And I pray, Lord, that everyone here under the sound of my voice, Has that matter settled, that they have eternal life. They know Jesus Christ is their Savior and Lord, their sins have been forgiven. If there's someone here that has any question about it, Lord, I pray that today they would get this matter settled. That they would recognize the great love of Christ towards them who died for their sins and truly repent and turn to Christ in faith. And Lord, for those of us who do know Christ, Lord help us As we lived in this world, Lord, to exercise our spiritual gift. Yes, Lord, thank you that you've given us gifts to use. But Lord, help us to remember that it must be done in love. That love is the priority. There's no substitute for us. Help us to walk like Christ walked. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to invite you here today. If you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ, you can pray right there where you are, my dear friend. I would encourage you to do that Jesus loves you. He died for you. He wants you to have eternal life. He wants you to be forgiven for all your sins. That's why he died for you on the cross. Would you just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus Be merciful to me. Save me. Be my Lord and Savior. The Bible says, him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Would you be willing to come to Jesus today? Anyone here like that? Would you just lift your hands and let me pray for you? Anyone here? Alright Father, bless your word to hearing hearts here today, we pray, in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen