And we are doing a series through this instructive little epistle, and John is really dealing with the issue of assurance and knowing that you're saved. We're calling this series authentic Christianity because John really is giving us Christianity 101. He's telling us how we can know that our Christianity is real. While you're finding that I heard about an evangelist who was broken down on a highway and he happened to be near a church. And uh he went, he saw that there was a church parsonage, so he went and knocked on the door, and the pastor answered the door. And the evangelist said, you know, I'm I'm a Christian, I'm an evangelist, I broke down on the highway. I could really use your help. And the pastor was a bit suspicious of this person. He said, you know, there's a lot of people that come by claiming to be Christians, claiming they want help. And he said, let me just give you a little test to find out whether you're really a Christian. He said, How many commandments are there? And the evangelist said, there are eleven. And the pastor said, Aha, I gotcha. There are ten commandments. And the evangelist said, No, there's eleven. Jesus said, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another, and I'm asking you to obey that eleven commandment. There are some Christians that seem to forget there's another commandment, and it's really a test of our salvation, our Christianity, and it's really the test of love. That's what John's going to talk about here in this passage that we read just a moment ago. And his excellent book written by Francis Schaefer, that might be a name that you know. Uh just a a great writer. He In his book he talked about called the the church at the end of the twentieth century, obviously that was a while ago, but he speaks of love as the mark of the Christian. And he said, this is how the world will know that we are truly God's people through our love. And of course, that is based on John 13, where Jesus said that very thing. And his point is very true. The world will know that we are truly God's people by love, the love that we share with them. But we could take it a step further. Not only is love the mark that proves to the world that our Christianity is real, it's the mark that shows us. It is an assurance for us. to know that our Christianity is real. Now remember when John writes this letter, he wants you to know beyond any shadow of a doubt, he wants you to have a biblical understanding. that you're saved. That there's that assurance and it's settled in your heart. Now if you were here with me last week, you know I made three statements regarding assurance and they're worth repeating, so let me give them to you again by way of introducing the sermon. First of all, number one, it's possible to be saved and not have assurance. It's very possible that you truly are saved, and yet full assurance hasn't come into your heart just yet. In fact, I meet cr Christians all the time that are wrestling over the issue of assurance. They seem to be plagued with doubts from time to time. So it's very possible that you're truly saved and you're just wrestling. The Westminster Confession says that a true believer might wrestle with many difficulties before they become a partaker of that assurance that they need to have from the Holy Spirit. Secondly, I said this, it's possible to have assurance and not be saved. That's obviously not a good position to be in, to have a false assurance. And by the way, there are sadly people that are in that spiritual condition. They would never ever doubt their salvation. In fact, if you ever question them about it, they get offended. And yet There's not real fruit that's coming from their life. They're not living a life of obedience. What they have is an assurance, but it's not a real assurance. It's like the old spiritual song that said everybody talking about heaven ain't going there. And so that's a dangerous position to be in. Jesus said, if your life be darkness, how great is that darkness? But now a third thing I said was that it's possible to be saved and have full assurance. And obviously that's where God wants you to be. He wants all of us to be there. Whatever God gives his justification, his righteousness, he wants you to have with it that peace, that quietness of soul. That knowledge, that assurance that you know that you're saved, that you know that you're going to heaven. Now also remember I said that there are two means of having this assurance First of all, there's the subjective means. And what does that mean? That's inward assurance. And how does that come? That comes by the Holy Spirit. You see, one way that you get assurance of your salvation is by the ministry of the Holy Spirit who works inside of you and who affirms inwardly that you are a child of God. And John speaks about this in 1 John 5. 10. He says, He that believeth on the Son of God has this witness in himself. And so one way that you can have this full assurance is through the ministry of the Holy Spirit telling you on the inside that you are indeed a child of God. That's the what he does. Paul said this in Romans 8. As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God And also it's the Holy Spirit inside of us, Paul says, that teaches us to cry out what? Abba Father. That's just a natural thing. When you're saved, the Holy Spirit gives you this intimate sense to where you can speak to God, the Father, on the most intimate terms. Abba was a term that simply means, to put it in our day, in our word, daddy. You feel that intimate, that close. Isn't it the most natural thing for a child to call out to their daddy? And it's the most natural thing for a child of God to speak intimately in prayer with God the Father. Who teaches you to do that? That's the Holy Spirit. Now that's all subjective means. That's inward work However, there's another means for assurance. What is it? This is objective means. And what do we mean by that? That's outward works, things that we do, how we live our life. This is what we use to help us get assurance. How is that happening? What are the outward evidences that help us get that assurance that we're saved? Now we talked about one last time Look again in First John chapter two and look at verse number three. Hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. And that's one objective test. And that is simply obedience. And the word commandments there is not gnomos. It's not talking about the commandments of Moses. It is talking about the Commandments of Jesus. And you say, how do I know that I'm saved? Well, because you're going to obey what Jesus says. That's one objective outward way of knowing that you're saved You just are going to obey Jesus, whatever he wants you to do. You're going to have a desire in your heart to just obey Jesus. Now we move on to another test that John gives us This is another objective test that we see here in 1 John, and it's simply the test of love. And what I want you to see are just three principles about love that we need to understand. Three principles and here's the first one. If you're taking this breakdown number one, love is a foundational principle. Love is a foundational principle. Look in verse number Verse 7. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning Now notice he says, I'm not giving you anything new here. And I think John is taking a shot at the false teachers because many of them were claiming to have new truth and teaching new things. But John is saying, look, I'm not teaching you anything new. I'm teaching you something that has always been around. This is something that you have heard already in verse number 7. It is an old commandment. Look at that. Look at the word old there. That comes from a word paleos. It's where we get our word paleontology, which is the study of ancient things. John's saying, look, what I'm telling you is something that's been around for a while. It's been around from the beginning. And we could say it's been taught in the Old Testament already. This principle about love has already been taught. And he mentions it in verse ten. He doesn't really speak about love until you get to verse ten where he says, He that loveth his brother. And so that's what he's talking about. He's saying this The principle of love is old. It's been around for a long time. It is the word that you heard from the beginning. In verse 7, that word word just simply means divine revelation. He's talking about scripture So the Old Testament scripture has already given us this foundational principle about love. It's not new, it's old. In the Old Testament, the Bible says in Leviticus 19:18, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy neighbor. Self. That's an Old Testament principle. God said it in the law in Deuteronomy 10:19. Love ye therefore the stranger. And so this has been around for a while. In fact, love is the fulfillment of all of God's law. And the Bible tells us that And and you probably already heard this. When Moses received the Ten Commandments, one of the tablets dealt with love towards God. It was love vertically. We love the Lord with all our heart. The other tablet dealt with love towards who? Our fellow And so what is the law then? It consists of it just very simply these two things. You love God with all your heart, right? And then you love your neighbor As yourself. And every law in the Old Testament accomplishes one of those two things. If you read through the Old Testament and you look at the laws If you study them very carefully, they're referring to one of those two things. It's all about loving God and loving your neighbor. Now, if you can do that, you fulfill the law. That's what the Bible says. Love is the fulfillment of the law. Paul said that in Romans thirteen, ten. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law If you love your neighbor, you won't steal from them. You won't lie to them. You won't covet what they have. If you truly love your neighborhood, Because love is the fulfillment of all of the law. Galatians 5. 14. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, ye shall love your neighbor as your Self. Okay? Very simple. Love is a foundational principle. Alright? Number two. Write this down. Love is a fresh principle Because look what John says now in verse 8. Again, a new commandment I write unto you. Now, wait a minute. Notice where he says again, palian, which is used to denote eternal thought. On the other hand, we could say it like this. On the other hand. I'm giving you a new commandment. So John is saying, on one hand, this is an old commandment, it's foundational, but again, on the other hand, this is a new commandment that I write unto you. Now someone might say, well, this is a contradiction. John is saying this is not new, and now here he is saying it's new. I mean that sounds like a contradiction to me, but it's not a contradiction. Actually what John is doing here is using a play on words to get across his point. This is not a contradiction, this is a clarification. John is saying, Let me clarify. And by the way, there are two words in the New Testament, Greek words. Used for new. One is kairos, which means new in time, and then there's canos, which means new in quality, new in freshness. And the word for new that John uses here is chainos, new in quality, new in freshness. And that's the idea here. In other words, this commandment's newness is not found in its words. It's found in other ways. This is an old foundational principle, the principle of love. However, there's ways in which it's new. There's ways in which it's fresh. And how is it new then? Well, first of all, it's new in its example. Look again at verse 8. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in who? Him. You following? It's true in him. Let me ask you a question: Who is the Him in verse 8? Same hymn that's mentioned in verse 4, verse 5, and verse 6, it all refers to Jesus. And so this love is new In the way that Jesus exemplified it. It's new in him. In other words, here's the point. Although the Old Testament always taught loving God And loving your neighbor, and all the laws have to do with that. And uh and many people came along trying to fulfill that and trying to love people the way they could. However, you know what we found out? We can't do that the way God wants us to But when Jesus came along, you know what we saw in Jesus? We saw perfect love. We saw someone who fulfilled all of what God expected about love. He manifested it, he demonstrated and In a perfect way. Jesus was love personified. It's new in his example. We've never seen anyone like Jesus. We've never seen anyone love the way Jesus loved. It's new in him, new in his example. Well, how did Jesus do that? Well, in many ways. We don't have time to go through all the Bible to show you all the different ways. But let me just show you one example. Go to John 13. Real quick. Hold your place in 1 John. But go to John 13 and go down to verse number 1. And let me give you the background of this passage. This took place in the upper room. This is on Thursday of Passover week. Remember we preached about the Passion Week. This is the Passion Week here. This is on the Passover Supper on Thursday of the Passion Week. That's what's going on here. Jesus is now focusing on his disciples. He's getting them ready for what he's about to do. They're all there in the upper room. And notice chapter 13, verse 1. Now before the feast Notice that word N. That's the word teleos. He loved them under perfection. He loved them under completeness. This means Jesus loved his own under the fullest measure of love. He loved them completely, John says. And he's going to give a little demonstration of what love is about. Now again, get the picture. This is Thursday of the Passion Week. Jesus is going to die on the cross. The Bible says that Satan had put it in the heart of Judas to betray Jesus in verse two. Look at that. Supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Simon's son to betray him. Verse 3, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he was come from God and went to God. Now here they are at this supper. Now what's going on here? And by the way, let me just tell you how they would have supper back then. Now we have supper today. We have a table with chairs. But back in this day, you didn't have chair If you were going to have a supper together, you would have you would have like a short table. This was a kind of a U-shaped table. The guest of honor sat on the N, and the others would go around this table, and they would have pillows around the table, and when you So you were kinda they were kind of just laying around this table, right? Some of us still Eat that way, right? And you order a pizza and kind of lay down on the floor. But that's the way they did it back then. And it was normally the custom and if a person invited guests over, he had a servant that would do one task When the before the people would actually lay down to eat, you know what that servant would do? He would wash their feet. Now why would they do that? Well, they wore seal And it was very, very dusty. Walking on a dusty road, coming to a person's house, and then you're gonna lay down, and by the way, when you're laying down, it's very possible that your feet be in somebody else's Face. So that's not very appetizing to eat with dirty feet in your face, right? So what they would do is they would have to wash Their feet. So the servant would greet people at the door, and they would begin to wash the feet of the honored guests that were there. However, at this last supper When they all came to the upper room. They were not no one, there was no servant prepared to wash the feet of the disciples. You would have thought that one of the disciples would have said, I'll take care of this. This is something that I'll uh that needs to be done. I'll go ahead and do it. Remember, Jesus taught them the principle that the greatest among you shall be what? Your servant They seem to have forgotten that. In fact, you know what the Bible says in Luke chapter 22? They were arguing, the disciples were arguing among one another. What were they arguing about? Who would be the greatest in the Kingdom. So here they are arguing about who would be the greatest. It's time for supper. No one had washed anyone's feet. And so what did Jesus do? Look in verse four. This is while they're arguing. You can imagine this, verse four. And he rises from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself, verse five, and after that he poured water into a basin And began to wash the disciples' feet and wipe them with a towel wherewith he was girded. Can you imagine what the disciples disciples were thinking, arguing over who would be the greatest. Jesus says nothing. He simply gets up, guards himself with a towel, takes water in a basin, begins to humbly wash their Feet. Jesus the Messiah. Jesus the creator, the ruler of the universe. Someone should have already washed his feet. But here Jesus becomes Now Jesus was not instituting a new ordinance for the church when he did this. He was simply doing an act of love. But this was just an act of love. You know what love is? Love when love sees a need, you know what love does? Love meets it. Love just takes the initiative. In fact, we could say based on this example that Jesus gives us, what is love? Love is selfless Acts of service towards another. Love is thinking about others before you think about yourself. And here Jesus is setting this example here. He loved his disciples. And he simply washes their feet. And he sets a great example. In fact, later on, church would call this Thursday Monday or Moonday, we could say Thursday, from the Latin Dis Moonday, meaning the day of Christ's great mandate. Because right after Jesus Washes their feet, he then gives them a mandate. What is it? Look down at verse 34. He says, It's a new commandment I give unto you that ye love There's the mandate right there. Right after this meal, Jesus says, Look, I want you to love one another. And again, what is love? It is selfless service, sacrificial, selfless service You know, our contemporary society today talks a lot about love, yet knows less about it, I think, than any generation. Because really today, when they the when you mention love today, the world's view of love is very selfish, very narcissistic. It's opposite of what the Bible teaches about self-sacrifice. That's the essence of The essence of love is self-sacrifice. And that's what Jesus exemplified. It's not primarily a feeling, although it involves feelings. But it's acting Action. It's others first. And so this love that John's talking about is new in its example. And John says, Look, it's true in him, it's true in Jesus. We saw this kind of love in Jesus. Jesus, he exemplified it. But now notice the next thing. Go back to 1 John chapter 1 uh 2 verse 8. And notice again, it's new in its example, but also here's the next thing. It's new in its expectation. In verse 8, and a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him. And notice the next phrase, and in who? You. Who's he talking about here? Talking about believers. This kind of love that we see in Jesus should also be characterized in the true child. It's new in you. God expects this kind of love in you, in the child of God. Do we see it? You know, one thing I love about grace is it, you know, we do When you think of others before yourself, God says this is just the way it ought to be. It's it should be true in you. And you know what? It it it it rejoices our heart. I think it rejoices Um one time my son Jeremiah really hurt his ankle in a basketball tournament and he was really in a lot of pain and I happened to turn back and saw his brother Josiah just kind of putting his arm around him and helping him along, sharing that pain with him. And I just remember how that rejoiced my heart and my second thought was I thank God the Father, when he sees real love in his people, it glorifies him. It rejoices his heart. It's new in new, new in its expectation. But here's the next thing, new in its empowerment. Look again in verse 8. Again, a new commandment I read unto you, which Why? Because the darkness is past and the true light now shines. In other words, what is John talking about there? The darkness is past And the true light now shines. He's talking about your salvation experience. The time when you when we got saved, you know what happened? We were taken out of darkness and we were put in light. Whereas before everything was darkness spiritually, now that you're a believer, you're walking in the light. That's an expression we already saw in chapter one. We're walking in the light. And so now that you're saved. Now that you're no longer in darkness and you're in the light, this is how you're able to love this way. In other words, it's new and it's empowerment. You see, when we get saved, God gives us that power to love the way He wants us to love. You know, before that, we were very selfish. Now Now you might say, well speak for yourself, preacher. Okay, before I was say I was very selfish. But you know it really is true in all of us. Because when Adam fell in the garden There came into the heart of man this inordinate selfishness, this self-love. You ever read about narcissists he was He was so in love with his own image, his face. He looked down in a reflecting pool one day, happened to see his face, and he couldn't pull himself away from the pool because he loved his image so much. And he died there by that reflecting pool. And that's where we get the term narcissism. Narcissists love And a narcissist is someone who has a self-love and is so selfish they only think about self- And I want to tell you that in the heart of a person who doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ, there is that selfishness, that self-love. And I want to tell you, selfishness is a great destroyer in I've counseled many marriages where selfishness was basically breaking up that home. It's a destroyer. It has destroyed relationships. It has divided churches. It's brought misery. But here's what happens: when a person gets saved, you know what happens? The Bible says the Holy Spirit puts the love of God in our heart. And you know what? Now we have a new power. Where the we're not thinking about ourselves all the time, where there is a true gentle And now we're able to fulfill the law of God because we have this real love. This is what Romans eight says that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. If you're saved and you're walking in the Spirit, you know what you're going to find? You're loving God the way you should, and you're loving others the way you should. And that selfishness that's in all of us, that selfishness is crucified. And we're loving the way God wants us to love. Why? Because we have the power to do it. Adrian Rogers used to tell the story when he lived in Florida. They had these orange trees. in Florida where the oranges were beautiful on the outside. But if you took a bite of the orange, it was instant lockjaw because they were so sour. And that so they had these sour orange trees that produced these beautiful Looking oranges. You just couldn't eat them. And they said, you know what they did? They changed those sour trees into sweet trees, sweet trees that produce sweet oranges. How did they do that? They took a branch from a tree that produced sweet oranges and they grafted it into the sour tree. And you know what it did? It changed the nature of that whole tree. And that tree that was producing sour fruit was now producing sweet fruit. You know what that That's a picture of salvation, isn't it? Because when we get saved, what does God do? He grasps inside of us the Spirit of Jesus Christ. Holy Spirit of God in us, and that sourness that was once characteristic of us has now turned to sweetness and love. We can love the way God wants us to love Love because it's new and and and it's empowerment. God empowers us and it and it begins with the way that we think about others. We don't think bad thoughts or bad feelings or negative things about others. It continues in the way that we speak to others. We don't use abuse Of speech and tear people down. Love changes our thinking, it changes our speaking, it changes our behavior. We begin to look for opportunities to show love to other people. It's new. It's fresh because of what Christ has done. Now let me give you the third principle. Love is a foundational principle. It's old. Love is a fresh principle. It's new. And the way that it's ex exemplified in Jesus, and the way God expects it out of us, and the way he has empowered us to do it. But here's the thing Third thing. Love is a fellowship principle. Having said all of that, John now goes to the bottom line of what he wants to say. Look at verse number nine. He that saith he is in the light And hateth his brother is in what? Darkness. Even until now. Verse 10. He that loveth his brother abides in the light. And there's none occasion of stumbling in him. Verse 11. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness has blinded his eyes. So what's John saying here? Very simply, having established the importance of love is both a foundational principle and a fresh principle. Principle. He concludes it now as a test. The presence of love in one's life is a sure indicator of your salvation. Point. If you're truly a child of God, and by the way, John's very dogmatic here, isn't he? He makes either-or statements. You're either walking in the light or you're walking in darkness, right? You can't walk in the light and darkness. You're either one or the other. And if you walk in the light, you're gonna love your brother. And if you claim to be walking in the light and you hate your brother, you're not walking in the brightness. in the light. You're in darkness. You might think you're in the light, John says, but that darkness has blinded your eyes. You're deceived. This is a sure test of real Christianity, and that is you will love your brother. And it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what their background is, it doesn't matter their race, face, or place, you're gonna love them because they are in your family. Family now. And what family is that? The family of God. You ever notice how that you can go anywhere in the world, and if you meet someone who is truly a Christian, there's an instant bond. One for another. And why is that? Because of the Holy Spirit Jesus Christ. We just love other Christians. That's just so natural. You don't have to work it up. You don't have to make yourself do it. It just happens. You get saved, and you love the children of God. I remember when I first got saved, and it's still true today, but I just couldn't get enough of being around God's people. I couldn't get enough about being around Christians. I just love God's people. I love the church. Now the church isn't perfect. And the people here aren't perfect. But you know what? They're God's people. And we're forbearing with one another and we love one another. That is the mark of authenticity Christianity. Well, someone say, well, you know, I love God, but I just don't love his church. To dwell above with the saints, to dwell in love with the saints above, that will be glory. But to live below with the saints I know, now that's another story But that's really not the truth of the Bible. Look at first John chapter 4 real quick. Look at 1 John chapter 4, verse 20. John will mention this again. If a man say, I love God And hateth his brother, he is a what? Again, you notice how John is just so matter-of-fact. It's look, if you say you love God and you hate your brother, you're a liar. You're just lying. How can you say you love God and you don't love his children? It's just, it doesn't work. Love for God and love for his people are inseparably linked. You can't love one without the other. And the more you love God, the more you're going to love his people, and the more you love his people, the more you're going to love God. It's just the way it is. And so this is a mark. of genuine Christianity, John is saying. This is a fellowship principle. So you say, well I I've been doubting my salvation. I've been wrestling with it. Okay, let's look at this objective. Effective means then of salvation. First of all, do you obey Jesus? We already saw that in chapter 2, verse 3. Do you want to obey Jesus? God's people? Because if you can say yes to those, that is a biblical means to having full assurance in your heart. So examine your own heart. Is your salvation real? Is Christianity real? And I'll close with this. When they first built the building twenty-five years earlier, they couldn't afford it. Finally they saved up enough funds to get church bells. However, the people will never hear those church bells. Interesting article. You know why? Because even though they saved up all those money, all that money to get those church bells, they're not real, they're artificial. It's all about Look at looks. You'll never hear the bells. You'll see them, but they're not real. They're artificial. The Apostle John, when he wrote this letter, encouraged us not just to look Look like Christians and be artificial, but to be real. To be real. And that's what this is all about. Do you really know Jesus? Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, thank you for these principles. Help us, Lord, to examine our own heart and life. According to them. And Lord, for some who may be here today, who may be wrestling with this issue of assurance, pray that you'll give them a solid assurance And let it be based, Lord, not only of the inward work of the Holy Spirit of God that bears witness with their spirit that They're truly yours. But also, Lord, as they look at their life, they see a desire to obey Jesus and just a supernatural love for God's people. That's just part of being in the family of God. So Lord, let us examine our hearts. Let us know. And with heads bowed and eyes closed I want to just give an invitation to you. What you did. Ask yourself this question. Am I truly a child of God? Is my Christianity authentic? Is it real? And friend if there's no if there's no doubt about it, then you can rejoice to have that solid assurance. But If you're doubting friend, I want you to use the Word of God and use what John says to examine your heart. And it may be that you're here and you've never truly turned to Christ, you've never even prayed. You've never been confronted with the idea that you're lost, you're a sinner, and you need to call upon the Lord to save you. I want to invite you right now to do that, right where you are. The Bible says That for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, they shall be saved. Right there where you are, you can call upon the Lord this very day, that very moment, right where you are. And you can ask Jesus to save you, and you know what? He will save you Would you like to come to Him today? Would you be willing to pray right there where you are? Would you be willing to say, Lord, save me? Make me your child. Save me, Lord Jesus. Is that your prayer? Anyone here say that's my prayer today? I want to trust Jesus this very moment. And preacher, would you pray for me? Anyone here today Anyone here? I'm looking around. I don't see any hands. So that tells me that you know that you're saved, and I hope that's the case. And for those of us who are believers, let us determine in our heart that we are going to live out the kind of love that Jesus taught us continually. We'll not let nothing hinder us from loving the way we should. Father, bless these words to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious.