Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 1 John, chapter 2, and we're going to look at verses 7 down to verse 11. of 1 John chapter 2. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please, this morning, as we read these verses together. 1 John chapter 2, verse 7. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. And again a new commandment I read unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness has blinded his eyes. Thank you so much, you may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, thank you for the blessings that you do pour out to us. And a part of that is the opportunity to dig into your word. And to learn truth, Lord, for our own life. So Lord, bless us today. Bless the listening. Bless the preaching. Help us, Lord, to worship you in the way that we are submitted to the Word of God. And uh we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. I heard about an evangelist that was broken down and he broke happened to break down in front of a church and there was a parsonage there, so he went down to the parsonage. And he knocked on the door and the pastor answered and he said, Uh, I'm an evangelist, uh, can you please help me? And the pastor said, You know, there's a lot of people that come by here saying they're Christians that ask for help. Let me test you to find out if you're really a Christian He said, How many commandments are there? And the evangelist said, There are 11 commandments. And the pastor said, Aha, I got you There are ten commandments. And the evangelist said, No, there are eleven commandments. Jesus said, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another, and I'm asking you to obey that eleven commandment. There are some Christians that seem to forget that 11th commandment that Jesus gave. And that's what our text is about here this morning. John is going to focus on this 11th. commandment as a test to find out whether or not you are truly a child of God. So remember that the whole purpose of 1 John is to give you assurance of salvation. We want you to have a biblical assurance of salvation, to know that you're going to heaven, to know that your faith is real. Again, 1 John 5. 13 is really the whole thesis of this letter. These things have I written on you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life. God wants you to know with absolute certainty that you are on your way to heaven, that your salvation is genuine and real He wants to give you assurance. Now last week I mentioned three statements. I think they bear repeating. First of all, it's possible for a person to be saved and not have assurance. There are some Christians that are genuinely saved, yet they're wrestling with the assurance of their salvation, and it's causing them some difficulty in their Christian world. And they want to get that matter settled. It's not unusual for a person who is genuinely saved to wrestle over this issue. But secondly, it's possible to have assurance and not be saved. And that's not a good position to be in. There's a lot of people that think they're going to heaven that are not going to heaven. There's a lot of people that uh have never doubted their salvation, never really wrestled with it, and yet they seem to have a firm uh grasp on it and yet they may not be in heaven. Jesus said this not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, is going to enter into the kingdom of heaven But he who does the will of my Father which is in heaven. A lot of people who have that assurance aren't really doing the will of God. They're doing what they want to do, and yet they seem to have assurance. that they are a child of God. That's why the New Testament calls upon us to examine ourselves to make sure that we're in the faith. But then thirdly, it's possible to be saved and have full assurance. And that's where I want you to be. A biblical assurance that gives peace. Isaiah 32, 17 says this, and the work of righteousness shall be peace. And the effect of righteousness, quietness, and assurance forever. Wherever God gives his salvation, along with it, he gives his peace. Along with it, he gives his assurance Now remember I told you there are two really means of assurance. First of all, there is the subjective means, and that is what I mean by that is the inward work in our own heart that we are children of God, and that is a work that is done by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one who gives you that peace. I can't give it to you. But the Bible says that the Holy Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. So much so that there's something inside of us that wants to cry out to God, Abba Father, which is a very intimate term, equivalent to our term today, dad or papa. And that is to say that if you are a true child of God, there's going to be times in your heart when it's just a yearning to cry out to your Heavenly Father because you have a sense That you have been adopted into the family, that you are a child of God. What is that? That's the work of the Holy Spirit in your heart The Bible says, he that believeth on the Son hath this witness in himself. You'll have the Holy Spirit working inwardly But then there's the outward means of assurance. This is the objective means. And what do I mean by that? These are tests that we give ourselves that measure our faith to make sure that it's a genuine faith. Now remember I told you that uh 1 John gives three basic tests of salvation. And John goes back over them again and again. That's really the whole basis of the book that I wrote, God's Threefold Court. These three tests that are woven throughout this whole letter that he goes over again and again that we use to measure our own faith, our own salvation to make sure that it's real. The first one is a doctrinal test. Do you confess Christ? And the Word Confess is homologo means to say the same thing. Do you say the same thing about Christ that the Word of God says about him? Do you confess that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, the one who came into this world, incarnate, the virgin-born Son of God, who died for our sins, paid God's penalty for sin, satisfied the wrath of God. And we know that God accepted his sacrifice. How do we know that? Because God resurrected him from the dead. The Christ, the Son of God, that's the first test. What do you believe about Jesus? There's a lot of people out there that say, oh, I believe in Jesus. The only problem is they make up their own Jesus. It's a Jesus that's not found in the Bible. They they kind of have their own version of him that's acceptable to them to them. Look at first John chapter two, look at verse twenty-two. Notice what he says Who is a liar, but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. Believe and embrace and confess the Christ of Scripture, the true Christ. And over and over again, John will come back to this. But then there's the second test, there is the moral test, that is, do you obey the Word of God? And we looked at this already. 1 John 2. 3, hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. If you are living a life where you're desirous to obey the words of Jesus and you seek to obey him, that is evidence that your salvation is real. But the third test is the test of love, and that's what we're going to look at here today. This is the third test that we see over and over again. And uh in laying out this test. John is going to give us three principles to consider as we apply the test of love to our faith to make sure that we are genuine children of God. First of all, love is a foundational principle. That's the first thing I want you to see. Look at verse number seven. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment, which he had from The beginning. Brethren introduces a new thought, new argument now that John's getting into. John is saying, look, I'm not giving you anything new I'm not teaching you anything new. This is against the backdrop of these Gnostic false teachers that were claiming to teach new truth. They had new ideas that they were throwing out there. Let me tell you something, beloved, beware of anyone who comes along under the guise of Christianity and says, I have something new I want to teach you. There's really nothing new with respect to the gospel and w with respect to the Word of God. And so these false teachers are saying, Oh, we have New truth. We have something you never heard before. They were kind of these spiritual elitists that said, we are initiated into this special new knowledge, and we really want you to know that. In contrast to that, John is saying, look, I'm not giving you anything new. I'm giving you something that's old. It's an old commandment. Which you heard from the beginning, John says. This is from the very beginning. Old in verse number seven is from the Greek word paleos, where we get the word paleontology if you study of ancient things. Something ancient, something old. Now John says you heard it from the beginning. That is to say, from the beginning of the message of the gospel, you've heard this, but actually it's a very old commandment. It's been around for a long time. What is the commandment? John doesn't really talk about it so you get down to verse number ten. He tells us in verse ten what he's reveal what he's talking about. Look at verse ten. He that loveth his brother. So it's all about love. The whole passage is about love. That's what's in view here. Love is an old commandment, an ancient commandment. It's been around for a long time. And John says the commandment is the word that we've given to you in verse number 10. And the word means divine revelation. This ancient commandment has been around for a long time. It's the word of God. It originated, that is to say, in the Old Testament, revealed in the Old Testament. It is established by God in his word. And he's talking about love. This is nothing new. Love is commanded in the law of God. Just write down in your Bible, Leviticus 19:18. Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. God says you love your neighbor as you love yourself. I am the Lord. So you love your neighbor. That's established in the Old Testament, right? But then Leviticus 19, 34. But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself. For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. So God says, Not only do you love your neighbor, but the stranger. You're to love the stranger as you love your own family, as you love yourself. You're to love them. And so love is commanded in the law of God, but also love is the fulfillment of the law of God. If you want to summarize all of the laws of the Old Testament, you can summarize it very simply by saying it's loving God with all your heart, loving your neighbor as yourself. If you do that, you're obeying the law. Now, I'm not the one who said this. It's someone smarter than I. The Apostle Paul wrote this. In Romans chapter 13, verse number eight, listen to what Paul says. Owe no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. For this, he goes on to demonstrate that thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no will to his neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. And Paul is just summarizing it there. It's all about loving your neighbor. Love God and you love your neighbor. If you love your neighbor, you're not going to commit adultery. If you love your neighbor, you're not going to steal from them. You're not going to lie to them. You don't lie to people that you love. It's all about loving others. And Paul said in Galatians 5. 14, For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And so it's a foundational principle. Nothing new. John says, this isn't new. This is foundational. But here's number two. Love is a fresh principle. Look at verse 8. Again, a new commandment I run unto you. Now wait a minute, John, you're confusing me here. You just said that this is not a new commandment. Uh or or I'm not giving you anything new or uh an old commandment that you heard from the beginning, but now you're saying it's new. And he uses the word again, which in the Greek talent, which we could say on the other hand, so yeah, it is old. But on the other hand, it's also new, it's new as well, some might say, well, John is contradicting himself here. He's saying it's not a new commandment. Now he's saying it's a new commandment. So which is it? John is not contradicting himself. He's clarifying. It's not a contradiction, it's a clarification. You see, there are two words used in the Greek most often for new. One is kairos, and that's new in time. That's speaking about the clock time. New in time. And then there's the word canos, which means new in quality or new in freshness. And that's the exact opposite of old Palaeos that we saw here. And that is the exact word that John is using here, canos. It's new in quality. It's new in freshness. This is an old commandment, and yet it's new in its quality. It's new in its freshness. In what way does it come across in a fresh way, in a new way? Well, notice what he says in verse 8. Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in who? In him. Now who's the hymn there in verse number 8? Well, it's the same hymn that was in verse 4, in verse 5, and verse 6. It's Jesus. It's Jesus. Whenever you see the word hymn, a lot of times in the New Tech New Testament it's talk about Jesus. It's a hymn book, the Bible. It's a hymn book. It's all about him So here's the hymn. It's Jesus. It refers to Christ. You see, love was commanded in the Old Testament It was taught as one duty to love your neighbor, but despite the clear teaching of the Old Testament, it was never really obeyed the way it could have been obeyed, the way it should have been obeyed. It was never really perfected It was never really demonstrated the way God wanted it to be demonstrated. That commandment to love was never really fully demonstrated perfectly until Jesus came along. Jesus taught how to obey that commandment. We saw that in the Gospels in the life of Christ. We see how he manifested perfect love. He was the embodiment of perfect love. Only Jesus could show the world what love truly looks like. Let me give you a real quick illustration of it. Go to John chapter 13 and look there real quick. Just this story of Jesus right during the Passion Week, right when uh he's going to right before he goes to the cross. This takes place in the upper room in Jerusalem. And I think when John wrote this passage in 1 John, he was thinking about this story Chapter 13 of John marks the official end of his public ministry, and uh he's trying to encourage his disciples. He's uh in fact from chapter 13 to 17, there's all kind of encouragement that Jesus is giving. his disciples. He assures them of hope for heaven. He grants them power for ministry. He grants them provision for their needs. He promises them the work of the Holy Spirit in their life so that they'll be able to go on and minister. He promises them divine truth and peace and joy. Here he's going to show his intimate love for them. Look at verse number one. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world. Unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. The word end here, tellyos, unto completeness, unto perfection. Jesus loved them perfectly, the full measure of love. And so this was the feast of the Passover. Look at verse 3. And the supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas, Iscariot Simon, Simon's son, to betray him. So Judas is now satanically inspired to betray Jesus. Verse 3, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, that he was come from God, and he went to God. In other words, this reiterates verse 1. It's time for Jesus' passion. It's time for his suffering. It's time for him to begin the suffering to pay for the man's sin debt. This is all beginning. Time for him to be betrayed. He knew that he would go through all this suffering and then return to the Father. But look at verse number four. He rises from supper and he laid aside his garments and he took a towel and he girded himself. What's he going to do that? Why is he doing that? This is shocking. Jesus is going to wash the disciples' feet. Now this was the etiquette of that day. This was the custom of that day. The couches when they ate would be it would kind of be like a U-shaped couch and you would lay down, recline, but your your upper body would be facing towards the the table. I should say the table was in a U-shaped, the couch pillows were kind of around it And you would kind of recline on the on the on the uh pillows and you would face the table and uh your b upper part of your body would be face inward, your feet would be outward. And uh what Jesus did was he went around with a with a towel and a bowl of water, and he went on the outside and washed all of the disciples' feet, their dirty feet. This was something that would uh the host would normally do this, but there was no host for this supper You can imagine their feet got pretty dirty because they wore sandals in that day and they walked across dusty roads. It was considered unclean to eat supper without having your feet washed. And there was always a servant there to do it. It was a lowly, menial task. Normally a slave would be the one who would do that. And you would think that one of the disciples, seeing that this needed to be done, you would think that maybe one of them would jump up and say, Hey, I'll do it. I'll do it, Lord. Let me wash the feet. No, that the Bible says in Luke, according to Luke chapter 23, or 22 rather, they were they were arguing over who was the greatest in the kingdom. They were arguing over who would be the best in the kingdom. Evidently they forgot what Jesus taught them in Matthew 23 that the greatest is the servant. That seemed to slip their mind. So while they're arguing about who is the greatest in the kingdom, Jesus begins to wash their feet. You can imagine there would be some awkward silence there out of disciples. But Jesus wasn't doing this to rebuke them. This was a genuine expression of love on his part to them. Because he truly loved them. This was like this this would be like a mother seeing her little boy with a face all dirty. And what does a mom do when she sees her little boy's face dirty? She just goes over and she just begins to wash that face Clean them up. Why? Because that's the natural response of a loving mother. And this is the response of Jesus He sees a need with his disciples. He begins to wash their feet. And then look in verse 34 of chapter 13. Then Jesus said, This: A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another as I've loved you. That you also love one another. This is in the midst of their bickering, who's the greatest? Jesus said, here's a commandment I give you. I want you to love one another as I have loved you. Now he wasn't giving another ordinance like some churches now that have footwashing because Jesus said do this. That's not what he was doing here. He wasn't giving a new ordinance. Or, you know, saying you need to do this dip ceremony. I've seen a lot of people make a big ceremony and have a foot washing and oh watch me wash this person's feet. Let me show you how humble I am. Let me wash their feet. Reminds me of the guy who uh got a humility badge in his Sunday school class and uh and then when he wore it to church they took it away from him for being too proud. I mean Jesus gave this ordinance, not or not an ordinance, he gave this command for us to follow, not just to footwash. That was just an example. What's the whole point? Meet the need of someone. You see someone that has a need, what's love do? Love meets that need, no matter how menial it may be, no matter what the sacrifice might be on your part. You meet that need. That's the new commandment here. And that's what love is all about. Love is meeting another person's need. Love is Giving to someone else. It's a selfless act of service towards someone else. That's love. And that's the opposite of our contemporary narcissistic society today. to humble yourself and to serve someone else. But that's what Jesus was talking about here. And Jesus models this perfectly throughout his own life. This commandment is new in its example, but also, go back to 1 John. It's new in its expectation. Look again in verse eight. Again, a new commandment I wrote unto you, which thing is true in him and in you. God expects this in you as well. We see it in Jesus, but here now it can also be a part of your life as a child of God. We need to also practice this kind of love, new in its expectation, but also new in its empowerment. Why does he expect this in us? Look again at verse number eight. Again, a new commandment I brought on you, which thing is true in him and in you. Why? Because the darkness is past, and the true light now shines God expects it because He's given us the wherewithal to do it. Because as children of God, we no longer are in the darkness. The darkness is past. And again, this is another synonymous term for salvation. What is it to be saved? You're no longer in darkness, you're in the light. And with that, God gives you a new empowerment, a new ability to do what he says. Because we have the work of the Holy Spirit in us. And so the darkness is past. The light now shines. You have a new empowerment. You have a new ability to obey this commandment. What's the darkness represent? That represents selfishness. In ordinance self-love. That's what we were before we were saved. We were all focused on self. We're all you know people talk about you know you just need to love yourself. Oh let me promise you the fallen man doesn't struggle with that. He doesn't struggle with that. The problem is that we love ourselves too much. And when we're given the new nature, we love others. We love God and we love others. The darkness is past and the true light now shines. The selfish Part of us, we still have it in us. We still have to wrestle with selfishness and self-love. That's always going to be there But we have a new nature. There's light that now shines. And we also now have the ability to be selfless and to look towards others and to love others. And to not be selfish, which destroys so many relationships. Selfishness destroys marriages. It starts wars. It breaks up churches. Selfishness is such an insidious and dangerous thing. But however we have the light. We have salvation and now we can fulfill the law. Whereas before we were saved, we couldn't fulfill this Law, this law of love, we didn't have the ability, but now we do because we have that Holy Spirit in us And it's there. One of my favorite preachers, Adrian Rogers, used to tell the story when he grew up in Florida of these orange trees, and the fruit looked great, and you'd pick the orange off the tree and you bite into it, and you get instant lockjaw. Because the orange was so sour. And they figured out a way to make that orange sweet. They would take a branch from an orange tree that made sweet oranges, and they would graft that branch into that tree that made sour oranges and the grafting of that branch into that tree changed the nature of that tree and pretty soon that tree began to give sweet oranges. That's what happens to you at salvation. Some of you sour people out here. No. All of us, me, starting here, the Holy Spirit grasps into us the sweet nature of Christ. The love of Christ. And now because we have that, we are able to practice this love the way God expects of us. But let me get to the third point here quickly. Love is a foundational principle. Love is a fresh principle, fresh in its example, and its expectation, and its empowerment, but also it is a fellowship principle. Now here's where the test comes in. John lays all that down, but here's where he brings in the test. You say that you're a real child of God, you say that you're truly born again. All right. Look at verse 9. He that saith he is in the light. And hateth his brother is what? In darkness even until now. But he that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him So here's the test. And again, John is very dogmatic, which we've seen before. John gives either or statements in his letter, you're in the light or in the darkness. You either walk in love or you walk in hate. You're either truly saved or you're not. And here, if you claim to walk in the light, that is, be saved, and you hate your brother, you're in darkness. You're self-deceived Again in verse number nine, this is no doubt is that he's referring to these Gnostic false teachers and believers that had infiltrated the church and done a lot of damage, coming in and claiming to have new light, walking in light, having new knowledge. And all the while they're looking down with scorn upon these other lesser initiated believers. They're looking down in pride, pride to these lesser believers. Oh, you don't have the light that we have. You don't have the knowledge that we have. We walk in the light, but at the same time, they're hating their brother. John says they're not in the light. They're not walking in light. Don't fool yourself. Look at verse eleven. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness and walketh in darkness and knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. They might think that they're walking in the light. They might think they have the light. But if they're hating their brother, if they're looking down in pride upon their brother, they're in darkness. And that darkness has blinded their eyes. It's so dark they don't realize how dark it is. They don't realize what bad condition they're in. They think they're in the light, but they're in darkness. And what is the test? It is love. These Gnostic false believers that had this elitist attitude that thought they were walking in truth were actually walking in falsehood. They're walking in darkness. Because they do not love their brother. They look down upon their brother, and God hates pride. He hates a proud look. And so John says, these are not true believers. These are not people that are really God's people. You want to know how true love acts? Look at verse 10. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. What does that mean? A true believer who loves his brother is not going to want to do anything that will cause his brother to stumble in any way. He's not going to want to do anything that will be an offense or a hurt to his brother. The way he thinks about others and the way he acts will be different. You'll begin to think, how can I meet this person's need? How can I help them? And you'll be begin to act that out. But you're not going to do anything that will cause your brother that you love to stumble in any way. Remember when Paul wrote to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and he was rebuking them? Why did he rebuke them? Well, because they were coming together and they were having their agape feasts, these meals where they would uh bring we call today pot luck, you know. Everybody bring a m the dish, you know. I I don't think luck should be in the Christian's vocabulary. I think we should call pot faith or whatever But or an agape meal, which is what we call it on Wednesday night when we get together. But they would bring their food together. And in the church there were the rich, and there were those who were less fortunate, the poor. And you know what was going on in the church of Corinth? The rich they were hoarding their food and they were saying to the poor, You stay away. You eat over here on that table. You don't eat off of our table. And probably what they had was meat, because meat was only really the rich ate meat back in that day. If you were poor, you didn't eat meat a lot. Perhaps Really the only time some poor people could ever really eat meat was when they would come to these agape feasts. And when they would come, here's the rich people in the church saying you can't have any of this. And then they were pretending to celebrate the Lord's Supper right after that And Paul was angry when he wrote 1 Corinthians 11. And he said, Therefore, many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. Paul said, God is judging you for your the haphazard way in which you're not loving your brother, and then you're pretending to take the Lord's Supper, a symbol of unity in the body of Christ. The proud were looking down on the poor. And Paul says, he made this one incredible statement. He said, there must be these factions among you. Really? Why? Why, Paul? Because those who are really true believers will be made manifest. If you're a true believer, you're not going to act that way. You're not going to shame your brother. You're not going to cause your brother to stumble. You're not going to do anything that's going to offend your brother. Why? Because you love your brother and you want to express that love. And even the small things that you do, it's a test. A sign of true salvation is love for your brother. Love for the church. I I don't understand some people that just say I don't really like going to church. I love Jesus, but I don't like the church. I just I can't I I I don't understand that. I honestly don't I have trouble tracking with that Uh you know, when I first got saved, I I couldn't get enough of being in God's house with God's people. I wanted to be around them. I grew up here in this church, I was a teenager. I can't tell you how much encouragement and fellowship I got From older saints that would just come along and just with a word of encouragement or praise would just help me in my Christian walk. Just help me along. That's loving one another. That's what the fellowship is all about. Encouraging each other. That's why you need to be here. That's all part of expressing love. The fellowship of the saints. We have to stay together. We have to grow together. We need each other. And if you're a true child of God, you're going to want to be a part of that. It's a fellowship principle. That's what John is teaching us here. But if you walk in darkness and you don't love your brother, uh you're not really one of gods. That's not from Jerry Harmon, that's from John the beloved apostle. That's what he's saying. This is a test of whether you are a child of God. You will love your brother. And you will demonstrate that love. So love is a foundational principle. Love is a fresh principle. Love is a fellowship principle. A church in Naperville, Illinois was basking in the excitement of the fact that they were able to finally purchase uh brand new bells for their bell free. They were able to build the building years previous, but they didn't have enough money for bells, and so they were finally gathered the money. I was reading about this where they were able to purchase bells. This was for their 25th anniversary. However, there was a problem. The bells that they purchased were not real bells, they were artificial. So they did they couldn't ring. They could just s hang there and look good. But they couldn't ring. So there weren't real bells So I read that and I thought, why would you spend money to put that up bells that can't ring? If it's a real bell, it's gonna ring. Bells ring. Is that too hard to get? Not real bells. You know what? Real Christians love. We don't just hang there and try to look good. Real Christians love. Just like a real bell rings, it's the nature of that bell to ring. Real Christians love. It is the nature of true believers to love. And that's all John is telling us here. Loving God, loving others. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for again the clarity of your word. And I pray, Lord, for every person under the sound of my voice, for them to have a true assurance of their salvation. That they not be self-deceived and walk in darkness thinking they're in the light. But that, Lord, they examine their own heart next to what Scripture says. That they lay down their own life on the pages next to the pages of scripture where John is giving us these tests to let us know that we are true children of God. If we measure up And our outward behavior according to these things. So, Father, help us not to be deceived. Help us to measure our heart To know that we're in Christ. Again, Father, my prayer is that you will give a full assurance. To true children of God and for those who are not, Lord, that you will bring them under the true gospel, that they will truly repent and put their faith in Christ. Save souls and strengthen the body of Christ, Father. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to just give you a an invitation right here To examine your heart based on what you heard here this morning. And ask God, the Holy Spirit, to show you If there's any area where that's it's there's it it's pretense, it's not real, ask the Holy Spirit to rip it away So that you can truly walk in light and know that you're saved. And know that Jesus has cleansed you from your sins. Again, we're not going to bail these things perfectly, but there will be there that true love for the church, true love for the people of God, true love for others. True love for God. That's how you know that the faith that you've placed in Christ is genuine. It's real. It's not superficial. May no one here under the sound of my voice ever hear the words of Jesus when he says, Depart from me, I never knew you. What fearful words. I never knew you Be diligent to examine your own heart. Father, bless your word to every heart here today, we pray in Jesus' name.