Thank you so much. Take God's word this morning, please. Open to the book of Ephesians. We were in the book of Ephesians before Christmas, and I kind of got out of it to do a Christmas series, and now I want to get back into it, but Ephesians chapter four this morning in verse number one. If we would you stand for the reading of God's Word, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. I'm going to read the first six verses. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called and one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the Word of God. The privilege we have to look into it and to learn more of you, to learn more of us. To process of sanctification work in us as we're in the scripture. So Lord, do that this morning. Bless your church. Bless every soul. And Lord, use your word to speak to our hearts and save souls and strengthen the body of Christ for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Tonto and the Lone Ranger were riding through a canyon. They were riding north and a wild band of Indians started headed towards them. So they began to ride south, and as they rode south another band of Indians was riding towards them, and so they rode east, and still yet another band of Indians was riding towards them and so they rode west and still again another group of Indians was riding towards them and finally Tonto or excuse me the Lone Ranger looked at Tonto and said, We're surrounded, Tonto. What are we going to do? And Tonto looked at him and said, What do you mean, we pale face? I guess they don't call him the Lone Ranger for nothing. Sadly, some people in the church are not all that committed to unity. But I want to tell you, in order for us to survive in this hostile world, there must be unity in the church. We need each other. I I need you. You need other believers. This is one of the reasons why we gather together every week at the appointed time, several times a week, because we not only worship our Lord, but we're also confessing in this action that we need each other. We demonstrate our unity to a watching world, and when we do that, it glorifies God in heaven. When a divided world sees a diverse group of people gathering together for worship, they can't understand why we are so united And that's what glorifies God. Did you know that the word saint in the Bible is never really used in the singular sense? It's always saints plural. Ninety-six times the word is used in the New Testament. Every time it's saints. There's one time where it's used in a singular sense, but or it's a singular word, but it's used really in a plural sense. where Paul said, Greet the Saints, or actually the word, let me see I'm misquoting it here. But anyway He says greet the saint. He was referring really to plural rather than singular or the saint greet the or something like that. But you get the idea that it's always used in a plural sense. Saints are to live together. They're to live in harmony. There's no such thing as a lone ranger Christianity. We need each other to grow in grace. In the church, there's accountability. In the church, there is encouragement. In the church, there's comfort And so we need to be here together. We need the strength of each other. That's one of the reasons I have a love-hate relationship with livestream. I I I think it serves a purpose. There is a purpose for it. I'm always encouraged when I hear someone say that they watch from another country. In fact, that happened to me when I was over in London. And uh and so it serves a purpose for people that are out of the local region or people that are honestly bedridden, they really can't get to church. It it is a blessing. But if it's used instead of being here, if if people are using it because they're too lazy to come get up and come to church, that's not a good thing. It's not a replacement for being in the house of God. When a person decides to just not come to church and to be on their own, they're basically saying, I don't need the church, I don't need the body of Christ. But the truth of the matter is we do need the body of Christ. We need you here, and you need to be here. And so unity is an issue that churches struggle with. And that's why Paul makes this plea for unity in Ephesians chapter 4. He begins this section with a matter that is close to his heart. This was crucial in the early church because now there were many Gentile believers that were being saved and were coming into the church. Whereas before the church was really a group of Jewish believers, now there were Gentiles that were coming into the church, people from diverse backgrounds and Diverse social status. That's why Paul spends the first three chapters in Ephesians talking about what God is doing, God's eternal purpose. Look in Ephesians chapter 1, look at verse number 10. by way of review, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him. And so Paul has shown that the mystery of the gospel includes God bringing together people, groups that formerly were hostile to each other, formerly they were enemies. Jews and Gentiles, and now he has made them one new man in Christ. He's establishing peace In Christ, both groups have now access to the Father through Jesus Christ. They now have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. Together, we are one holy temple that God is building up We saw that in chapter 2. This is part of what God is doing. God is making us all fellow members of the household of God. And so this is part of his glory. God bringing together his church, uniting all things together as one in Christ. That is part of God's overall purpose. So in chapters 1 through 3 in Ephesians, Paul lays this foundation. And then in chapters 4 through 6, he builds on that with practical application. Look in again, chapter 4, verse 1, where Paul says, I therefore, the therefore points back to everything Paul has already said. Based on everything that I've said before, Paul is saying Here's how I want you to walk. Here's how I want you to act. And he talks about unity. So notice three things with me. First of all, the importance of unity. It's important because Paul suffers for it. Again in verse 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called. Unity is so important that the Apostle Paul suffered for it. Notice that's how he introduces himself, the prisoner of who? The Lord. Paul didn't see himself as a prisoner of the Jews or as a prisoner of Rome, but rather as a prisoner of the Lord. Remember why Paul Paul is in prison? The Bible tells us this in the book of Acts, chapter 21. Paul was in the temple with a Gentile, some of the Jewish worshipers, zealots. accused Paul of bringing this Gentile past the wall of partition. There was a certain section in the temple where no Gentiles could be. This wall of partition divided Jews and Gentiles there in the temple. And they accused Paul of bringing this Gentile into a Jewish section of the temple. And it caused a riot. And based on that, this false accusation, Paul was arrested. He was actually protected by the Roman government by arresting him, but But basically appealed to Caesar and that's why he's imprisoned. He's in prison in the first place because of these false accusations of you know, of united of of basically bringing a gentile into the Jewish sector. But Paul believed in the oneness of the body of Christ. That's why he had a Gentile convert. Again, this is part of God's eternal purpose. Through the church, God is demonstrating His manifold wisdom The church is made up of various people: Jews and Gentiles, slaves and freemen, male and female, rich and poor, educated and uneducated. God is bringing all together as one. And this unity is a big deal, again, because it puts God's wisdom on display to the world. Look in chapter 3, look in verse number 10. To the intent now that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. Again, when the church is united, God is glorified. When the church is not united, God is not glorified. That brings shame on the name of Christ. But when the world sees, the world that is so divided, sees people that are so diverse coming together in love, they see the power of the gospel. They see that Jesus Christ is real. Down through the ages the world has formulated treaties and agreements and they've held conferences and they've signed accords. All in an effort to bring unity, all in an effort to bring peace. And you know what? All of that has failed. It's all failed. But they see the church. They see the church coming together. Why? Because we're different. Why? Because we have the Spirit of God dwelling in us and the same Holy Spirit that lives in me lives in you. And we are all brought baptized into this one body of Christ. This unity was so important that Paul was willing to suffer for it. But also Jesus died for it again in verse number one where Paul says, I therefore, again he's pointing back to everything he had already said. Go back to chapter two, look at verse number thirteen. Just look at this real quick. Chapter two, verse thirteen. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. Paul is spelling out that it was through the cross that God breaks down these barriers. Look at verse 14, for he is our peace who has made both one And hath broken down the middle law of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace Christ died to make one new man, that is to say the church, to unite people together in the church And Paul used three metaphors to talk about this. We're all citizens in a kingdom. We see this in chapter 2, verse number 19. Now therefore are you no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints of the household of God. You're not strangers. You're not foreigners. You are now placed in God's house. And we're all citizens and we're all headed to that kingdom that God has for us. But also we are members in God's family. Again in verse 19, and of the household of God. We're all members of God's family. That's why we all call our Each other brother and sister. That's why there's love in the family of God. We're stones in God's temple. Look in chapter 2, verse 20, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. So the church is God's temple. In the city of Ephesus, there was a beautiful temple, the temple of Diana. It was considered one of the wonders of the world. It's a beautiful it was a beautiful temple, but Paul's saying that building is nothing compared to God's temple. And we're all built As a temple upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. It is the cornerstone that unites all of the other structure together. Jesus Christ is uniting all of us. He's making us one temple, and we're inhabited by that one Holy Spirit of God. And verse 22, look what it says in chapter 2, in whom ye also are built together for inhabitation of God. through the Spirit. The goal is to have one big beautiful temple that is united. That's why Jesus died. In John 17, Jesus prayed. His last intercessory prayer before he went to the cross was that we would be one. As the Father and the Son, as there's oneness in the Trinity, there would be oneness even so in the body of Christ. That's what Christ is praying for. He's praying for our oneness. He's praying for our unity. But also, not only did Paul suffer for it, Jesus died for it, but saints are called to it. Again in verse 1. I beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. Vocation is an invitation or a calling to salvation. When God called you to salvation, it was a holy calling. The Bible says it is an eternal calling, and we are to walk worthy of that calling. The word walk here has the idea of a daily manner of life, day-to-day living. In chapters 1 through 3, Paul talked about our wealth in Christ. In chapters 4 through 6, he talks about our walk in Christ That's always the way Paul writes. Doctrine followed by duty. Here's what you have. Here is now how you are to act because of all that God has given you in Christ. You're to walk worthy of that calling, of that vocation. And part of that is living in unity and therefore glorifying God. A visitor to a mental hospital was astonished to note that there were only three guards watching over a hundred dangerous criminals. And he asked his guide, he said, Don't you fear that these people will unite and overtake you? And he said, No. Well why? He said, because lunatics never unite. The world thinks we're crazy enough. Let's not let them think we're lunatics by not uniting. We are to be one in Christ. That's the importance of unity. But that's right down number two, the ingredients for unity. If we're going to walk in unity, we need to cultivate certain godly qualities. The key to unity is you. The key is your heart, my heart. That's the whole issue here. Look at verse number three. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. You see, we don't have to get unity. That's already given to us. Once we're saved and we're placed into the body of Christ, We already have that unity that is naturally given, or should I say supernaturally given by the Holy Spirit of God in the church But what we have to do is we have to guard that unity. We have to endeavor to keep it. We have to keep what God has given us. And what does it take? It takes diligent effort. On our part. Endeavoring is a word that means intense effort, diligence, to guard the unity of the body of Christ, which means we need to guard our own heart When disunity comes, it's our our heart is the problem. I heard about a man who was marooned on a de desolate island. He had been there for five years and finally he was found and he was rescued. As he climbed into the rescue boats, the rescuers noticed that on the island there were three grass huts. And they said, we thought you were by yourself. He said, well I was. They said, well why three grass huts? He said, well the first hut is where I live. And he said, the second hut is where I go to church. He said, Well what about the third hut? He said, I used to go to church there, but we had a church split and I went to another church. The problem is us. James said this in James 4. 1. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence even of your lusts? that war and your members, James says, look, the problem is that we are the source of our own conflict, of our own war. You know what it is? It's just plain old selfishness. The the the problem that we all have. Someone said a person wrapped up of him up in himself makes a pretty small package. James said, it's your lust that war and your members, ever since the fall in the Garden of Eden, man has had this inordinate selfishness. And it it's a problem. It it's a great destroyer. It destroys marriages, it destroys relationships, it divides churches, it divides families. But in order to maintain unity in the body of Christ, we have to cultivate godly virtues that go against this selfishness that we have in us. What are they? Well, Paul lists them here. Look in chapter 4, look at verse 2. How do we walk worthy of the calling? Well, with all lowliness. That's one thing. What is lowliness or lowliness of mind? It speaks of humility. This word is in its Greek form was never found in secular writings Actually, this word was a word that was coined by Christians. It was coined by the Apostle Paul because Romans and Greeks really had no word for this This virtue that Paul's talking about, this kind of humility that he's referring to. It wasn't valued. This word was used of a person who was constantly putting other people ahead of themselves. The ancient society believed that someone who did that was weak, or they were cowardly. They looked on anyone who was humble as being weak. But not so for the believer. In fact, this is the mind of Christ. Paul wrote to the Philippians and he said to them, Look, let this mind be in you, which was in Christ Jesus. And what does he say about the mind of Christ? He said this, let nothing be done through strife or vainglories, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Now we're taught the opposite of this in the world today, that you're to put yourself first. Or that, you know, we are to think of others better than ourselves. We're not supposed to have a low self-esteem. But that's not what this is talking about. It's not saying have a low self-esteem. It's not putting a premium on that It's a warning against thinking highly of ourselves. The problem is that we think too highly of ourselves. We think we deserve a lot better than we're getting. And so The Christ-like virtue is to put others ahead of you. Lowliness. But then he also says meekness in verse number four. Or verse uh two rather. Lowliness and meekness. We again we think of weakness when we hear this word, but the word actually means power under control, strength under control. Have you ever been to a circus and see a a wild animal that's tamed? Uh a lion under a uh a lion tamer? That lion, if he wanted to, could rip that guy to shreds. He still has power, but that power is now under control. That power is submitted to that man. And that's the idea with this word meekness. It is a power that is under control, a power that is submitted to the Holy Spirit of God. But then also long suffering. Look at verse two again, with long suffering, and this just means be long-tempered. It speaks of patient endurance of trials and afflictions. This is someone who has a uh uh the ability to suffer wrongs or abuse and not retaliate. It's the opposite of having a short fuse. You ever hear someone has a short fuse? This is the opposite. They don't have a short fuse. They are able to be patient, especially when they're hurt by others. But then also forbearance. Look in verse number two again. Forbearing one another. What does this word mean? Very simply, it just means putting up with each other. Putting up, being patient. A lot of times that's what it boils down to. That we are just tolerant towards other people. We're to give them room to be who they are, not make a high list of demands in order for them to be accepted. No, that's not the idea here. We accept people as they are. We are forbearing and patient towards others. And those who don't do that have a problem with pride. But if we're going to have genuine unity in a church, we have to have this loving tolerance towards one another. And that's the essence of grace. God didn't love us, or He didn't make a condition on His love to us. He He loved us despite who we are. He didn't demand that we change before he loved us. His grace came to us just as we were. That's the idea here. He didn't ask you to change a thing before You could come to him. He accepted us just as we were. That's the idea here. Forbearance. And that's all tied to love. Again in verse number two. Forbearing one another in love. In the book Out of the Salt Shaker Into the World, Rebecca Manley Piper tells this story. When she went to work in Portl Portland, Oregon, on a campus ministry, she met a student named Bill. Bill was one of those people that was always kind of in his appearance a little awkward, a little disheveled. He never wore shoes. It didn't matter what the weather was, rain, sleet, or snow. He was always barefoot. And Bill became a Christian, but his appearance didn't change. And near the campus was a church. This church was made up of mostly well-dressed middle-class people. And one Sunday Bill decided to worship there. He walked into church that Sunday morning, his hair was a mess, he had on blue jeans and a t-shirt, and he was barefoot, of course. And the people when they saw him come in, some people looked a bit uncomfortable with him, but no one said anything. And Bill was walking down the middle aisle and he was looking for a place to seat, but that morning The church was pretty full, and so he walked all the way down to the front, and when he could find no place to sit, he just plopped down right on the carpet. Sat right on the carpet. Now, if you were in a college Bible study, that would be all right But when you're in a church, a formal church, a rather up up type type church, uh that was kind of awkward. And you can feel the tension in the air, she writes. Suddenly, however, an elderly man got up out of the back and began to walk down the aisle. And every eye in the church was on this man. And they were thinking, what is he going to do? Is he going to rebuke this guy because of the way he's dressed? I mean, if he did, that would only be right. I mean, look this is the kind of church we are. People were just thinking all kind of different things. You could hear a pin drop. And when the elderly man finally reached Bill, with some difficulty, he lowered himself and sat right next to him there in the front of the church. And together, he and Bill worshipped on the carpet that Sunday morning. And she writes, there was not a dry eye in that church That elderly man was practicing exactly what Paul is talking about here in these verses where he talks about lowliness and meekness. And long-suffering and forbearing one another in love. That was demonstrated with this man's actions. May we imitate that kind of obedient faith The importance of unity, the ing ingredients for unity. But let me give you the third thing, the incentives for unity. Paul gives us some reasons why we should endeavor, we should be diligent to keep guard this unity. There are several elements that he listed that are the basis of this unity. What is it? Well look in verse number four. There's one body That's one incentive. That's one basis. We are all one body. This is referring to the universal church. When you're saved, you are placed into the body of Christ. The universal church is made up of believers all over the world, of all ages. We're all in this one body. Believers may meet in different places, speak different languages. Live in different cultures, but none of that separates them. It's amazing to me how I can fly around the world to India Meet with a group of people that I've never seen before. Have absolute love and unity with those people. Even though I don't speak the same language. I had a translator for every session. And yet there was a genuine love and fellowship and unity and bond. How does that happen? That comes because we are all part of the same body. Through the Holy Spirit of God. There is one body, one Spirit. We all have that Holy Spirit that came into our hearts that causes us to cry out, Abba Father. That dwells in this one temple that God is building, but also we have one hope, he says in verse number four For even as you're called in the one hope of your calling, that one hope is referring to salvation, the the call of salvation that gives us hope. Hope is not a wish. Hope is a certainty based on the Word of God. You know how much hope you have because you're saved? We all have that one hope of a home in heaven, of forgiveness of sins, of living eternally with our Lord. One body, one spirit. We all have that one hope, but also one faith. In verse number five, or one Lord, I should say, first, we all serve that same Lord, our Lord Jesus, one faith. The word faith here is referring to the settled body of truth, the word of God. We all have the same doctrine, the faith contained in God's word One baptism in verse number five. This is referring to the, I think when we are Baptized into the body of Christ. It's symbolized by water baptism. When you were saved, you were placed into Christ. You were immersed into Jesus Christ. You're either in Adam or you're in Christ. And when you got saved, God took you out of Adam and He put you in Christ. You were baptized into Christ. And water baptism is a Is a outward symbol of that spiritual reality that you are baptized into Jesus. We all have one baptism and we all serve one God. Look at verse 6. One God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all There is one God revealed in three distinct persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The New Testament makes that very clear. He is Father of all. He's above all. He's over all of our circumstances. He's involved in every situation. He dwells in all of his children. Why should there not be this unity? Since we all have this one God who dwells in all of us. And he unites us. He brings us together. In his book, A Pursuit of God, A. W. Tozer Wrote this, he says, has it ever occurred to you that 100 pianos all tuned to the same fork are automatically tuned to each other? They are of one accord being tuned not to each other but but to that one standard and that's the way it is in the church. We are in one accord because we are all in tune with our one God, our one Lord. And we have one spirit. So Paul makes a plea for unity in the church. The importance of it, the ingredients for unity, and the incentives for unity. But the bottom line is this: a world divided by sin needs to see a church united by salvation. Why? So that they'll know that the gospel is true. So that they'll know that Jesus is the Lord and He does change lives. But also, we need to be united because we need each other to survive. You understand that? We have to have each other to survive. We come because we support each other. We encourage each other. We exhort one another. You can't live a lone ranger Christianity. You got to be together. You got to be united I was reading about the huge redwood trees in California. They're considered the largest things on earth, tallest trees in the world. Some of them are 300 feet high. Some of them are over 2,000 years old. One would think that trees so large would never be able to survive, especially when they found that The root system of these redwood trees, you would think that they're really deep, but they're not. The root system of these trees are very shallow. So the question is, how could these These mammoth trees that are so tall, live so long, not be destroyed by the storms that are characteristic sometimes in California. Well the answer is this. They found out that these trees grow in clusters, not individually. If there was an individual tree, they would fall, and they have fallen. But when these trees grow in clusters, their roots intertwine and they hold each other up. That was the way God designed the redwood tree. But that's also the way God designed the church. We can't grow individually. We have to grow in clusters. And we need each other. You won't be able to make it through the storm by yourself. We need to be united in the body of Christ. You need to be rooted and entwined together if you're going to survive. May God unite us all together in Christ. Let's bow for prayer. With heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask your friend, are you in the body of Christ? Do you know Jesus as your Savior? Are you certain of that? If not, make that decision right now. Make make it sure right now. Don't leave without knowing. And the Bible makes it pretty clear Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Him that comes to me, Jesus said, I will no wise cast out. Friend, if you want to be saved, you want to have your sins forgiven, you want to have eternal life and be a part of the body of Christ, then come to Him today. Turn from your sin and turn to Christ. Put your faith in him. Say, Jesus, I repent of my sin. I trust you and you alone. Save me, Lord Jesus. Would you do that right now if you haven't done that already? Would you please put your faith in Christ? And you know what he'll do? He'll baptize you into the body of Christ. You'll have one Lord, one spirit, one faith, one hope of your calling. You'll be part of the body of Christ. What a blessing to be part of his church. Father, save souls, strengthen the body of Christ. Help us to be all that you called us to be May we truly be united in this divided world and may we show forth your wisdom and glory by showing the world that we have genuine love for one another, a love that comes only from the Holy Spirit of God because we are all united in Christ. Christ. Be glorified in your church, Father. We pray in Jesus' precious name