All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word today? Open please to the book of John, chapter fourteen. John chapter fourteen, and we're going to look at verses one to three together of John chapter fourteen. You're not going to have to stand today. Um but I just want to read this passage with you, John chapter 14, a very well-known passage, verses one through three. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. that where I am, there ye may be also. Last November I had the opportunity to go over to Egypt and preach in several churches over there in Cairo and down in parts of southern Egypt. Uh one of the things that we did was we went down the Nile River to a place called Luxor. It's the uh ancient name the ancient name of that city was Steve's, but today today it's Luxor. But across the Nile River from Luxor There's a place there called the Valley of the Kings. This is the place where pharaohs were buried, and you can go into the Valley of the Kings and you can see some of the tombs of the pharaohs that have been dug out by archaeologists throughout the year. uh years. And when I was there I had the opportunity to to do that, to go into several of those places. And what I noticed were the the the writings in the tombs and many of these writings were scenes and pictures that they had put there about the afterlife, about crossing the river. And many of these tombs, uh, when they originally were dug out, they were filled with all kind of treasures and things that they thought the pharaohs would need for the extra life. The Egyptian version of heaven is a place called the Field of Reeds. And so they would prepare to take that journey over to the next life. Where did the Egyptians get this idea of a life after this life? Where did they get the idea of an eternity? That's not just unique to the Egyptians. Anthropologists tell us that all over the world, different cultures all over the world, have different rituals and views about the afterlife. For example, the Australian Aborigines pictured heaven as a distant land just beyond the western horizon. Mexicans, Peruvians, Polynesians believe that when they died they went to the sun or the moon. Native Americans believe that in the afterlife their spirits would hunt the spirits of buffaloes. The Romans believed that the righteous would enjoy a place called the Elisian Fields. That was their version of heaven. So where do people get this idea that there's life after this life? Did you know that the Bible says that God has put within the heart of every man this knowledge? It's innate. There are two things that every man knows. First of all, all people know that there's a God. Someone says, I'm a I'm an atheist. I don't believe in God. Well, I don't believe in atheists. Because the Bible says that in Romans 1, God has put the knowledge of Himself in every man. And all they do is they suppress that knowledge. They push it down. But there's another thing that's innate in the heart of man, and that is that there will be a life after this life. You will spend eternity somewhere. There is an eternity. Every man has that knowledge. Why? Because God, the Bible says in Ecclesiastes 3. 11, God put that knowledge in their heart. The Bible says God put eternity in man's heart And some people have this this understanding now, the cultures of the world, they don't get it right. They're they're taking guesses at what the afterlife might be like. But we don't have to guess at it, because we have a Bible that tells us all about it. We have the Savior that tells us all about it. In the passage of scripture that I just read here, John 14, Jesus is preparing his disciples for what is going to come. He has been with them for almost three years in his earthly ministry. It was time for him to become the the sacrifice for sin. He was going to go to Jerusalem and die for sin and be buried and raised again and then he was going to move on. And so this was a sad time for the disciples. They were really filled with much sorrow, but in order to to deal with the sorrow and the troubled hearts that the disciples had at that moment Jesus then teaches them some wonderful things about heaven. And this is what I want to impart to you here today. I want to talk about heaven today. This is something that I feel like as believers we don't talk enough about. You know, we're going to spend a lot of time there if you know Jesus. You understand that, right? So we should probably focus on a little bit while we're here. The Bible says, set your affection on things above. Think about your eternity. Think about the places you're going to go if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And so there are three comforting truths that I want you to see here. that Jesus gives us in John 14 about heaven. Here's the first one. Number one, heaven is a divinely prepared place. Look again what Jesus said in verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And the word prepare there simply has the idea of to make ready. Heaven is a place that God is making ready for his beloved children. And let me tell you something. If God's making something ready for you, You know it's going to be good, right? When God prepares something, he does it right. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2 9, but as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard Neither is entered into the heart of man the things that God has prepared for them that love him. All that the omniscient mind of God can conceive And all that the omnipotent hand of God can achieve, all that is done in preparation for you and I as God is preparing our eternal home. And Jesus says, in my father's house are many mansions. The Greek word there is meno. It's dwelling places, abiding places. I know that recent scholarship has said, you know. Uh it just simply means a place to live. Uh you know. Uh there are some people that have said the word mansion there when it was used originally it was it uh William Tyndale who translated that that Greek word meno into the English word that we know today, mansion. And when William Tyndale used the word mansion the scholars will remind us that a mansion back in his day isn't like what we think of a mansion today. And so they'll say, be careful with your uh you know your understanding of that, you know. Um but I like the word mansion. I understand all the arguments. I get it. But just remember God is the one who's making it, right? And remember that God spares no expense for his children. And so I think it's okay to think of it as a mansion. Of course, we understand also that all of heaven is God's house. All of heaven And we're all going to have our space there, the place that we have there. But beloved, just know this that God is preparing that place for you. And here's the first thing I want you to see that this preparation is personal. I want you to see where it says, I go to prepare a place for you. He's doing that specifically for you. And so the idea is God's preparing this with you in mind. Have you ever prepared a room for someone special that's coming to visit with you? I know that when my daughters were going to have children and they uh you know now with the miracle of uh medicine you're able to know the gender of the child, you know. beforehand so they all would find out, you know, that's the child's gender and then they would begin to get the rooms ready. And all the expense of, you know, painting the room the certain color and having the certain things There may be some young couples out there you know exactly what I'm talking about because you're going through that right now. You have this wonderful expectation of a child that the Lord is going to give you. And right now you're busy making ready that special place. for that child. Or maybe it's uh you know uh you're gonna get a visit from a uh a relative, maybe someone's gonna come to live with you and you you begin to prepare And you'll put out all the things that that person might like, perhaps the books that they might like to read and all that. I remember when I didn't live here in Baltimore, I'd come home and visit with my My my parents, um, my mother always used to and t in anticipation of our arrival, she would always get the things that I liked ready. And she and especially the foods that I liked My brothers would kind of get jealous. They would look in the cabinets and they would say, Is Jerry coming? Because they knew She was preparing. You see, but that's what it's going to be like. We take special care in preparing for those that we love. Are we to think that Jesus will take less care for those that He loves? And the ones that he is going to spend eternity with. No, I think. The Lord Jesus is going to do all those things. He knows us so well. He knows our hearts. And when we get there to heaven one day, we're going to find out that it was fair just for us. This place that God has. This is a personal preparation, but I also think this preparation is physical. Heaven is a very real place. It's as real as earth. It's more real. And Jesus wanted to give his disciples something to tangible to look forward to, something to hold on to. This place is not an ethereal realm of disembodied spirits. Because human beings are not s really suited for such a realm as that. We're physical. Now we know we're spiritual, but we're also physical in our nature. And what we're suited for will be designed for us by Almighty God. I think it's going to be a physical place. Listen to what Paul said in 2 Corinthians 12. He's in verse 2 he said, I knew a man in Christ. Now he's talking about himself and he's he's speaking in third person because it's kind of a modest way to talk. He didn't want to brag. You know, if I if I came to you here this morning and said, you know, I I was just up in heaven a minute ago You would think that that was a little bit braggadocious. Paul didn't want to come across bragging, and so he says, you know, I know a manning about fourteen years ago. And he's talking about himself. Whether in the body I cannot tell, whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knows. Such a one was caught up to the third heaven How he was caught up in the paradise and heard unspeakable words which is not lawful for a man to utter. And again, Paul's talking about himself, and he says, This is important. He said, whether he was in the body or out of the body, I don't really know That's important to note because it tells us that you can go to heaven in your body or out of your body. Heaven is suitable for either. It's a real place that could t I think a place that could take care of you in a body or out of a body. Heaven is not some state of mind. Uh it is not some ethreal realm. It is a real literal place. And the Bible always refers to it as, you know, up or north. You know, in Isaiah 14, remember the fall of Satan. Satan said, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will sit upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. Satan here's talking about heaven. He's talking about someplace that's real. Some place that's literal. The Bible speaks of three heavens. This is why Paul called it the third heaven. the fowls and birds of the air. We see that that's the atmospheric heaven and then there is the stellar heaven. We see the stars. And then there is the heaven where God dwells. The first heaven we see by day, the second heaven we see by night, the third heaven we see by faith. And Paul was there. This preparation that Jesus is giving is personal, it's physical. I think it's phenomenal when you think about all that's going on. Not only is Jesus preparing a home for us, the Bible calls heaven a city. He's building a city. The Bible says about Abraham that all his life long he was looking for a city. The Bible says in Hebrews 11, 10, for he looked for a city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. This literal place has literal foundations. The Bible compares it to Jerusalem or Mount Zion. And the Bible calls it the New Jerusalem, the city of God. Look at in fact go to Revelation chapter 21 And let me look at a few verses here with you. Revelation chapter twenty-one, look down at verse number one and notice what it says there. It says in verse one, And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away There was no more sea. And I John saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of the heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying. Neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. This is a holy and a beautiful city. And when the Bible calls it a city, you know, it would have all the attributes of a city. Randy Acorn writes in his book. Everyone knows that a city is a place with buildings, streets, residents occupied by people. And it's subject to a central common government. Cities have inhabitants, visitors, and then he just goes on. Scripture continues to call it a city. He says it would be misleading for scripture to repeatedly call it a city if it doesn't have those things that characterize a city. So you and I when we get to heaven we're gonna have physical resurrected bodies, uh real bodies. And so I think that then this will be a real literal physical place because we will have our resurrected physical body there. And by the way, I think there there can be an argument made. This is not the time to make that argument maybe on another Sunday But in the intermediate state of believers that there's argument perhaps that they have a temporary physical body there in heaven. And um I again I'll argue that point at another time. Please don't come up to me after the service and try to get it early. understanding of that. But I believe in scripture if you hold it together that that is that is true. But this city that's talked about here in Revelation 21, we see the majesty of this city because the Bible says that This city is lit up in verse number 11, having the glory of God, and her light was uh uh was like unto a stone most precious. Even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal, this jasper stone is really like a diamond. This city will radiate with the glory of God. And we see the measurements of it in verses 12 to 14. Uh the g the the measurements are just enormous. The dimensions are enormous. There are twelve there'll be twelve gates to the city laid out like an ancient city with walls. The Bible tells us here, and again we can't I'm just summarizing this with you. I can't go into detail, but this is going to be a huge city, the Bible says, to give you an idea of how big it is. The measurements if we used it today, if if if if you would take this city and you put it in America, it would reach from New York City to Denver, Colorado. That's how huge it is. I mean the the surface area is about 2. 25 million square miles by comparison. London is only 621 square miles. This is huge This is a huge city. And the materials, look at verse 18, what it says in chapter 21. And the building of the wall is was of jasper, and the city was pure gold, like on the clear gap glass. And again, all these things that Jesus that the Bible tells us here about is part of what Jesus means when he says, you know, I'm preparing this place for you. I love what Jesus says in verse number two where he says, if it were not so, I would have told you. Jesus is saying, do you think I would tell you about something that was not when it's not the case? If it were not so, I would have told you. This is really going to happen. I go to prepare a place for you. This is true. This is real. Don't doubt it. Heaven is a divinely prepared place. But here's the second point I would have you see about this. Heaven is a densely populated place. Don't get the idea that when you get to heaven, you're going to be by yourself or you're going to be floating around on a cloud alone. No, it's going to be filled with people. Look what Jesus said in verse 3. I go and prepare a place for you. I will come again, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself That where I am, there ye may be also. I love this. Jesus wants his family with him in heaven. Isn't that the desire of all of us? I I want my family there. I want my children and my grandchildren. I want all of them to know the Lord Jesus. I want all of my family to be there. And this is the desire of Christ. We're all the family of God. And Jesus says, I go, I prepare a place, I will come again, I will receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you can be as well. I want you with me there. This had to be comforting to the disciples. There's an old Southern gospel song, Will the Circle Be Unbroken? You know, you probably heard that song before. Don't start singing it right now, right? Will the circle be unbroken? Jesus doesn't want the circle to be unbroken, but heaven will be a populated place. You say, who will be there? Well again, look in Hebrews chapter 12. We have to look at some other scriptures to help us. Hebrews 12. Look at verse number 22. It says this. Now remember that the writer of Hebrews is comparing the old covenant with the new covenant The old covenant is represented by Mount Sinai. It was dangerous to go to Mount Sinai with God there because wh sinners cannot approach the presence of a holy God. In fact, all of the signs that took place at Mount Sinai were signs that basically said, don't come any closer. There were lightnings and thunders and the sound of a trumpet, the Bible says, and it was a forbidding thing to go close. That was Mount Sinai. That represented the old covenant. But however, the new covenant, the writer of Hebrews says, is represented by Mount Zion, which in uh Uh it before it it was speaking about the city of Jerusalem because when David brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, there was a certain hill there called Zion, and that was where God chose to dwell in the presence of the Ark. But later on it was expanded to include the whole city of Jerusalem. And later on, by way of metaphor, Zion represents now the new Jerusalem in heaven. So Mount Zion now speaks of heaven. That's the symbol of the new covenant. And look what he says in verse 22 of Mount Zion. But yeah, coming to Mount Zion. You're not going to Mount Sinai anymore. Now under the new covenant you come to Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. To the general assembly and church of the firstborn which were written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect, there's a list there of everyone that we're going to see in heaven. Who? The angels of God. They're innumerable. The word myriad. Myriads and myriads of angels. They're going to be our servants there in heaven. You ever want to have servants? People that help you out? The older I get, the more I realize I need some help. You know what in heaven, we're going to have angels ministering all around us. All around us. The angels of the servants of ministering, the Bible says they're ministering spirits sent forth to minister or serve them. That are the heirs of salvation. The Bible says angels in heaven rejoice over sinners repenting. You know, you see that This this leads to a question some people say, you know, well people in heaven don't know what goes on on earth. Really? You think the angels know and the people don't? They're the servants I think that, you know, w you know, if you go to heaven there's an angel that rejoices hey, what do you rejoice in? Well, I can't tell you, but it's really good. No. I think the the saints in heaven are aware to what degree I don't know, but I don't think they're oblivious to what goes on on earth. I think part of the glory of heaven is watching the drama of redemption unfold on earth and giving God glory for it, and knowing people that will come to the Lord. And rejoicing over that with the angels? Jonathan Edwards, considered one of the greatest theologians in American history, wrote a lot about uh hell, but he wrote also wrote more about heaven, and he said that he felt like part of the joy that we experience in heaven Well, as we see God's ways unfolding on earth, of course saints in heaven know the things that will take place. on earth. That's part of the rejoicing that takes place there with among the angels, but also the church of the firstborn, the Bible tells us here here in Hebrews 12, 23. Which are written in heaven. I'm so glad that people get saved today. And I'm glad that people become a member of Grace Bible Baptist Church. But let me tell you, the most important membership is the Church of the Firstborn. Make sure that you're in that church. Make sure that you trusted Jesus as your Lord and your Savior, because you're a member of His church. And the Bible says that's the redeemed, the saved, those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. Is your name there? Are you a member of that church? But then it also tells us that there'll be the judge of all, that is God. He'll be there. And by the way, let me just back up for a minute. Sometimes, again, a question we're asked, people will say, will we know one another when we get to heaven? Of course we will. I I I I feel that question a lot. And the reason I say that is based on scripture. You know, um, remember what Jesus said Jesus said this in Matthew 8 11. I tell you that many will come from the east and the west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. How are we going to do that if we don't know each other? You know, we just took the Lord's Supper. Jesus at the Lord Last Supper said to his disciples, I'm not going to drink the fruit of the vine anymore until we're together again in the kingdom, all of us together. How are that how is that going to happen if when we get there we don't know each other anymore? No. All of heaven is about a a big reunion, a grand reunion of all those that we love. The Bible says in the Old Testament when a person died, when Moses died, He was gathered unto his people. His mother was already there. The one who put them in the ark and set them out on the Nile by faith. The Bible exalted her faith. And the Bible says about Moses that he went up to the mountain and then he was gathered unto his people. God said, Moses, go on to go see your mama. She's already there. When people die in the Old Testament, the Bible says they were gathered unto their people. Paul said to the Thessalonians who were grieving because they thought that their that their relatives had missed the second coming of Christ. Paul wrote to correct that problem. And Paul said, listen, when Jesus Christ comes, the dead in Christ, those who are asleep in Jesus, they're going to rise first. There's going to be a resurrection day, and we're going to be gathered together in the clouds. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. How's that going to be a comfort if I don't know who those people are? Of course we're gonna know each other. That's part of the joy of heaven. We will b there will be a wonderful reunion there in heaven. And there'll be the the Bible says we'll we'll we'll see the angels and the saints of God that have gone on before us, and then the judge of all, that is God himself, whereas at Mount Sinai, God was not approachable. You know one of the greatest joys of heaven is that God the Father in heaven, He will be approachable. We can come to the judge of all. It says, and the spirits of just men made perfect. I think this is referring to Old Testament saints. Those who can only look forward to the coming of Christ to his death and his forgiveness and his deliverance, when we get to heaven, we're going to join them And we'll all be made perfect at that time there in heaven. And it would be wonderful to know them. But here's the best part, and the writer of Hebrews saves the best to last. It says, and to Jesus, verse 24. Jesus, that's the best part of heaven. We're going to be there with Jesus and the Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. That's the best thing about heaven. You're coming to Jesus. I think I told you before about a man who wrote a book called Ninety Minutes in Heaven. He was a Baptist pastor. He claimed to have died. He flatlined at a car accident and they they revived him, but during that time he said he went to heaven, and so he wrote a book about it, Ninety Minutes to Heaven. Ninety Minutes in Heaven. And that book sold over five hundred thousand copies. I remember when it first came out, people were saying, Hey, have you read this book? Have you read this book? And people were excited about it. But Let me tell you about the book. It's 205 pages. To say 90 minutes in heaven is kind of a little deceptive because only 15 pages about in the book are about him going to heaven. And he doesn't actually go to heaven inside the gates, he's on the outskirts of heaven in the book if you read it. And in that book he he meets a lot of friends and People that he knows, but he spends 90 minutes on the outskirts there. He doesn't actually go through the gates and he never sees Jesus. He never sees God. His heaven is a heaven without Jesus. Let me tell you something, friend. Any heaven without Jesus is not heaven at all. We get to heaven, guess what we're going to see? We're going to see Christ. The Bible says to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. I don't need a book there about heaven. I already got one right here about heaven. And it tells me all about it. What it's going to be like for those that go to see the Lord Jesus. Jesus is what heaven is all about. We'll be there in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, every city has a centerpiece You know, New York is built around commerce. Dallas is built around big oil. Las Vegas is built around gambling. Washington is built around government. You know what the new Jerusalem is built around? Jesus. Jesus is the center point of heaven. It's all about him. Jesus is the Lamb there. Jesus will be the light. The Bible says there will be no sun or moon because his glory will lighten that whole city. Jesus is the Lord of heaven. But let me give you the third and final thing today. Heaven is a divinely prepared place Heaven is a densely populated place, but also here's the third thing. Heaven is a definitively prescribed place. Because notice what Jesus says about this in verse number 4. And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye know. Jesus says to his disciples, You know where I'm going, and you know the way. And Thomas said unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. How can we know the way? And Jesus said unto him, I am the way, the truth and the life. No man comes unto the Father but by me. Now the word know here is used four times. Jesus said, You know the way. Thomas said, Lord, how can we know the way? And Jesus said, Thomas, I am the way, the truth, and the life. One of the greatest comforts of the Christian life is having absolute certainty of knowing that you can go to heaven. And that there's only one way to heaven, and that's through Jesus Christ. He is that way. You know, during the uh sixties and seventies, some of you may remember those days. There used to be a popular um icon or bumper sticker that said one way. This came out of the Jesus movement, the evangelical movement of the 60s and the 70s, and you know, there was a lot of diversity in that movement, a lot of areas where they didn't agree on some certain doctrinal issues. But one thing that the evangelical church agreed on at that time was that there was one way to heaven, and that was through Jesus Christ. But you know what, sadly that's not true anymore. Because there are many that don't want to say that. It's not it's not politically correct to say that. It's in fact some people think it's arrogant to claim that there's only one way and you have found that way But, friend, it's not that I found the way, it's that Jesus found me. And it doesn't change what Jesus said here when he said, I am the way, not a way, but the way, the truth, and the life. You know, there's a lot of false ideas out there. One is universalism, that is the idea that everyone is going to go there. But I wish that were true, but sadly it's not true because Jesus said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, not everyone. And some have this idea of pluralism, you know, that's the idea that there's, you know, all religions are equally valid. And then inclusivism is that, you know, there's truth in all religions. Christianity is the best way, but there's truth in all religions, you know. And all these are ideas that say, you know Basically, what they're saying is Jesus is not the only way. And this contradicts exactly what Jesus said right here. I am the way, the truth, and the life. If Jesus was the Son of God, and he was, that means everything that he said was true. He never told a lie. And that means that when he says that he is the way, that's the only way. That's what we call the exclusive nature of the gospel, and you've heard me talk about it so much already. And the reason I keep bringing it up is because again, we live in a world today where this is not very popular. And people are easily duped to think that you know there are many other ways and oh God is God is a holy God is a holy God, but He's surely not gonna send people to hell. Friend, there's only two places to spend eternity, that's heaven or hell. And if you don't trust Jesus as your Lord and your Savior, then sadly you're not going to heaven because Jesus said, I am the way. You know, I've had the privilege of preaching in many foreign countries, and those of you that visit foreign countries, you know the importance of a passport, right? I was telling folks not too long ago, just a few weeks back, Carol and I were up in Nap Niagara Falls, New York. And we were um I was speaking there and We were right there on the border of Canada. I didn't really know that. I mean I'm not really great with geography a lot of times, you know. I remember that we decided to go to Walmart and I said to Siri, Siri, take me to Walmart. Well Siri started giving me directions. What Siri didn't tell me was it was a Walmart in Canada. So it took me to the toll booth right there at the border and the border guy there said, you know, what do you want? I said, I want to go to Walmart He said, where's your passport? I said, I don't have my passport with me. I just want to go to Walmart. He said, you can't come over here without your passport. You've got to have your passport to get in this place. Now I could have said I didn't I could have said but look at me see how sincere I am I'm such a sincere person I'm a nice person I try to do good Sir, I'm su uh he probably would say, Sir, I'm sure all that's true, but you can't get in here without the passport. You know. Let me tell you something, one day When I go to the gates of heaven and the border guard is there, he's going to ask me for my passport. You know what I'm not going to say? I'm not going to say, you know, I'm such a sincere person. I'm not gonna say, you know, um I I try to do good. I where's your passport? Do you have a passport? Do you have it? And I'll say, well, uh it's not a it, it's a him. My passport is Jesus. Jesus. And all my faith is in his finished work, what he did for me on the cross. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. I'm trusting in Jesus and Jesus alone. And you know what? That's the passport to heaven. That's what you have to have. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. You put your faith in the finished work of Christ, and you have your passport. You will go to that place. That the Bible says he will prepare for you, specifically for you, a real place that is so glorious, we can't even fully comprehend it. And my heart's desire is that every person in here, every one of you, that one day when you die, and we all will face death, that you'll have absolute certainty. That you're going to heaven, that you know Jesus Christ. Do you know him? Do you have your passport? Are you ready for that? Let's bow for prayer together. Would you examine your heart, please, just with your heads bowed and eyes closed? And just Ask yourself, am I absolutely certain have I put my full faith in Christ? Are you ready for heaven Heaven is a prepared place for a prepared people. And are you prepared? And there's only one way. That's by coming to Christ, confessing that you're a sinner like all of us, like I did when I was a teenager, convicted over my sin, realized that I needed a Savior. You come humbly to Christ. You come like the songwriter said, Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Help us look to thee for grace. Would you just pray and say, Savior, would you save me? Forgive me for my sins. Be my Savior, be my Lord. Reach out to Him in faith. And you know what the scripture promises that if we come to Him, He won't turn us away. He won't cast us aside. The Bible says, Him that comes unto me I will in no wise cast out. But the question is, will you come? Will you come? Will you put all your faith in Christ? And then to those who are believers, maybe there are some here today, you have in the past year have wrestled with great sorrow with the loss of a loved one. I hope that this sermon will give you courage. comfort and encouragement to know that heaven is real. It's real. And for those who know Christ, it'll be a wonderful reunion day. And may this motivate us. To speak to all of our loved ones and our friends about the gospel, the saving gospel of Jesus Christ, so that they can have this wonderful hope that Jesus gave to his disciples. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.