It's good to be in God's house. Take your Bibles open to the uh Book of Psalms in the Old Testament, Psalm 78. And as you know, on Wednesday night we've been um just dealing with issues on the family we've called the serious family matters. And I want to continue tonight in this psalm, but we'll uh get to Psalm 78. We'll probably take a while before we get there. Um, but I want to talk tonight about family worship. As a pastor, I have a great concern and burden for the next generation of the church. I'm sure you would probably share that. The prayer of my heart is that your children come to know Jesus Christ. And that your grandchildren also come to know Jesus Christ. I know that you're probably like me, the biggest prayer that I pray all throughout the day and the week and It's for my children and grandchildren that they would truly embrace the Lord. I pray for the children here, the families here, that our children here would come to know the Lord. And that they would live lives that would glorify God. That they would be strong Christians, those that would have a testimony for Jesus Christ. Sadly, we're seeing churches lose the next generation. We're seeing before our very eyes, I think, the decline of the church in the Western world. And some may be thinking, well, you know, we need better programs for our youth. That's what we need. We need to have that. We need to do better camps, we need to do better retreats, we need to do better music and more have more fun activities and so on. Uh a a while back I was speaking to a a a couple. They uh were an older couple. They uh live in another state, but they raise their children in church. In fact they said that that they raise their children through Sunday school, through all the programs, all the way into the the time of high school, they said we raise our children in what is one of the quote unquote best Baptist churches in all of the country. I don't know how you would define that, by the way, but or how you would measure that, but they said it was one of the best Baptist churches in all of the country, one of the a mega church. I mean this church had everything that you could ever want for your children or for your young people. They had all the activities you can name. And they said our children went right through that whole system. And they said, sadly, now they won't even darken the door of a church. Now that they're out on their own, they are never in church, and uh they were lamenting that whole thing. This person wanted an answer. They wanted me to give them an answer. They said, how come we raised our children in church? They were part of such a great church and part of all those programs, and now they turned from all of that. And unless you think that's a fluke, there's some t statistics out by a big denomination here in the country that basically revealed that eighty-eight percent of church youth leave their church after they finish high school. Eighty eight percent. According to according to Barna, uh his statistics are not much better. He said this, quote, when church growing teens were asked to estimate the likelihood that they would continue to participate in church life once they were living on their own. Levels dipped as far as statistics he's talking about here to only one in about uh one out of every three teens saying they expect to stay in church. Well, when we read stuff like that, that's alarming. And uh we ask ourselves, what is the problem? Why do uh Young people when they get to a certain age leave and they not come back. Do you actually think it's an we need better programs? Is that the answer? I mean, you know, if programs is what would get it done, I think we would be at the millennial table right now. I mean, we got some of the best programs in the history of the church age. We have programs at all the with all the bells and whistles. We have the latest cutting-edge technology and equipment. I mean some churches can rival Hollywood with their sound effects and all the things that they offer in a church worship service. I mean, you know, you get to smoke and everything on the on the church, you know, the music and the smoke. By the way, you'll never get smoke around here, so don't ever want to wish for that. It's just not going to happen. I'm sorry. I mean if if I felt like smoke would get people into uh the the kingdom of God and get people saved, I would set this pole on fire right now with a match. But that's not what gets it done as we know. You know, I it makes you want to feel sorry for the early church, you know, they didn't have all this stuff. And yet they seem to do pretty good. No, the answer is not better programs or activities or better music. I think part of the reasons for the statistics that I read is because maybe perhaps we've pinned our hopes on those things instead of putting our faith and hope in something else. You know, when I I remember we had a Christian school around here, I was a Christian school administrator. Um and uh I just it just I could t sense that a lot of times parents We're expecting the school to raise their children for them. And I I don't mean to to sound negative. I know that sounds negative anyway. But I'm not trying to be mean, I'm just trying to be a factual. I mean parents would come and they would give us their children and they would pay the tuition and they expected us to produce for them a godly child when it was all said and done. I mean basically they handed us Dennis the menace and wanted us to give him back the Yale Moody. And that's what and I mean honestly that's what they thought. They thought, hey, we're we're paying the tuition and we're sending them here. What's the problem? I mean how come you're not giving me John Wesley here? And a proverb I used to think about when I had I saw that attitude was Proverbs 17, 16. Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he had no heart to it? Yeah, I know you're sending your children with the tuition, but the only problem is they have no heart for wisdom. They have no heart to to be wise. I love the way one translation reads this, of what use is the m is money in the hand of a fool since he has no desire to get wisdom? The tuition is in his hand. You have the petition from the home, get wise, and the condition, however, of the heart is there they have no heart for the things of God that have no heart for wisdom. Parents at home have spent zero time cultivating the heart of that child with regard to spiritual things. There's no prayer in the home except for maybe grace at the table every now and then. There's no reading of scripture together. There's no family worship. There's no time to memorize scripture or teach the Bible. There's no study of the Ten Commandments which God has designed in His wisdom to break up the fallow ground of the heart of a child to cultivate it and to get it ready for the seed of the gospel, those commandments that show the holiness of God and thus would teach in that heart as well the fear of God. If you're too busy to do any of those things, then you're too busy. You're way too busy. In the average Christian home today, these things just don't go on. The the father is uh a passive perhaps, maybe he's apathetic about spiritual things. The mother is working a lot of times out out of the home full time and w with a second job in the home and very tired. And you know, it seems like TV is raising our children or the internet And parents come to church a lot of times just Sunday morning only, and a lot of times they skip Sunday school, and uh and that's it. So that so the child basically gets maybe one or two hours of spiritual instruction during the whole week. And then you say, Well, I I send my children to a Christian school. Well, okay, great. But again, there there is no substitute for what you do in the home. Whatever the Christian home puts to death, the Christian school or any other program is not going to be able to resurrect. It has to start in the home. And so um I just want to talk to you tonight about something that I think would be a help to all of our families if we would apply these things, and that is having what I call family worship. Really it's not what I call it, it's This has been around for a while. People call it different things. Family devotions, family altar, family worship, you know, a lot of different titles to it. But um it it's something I I I'm gonna call it family worship. It's just a time to get together as a family and to read the scripture together and talk about the things of God. Specifically, the center of that should be the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then also to pray together for one another and to pray for others. All through the Old and New Testament, God has laid the responsibility of spiritual training at the feet of the father and the parents in that home. God organized the human race through families, and he's dealt with them through the headship that is the Father. And so God expects fathers to take the initiative in doing this spiritual training. in the home. Douglas Kelly wrote this. Family religion, it's another different title for it, family religion, which depends not a little on the household head. Daily leading the family before God in worship is one of the most powerful structures that the covenant keeping God has given for the expansion of redemption through the generations, so that countless multitudes may be brought into communion with and worship of the living God in the face of Jesus Christ. And that's so very true. We need to get back to just family worship or family altar or family devotions, however you want to call it. Read scripture together. Read the Word of God together. Pray together. Teach your family the gospel. Remind yourself of the gospel every day. And then depend upon the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit to do the work of transforming the hearts of your children, or in some cases, your grandchildren. You say, all my children are off, they're out of the home. Yeah, well, if you're a grandparent, you got grandchildren, you can take some minutes, a few minutes with them, and just share some things with them and pray with them. And talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ at every opportunity, at every moment that you have, do that. Spurgeon said this, Brethren, I wish it were more common. I wish it were universal with all Christians to have family prayer. We sometimes hear of a child of children, of Christian parents, who do not grow up in the fear of God, and we are asked how it is that they turn out so badly In many, very many cases, I fear that such is a neglect of family worship, that it's not probable that the children are all at all impressed with any piety supposed to be possessed possessed by their parents. And so again, it I I think he could be right in that. So let me just give you some things here. I want to give you four uh to uh headings here, four elements uh for what I call family worship. First I want to talk about the theological foundation of family worship. What's the theology of this in Scripture? Well, I think, first of all, I would say the motto of the Trinity. The theological foundations for family worship are rooted in the very being of God. There's a perfect love. There's a perfect fellowship within the Trinity itself. And God didn't model Himself or the Trinity after our families. Rather, our families are modeled after the Trinity. God modeled the earthly concept of family after himself. Our family life reflects the life of the Holy Trinity. That's why Paul said in Ephesians 4. Verse 13 and 14 that speaks of the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the family in heaven and earth is named. And so there's this wonderful love and this blessedness that exists in the members of the Trinity, and our families really are based on that whole kind of idea. And God wanted to share, or that's the overflow of what was going on there between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit with us And so this whole concept of the family is something that God has passed on to us so that we could have this fellowship with God as members of our family together. This wonderful fellowship. That's I think what God meant when he said, Let us make man after our image. Let's let's see this continue on. Just as God is the center of the heavenly family called the Trinity, even so God must be the center of the earthly family. And so because we were created to enjoy God We also see this in Adam and Eve. Man was created to enjoy fellowship with God. There was Adam and Eve, and they worshiped God together, and they had that communion with God, and God was there with them. We talked about that already. That was God's purpose. Satan didn't want that, so he entered in and you know the whole story about how all that worked out. And then we also see the story of Noah in Scripture. The Bible says of Noah in Genesis 6. 9 that he was a just man and perfect in his generation, and he walked with God. That is to say, his spiritual life was blameless, and he walked with the Lord. And although when Noah built that ark Uh there wasn't a lot of people that got on that ark. I'll tell you who he did get on that ark. He got his family on board. If I could just live this whole life and see all my family get on board the Ark of Salvation, I'll be a happy man. But then we also see Abraham in the scripture. Abraham, the Bible says God was pleased with Abraham. God considered Abraham to be a friend. And he's so such a close friend that the Bible says God shared his secrets with Abraham. Why? In Genesis 18, 17 it says, And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham the thing which I sh I do? And then it says in verse 19, For I know him that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. That the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him. In other words, God knew that Abraham would communicate with his family the things that he himself learned from God. And that's an example, again, for all of us. We also see Joshua is another Old Testament example. Remember what Joshua said? He's the leader now of a new nation. uh uh uh a nation that he wanted to be strong and godly and he knew that the nation would only be strong if the families were strong and he knew that the families would only be strong. If they had godly spiritual leadership in the family. And you know the passage where Joshua said, As for me and my house, we will what? Serve the Lord. Did you know the word for serve there is actually the Hebrew word for worship? We're going to worship the Lord. By the way, when he makes this declaration, he was 100 years old. It was not too late for him to say that. Joshua knew that direct control over his family would soon end, but he wanted to make sure that he was setting the right pattern for all of his fa family. He knew that he was going to die soon, yet he was confident that his influence would not end, that his family would continue to worship the Lord as they saw him worship the Lord. And by the way, the next generation, they did But two generations after that, the the the children of Israel began to turn to other gods. And that's what the whole book of Judges is about. The Bible says in Judges two ten that there was a generation which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel. Because There was this gap in teaching of what God had done and who God was. There was a whole generation that really didn't know the Lord. And the whole nation began this downward slide into uh spiritual uh apathy and moral abyss. It was just What happened in the nation of Israel was a terrible thing. And why was that so? Because these families didn't worship together. They didn't follow Joshua's example There was no family worship going on. Jeremiah later came along and prayed that God would judge families that had forgotten God. Jeremiah said in Jeremiah ten twenty-five Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not, and upon the families that call not on thy name. Here Jeremiah equates heathen families with those who do not pray together. And so there's the example of Joshua. Then we have the example of Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 6. where Moses is giving his last sermon really to the whole nation, and he tells them in Deuteronomy 6, verse 1. Now these are the commandments which and s and the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to t to teach you, that ye might do them in the land where the ye go to possess. Verse two, that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God. To keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou and thy son and thy son's son, all the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. And notice in verse two there, there are three generations mentioned thou and thy son and thy son's son. And he also speaks about formal teaching in verse seven, when you sit down. I think the idea here is formal. getting together, talking about the scripture, seeking God's face, and then there's also the informal way of teaching scripture, when, you know, it's kind of out of the natural flow of the home of the home. When you rise up, uh you when you walk out Other way, you know, when when you lie down, when you rise up, and so on, out of the natural activity of the home, you constantly talk about God. You constantly keep God at the foremost of your thinking and talking. And then there's also yet that formal time when you all sit down together and you seek and you talk about God together. And then David. The Bible says that when David brought back the ark of God to Jerusalem with joy and thanksgiving, after he discharging his public duties, it says this, he returned to bless his household. He went back to his home to share with them what God has been doing. And then you come into the New Testament, you have the example of Lois and Eunice. Anybody know who they are? That's the grandmother and mother of Timothy. And you remember, Timothy had a a a father who was an unbeliever. He was Greek. He was pagan. And so his mother was left to instruct Timothy on her own. Remember I told you it only takes one Christian in a family to make a Christian home. And here is a s a mother whose husband was not a believer, and yet she is instructing him in the scripture, in the Word of God, so much so that when Paul wanted to encourage Timothy, he reminded Timothy of the the the legacy that he had in his home. He said, I call to remember the unfaint faith that's in you, which dwelt first in your mother And your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice. They passed it on to you. And later on, Paul said, Timothy, from a child, you've known the Holy Scriptures. Which are able to make you wise unto salvation. Timothy lived in Lystra. There was no synagogue there. Where did he learn the scriptures from? Totally from his mother and grandmother. They they they trained him. They had evidently family worship together. And so that's the theological foundation for it that we see in Scripture. But also there's the historical What I call the historical fathers of family worship. These are men throughout history that have tried to instill this godly discipline and habit into the church. Matthew Henry, the one who wrote the commentary, said this, the way of family worship is a good old way, no new thing, but the ancient use of The saints. This is something he says goes back. This is something that has been taught long ago. Martin Luther, the great reformer, even though he pastored a church, he wrote massive amounts of theology. He s he spoke a sermon almost every day, yet at the same time he was very faithful to uh lead his family in family worship. uh every day. He he wrote he said this Abraham, who had in his tents a house of God and a church, just as today any godly pious head of a household instructs his children in godliness Therefore, such a house is actually a school and church. And the head of the household is a bishop and a priest in his house. And I think that's so very true. And then just Baptists and uh Presbyterians in general, we can learn things from the Presbyterians, even though they don't know how to baptize. We can still learn. I know some of you may be Presbyterians out here. I don't want to offend you, but meet me at the baptistry. I'll tell you a little bit more about that after the service. But anyway, but they taught their families to worship. So, in fact, it was so much a part of their spiritual life that they included it in their statements of faith For example, in the Westminster Confession, this statement is made: God is to be worshipped and everywhere in spirit and in truth, as in private families daily, and secret each one by himself. So it was to be done with families. Did you know that there was a time in church history when churches used a book called the The Directory for Family Worship? And it was a guide that contained 14 divisions, including sections on the reasons for family worship, proper use of scripture, the responsibility of fathers to lead family worship, and directions for family prayer. In the preamble of the book, church pastors and elders were required to keep the heads of households accountable to this responsibility. And if they failed, they were to be admonished privately. And any husband or father who continued to neglect his spiritual responsibility to the family The director for family worship gave these instructions. This is what it said you're supposed to do. He is to be gravely and sadly reproved by the session. That is, this is the leaders in the church. pastors and so on. After which reproof, if he still be found still to neglect family worship, let him be for his obstinacy in such an offense suspended And debarred from the Lord's Supper as being justly esteemed unworthy to communicate therein till he amend. Wow. Pretty strong You know, if you don't do your duty, you're not allowed to participate in the Lord's supper. They thought that this thing of family worship was so necessary for the spiritual health of children, it was so indispensable for their souls. That any man who abandoned that was disciplined, and that's in the early days of these denominations And we could go on the English Puritans. Horton Davies wrote a classic book on the worship of the English Puritans, of the high esteem in which family worship was held by the Puritans. And then there are men like Richard Baxter He was a man who placed a great faith, a great emphasis on family worship and maintained that not only scripture but reason and experience pointed to the necessity of family worship together. And and he wrote this. And now I appeal to reason, conscience, and experience whether this employment, talking about family worship, be not more suitable to the principles, ends, and hopes of a Christian than idleness or vain talk or cards or dice or dancing or alehouse haunting or worldly business or discourse. Um so translation, this is a whole lot better than playing Monopoly. It's a whole lot better than there's nothing wrong with doing some of those things. Of course some of the things he mentioned in here were a little bit Worse, you know, going to the alehouse or dancing. But he said, All you know, this is so much better to do these things with your family. He said, persons coming into a family Should come into your home and cry out, this is none other than the house of God. This is the gate of heaven. He says, your home should have that kind of aura to it. And then Matthew Henry, he is the of course again the one who wrote the great commentary that we still refer to today His biographer said this of him. Matthew was constant in the worship of God in his family, morning and evening, which nothing was suffered to prevent. He was never tedious, but always full and comprehensive, performing much in a little time. Which seldom exceeded half an hour. In other words, he would do this with his family. It was never more than a half an hour, and he made it enjoyable for his family when he came together for family worship. And then there's Jonathan Edwards. We know that name. George Marston wrote, he began the day with private prayers, followed by family prayers. Again, that was his his custom every day. And then there's Samuel Davies. He is was the president of Princeton after Jonathan Edwards. Very godly man. And this is what he said, quote, If you love your children, if you would bring down the blessing of heaven upon your families, if you would have your children make their houses receptacles of religion When they set up in life for themselves, I beseech, I entreat, I charge you to begin and continue the worship of God and your families from this day to the close of your lives. Make it a habit every day, he said. J. W. Alexander, another godly minister, actually wrote a book called Thoughts on Family Worship. Really, one of the best books on the whole subject said this. Laying aside all flattering words, I may say plainly that I regard the neglect of family worship as springing from lukewarmness and worldliness in religion. And and then Spurgeon again. He said this if we want to to bring up a godly family, who shall be a seed to serve God when our heads are under the clouds of the valley, let us seek to train them up in the fear of God by meeting together as a family for worship. And then on we could go. I know I've been quoting a lot of guys here to you. But what I wanted to establish is not only the theological foundation for this But I want you to see how this was such a part of church life and religious life and Christian life in the earlier days. And somehow we've kind of lost this. And I think it's something that we really need to give back to as families. Let me give you the third thing here tonight, what I want to call the spiritual fruit of family worship. And now look in in in Proverbs, or excuse me, Psalms chapter seventy-eight, and look at verse number one down through verse eleven. And what I want you to see is the the first part of this whole psalm is really talking about the importance of teaching and instructing your children in the Word of God. Especially notice verse number three Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us we will not hide them from our children them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works which he hath done For he established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their what to their children. And so here again it's the psalmist saying, look, what God has done, tell this to your children. Make sure that you Teach your children about the greatness of God, the majesty of God, and to honor God. Tell them what He has done. I remember reading about John Phillips, who was a preacher from Wales. He passed away a while back, but he was a wonderful preacher, and preachers use his commentaries, but He talks about the the Welsh Revival. In Wales there was this great revival, and God did a tremendous work there in that country, so much so that the bars closed up. And just things changing the whole life of the country. But he said, one generation removed from that revival, Wales went right back into spiritual decline. And he said the reason for that was is because fathers didn't really teach their children. And he says if you go to go to Wales now, and again this was years ago, what you'll find are churches that are closed. And now there are Muslims that are using those buildings. Islam is growing in that country rather than Christianity. And by the way, the same thing can be happening here in the United States, in our own country, because there was this failure to pass on this this uh faith to our children. And look in uh Psalm sev seventy eight verses nine and ten. Notice what happens when a when a when we fail to do this, fail to pass on. the works of God to our children. He said, The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle. They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law, and forgot his works and his wonders that he had showed them. And so I don't want my children to turn back in the day of battle. I want all of our children to be faithful warriors of the cross and not to retreat. And so We have to faithfully teach them and I again I would encourage to make family worship a priority in your home. What happens when we teach our children? Just a few things here from Psalm 78. I know we Just have a few minutes here. But first of all, our children will have greater learning in God's Word. Look at verse number six of Psalm 78, that the generation to come might know them. Even the children which should be born who should arise and declare them to their children again might know them. Children will better learn the word of God. You know Your children will listen more to you than perhaps even a Sunday school teacher. They'll listen more when it comes from you. Instruction that a parent gives to children, they take it to heart. I'm convinced that no one can do a better job teaching the Bible to your children than you can. Because you know them. And I think this is especially true of fathers because Children have this natural admiration for their father. It's God-given. Proverbs 17, 6, where it talks about the glory of children are their fathers. And so our children will be better taught. Here's the next thing in verse six. It will prepare our children to teach their children. I want my children to teach their children the things of God. This is what we find in verse number six, that the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. May God use our walk of the Lord, our family worship to have an impact on our grandchildren. That's what the psalmist is talking about here, that kind of impact. But then another thing is our children replaced their hope in God. Look at verse 7, that they might set their hope in God. And not forget the w the works of God, but keep his commandments. And so we teach our children to put all of their hope in God. If this is not salvation, I don't know what it is. Our children need to learn to put all of their hope in our God. And hopefully our God will become their God. So that they put all their faith and hope in him. Our children will be obedient to God's word, verse 7, where it says that they forget not the works of the law, but keep his commandments. And so on. We can go more into that, but just with a little bit of time I have left, let me just give you what I call the practical framework for family worship. You say, okay, you convinced me I need to do this. What do we do? All right, let me just give you a few suggestions here. And it's really not that hard. But first of all, read the Bible. Just read the Bible together. Call your family together. Now I I told you that when our we were in our family when my kids were younger, um you know I I we I try different times to have family worship together and And uh it was kinda hard. It was like at times, to be honest with you, hurting cats, you know, kinda get 'em all together, you know, get their minds here. I want you to listen and focus, you know. Um but I found out that the best time for us was right before bed. And again the reason for that, you might probably heard me say this before is because my kids would rather do anything than go to bed. They just didn't want to go to bed. So I remember times when I said, get to bed, and they say, Dad, what about family worship? You know. Are you you're you're dad, you're backsliding. We need to have family worship together. You know. So we would we would do it right before bed because I had their attention. They would listen. It would be from five to ten minutes, sometimes a little longer, not that long. But what we would do is we would read read scripture together. We would sometimes read through a book together together. Or maybe it was the sermon from the previous Sunday, the passage from the sermon. And we would read that and we would say, you know, what did the preacher talk about? Now I happen to be the preacher. So they didn't really like that because it had it kept them accountable. You have to listen to Dad. But anyway, but use a use a good Bible to just read some scripture together. Talk about what it's the verse is about. Quiz them on it. If your children are small, get a storybook that has beautiful pictures in it, that has Bible stories. And then talk about that story. Talk about what happened And then talk about God. What did God do? God is the main character of every story in the Bible. So make sure that you're talking about the attributes of God. This is what this reveals to us about God. We see in this story the love of God, or maybe we see the wrath of God, the judgment of God, or we see the wisdom of God in this story. But always go Take a beeline to the gospel because every story in the Bible, you can make your way to the cross or the gospel in some way. So even in those little stories that just take a few minutes, go to the cross. How does this speak to us about what Jesus did? Make the gospel the center of all those stories. Because you want to constantly point your children to the Lord Jesus Christ And then there's also catechism. Some families like to do this. What is that? It's just simply question and answer. Question and answer. Sometimes you get these little books that are based on good theology, good doctrine, that have ask questions and then give the answers. Who is the greatest of all beings? The answer is God. And then, you know, um what is a sin? A sin is any transgression of the law of God. And then you kind of just learn doctrine through question and answer, and you challenge your children to remember all that You know, ri you go through maybe five at a time. Next time you come around, hey, do you remember the last five and so on? It's a good way to teach doctrine. And then if your family can sing, sing Maybe sing a song together, sing a hymn together. Meditate on the words of that hymn if it's got good theology in it. You know, if you're and if you're Not a good singer, you know, like my family would tell me sometimes, yeah that dad, you should probably go study something while we sing. But anyway, um but no, meditate on the words of it together. It's an excellent opportunity to teach theology and then simply memorize scripture, maybe a memory verse, and and give some kind of incentive for your children to learn that. But I would just say be interesting, be brief, be consistent, be flexible with it. And the other thing that I really want to strongly encourage you to do is to pray together. Make sure you end your time with prayer. Just let them hear you pray for them. Let them hear you pray for their salvation, for their understanding. Let them hear you pray for others in the family, for people in your church. We would end our devotions by just taking prayer requests. Maybe the kids had some things they wanted to pray about. Or family members or or their friends. We would then just take requests. And then I would ask them to pray. Uh, you know, I wouldn't put pressure on them, but they they got very comfortable just praying, and we would pray around. And then I would I would close in prayer. And just and just do that. I think that this will be something that uh I think that children will carry with them all their life All their life they'll carry this with them. And again, you say, well, again, my children are out of the home. I'm a grandparent. Well, when the grandkids are over, take a few minutes, and if they're spending the night, you do family devotions with them that night. Or you teach them the gospel that night. Let it come from you. But constantly point to Christ, constantly point to the gospel, and let them see how the gospel has changed your life as well. And talk about that. Here's what God did in my life. Talk about your testimony, what God did for you. Because again, the whole goal is that our children will embrace that gospel just like you did. We want them to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for saving us. We thank you for the grace that you've manifested in our life. And Lord, this is something that we should be constantly talking about, especially with our family. We should be recalling your works of grace. Your faithfulness. Let this be the center of our talk at our home, Lord. The gospel of Christ and your grace and what it's done for us. And I pray, Lord, for every family here in our church. That the gospel would be communicated in these ways. And I pray that you'll challenge families to read scripture together and pray together. And to purposely make Christ the center of that home so that every family here will be blessed. That every child would come to know Jesus Christ. And that, Lord, we would see a generation of children that are strong. that will rise up and stand firmly on the truth of Scripture. Lord, how we need that in these difficult days. So Father, may we take the heart This simple sermon and the and the practical things here that I've been taught by others. Lord, may we apply this to our own life and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.