Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of Colossians, chapter two? Please the book of Colossians chapter two. And I want to read The first seven verses of Colossians chapter two with you this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Verse number one of Colossians two. For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you and for them at Laodicea, for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, unto all riches of the assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ. in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in spirit, joying and beholding your order and steadfastness of your faith in Christ. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in Him, rooted and built up in Him, established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding They're in with Thanksgiving. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Heavenly Father, thank you for the inspired word of God, this message that you have for us. And I pray that Lord you will help us now as we go to this passage, Lord. And give us attentive ears to hear, Lord, your message to the church from this passage. And help me, Lord, as your servant, to make it clear. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I heard about a church, an old church in England, in the front of the church, there was a sign that said, We preach Christ crucified. And in time ivy began to grow up and it kind of covered part of the sign where the sign read, We Preach Christ And then the Ivy continued to grow up and it covered again more of the sign, so finally where the sign read, we preach, and that was it. And in time that church died. It's kind of an apt metaphor. It's not enough just to preach. The question is, what are you preaching? And we preach Christ, Christ crucified, Christ who is the sufficient one, the one in whom you are complete when you come to know Him. And so Paul is concerned about this very thing. He's concerned about the church at Colossae, also the church at Laodicea, even though he himself have never really Uh these churches were started and they were doing well for a while, but problems began to come. He's worried about these churches because They're being led away from Christ. They're being led away from the idea, the knowledge that Christ is sufficient for all that they need, all their spiritual riches. And he doesn't want anything to hinder their growth in Christ towards full maturity. And that's really the heart of a pastor. Any pastoral desire will be that you grow spiritually, that you mature in the Lord Jesus Christ. A believer cannot lose their salvation, but you can lose a lot of blessings. And you can lose ground spiritually. You can be seriously hindered in your walk. And Paul doesn't want this to happen to these believers. And so this message here is a warning to these believers. It's a warning about being beguiled by false doctrine, by persuasive speech. Things that will lead them away from Jesus Christ. So just let me give you three ideas out of this passage here this morning, three truths. Really, this is a plea for spiritual growth. So notice number one the prayer for spiritual growth. Paul prays for them in the first three verses we see the heart of a pastor. Look again in verse one, for I would that you knew what great conflict I have for you, for them at Laodicea, for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh. Again, he's really earnestly praying for these believers. Look at the word conflict there. It's from the word agone. It's where we get the word agony. And this was a word that was used of an athlete in competition that was striving with all of his might to compete. Paul is actually really, he's continuing what an argument that began in the first chapter. Go back to chapter 1, look at verse 29, the verse right before that. He says, whereunto I also labor Striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily. Paul is striving. Again, the word is agonizami, agonizing. He's laboring, energia, where we get the word energy. He's using all of his might He's praying. He's seeking God on behalf of these believers. You know, for those in the ministry, you know that ministry is work. Sometimes it's agonizing. And a lot of times we have to agonize in prayer on behalf of the church. And that's okay with Paul. Paul was willing to suffer whatever he had to suffer on behalf of these believers to see that they grow spiritually in Christ. And again, these were believers that he had never really seen face to face. The heart of the Apostle Paul was such that he was concerned more about just those that he had known, but he was concerned about the church in general. And so he agonizes in prayer. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever agonized in prayer? A lot of times we, you know, I never I don't know where we ever wherever we got the word quiet time. You know, it's almost like it's all you know soothing and you're quiet and you're a lot of times it's not a quiet time. A lot of times you're agonizing and you're praying and you're crying out With all of your might. You know, prayer should be that at times. I know there are times when our prayers are quiet and peaceful and thankful, but there are also times in our prayer life when we have to cry out and we have to agonize in prayer over something. And here this is what Paul's doing because he sees that many of these believers are being pulled away from the sufficiency that's in Christ. And that's a real danger. So much so that Paul agonizes over it and he prays. What does he pray for? He prays for their encouragement. Look in verse 2, that their hearts might be comforted. This is simply the word for encouragement. He wants these believers to be encouraged in their faith. To know that they have all in Christ, discouragement can thwart your spiritual growth, but also endearment. Look again in verse 2, being knit together in love. Knit together is one word it means to be tied together. And Paul wants this church to be tied together in love. That's the element that matters most in church. It's not the organizational structure. I don't want our church to be wired together through organization. You know there's a lot of big churches out there. I I pastored a really big church that had all these committees, it had a committee on this and a c a committee about that, and then it had a committee over the committees. And it was kind of wired together with this structure to keep it all. But the one thing that the church lacked was it seemed to lack a love for each other. And God doesn't want us wired together through organizational structure. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. I'm just saying the most important things about a church is that we are tied together in love. And the bonds of love. And Paul, this is what he's saying. He wants them to be united together in love. And that's what happens when you come to the body of Christ. We are all come to the foot of the cross. We're baptized into one body. It doesn't matter your background. It doesn't matter who you are. We are All made to drink of one Spirit, the Apostle Paul said, we are all one in the Lord Jesus Christ. We came to Christ the same way. We were all saved by putting our faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Coming to the cross. And Paul wants this church to practically live out what is positionally true, this oneness, this being knit together in love. But also he prays for their enrichment in verse 2, where he says, being knit together in love unto all riches. Now he's referring, I think, to the riches of Christ. He referenced that already in chapter 1, verse 27: that God would make known to you what is the riches of the glory of this mystery. Among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you. Do you realize that you spiritually, because you are a Christian now and you know Jesus, you're spiritually rich? You know, a lot of believers they live like paupers when they really should be living like kings. Spiritually, I'm speaking here, because in Christ you have all the riches that you need. Reminds me of a man I read about, a homeless man in Salt Lake City, Utah. He was a millionaire and he didn't know it. He was sixty years old, living on the streets, pushing around a shopping cart. His family had been trying to find him to tell him the news that his brother had died and left him an inheritance that made him filthy rich. But this man refused any messages that were passed along to him He refused them. And finally the family hired an private investigator to hunt this man down and to convince him to call home. And finally he did, and when he called home, he found out that he was rich because of the death of his older brother. Do you know you're rich because of the death of our elder brother Jesus? You've been enriched because of what Christ has done for you. And many believers They don't realize it. And so therefore, they're not drawing upon the spiritual riches that they have in Christ. You know what a lot of believers are doing there instead of reveling in the riches they have in Christ and learning about these riches spiritually by going to the Word of God and applying these things, they're looking for uh in other places They're outsourcing, they're going outside the church, as if there's something in the wisdom of man that could help them spiritually, if there's something in the philosophies of this world that can give them what Christ cannot give them That's what Paul's concerned about here with the heresy that was going on at the Church of Colossae. You know what it was? It was a heresy that said, you know, Christ is good. He's just not enough. This heresy taught that Jesus Christ was not the highest God, but that he was simply one of the lesser emanations from God. called Gnosticism. Gnosticism taught that the highest God sent out a series of emanations of beings that are less like him, less God, they came all the way down to man, and that the key to Getting to the highest God was to go through these spirit beings. In order to do that, you had to have special knowledge. And they also taught that Jesus Christ was not the highest God. He was just one of these spiritual beings. It's good to know Christ, but that's not enough. You need more. You need special spiritual knowledge And this was a heresy that had invaded the church. And that's why Paul writes this letter of Colossians, and you know what he says in this letter? Look in chapter one, look at verse 15. Talking about Christ, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Verse sixteen, for by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions, principalities, or powers. All things were created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist. He is the highest God. He's not just one spiritual being. He's the head of all. He's the head of the church. He's the head of all creation. In fact, everything in creation consists because of Jesus Christ. He's the head of all. And what you need to realize as a Christian is that in Christ you have all of these riches because now you are being baptized you've been baptized into the body of Christ. You are now A believer. And look in chapter 2, look down at verse number 10. Notice what it says. And ye are complete in him. Which is the head of all principality and power. You're absolutely complete in Christ. You say, well, I'm not complete. Well, if I am complete, how come I'm not complete? It's because you don't realize you're complete. And you're not living out this completeness. It's like the man who took a trip to America. He worked to say to get the ticket to purchase it so he might come to America. And it took everything he had to purchase that ticket. He didn't have any money to buy food on the boat, and so he stayed in his cabin and he had some crackers and cheese and he rationed them very carefully. So that by the end of the trip he had almost he was so emaci emaciated he had almost died of starvation. So he was getting off the boat, the captain looked at him and said, What happened to you? He said, Well I only had enough money to buy the ticket. I didn't have enough money to buy any food on the boat. The captain said, Don't you realize when you buy the ticket, it gives you access to everything on the boat? Everything is yours. You could have had all the food you wanted. You know what the problem was? He didn't realize it. He didn't know it. A lot of times I look at Christians and they're spiritually emaciated. You know why? Because you don't realize all the riches you have in Christ. And you're not taking full advantage of these riches. And so Paul prays for their enlightenment. Look in chapter two, look in the latter part where he says that And unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ. Full assurance of understanding, we can say it like this, until they are rich in the assurance of their understanding. Paul prays that the Colossians might have complete assurance of all the riches that they have in Christ, that you might understand that. Simply put, he prays that they would understand how rich they really are. And that's my prayer that you'll understand how truly rich you are in Jesus Christ. That you're complete in Him. That you don't need to go outside of Christ for any spiritual need that you might have. He's sufficient for it. You know, there's a word that we use in the New Testament that's called blessed We hear that word. Remember Jesus used it in the Sermon on the Mount. Blessed. Blessed. Blessed. You know what the Greek word is? It's makarios. Macarios is a name of an island off of Greece. And it the word Macarios means to be self- contain. And the reason they named this island Macarios is because the residents that lived on that island didn't need to leave that island for anything. Everything that they could possibly want or need was offered on that island. The natural resources of this island was Such that it was so rich and so fruitful and so productive that everything they needed for life was right there on that island. There was no need to go anywhere else. And that's what it means to be complete in Christ. It's you being in Christ and understanding that you don't need to go outside of Christ. For anything. All of your spiritual needs are met in him. And you say, why do you bring this up? Because we're living in a day when churches are don't see Christ as sufficient and they're importing man's philosophy and wisdom as if it could do anything to help the body of Christ. Or to help the Christian. We're living in dangerous days when we hear all these ideas. And you know who's out actually out there promoting these ideas? It's ministers and churches and denominations. Telling you, oh, you know, Christ is good, but we could sure benefit from all these other things. And they're they're importing ideas and philosophies that are man-made wisdom. And I want to tell you something that when we begin to teach people to depend upon the wisdom of man, that's when people's hearts depart from the Lord. Instead of depending on the Lord. This is the thing that Paul was concerned about with the Colossians. And he says, look in verse number three, in whom, talking about Christ, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Paul says to the Colossians, don't you understand that in Christ is hid all of these treasures of wisdom? Now he's using this word hid very purposefully. It's the Greek word apokrufos. And um it's basically a word that has the idea of something that is hidden, um, you know, something that is uh out of sight. And the Gnostic teachers back in Paul's day had a book where they amassed all of this quote-unquote secret hidden knowledge. And this book, uh this is where, by the way, where we get the word Apocrypha from. This is not talking about the Apocrypha that we know that some use, but this is this is the same idea. Apocryph is This book that had all this secret hidden wisdom that these false teachers were promoting and they were saying, Oh, you need this book here, you need this secret knowledge in order to really, really Get to the highest echelons of spiritual maturity and knowledge and wisdom. So we began promoting this book. By the way, we still have religions that do that. They're promoting things outside of Scripture. And you know what Paul said? He used the same word. He said, yeah, there's wisdom that's hidden, all right, but it's hid in Jesus Christ. All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden, not in some mysterious book. They're hidden in Jesus Christ. And when you come to know Christ, you get that, that truth, that knowledge. And that's really his prayer for spiritual growth, that they might understand how complete they are in Christ, and they would draw upon all the resources that they have in the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to notice number two the pitfall to spiritual growth. Look at verse number four. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you. With enticing words. Again, this was Paul's fear that a lack of understanding of their riches in Christ could cause believers to be open and susceptible to these deceptions. That would come. The word begal is a very interesting Greek word. Tera, which means alongside. Logizomide, where you kind of get the word logic out of that Or it means to reason, to reason alongside, and it's the idea of someone coming alongside you and reasoning falsely, miscalculating. These ideas, this is what Satan does. He wants to argue alongside the believers. He wants to give you ideas that cause you to miscalculate. How does he do that? In verse 4, we see with enticing words. Men should be you with enticing words. Again, another interesting word, pith analogia. And this is a word that's used to speak of a lawyer's persuasive argument in court. There's all kind of persuasive teachers, philosophers out there, and their words sound very inviting, and they seem to make sense, that seems to be logical. But in the end it's false. I want to tell you something, folks. The devil's a smooth talker. And so are his servants. It's very convincing. And the Garden of Eden, he got Adam and Eve to believe that what they had, they needed something besides God. They needed more than just God. God was holding out on them. He got them to believe that. And this is still happening today. Smooth words seemingly coming from religious places. Trying to tell people that you need more than just Christ. You need the Christ is not sufficient. The cross is not sufficient. All those things are good. They're wonderful, but you need more than that. You need more than the Word of God Jesus is good, but he's one among many. You need to add something to Christ. No, friend, let me tell you something. Jesus is the one and only. That's what the whole book of Colossians is about. You're absolutely complete in him. But this is the spirit of the age today. And the world today says, oh, we don't want you to turn your back on Jesus. We just want you to add things to Christ or add things to the Bible or add things to your Christianity. You know, all religions are equally true. There's truth to be found all over. And that's such a warm, fuzzy idea. The only thing is it's wrong, and it's damnable. Because Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life, and no one comes under the Father except through me. And so this is the pitfall of spiritual growth that Paul warns about. But let me give you the third and final thing. We see his prayer. His plea for them to grow. We see the pitfall that he warns them about. But then I want you to see the portraits of spiritual growth. Because in verses five down to verse seven, what uh what he does is he gives some several word pictures to illustrate Growing in your completeness or moving forward or making progress spiritually, we could say. And that's his desire for the church, and that's my desire for you, that you would grow spiritually, that you would make progress So look at these portraits I call them. One of an army, look what he says in verse 5: For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am I with you in spirit, joying in beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ The key words there, order and steadfastness, these are military terms, and it has the idea of an army that is marching forward in rank. There's order, there's steadfastness, the idea of a solid front. The ranks are unbroken. They're standing firm. They're moving forward. You know, that's what the church is like. You better understand that you're a soldier in an army, beloved. And God doesn't want you to break ranks. Paul says just keep marching in order. Don't break rank. Don't leave the army. Just keep moving forward. And notice where he says in verse 5, though I be absent in the flesh, Paul wasn't with them. He was writing from Rome, but he hears about them, and he knows about them. And he says, even though I'm absent in the flesh, I'm with you in spirit. And I joy when I hear about you're like an army that's moving forward. Don't let anything Keep you back. Don't let anything spoil that or stop that. Just keep marching in the army. Be ready to engage in spiritual warfare That's part of your growth. But also, it's like a pilgrim journey. Look at verse 6. And as ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. You're pilgrims on a journey. Just as you've received Christ, so walk in Him. You know what the Christian life is like? It's like a long walk. You're continuing to walk You took the first step when you put your faith in the finished work of Christ. You repented of your sin. You turned to Christ. And that was the first step. But you know what? You continue taking those same steps You keep walking. There's no such thing as oh I I put my faith in Jesus and now I'm I I walk in a different direction. No, that's that's not being a real believer. You can't just make one step and then decide to turn back into the world. True spirituality, true Christianity is where you Took that initial step and you put your faith in Christ, and now you continue to walk in him. As you have received Christ Jesus, you continue to walk in him, which is repentance and faith. Many years ago I repented of my sin and I put my faith in Jesus, but I want to tell you, almost every day since then I've been repenting and placing my faith in Jesus. Not for salvation, but it's just I continue in that same walk. When you turn from the world and you turn to Christ, you continue in that direction, and spiritual growth is a long journey. You know, we live in an instant world. We want everything instantly. You ever notice that? I mean, even if you're in the fast food line in McDonald's drive-thru for too long, you hear people start hammering their horn Everybody's so impatient now. Everybody wants things immediately. There's no patience anymore. And sometimes that translates into our spiritual life. I want to be instant, holy saint of God. Saint Jerome, Saint Jerry, I want it now. Boom. As if God is going to, you know, throw a lightning bolt, a holy lightning bolt from heaven, all of a sudden make you completely holy and Complete and your practice, no, it doesn't happen that way. You know what it is? It's a long walk. Day by day Where you're every day trusting in Jesus, every day I'm turning to Him, I'm repenting of my sin. Let me tell you something, I repent of sin every day of my life. Repentance is a continual attitude. Where I want to walk a holy walk, and I'm ashamed over some of the sins I commit, and I repent, and I continue to walk in Christ every day. Enough of this where you know you come to church one time and you go to the altar and you make a decision and that's it. We don't ever see any more repentance in a person's life. We don't hardly ever see them darken the door of a church. Every once in a while they might darken the door of a church To do us a favor. But I want to tell you something, friend, if your faith doesn't get you to church on Sunday morning, I doubt it'll get you into heaven. It's a continual walk, a pilgrim journey. And then it's like a tree in verse 7. Rooted, it says, we're rooted in Christ. Christians are not to be tumbleweeds that have no roots, being blown about by every wind of doctrine. No, they have their roots in Christ. Like the the psalmist said in Psalm 1, we are planted by the river With our roots, and we are delighting in the word of God. And then he it's like a building in verse 7. And built up in him, established in the faith. This is an architectural term. You're being built up The foundation is Christ, and we are like a building being built on Christ. And each day we're adding more and more and we're building up a spiritual temple. We're like buildings, it's Paul said. And then finally, like a river in verse 7 where he says, As ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving, the word abounding here is suggests a river overflowing its banks. And what are we abounding in in verse 7? We're abounding with what? Thanksgiving. You can measure a person's spiritual growth and progress according to the depths of their thanksgiving in God. How thankful are you? Are you abounding in thanksgiving? We're to be flooding with thanksgiving. We're to be overflowing with thanksgiving to God for all the things that He has done in our life. Even the seeming inconveniences and the difficult providences come our way. Even in those things, there are things on which to be thankful for. Like Matthew Henry, the great commentator, once he was robbed as he was walking along a highway, and afterwards he thought about it and he said, I'm thankful. And his friend said, What are you thankful for? He said, Well I'm thankful that that's the first time I've ever been robbed. I have never been robbed before. Secondly, he said, even though they took all my money, they didn't get a lot. Thankful for that. He said, I'm thankful that although they took my money, they didn't take my life. And I'm thankful that I was the one who was robbed, and I was not the one who was robbing. I'm thankful for that. Here's a man that learned the overflowing with thanksgiving. And that's all part of our spiritual growth. And so in summary, the prayer is Paul prays that they will understand all that they have in Christ, all the treasures that are hid in Christ. The pitfall is Paul warns them not to be led away from the sufficiency that they have in Christ. And the portraits of spiritual growth are where Paul gives us several pictures of what our progress should look like. As we're growing in our understanding of our completeness in Jesus Christ. So the question is. Are you growing in that? Do you understand that in Christ you have all? I heard about a wealthy man who had an only son and he loved him dearly. And this wealthy man was uh interested in collecting paintings, beautiful works of art, and he taught his son to do the same. They accumulated all these wonderful works of art. And a war broke out, and his son was called away to war, and later this man got word that his son was missing in action. And then later on he got word, the terrible news that his son has lost his life in the war. And the father was just heartbroken. And here the father had all these treasures of art that they had collected together, but none of them could compare to his son. And one day there was a knock on the door and it was another soldier that knew his son and he said, Sir, I was a good friend to your son, and I want you to know that he died saving the lives of others. And he said, I'm a bit of an artist. I'm not a really good artist, but I painted a portrait of your son before he died, and I wanted to give it to you. And he gave the man a frame picture, and it was a beautiful picture, and it was such a beautiful likeness of his son. Wasn't done by a famous painter. But it was so beautiful and the father was so proud of that and he hung it above the mantle next to the other paintings. And in time the old man died. And there was an auction for all these works of art. And the auctioneer opened up the auction by saying, we're going to sell first this portrait of this man's son. And the people there said, Oh, that wasn't really painted by a famous artist. We want the real works of art. And the man said, Well it was stipulated in the will that this be sold first. Can I hear a bid for a hundred dollars? And no one said anything. And finally one man out of pity said, I'll give a hundred dollars. Going once, going twice, sold for a hundred dollars. And the people were happy. They said, now let's buy the real works of art. And the auctioneer said the auction is over. They said, what do you mean? It was stipulated in the will that the Father said, whoever gets the Son gets everything. Whoever gets the sun gets everything. What a beautiful picture. You know what? Hallelujah. Whoever gets Jesus gets it all. You get it all. You're complete in Him. So do you have Christ? And if you do, you have all that you need. And if you don't, for I tell you today, don't leave without knowing Jesus Christ. And being having all those spiritual riches that you have in Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, do you know Christ? Do you understand what you get when you come to Him? Forgiveness of sin, eternal life in heaven Wisdom for the difficulties of this life, strength and grace to carry you through the hard times. Knowledge of him you you become rich. And there's no one here that can guarantee me that you'll know what will happen tomorrow in your life. We don't know. That's why we should be ready for death. And the only way you can be ready is by knowing Christ, making sure Jesus is your Savior. And I encourage you right now, if you reach out, if you'll turn to him in repentance and faith and say, Yes, Jesus, I know that you're the Savior, I know that you are the way, the truth, and the life. And I put my faith in you, my full faith in you, you and no other. I'm not adding you to any other religion I have. I know that you are the only one. You're the one and only, and I put my faith in you and you alone. Christ plus nothing equals everything. Would you just pray in your heart and say, Lord Jesus, save me? Save me, Lord Jesus, and He will save you, friend. If you prayed that Let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian walk today. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts. Thank you for our completeness that we have in Christ, the riches that we have in him. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.