Well, it's good to see you here in God's house. And I invite you to take your Bible and open to the book of Romans. You know we're studying Romans. on Sunday evenings and we're coming to Romans and we're going to just camp out on one verse tonight. I think it uh it's a verse that y'all know very well. And it's kind of one of those verses that you can't pass over too lightly because this is a verse that we all take comfort in. Look in Romans 8. 28 tonight Romans 828. Perhaps some of us could quote this by memory, but I want us to look at it and look at it in its context and apply it to us tonight. And I call this a promise of divine providence, or we could call it a principle of providence. This speaks to me about the providential work and hand of God in our life. So let me ask you a question. Did any of you any of you had a hard year? This year or last year, I think all of us could say we've all had things happen in our life that that have been difficult. Uh the other that was just kind of listing some things that I've been going through and I I thought this is not a good idea. I should stop But the truth of the matter is, a lot of us go through difficult times. And then we hear verses like this, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Concerning you. And you might say to yourself, how can I give thanks for everything? I mean, we hear of terrible events that happen. We hear parents who lose their children in horrible accidents. I've heard reports about that on the news. We hear of young people whose lives are suddenly taken. We hear people losing their jobs and losing their homes. We hear people that get a fatal illness. We hear one tragedy after another. I spoke to a man who uh who's been out of a job for two years. He tried and tried to find employment. Finally he found the job and he went and he worked and he wanted to w work really hard and pressed the bosses and so he worked so very hard But he worked so hard that he got a herniated disc in his back. And then his leg went numb. And it caused excruciating pain. And and finally the uh the company let him go. The company doctor couldn't clear him to work, so they just let him go And now he he's out of a job again. And so a person like that might ask, how can I give thanks for that? But that verse doesn't really say for everything give thanks. It says what? In everything give thanks. You see, we don't have to be thankful for the event that might take place in our life that we might look upon from our perspective as being bad. But in that event, we can know that we can be thankful for it. And the reason we can be is because of this verse right here. So really In everything give thanks. It says, not for everything, but in everything. How many of you ever heard of Matthew Henry? You ever heard of Matthew Henry's commentary? You know why he wrote that commentary? He was a pastor's son, and he took Really good notes from his father's preaching. And uh through the years he just kept adding on those notes and adding on those notes, and he decided to go through and just have a commentary on the Bible and he was a Puritan. That was written in the sixteen hundreds. And we still use that commentary today, Matthew Henry's commentary. Well he was once robbed by thieves, and he wrote these words in his diary after he was robbed. He said, First Let me be thankful because I was never robbed before. I'm thankful in that. Secondly, because although they took my purse, they did not take my life. Third, he said, I'm thankful because although they took all that I had, it wasn't much. And then fourth, I'm thankful that it was I who was robbed and not I who robbed. That's an illustration of in everything give thanks. He wasn't thankful necessarily that he was robbed, but he was thankful in that event. And again, we can say things like that because of this wonderful promise The promise of God's providence that we see here in Romans 8. 28. Look at that verse. For we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now this is one of the greatest texts in all of Scripture. There's no other verse in the Bible that covers so much territory or conveys So much comfort as this one verse. And so that's why I want us to just think about it and just meditate on it tonight with me. So let me just give you five perspectives. I want you to see from this verse five perspectives about the principle of providence, or we could say the promise of God's providence. Now here's the first one. Just write down the certainty of it. If you're taking those right down the certainty of it, look at it again. And we know. I want you to notice that this verse starts off with a ring of certainty. God doesn't say it's possible that all things can work together. He says, we know. Now the Greek word there is Oda, which means absolute knowledge, positive knowledge, beyond any doubt Again, he does not say there's a good chance of this thing working out for your good. No, that's not what he says. He says we know with certainty. This is going to work out for your good. Now this this verb here is a perfect indicative. And remember what I told you about Greek. How many of you remember your Greek lessons I've been teaching? Anybody here? No, no hands are up. You all failed the course. Let me remind you again about Greek verbs. There's really four moods in Greek. There's the indicative mood, which is the mood of fact. This is going to happen. And then there is the subjunctive mood, which is the mood of a possibility. It may happen. It's possible. And then there's the mood, the imperative mood, which is a command. And then there's the optative mood, which is a wish. Now, the mood of this verse is not optative, it's not a wish. And the sense of it is, oh, I wish that all things will work together for good. No, that's not it This is not a subjunctive mood. It's possible that all things work together for good. That's not the sense of this verse, but it is in the indicative mood, or we could say it like this: it is a fact. That all things are going to work together for your good. It's a fact. Isn't that good to know? God didn't say maybe. God said it's a fact. You might be going through a very difficult time right now, and you might be saying, Man, I uh it's hard to bear this, but you can take comfort in this. If you're a child of God, it's a fact that this is going to work together for you. I don't know about you, but that gives me a lot of comfort. Now, the truth of the matter is, we may not see that how that how God does that on this side. We may not know that on this side of eternity, but I believe that one day when we get to heaven, we're going to see things from God's perspective, and we're going to say, you know what? Now I understand. Now I know. Sometimes we can know here on this side. that how God does it. You might it we have to give God time. You may go through a calamity right now. You're going through a difficulty. You might not understand that that trial that you went through. That tragedy that you had to endure and you don't understand right now how this is working out for your good. It may be years down the road when you can look back and you can say, you know what, God, it makes sense now Understand now. How many of you can say that? I mean you don't have to raise your hand, but how many of you had something happen years ago and and and far removed from it now, you can look back and you can say, you know what, I understand now Why God did that the way He did. A man recommended a play to his friend. He said, This play is marvelous. He said, You'll love it. It's so uplifting. It's so exhilarating. You'll give you encouraged And later on when he saw his friend, he said, How'd you like it? He said, It was terrible. He said, What do you mean terrible? He said, Well, he said uh the kid was kidnapped, the father lost his job, the mother ended up in a hospital, it was depressing And the man said, well, did you stay till the end? He said, no, I left after the second act. I couldn't take any more. He said, well, that's why. He said you had to stay till the end. You had to wait until the end. It's at the end it all worked out. And friend, listen, when you're going through a trial, don't give up on Almighty God Just stay faithful. Because in the end, God has given us this promise. It's all going to work out for good. I was over in England and I visited a place called Smithfield. This is where Bloody Mary, the Queen, would burn Protestant preachers at the stake, and there was a story, a famous story. told by Charles Fergin of a man who was uh arrested during the quen the the reign of Queen Mary for preaching the gospel. He was condemned to burn at the stake there at Smithfield And uh on the way, uh by the way, when it was handed down to him the uh uh the arrest and the sentencing, uh People ask him, how do you feel? And he quoted the verse, this very verse here. He said, All things work together for good. They said, How in the world is you being burned at the stake going to work together for good? He said, I don't know But he said, I believe that all things work together for good. Well, on the way to Smithfield, the soldiers treated this man so roughly that they threw him down and it broke his leg. And they laughed at him as he was there on the ground writhing in pain and they said, How is this going to work together for your good? He said, I don't know. And so they took him to a place to get his leg taken care of and bandaged up. And because they did that, they arrived one day late at Smithfield. And during the delay, you know what happened? Queen Mary died, and and Queen Elizabeth took the throne, and she pardoned this man from being burned at the stake. And as he walked past his guards, he said, All things work together for good. To those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. Now the truth of the matter is we may not see here sometimes on this side how that this verse applies, but we have to trust And the providential hand of God that He's going to work it all out. So we see number one, the certainty of it. But I want you to write down number two, the circumference of it. Because think about this. All things work together for good. Now again, this is mind-boggling to me I mean, we would be comforted if we if the verse said, some things work together for good. Some of the things you go through are going to work together for good, but that's not what it says. All things. You know what the word all means in the Greek? It means all. All things. All things work together for good. This encompasses all the experiences of life All the good things, all the bad things, all the joys, all the sorrows. You know what I think about when I think about and I meditate on this? I think about Ecclesiastes chapter 3. You remember that passage where Solomon is listing all the things that we experience in life? Let me read to you part of it. Ecclesiastes 1. To everything there is a season, a time to every purpose under heaven. And you know the rest of this, right? Time to be born, time to die, a time to plant, a time to pluck up that which is planted, a time to kill, a time to heal A time to break it down, a time to build up, and if you read that whole passage, what you'll see there are fourteen negative experiences that we go through in life, and then beside that fourteen positive experiences that we go through And Solomon says that God in heaven, uh, He oversees providentially all of these things. None of these things are without significance None of these things are empty experiences that we go through. God uses all of these things: a time to rent, a time to sew, a time to keep, a time to give away, and so on. All of these experiences. Solomon says God works all of this around, and then listen to what he says in Ecclesiastes 3. 11. He says, He has made everything beautiful. in his time. You know what that sounds like? That sounds like an Old Testament Romans 828. Because what Solomon is saying is that God sovereignly Allows uh oversees all of these experiences that we go through and he mingles them all together, our our burdens and our blessings, our joys and our sorrows. He brings them all together, and you know what he does? In his time, he makes them all beautiful. All these things. He just works it all together. And so it's all things. Again, I'm glad this verse does not say some things. God works all things together for our good. So that we can be certain that whatever tragedy that we go through, we can know that God is going to work it all together. He's just going to work it together for good. Now, the Apostle Paul who wrote this didn't write this from an Ivory Tower. He wasn't one of those Ivory Tower theologians that does not experience the difficulties of life. You know, you know what the word scholar actually means in Latin? It means ease, life of ease. You know why people called scholars life of ease, these guys that would study books and stay in the halls of academia because it seemed like to some people that they had a life of ease. Just study and teach and live in your ivory tower and you don't experience this is the hardships of life. That's what a scholar is. It's someone who has a life of ease in the mind of a lot of people. Well, Paul was a brilliant man, but he didn't have a life of ease. He experienced all of these harsh realities. And Paul could catalog all the difficulties that he went through, the hunger, the thirst, the loneliness, the sickness, the imprisonment, the robberies, the stonings, the scourgings, the shipwrecks. The assassination attempts, the trials, all of those things Paul experienced. And it was Paul who said, you know what, this is all going to work together for good. It's all going to work. Let me give you an illustration of how Paul practices what he preaches. Okay? Hold your place here in Romans 8. Go to Philippians chapter 1 real quick. Would you flip over there with me? Look at Philippians chapter 1 Paul wrote the book of Philippians, you remember that, right? And where was Paul when he wrote this letter? He was in prison, right? He was in a Roman prison He was allowed to have visitors visit him in that Roman prison. He was there for two years. He was waiting to appear before Caesar. to give a defense of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And while Paul was there, uh the Philippian church that he was very close to, I think that this was of all the churches that Paul Planted. This was probably one of the churches that was most beloved to him. And they were so very kind and generous to him and always supporting him. But there came a point in time where they didn't know where Paul was And they were looking for him. And finally they found him. They heard about him being in prison. And they heard about some of the hardship that he had to face. Now, when you're in prison in the Roman world at that time, people on the outside had to support you. Today, if a person goes to jail, the state Taxes, pay for that person's you get three square meals and uh cable TV, I hear. I don't know. I've never been in a prison, never stayed there. But So basically, the taxpayer pays for the expenses of a prisoner in prison today, but in the Roman world, the Roman government didn't pay for your imprisonment. You had to be dependent upon the gifts of other people. And when the Philippians heard that Paul was in this Roman prison, They immediately got together a love offering, a gift, and they sent Epaphroditus to Rome to visit Paul, to give him this gift, to take care of him. And the book of Philippians is really a thank you letter. And when Epaphroditus gets to Rome and he sees Paul and he reports to Paul what's going on in the church and all the concern that they had over Paul. They were worried about him. And one of the big things that they were dealing with is why would God put his greatest preacher in prison for two years? Think about that. For two years he'd been waiting there in that prison. Why would God do that? Why would God put his greatest apostle His greatest preacher in a prison for two years. That's like taking your racehorse and locking him up in a barn. They couldn't understand that And so Paul wants to alleviate their concerns. So look what he writes in chapter 1. Look down in verse number 12. Notice what he says there. But I would have you to understand, brethren I want you to understand this that the things which have happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the what? Unto the furtherance of the gospel. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace. And the word for palace there is the Greek word for Toria. It's where uh you get um the title of Caesar's elite guards called the Praetorian Guards. And because you have to remember that when Paul was in that prison, it was kind of like a house prison, but he had a Roman soldier chained to him for six hours at a time. Every six hours a new soldier would be chained to Paul. And how would you like to be chained to the Apostle Paul for six hours? Talk about a seminary education. A intensive study right there. And so Paul said, Look, that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palaces. Look at verse 14. And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. So what's Paul doing? He's reminding them that what has happened to him, it's all working together for what? For good. Paul said, this isn't a bad thing that's happened to me. This is a good thing. Do you understand that Paul says to the Philippians that I am now sharing the gospel with people who would otherwise never really hear the gospel. The fact that I'm in this prison, the gospel of Jesus Christ is spreading into the upper echelons. of the Roman government, so much so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace or the Praetorian Guard And the way I think about that is like this: a Roman soldier is chained to Paul, and this Roman soldier hears Paul pray, uh he Hears Paul as he counsels people to come to visit him from the church at Rome. Perhaps he hears Paul as he dictate dictate a few letters. to some of the churches that are out there, and then you you can rest assured that the Apostle Paul is going to give this soldier the gospel. How many think that that happened? That absolutely happened And when the soldier's time was up after six hours, as his friend came, this guy went back to the to the barracks and said, You'll never believe who I was with for the last six hours. And you know what he told me? Let me tell you what he told me. And you know what was happening? Some of those Roman soldiers were hearing the gospel and they were getting saved, and they were taking that gospel back to the their buddies and they were sharing the gospel with them. And you know what? The word of God, the gospel was spreading into That whole unit of soldiers that were hearing the word of God. And also think about this. Paul was actually going to go and he was going to uh uh go to an official trial, court trial It was Paul versus the Roman government, and he was going to stand before Caesar, and there had to be lawyers and attorneys that were preparing their case. And what did that mean? That means they had to understand the gospel that Paul was preaching. So they made a study of that. So what was happening? Paul was saying to the Philippians, from your perspective, it all looks bad. It all looks bad. Here I am in prison. And staying here in this prison. But from my perspective, what I'm seeing is God working it all together for good He's accomplishing his purpose in it. His captors were being evangelized. His colleagues were being emboldened. There were more of the Christians in Rome that we're hearing about Paul in prison, they were much more bold, Paul says, to speak the gospel. His critics were being exposed. His Christ was being exalted. Paul said, you know what? This is all working together for good. And this is a perfect illustration of Paul's belief in the providence of God. This is Paul saying to the Philippians, Romans 8:28, it's all working together for good. It's all working together for good. Don't you worry about me. God's using this, and I am thrilled to see the gospel is making a pioneer advance. All is working together for good. Now some of you might say, well, wait a minute. What about sin? You say all things work together for good. What about sin? You know, there may be some people here and you failed God, you may have sinned against God, and you're asking yourself, can God Take my failure, my sin, and work it together for good. Is there any biblical warrant to believe that? And the answer to that question is absolutely yes. Let me ask you a question. What's the greatest sin that was ever committed? Think about this. It was the crucifixion of the Son of God. There was no one more holy, more innocent than the Lord Jesus Christ. No one who uh that was more mistreated that faced injustice more than the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't deserve to be crucified. But the Bible says wicked hands laid hold of Jesus. Wicked hands crucified the Lord Jesus. And I want to tell you, friend, the greatest sin ever committed by man was the crucifixion of the Son of God. But let me ask you a question. Did God use that? Did God make that something that he could work together? Listen, what's the greatest blessing that ever happened to mankind? You see, what's the greatest thing that ever happened to mankind? I would tell you that the greatest blessing that ever took place on this world for man was the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because, friend, without that, there would be no atonement. Without the crucifixion of the Son of God, the wrath of God would not be satisfied for our sins. We would still be in our sins. We would be on our way to hell The greatest blessing that we've ever received is Jesus dying for our sins. And yet it was the greatest sin that was ever committed. So if you ask me, can God take sins and touch them and turn them around and work them together for good and make them a blessing? The answer to that is absolutely yes. Even our failures. Even our sins, God can work them together for good, for our own benefit. And the suffering, the sufferings that you go through. God can work all of that out. For our good. Let me give you just real quickly, kind of a side note, some benefits of suffering. Uh, and how that God can use even our sufferings for our own good. First of all, what does it do for us? It teaches us to hate sin. That's what suffering does. It teaches us to hate sin. The Puritan Thomas Watson wrote an entire book on Romans 8:28, and this is one of the things he says. He says, Affliction teaches what sin is. A sickbed often teaches more than a sermon. We can see the ugly visage of sin in the glass of affliction. But here's the second thing: it helps us to see our own evil. Sometimes our suffering is a result of what we have done. Or just by virtue of the fact that we're suffering, we begin to see some of the leftover iniquity and sin that is in us And friend, that's not a bad thing because what it does is it causes us to cry out to God because of our sin. It does a sanctifying work when our evil is exposed. But here's the third thing along with that, it drives us to God Suffering forces us to stop focusing on the things of the world, the trivial things, to focus on the most important things, and it drives us to God. And here's the fourth thing: it conforms us to Christ. It conforms us to the image of Christ. And then here's the fifth thing: it drives out sin. It drives the sin out. Job said this: when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. God is doing that purifying work. It also reveals that we are sons of God. Because God will allow the suffering to Discipline us. And the Bible teaches that in Hebrews chapter 12. Not all of the discipline of God is because of our disobedience. A lot of times it's just God disciplining us because He's preparing us for something greater in our life. And we have to go through that difficult time, that discipline, because God wants to use us in a greater way. And so and on we could go. But let me let me just move on to the third thing. Now we said there's the certainty of this, we know. There is the circumference of it, all things. But here's the third thing. I call this the cooperation of it. The cooperation of it. Look at that promise again. And we know that all things work together for good. Work together is one word in the Greek. It is soon, which means with energyo, which is where we get our word energy. And really this whole word together is where we get the English word synergy. And synergy is when two or more things interact to produce a result greater than the mere sum of its parts. In other words, it's just the old principle of teamwork. You can get more done working together with a team coming together than you can on your own. That's the idea here. And these events in our life, all these events can work together, kind of like teamwork, to bring about a good result in our life. God mixes them all together All things work not separately, but together for our good. You mix it together. You mix together the good and the bad. And it all works together. One bad thing in and of itself is not good, but if you mix it together with everything else, and that whole plan and that whole mixture, God says it all works together for Good. Illustration of that is, did you know that some of the medicines that you take are filled with ingredients that in and of themselves it could kill you? Did you know that arsenic is found in many medicines? And if you were to take arsenic by itself, that is a potentially dangerous ingredient that could take your life. But if you take that and you mix it together with other things, other ingredients, what it does is it brings a medicine that can bring healing to you And so it is in life. God just brings all these things together. He works them all together. It is just mixing them. And the providential wisdom of God, and God says they all come together, they work together for good. Now let me give you the fourth thing. The certainty of it we know. The circumference of it, all things, the cooperation of it, work together. Notice the conclusion of it. For good. They work together for good. Now notice it doesn't say that everything is good. Many things in this world are not good, but God says they work together at the end the product will come out as good. Good. But now the question we have to ask ourselves is, what is the good that Paul is referring to here? The primary good that Paul is talking about is a little bit deeper than perhaps the way we would think of good. When we think of good, we think of health and happiness and solid relationships and long life and financial prosperity and all these other things and we we think that's what we think of as good but that's not necessarily the good That Paul's talking about here. What's the good that he's talking about? Well, we don't have to wonder because it gives us that in the next verse. Look at verse 29. For whom he did foreknow He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his what? Son. There's the good right there. You say, what good is God trying to work in my life and in your life? Very simple. The good is this He's trying to make you more like Jesus Christ. He's conforming you to the image of His Son. He's doing a work of sanctification in you, and that's what sanctification is. It's the process whereby God makes us less like the world. And more like his son, where God gives us victory over sin in our life, the indwelling sin. And we've been talking about that in Romans 6 and 7, how God gives us victory over indwelling sin. And we're being conformed into the image of Jesus Christ. This is the ultimate good that Paul is talking about here. And so very simply, God is working all these things together. Because he wants to bring about in your life and my life Christ-likeness. He wants to conform you to The Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, that's what we are, we're predestinated to be just like the Lord Jesus Christ. This is God's purpose for you. And by the way, this is why I know I can't lose my salvation. You know why? Because part of God's plan, we call this the golden chain of salvation, is that I be conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now look at look at this. Look again in verse 29. For whom he did foreknow, that's one link in the chain of salvation. God saw me in eternity past. He also did predestinate. God said, okay, I'm going to make Jerry just like my son. And then look at verse 30. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, then he also called. God issued to me the call of salvation And then when I respond to that call, then he also justified. Then there's justification that comes next. And whom he justified, then he also what? Glorified. So this is all five links in the golden chain of salvation from eternity past. You know what God predetermined about you, predetermined about me, that we're going to be just like the Lord Jesus Christ. You might say, well, wait a minute. What about a Christian that rebels against God? How is God going to work that out? Well, you know what? If you're a child of God and you disobey the Lord, what's God going to do to you? He's going to spank you, right? He's a good father. And so he will spank you. And I've told you this before. They're speaking, they're spanking, and then there's scourging. Three stages of God's chastisement. If you get out of line, first God is going to speak to you through his word. If you still don't obey, then God's going to spank you It might be some event in your life that God uses to get your attention. And if you still don't submit and obey him, he will scourge you. This banking, the discipline will get even more severe And you say, well, what if a person goes through that speaking, spanking, and scourging, and he still doesn't submit to God? You know what? It's very possible that God might call that person home early. And let me ask you a question. What happens when a Christian dies? They become just like who? Jesus Christ. So guess what? You're going to be just like Jesus, one way or the other. It's going to happen. Even if God has to call you home early. You're going to be conformed to the image of Christ. And again, this is how I know I'm not going to lose my salvation because God has determined this. And this is the good. That he wants to bring about in your life and in my life, he wants to make us just like Jesus. Now, let me give you the last point here. The certainty of it, and we know, the circumference of it, all things, the cooperation of it together, the conclusion of it for good. But here's the last point: the condition of it. The condition of it. Look at the rest of verse 28, the last part of it. It says, to them who are the called. According to his purpose. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Now I want you to notice this verse does not say all things work together for good for everyone. Does it say that? This verse doesn't apply to everyone. Who does it apply to? It applies to the child of God. It applies to those who are the called according to his purpose. And we already saw what the purpose was in verse number 29. What is God's purpose? to conform us to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you are called according to that purpose, if you're a child of God, that that's for you. Those are the ones that love God and the ones that are called according to his purpose. And so, you know, people who don't know the Lord, they can't claim this verse. I want to tell you, friend, that makes me very sad for them Sometimes I'll hear people on the news that don't know the Lord and some tragedy will happen in their life and they'll say, well, you know, all things work together for good. And sadly, if they don't know the Lord, that promise doesn't apply to them. It's only if you are the child of God. Only if you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the question tonight you have to ask yourself is this: Am I a believer? Do I know Jesus? Because friend, if you don't know the Lord, this verse doesn't apply to you. You can't claim it. But you know what the good news is you can become a child of God You can put your faith in Jesus. You can turn to him. And the instant that you do that, this applies to you as well because you are now one of the called. according to his purpose. Now, let me just say this. We need to grab hold of this verse. And we need to apply it to our life. And again, if you're going through a difficult time, this is a promise that you can lay hold to as a believer, as a child of God And you know what this is, actually? This is really a submission to the providential works of God. When something bad happens, I can say, God This hurts. I don't like it, but I do know this, that you always do what's right, and you know what you're doing. I submit to this and I claim this promise. I know that this is going to work together For good. And I trust you in this. I don't understand how. And I may not see it in my lifetime, but I believe this. And I trust you in this. And I want to tell you something, friends, if you don't learn to develop that attitude of submission to the sovereign, providential hand of God, you know what's going to end up happening? You can become a bitter person You can allow all the trials of life to pile up on you, and you can get angry and you can get bitter. Listen, here's a comparison. In Genesis 42, verse 36, Jacob Who was going through a lot of difficulties over his children? How many of you have ever had difficulties over your children? Jacob had a lot of difficulties over his children, and you know what he said? All these things are against me. That's what he said in Genesis 42, 36. All these things are against me. Now, friend, you don't want to develop that attitude. All this is against me. He lamented. But think about Joseph, on the other hand. Joseph was hated by his brothers, thrown into a pit, forgotten, sold into slavery, taken to a strange land, falsely accused in prison. Lived in that prison in Egypt for many years, separated from his father for many years, one tragedy after another, after another, until finally God exalted him to be the prime minister of Egypt, we could say. And you know what Joseph said? He said, you may have meant that for evil, but God meant it for what? Good. He said, all these things are good for me. Think of the difference of the attitude there. Jacob said, All these things are against me. And Job said, you may have meant all these things for evil against me. But God meant it for good. And you know what as a result? Joseph, who understood God's providential hand in his life, he was able to maintain a joyful, thankful spirit, and he had two sons. He named one son Manasseh. You know what the word Manasseh means? God makes me forget all my troubles. God makes me forget all my troubles. You see, when you have the spirit that God is in control and he's working all these things together for good, you know what? You're able to forget all your troubles. Because you have faith in God. He also had another son. He named him Ephraim. And you know what that name means? God has caused me to be fruitful. God has caused me to be fruitful. That's what happens when you put your faith in the providential hand of God and you believe and you trust this one promise here. That all things work together for good. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, help us by faith. to lay hold of these your your promises, this specific promise That we may lay hold of. And Lord, I I don't know what's going on in the lives of these your people, but they're precious to you. These are your people, your sheep, that you love so very dearly. And many of them may be going through difficulties even tonight, sorrows, heartaches. And Lord, I just pray that you'll just minister to their heart, bring them comfort. Bring them assurance. Give them that peace to know, Lord, that you're in control. You haven't forgotten them. And guard us from becoming negative like Jacob who said, All these things are against me. It's very easy, Lord, for us to descend into that kind of attitude, mindset. So Lord, I pray that you'll speak to hearts. Help us, Lord, to just claim this promise And to live by it and to trust you in the difficulties that we may face. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say that's my prayer tonight? I need this promise. Would you pray for me, preacher? That God will help me to lay hold of this, guard my heart against being angry and bitter, and to submit to Almighty God. Father, you see all these hands, you know the hearts and the situation. Lord, give grace where grace is needed. Teach us, Lord, to trust you like we never have. And we pray in Jesus' matchless, wonderful name, Amen.