Open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 21 this morning. The reason we do our Bible pledge is just to remind us that this is God's authoritative word. This is the final authority right here. The Bible is what teaches us about salvation through Christ, and it teaches us about eternity. And about things like heaven. That's what I want to talk about today, a preview of the heavenly city. I think that sometimes we don't talk enough about heaven. I think we should probably spend more time thinking about it, knowing that this is where we're going to spend our eternity. We're going to be there forever. Do you understand that you're a citizen of the heavenly city? Now I'm a citizen of Baltimore. I'm proud to be, but this is only temporary. Actually, I'm a pilgrim. I'm passing through. My real citizenship is in heaven. And I'm proud to be a citizen of heaven. And I want us to look at this because we need to know more about this celestial city that we are going to be spending our eternity in And uh the place to learn about heaven is not Hollywood. Did you ever notice that out lately there's a lot of movies about heaven and people going to heaven? And there's even books written about this. There's a certain book out by a preacher who was in a car accident and he in that car accident died for ninety minutes. Um they were able to uh one person prayed over him and they were able to revive him back to life. And he said that in that ninety minutes he went to heaven. And he wanted to share with us in the book what heaven was like. And really, if you read the book, it's about 200 pages long. There's only really 15 pages where he talks about his experience in heaven. And most of his experience is not really in heaven. He's outside the city gates. And there's nowhere in the book where he mentions talking about Jesus. Now you're going to have to excuse me, but I think that when we die, the Bible says to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. I think Jesus will be the first face that we see. And not only that, when I get there, I don't want to spend all that time outside the gates. I want to go right into the city. So I really don't need a novel about heaven. I already have a book that tells me about heaven. There's a man in this book named John, and he was caught up in the heaven. And when he was caught up in the heaven, he went straight to the throne of God. If you read Revelation chapter 4, you're going to find that he's brought up right there and he's right before the throne. And then what John is going to do now here in the book of Revelation is he's going to describe a lot about heaven. And the way I like to look at the book of Revelation is He kind of sees the throne and so you have a camera. If you're if you want to make a movie about it, let me tell you how to do it. There's the camera right on the throne of God. And he sees the throne, and then it kind of pans out into what's there in heaven. And as you read through the book of Revelation, it kind of gets to be more and more of a panorama of all the glory that is there in that celestial city. So by the time we get to chapter 21, John is describing the new Jerusalem and all the glories that will await the child of God who goes there. And I know many of you have some have lost loved ones. They're already there waiting for you. They're there in that beautiful place called heaven. It's a wonderful place. The Bible calls it a heavenly city, a city. You see, mankind, he lost his paradise in Eden, but he's going to regain his paradise in that Place called the New Jerusalem that we read about here in Revelation chapter 21. And so I want us to look at this here this morning, and I want us to see what this city is like. And I want you to think about the glory of it. And I pray that it will bring a comfort to your heart. So if you're taking notes, write down number one, the presentation of The city. John is presenting to us the city in verses one to eight. Here is the vision of the New Jerusalem. John sees the heavenly city descending downward out of heaven. And I want you to think about the construction of it. Look in verse 1. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And so John's telling us a lot of what's going to happen there in the end as God gives us this beautiful celestial heavenly city and he says the first heaven and the first earth were passed away Now I would just say to you, beloved, don't get too tied up in the things of this earth here right now, because it's all going to go up in smoke. It's all going to be gone. This is just temporary. Jesus said this. He said, heaven and earth is going to pass away, but my word will not pass away. This first heaven and this first earth, there's a sense in which It's going to pass away. This is in the Bible called the regeneration of the earth. God is going to regenerate the old creation and make a new creation out of it. Did you know that? You see, God created the earth to be man's home, but what happened? Sin entered into the picture, and it corrupted everything that God made. So God's going to remake it. And this is what John's talking about when he says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. You see. God's going to do away with all sin and sinners. All sin will finally be dealt with. And we see that in Revelation chapter 20, at the final judgment, the great white throne judgment when sinners will be Sentenced. That's a a depressing chapter to read. It's true. It's a fearful chapter because I don't want anyone in here to know to go to hell to go to that lake of fire And I don't want anyone here to stand before the great white throne judgment because that's the judgment where God condemns sinners who refuse to repent and believe on his Son, Jesus Christ. Sometimes we get our prayers mixed up. I heard a person pray one time, Lord, grant that I stand before thy great white throne. And I said, Lord, don't grant that for me. I don't want to stand before the Great White Throne. I want to stand before the Lord Himself. And I I don't want to be judged as a sinner. And so in Revelation 20, God takes care of all sin. It's all put away. And in chapter 21, he's going to remake all of it, the Bible says Just write down Job 15, 15. It declares that the heavens are not pure in his sight. That is, right now this universe is corrupted with sin. Isaiah 24 5 says, The earth also is polluted by its inhabitants, for they transgressed laws, violated statutes, broke the everlasting covenant. And the Bible says in Psalm 102, thou shalt change them like a garment. God, you're going to change it all. You're going to like a brand new garment. God's going to create a new heaven and a new earth. And this will be a physical place, just like we have here now. Sometimes when we think about heaven, we have a tendency to think of something that is more spiritual or sp uh in the spirit world I should say or ethereal, something that's not physical, but no, it's just as real as earth right here. Just as real. And you and I, we're going to have resurrected physical bodies? Aren't you glad this isn't the body we're going to have for eternity? I mean we're going to get a brand new body. The Bible says that. A brand new glorified body. And we'll have some of the same features that we have here now, but it's going to be a brand new body. Paul speaks about that in 1 Corinthians 15. He says there are terrestrial bodies and bodies celestial. This body that I have now, this is a terrestrial body because it's designed to live on the earth. One day I'm going to get a celestial body, a body designed to live in the heavens. And it's going to be beautiful. You think the this terrestrial body is beautiful. Wait till you get your celestial body. Right, we're all going to have red hair in that day I'm just kidding. Can't actually prove that. But it's going to be beautiful. And we're going to our bodies will shine with the glory of God. Paul said, you know, there'll be, if you want to understand the resurrection body, look up into the sky and you'll see that there are some stars at night that shine brighter than others So will it be in the resurrection. We will shine with the glory of God. And according to your faithfulness to the Lord here on earth, so shall your glory be in that day But now listen to this. When our redemption is complete, we're going to get that brand new body. But our redemption is tied into the redemption of the earth. We're not the only ones who's going to get a brand new body The heavens and the earth are going to get a brand new body. That's why Paul says in Romans chapter 8 that this whole world now waits and it groans until that day. You know why creation is groaning? Because creation knows that when the Lord comes back and we get a brand new body, that creation itself will be remade. It also will get this brand new renovation, a brand new body. And this is what John talks about here in verse number one. There's going to be a new heaven and a new earth It will be a new place. The word new there is chainos. It's not new in chronology, but new in quality, new in freshness. And in this new creation, there will be no hint of sin whatsoever. It'll all be brand new. And I think what's going to happen is God is basically going to take the same elements that create that are make up our heaven and earth now, and he's going to melt it down and he's going to remake it with the same elements. And I think Peter talks about this in 2 Peter chapter 3 verse 10 When he says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also and the works therein shall be burnt up. In other words When the Lord comes at the end, this will all be remade. It'll all be melted down. It'll all be made over again. But it'll be the same basic elements. I kind of like to compare it to, you know, my brother Jeff works at a steel company where they go into these old buildings and take out the steel. They don't throw the steel away. You know what they do? They melt it down and they reuse it To build new buildings. There's a sense in which that's what God's going to do here with the earth. It's all going to melt down, and he's going to remake all of it. I agree with Wayne Grudum, the theologian, who said this. It's difficult to think that God would entirely annihilate his original creation, thereby seeming to give the devil the last word And scrap scrapping the creation that originally was very good. I agree with that. God's not going to scrap all of what he made that was very good. He's going to melt it down. He's going to remake it Paul Aynes wrote, God did not create the earth very good only to have Satan lead man in rebellion against God, causing God to destroy the world. Were that the case, Satan could claim a victory. And so I think it's true here. God is just going to remake it all. And there will be a new heaven and a new earth. And the capital of that will be this new Jerusalem that John sees Coming down out of heaven, it'll be made by God, a city made without the hands of men, made by God. That's the construction of it. Look at the comparison of it. Look in verse 2. And I, John, saw the holy city. New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. John compares the New Jerusalem to a bride on her wedding day. prepared to meet her husband. This is the most beautiful day in a woman's life when a bride comes to present herself I've done many, many weddings, and every bride is beautiful on that day when they come to present themselves. And this is how John views this. And the city is called a bride because it's heaven and it's identified with its occupants, which are the people of God, which are the bride of Christ. And so John gives us a comparison of it. Notice the company of it. Look at verse 3. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. God will be in the midst of it. Heaven wouldn't be heaven without the presence of God. This is what makes heaven so desirable: the fact that we will have fellowship with God there. And there'll be no hindrance, no barriers to this fellowship. John said the tabernacle of God is with man. And this makes us think about in the Old Testament, the Old Testament tabernacle. If you remember back in the Old Testament, when God gave the plan for the tabernacle and then and then at the camp of Israel that tabernacle was set right in the center of the camp And you know why that was so? Because back in those days, nomadic tribes, whenever they would travel and they would set up their camp, always the king would have the tent right in the middle of the camp. And God was the king and is the king. And so the tabernacle was right in the middle of Israel's encampment, and the tribes were organized around that tabernacle there And so there was a sense in which God tabernacled among them. God was with them. However, there was a problem there with Israel, and that is Israel and the people were sinners. They didn't really have access to God. There was a really only the high priest had access to the Holy of Holies when he would sprinkle the blood there on the mercy seat. And really, only he could go there. And of course, Moses, he had access there to the presence of God. Mainly the rest of the nation of Israel, they really didn't have access, even though God was there. But friend, that's not the way it's going to be in heaven. There'll be no barrier at all Every person will have full access to God, and that's what John says, that God will be with them. God himself will be there, God. Isn't that wonderful to know that we will have full access into the presence of Almighty God? And you know what? This is what gives us so much joy. We were created to enjoy God's fellowship, to enjoy his presence. That very thing that Adam lost in the garden will be given back to us there in heaven. Where we can be with God and our hearts will be filled with great joy. God has always longed to have full fellowship with his people And we'll have it there in that day. So we see the construction of this city, we see the comparison of this city, we see the company of it, but also notice the comforts of it. Look at verse 4. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. There'll be no tears to stain the streets of that heavenly city. Cities today are filled with things mentioned in verse number four. In fact, you go down to the city of Baltimore and you knock on doors, and you'll know that behind many of those doors there'll be pain and sorrow and tears. Not so in the New Jerusalem. No more sorrow. No more pain, no more death. There'll be no funeral homes there in the New Jerusalem. There'll be no hospitals there in the New Jerusalem, no painkillers, no morphine, no medicines None of that. Not in the city of God. You see, all these things came about because of sin, and sin will be gone Every problem that man has here today is either directly or indirectly related to sin that introduced these things into the world. But with the removal of all sin. There's the removal of the curse of sin, and the removal of all those things that came with it. And just think about this. We will no longer feel the emotion of sorrow in that place. Only joy. And so we see the comforts of it. But notice the citizens of it. Look at verse number 6. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega. the beginning and the end, and I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. Now the he in verse 6, the Alpha and Omega, that's Jesus. And now he's speaking. On the cross, Jesus said it is finished, but here he says it's done. On the cross, salvation was paid for, it's finished. But now here, heaven is done. That means it's now complete. All of redemption history is complete. All those who have will be saved have been saved. It's all done Redemption is complete, and the city is now ready for its citizens. And look how they are described. Look at verse number six again where it says, And I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. I love the way a believer is described here. A believer is described is described as one who is a thirst. Now, some may look at this and say, this is an invitation to the lost. No, that's already done. Remember in Revelation 20, God judged all those who did not repent. By the way, now you can come to the fountain if you're thirsty. Now is the day of salvation. And friend, if you're thirsty, you better come right now. You better come to the water and drink, because there's going to come a time when that imitation is no longer available. And this is it right here. So who are the thirsty here? These are the citizens of heaven. What are we thirsty for? We're thirsty for more of Jesus. You see, a child of God is someone who never gets weary of hearing about Jesus. We never weary of his fellowship. We never weary about learning more about him. And there in heaven, we can learn more and more about our Savior. We can fellowship with him more and more And so there's a thirst in our heart to know the Lord Jesus in a greater way. There are those who are thirsty, but also, look at verse 7. He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. The believers are described as not only those who thirst, but those who overcome. This is the Greek word Nike, victorious. Believers are the victorious ones. Because they have placed their faith in Christ. And now he says, I will be his God and he shall be my son. You see, victory comes through knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we see then the citizens of this city. And so we see then the presentation of the city But I want you to write down, here's number two. Think about the preparation of the city. And this is what we see from verses nine on down to verse 21. Here we have John's vision of the New Jerusalem. Look at verse 9. And there came unto me one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials. Full of the seven last plagues, and talk with me, saying, Come hither, and I will show thee the bride, the lamb's wife. Now here's an angel that comes to John This is the same angel that had the bowls of wrath that were poured out in judgment on this city of Babylon, man's city, the earthly city, in Revelation chapter 18. That angel that poured out those bowls of wrath. That angel now comes to John and says to John, John, let me show you something. Let me show you The new Jerusalem. Let me show you the holy Jerusalem. Look down in verse 10. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain. This is why I say that when you study Revelation, it kind of gives you the idea that you're kind of panning back a little bit farther back, farther back, so you can get a full, complete picture. That's what John is saying here. The angel takes them to a high mountain, they're getting back, and John sees this beautiful panorama of the whole city that is there. That's why he starts out the chapter saying, I John saw the holy city. You ever get excited about seeing something and you can't hold back your emotion? That's the emotion that we get here in this. John says, I saw the holy city. I saw the whole thing. The angel takes him back on this mountain. And John now is going to describe to us what he sees. Verse 11, having the glory of God and her light. was like unto a stone most precious, even like unto a jasper stone clear as crystal And so, John, what he's seeing here is just this incredibly beautiful picture. Again, John shows us that it's of divine origin. It's a city not made with the hands of man. God is the architect. God is the creator, one that already existed, and it's descending from out of heaven. And some think the new Jerusalem will come down and rest upon the newly renovated earth Some think it'll kind of hang there in heaven. Either way, here's the point. We're gonna be there and we're gonna have access to all of that. This is gonna be our city, the New Jerusalem. And it's indescribably beautiful. How do you describe something that is indescribable in beauty? Certain missionaries when they went to visit primitive tribes that really knew nothing of the outside world. Talked about the frustration that they felt trying to describe to these primitive people some of the innovations that existed in the outside world. And they would say something like, How do you describe an electric stove or a microwave oven to someone that's only known an open fire? How do you describe that How do you get them to understand that? How do you describe a refrigerator where all you do is you hold your cup up to the door and it pours out ice and water? To someone that has only known uh a cool stream. How do you do that? And obviously you have to use known things. And to teach them about the unknown things. And that I think is what John is doing here. He is describing for us this beautiful city that is so indescribable. And all John can do is just think about the beautiful things that he knows of here on earth and make application to that city. That beautiful city. And so he shows us the majesty of it. This city is a city of light and glory, he says there in verse number 11. The overall impression of the city is like a gigantic brilliant jewel compared to crystal That is, this city will shine with light, with the glory of God, will be there. You know what? We're not going to have to pay for that electric bill. That light will be the light of God's glory. You see. Sometimes I meet people and they say, well, you know, the Bible says, you know, that You know, creation account in Genesis can't be real because, you know, the sun wasn't created until day four. There was no real hand. God said, let there be light. How could there be light without a sun? Friend, that's not a problem for God This city will have all light. I don't read anything about a sun right here, but I read about a city that's filled with light and the glory of God. And John compares it to a Jasper, which is really like a diamond, shining like a diamond. Jonathan Edwards pointed out that these biblical images are very faint shadows. And they represent the joys of heaven that are intended for us to enjoy. In short, the heavenly city will be far more wonderful than we could ever imagine. If you enjoy the things of this earth, how much more are you going to enjoy the things of heaven? How much more will you enjoy that? It'll radiate with the glory of God. Isaiah 60 says this, verse 19: The sun shall no more be your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light. But the Lord will be your everlasting light. Your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended. So true. And so he shows us the majesty of the city. And then he shows us the measurements. This is incredible. Look at verse number twelve. And he had a w and had a wall great and high and had twelve gates and the gates twelve angels And at the gates twelve angels and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel, and on the east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. And so here John shows the enormous dimensions of the city, and he starts by describing the gates. There will be twelve gates laid out. just like the gates of an ancient city, twelve angels guarding those gates, uh the door the gates there going into the city. There will be three gates for each of the four walls, north, south, east, and west, verse thirteen. The twelve foundations will be named after the twelve apostles. That's reminding us that the apostles are the foundation of the church. Also, the twelve names of the twelve tribes of Israel on the gate, reminding us that salvation came through Israel. Don't fear that the apostles are the foundation. Jesus is the cornerstone. And the Bible says that the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone. And so all this reminds us of that. And notice the size in verse 15. And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof. And the city lieth four square, and the length is large as the breadth, and he measured the city with the reed twelve thousand furlongs, the length and the breadth and the height of it are equal. And he measured the wall thereof a hundred and forty and four cubits according to the measure of a man that is o of an angel. And the building of the wall of it was like of jasper, and the city was pure gold, like unto uh glass. So just imagine here, John sees an angel now with a measuring stick, and he's going to tell John the measurements. of the city. And it's kind of laid out in a perfect square as it's described by John. He describes it as twelve thousand furlough furlongs, excuse me, furlongs. The length, the breadth, the height are equal. This would be equal to 1,500 miles. That's incredible. That means, you know what? There's going to be plenty of room in this city. It's not going to be overcrowded. Now some interpret this to be symbolic. I take it as literal. Just to give you an idea of how big this city is going to be, if it were placed in America, this city would reach from New York City to Denver, Colorado. That's how big. From Canada to Florida, excuse me, to Florida. This is this is the surface area of it would be 2. 25 million square miles. That's incredible. The city of London is only 621 square miles. The ground level area of the city is 15,000 times that of London. Now it says it's to be a perfect square or a cube, so if it has levels, if it has stories, each being 12 feet high, the city would then have 600,000 levels or stories to it. So you get the idea that this is just huge. Just a huge city. You know what? There's room. There's room for you. There's room for everyone. It won't be overcrowded. Someone calculated that if this structure is cube shaped, it will allow for twenty billion residents each having their own private 75-acre cube. If each resident were smaller, then there's plenty of room to accommodate 100,000 billion people. That's incredible. Incredible. This beautiful city. So we see the measurements and the materials in verse 18. It's made of John names all these precious stones that are beautiful and have different colors to them. Our God is a God of beauty. And so we see this beautiful city, and all of this is prepared for you, the child of God, the person who knows Jesus Christ. Let me give you the last thing quickly. We see the presentation of the city. We see the preparation of the city. But here's the last thing. The person of the city. The person. Look at verse 22. And I saw no temple therein. Johnny's looking down that mountain, and John says, You know what? I don't see any temple in this city. For the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. The Lamb. In fact, the word lamb is used three times here And so it gives you the idea that the focal point, the centerpiece of the city is the Lamb, is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the focal point of this. Did you ever notice how that cities are always built around something or built on something? Like New York is built on commercialism. World trade. Hollywood is built around entertainment. Dallas is built on oil and business. Las Vegas is built on gambling. Washington DC is built on government. You know what this city will be based on? You know the centerpiece of this new Jerusalem will be Jesus. Jesus will be the glory of it. It'll be all built on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why I say, you know, wherever I hear someone talk about they went to heaven and came back to tell us about it, and in that whole account about heaven, you don't mention Jesus? This is what heaven's all about. He's the center of it all. I love what Spurgeon said. With regard to heaven, he said this. Oh, to think of heaven without Christ. It is the same thing as thinking of hell. Heaven without Christ. It is day without the sun. Existing without life, feasting without food, seeing without light. It involves a contradiction in terms. Heaven without Christ? Absurd. It's all about Christ. Jesus is the Lamb, verse 22. We will worship him there in heaven. Jesus will be the light. There'll be no need for street lamps. or sun or moon, Jesus will be the light of that city. Jesus is the Lord in verse number 24, and he will be the life of that city. Only those who are saved. Look at verse 27. And there shall no wise enter into anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. The ones that are going to go there are the ones that are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And so, friend, heaven is a prepared place for a prepared person. And the question I must ask you today is, are you prepared for heaven? Or do you know that you're going there? You know what? Our God, He's so willing to save. He wants you to enjoy this place. He's so willing to save. You know what I think about when I think about that? My favorite story in the New Testament about the willingness of our Lord to save is the thief on the cross. How that this thief at one moment he's blaspheming Jesus. He's cursing and denying Jesus. But something happens to him. He sees Jesus, and there's something that changes where at one moment he's denying Jesus, then in the next moment he understands who Jesus is. They're hanging on the cross. He prays a great prayer. He says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. I think that's one of the greatest prayers in all the New Testament. When he says, Lord, If he's Lord, that makes the thief his servant or his slave. Lord, and now I'm your slave. Lord, remember me. That is, Lord, forgive me. Remember me when you come into your kingdom, if you have a kingdom, that makes you what? A king. Now he believes Jesus is a king. And now he believes that Jesus has the power to determine where he spends his eternal destiny. Who can do that? God. In one instant, this thief goes from denying the Lord to believing that he is the Lord, that he is the King, that he's God. And he believes that he will defeat death because someone who doesn't resurrect can't do any of those things. In that little brief moment of faith. Jesus rewards because you know what Jesus' response to him was, today you're going to be with me in paradise. You know, every once in a while I hear a preacher say, God doesn't say I don't believe in deathbed conversions. I'll hear something like that. Well, friend, I do. I do because we see one in the New Testament. God is so willing to save that in that one moment. When he reached out in faith, God rewarded that faith. And you know what's really funny? I don't think anyone else around the cross, those on the outside, never really heard this conversation. If you ask one of the thieves' friends, they say, Oh, that guy, he he didn't go to heaven. We know him. We hung around him. We know the kind of person he was. Because they weren't privileged to hear that at the last moment This thief reached out in faith on his deathbed with hard to even breathe. He reached out in faith and the Lord said, Today you're going to be with me. That tells me that we have an awesome, merciful God who is willing to save, and he will save a person in the bottom of the ninth with two outs and two strikes. He will save that person if you'll just reach out in faith. Because he wants you to enjoy the glory of this city that he has prepared. Friend, if you die without Jesus, you can't blame anybody else. God's done all this for you. He's given his son. Do you know him? Are you prepared for this place? Let's bow together in prayer. And so Lord, we thank you for this glory of heaven. We thank you, Lord, that you are such a gracious and merciful God, so willing to save. And you have prepared so much for those that call upon you. And I pray, Lord, that this sermon today would encourage hearts. I pray that it would comfort some in here that have loved ones already there, they're waiting. May they be reminded that their loved one is experiencing joy unspeakable. Full of glory. And may it motivate us to know for sure that this will be our eternal home. That we know that we know Jesus. And could I ask a question with heads bowed and eyes closed? How many are absolutely sure that you know Christ? Would you just raise your hand? I know I know Christ. I know I'm saved. We have so much to look forward to, don't we? You would put your hand down. Friend, if you couldn't raise your hand in confidence, I don't want to embarrass you, but I want you to know Christ. I want you to be saved And if you couldn't raise your hand with absolute certainty, I'm inviting you right now, right where you are, to reach out in faith, just like the thief did on the cross. All it took was just one prayer in faith, Lord, remember me. When you come into your kingdom, Lord, save me. I believe you're Lord, your King. You have the power to determine my eternal destiny. Lord, save me. Forgive me. If you'll pray that in faith, you know what? You can hear the words of our Lord, today you'll be in paradise. Or one day you'll be in paradise. You'll know that you'll go to heaven Because of your faith in Christ. Would you be willing to pray that? Would you be willing to say, Lord, save me? Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Would you raise your hand if that's your condition? We want to help you Would you raise your hand and say, pray for me, preacher? I want Jesus. I want to be saved. All right, Father. The word has been given. I pray that you'll use it in hearts and lives. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.