Beautiful. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, chapter 3. We've been studying the book of Ephesians on Sunday morning. Chapter three, verses one to thirteen is what we'll be dealing with. And would you stand please for the reading of God's Word as we look at this passage together? Ephesians chapter 3, starting at verse number 1. For this cause I call the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles. If ye have heard of the dispensation of the got of the grace of God which is given me to you, word, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote afore in a few words Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. Whereof I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Father, thank you for your inspired word. And Lord, we realize that Uh we can't really know your word unless it's by the help of the Holy Spirit. And this we're totally dependent. So would you open our our eyes that we might behold wonderful things from your word. And Lord use this to sanctify us into your truth. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The story is told of a Scottish minister by the name of Alexander White. He was able to take the darkest and most bleak situation and find something to be thankful for. And one dark Sunday morning when the weather was freezing and wet and stormy, one of the deacons whispered to another and said, I'm sure the preacher won't be able to thank God for anything on a day like this. It's absolutely horrible outside. And the pastor began the service by praying, We thank thee, O God, that the weather is not always like this. Alexander White was a man whose heart and attitude was not a prisoner to his circumstances. We can divide everyone here in this room into one of two groups. There are those who are prisoners of their circumstances and those who are prisoners of Christ. If you're a prisoner of your circumstances, that means that your circumstances will dictate your attitude. It'll dictate your emotions. You'll be easily defeated when things don't go your way. You'll become bitter and angry when things go wrong. Your happiness will be dictated by the weather But if you're a prisoner of Christ, then you'll learn to see the very best in everything that the Lord brings your way. Because you know that ultimately Christ is the one who's in control of your life. Take the Apostle Paul, for example. What were his circumstances when he wrote this letter to the Ephesians? Well, he wrote this letter from a Roman prison. This is one of Paul's prison epistles. Now, why was Paul thrown in prison? Did he violate the law? Did Paul do something that was wrong? Did Paul deserve to be in this Roman prison? Well, no. Paul is actually suffering unjustly for something that he was trying to do right. He hadn't done anything wrong. In fact, he went through a lot of personal sacrifice and labor to try to help people that were suffering. Paul went around raising a love offering from the Gentile churches to give it to the church in Jerusalem. There were so many Jewish believers in the church of Jerusalem that were suffering. Many of them lost their jobs because of their allegiance to Christ. There had a famine had hit during that time. There was an economic crisis. Many were suffering poverty. And Paul went to the Gentile churches and let them know the plight of these Jewish believers and asked if these churches would Put together a nice offering so that they could take and give it to the believers that were in Jerusalem. Paul wanted this love offering to alleviate the suffering of these Jewish people. Behind his actions was a desire to unite the Jewish Christians and the Gentile Christians. Paul wanted to show the world the unity and the oneness that we have in Jesus Christ. In Jesus Christ, there are no more racial barriers. All those barriers are torn down. And Paul wanted to use his love offering to demonstrate that very thing. But when Paul got to Jerusalem, some Jews saw him in the temple. And they started a riot by falsely accusing Paul of bringing some Gentiles beyond the barrier in the temple. Remember in the temple there in Jerusalem, there was a wall of partition, a barrier And a sign on that wall warning Gentiles not to go any further. This barrier separated the court of the Gentiles from other places. And if anyone went beyond the barrier, the sign warned that they could die And when these Judaizers saw Paul bring some Gentiles into the temple, they falsely accused Paul of bringing these Gentiles beyond the barrier. So Paul was actually in a Roman prison because he was seeking to live out the unity of the gospel. He was seeking to show the love that now existed between Jews and Gentiles, and some of the Judaizers didn't like it. And so The riot led eventually to Paul's imprisonment, which had been going on now for five years. Think about that Here's Paul taken out of circulation. Here's Paul in this prison for all these years now. And Paul's waiting in a dark prison. He's going to stand trial before Nero. who wasn't very favorable to Christians. And during those years while Paul was in prison, Paul could have easily grown bitter He could have grown bitter toward the Jews that falsely accused him. He could have grown bitter towards God, who allowed this thing to happen to him. Most people in Paul's shoes would have become bitter, but not Paul. Although he's in this prison, he doesn't deserve to be, but he's in this prison. He was joyful. He was thankful. In fact, this whole section of Ephesians kind of bubbles up with joy and gratitude to God. Look down in verse number 7. Notice what Paul says: whereof I was made a minister. according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints Is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ? You see how that kind of overflows with gratitude and thankfulness How is Paul this way? Well, Paul understood and submitting himself to the sovereignty of God and his sufferings. Now most people would have concluded that Paul was a prisoner of Rome, since he was in that Roman prison. But Paul did not see himself that way. He didn't see himself as a prisoner of Rome, but rather as a prisoner of Jesus Christ. Look at verse number one again. For this cause, I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles. Paul saw himself as a prisoner of Christ. Now, if Paul saw himself as a prisoner of the Jews, he may have become bitter at the Jews If he saw himself as a prisoner of the Roman government, he would have been angry at the miscarriage of justice that he was suffering under. But he saw himself as a prisoner of Jesus Christ. Paul knew that the Lord was in control of his life, and he only acted towards him with grace and kindness. And so Paul, even in the midst of his sufferings, he could rejoice. He thought of his hardship as an opportunity, an opportunity to get out the message to the got of the gospel to the Gentiles even more. Again, we see in verse 8 where Paul says unto me who am less than the least of the saints, is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Christ. Now these words should challenge us. Paul, a prisoner of Christ, saw himself as being given the privilege of serving God and presenting the riches of Christ too many people. The question we have to ask ourselves this morning is whose prisoner are we? Are you a prisoner to your circumstances? Or are you a prisoner to Christ? Someone wrote this, Afflictions may test me, they cannot destroy. One glimpse of thy love turns them all into joy. The trials that imprison you need not limit God's work in you. In fact, the trials that God allows in your life should unleash God's work in you so that you become more effective for Christ. So that's what God's doing in Paul's life here. So what I want you to see in our passage here today are three reasons why Paul is thankful to be a prisoner of Jesus Christ. Here's the first one. Number one, a mystery was being unveiled. A mystery was being unveiled. We see this in verses 1 to 6. Now verse 1 is Paul actually beginning prayer. Paul's going to begin a prayer. But as soon as he kind of launches into this prayer, he kind of gets sidetracked. Let me ask you a question. You ever start praying and get sidetracked? Anybody here? Am I the only one, me and Paul, that do that at times? You know Before he gets into the body of his prayer, he kind of interrupts himself and he begins a discussion on the the great mystery between between both Jews and Gentiles, about the great mystery that between both Jews and Gentiles. And so really, verse two down to verse thirteen is parenthetical. Look at the phrase in verse one, for this cause And then we see the same phrase down in verse number 14, it starts the same way. For this cause. And so he gets back on track on verse 14 and he picks up praying again. But again, before he gets into the body of his prayer, he wants to reveal a mystery to them. We could say it like this, hey, before I pray for you, I want to share with you a secret. I want to tell you a secret that I have. Everybody loves to hear a secret. So, and notice in verse 2, if you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which is given to you to me, to you, word How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery. The word mystery there is mysterion, literally a secret Paul said, you know, I I know a secret that I want to share with you. Well, how did Paul come to know this secret? Well, in verse number three it says, how that by revelation he that is God made known unto me uh the mystery and so god revealed to Paul this mystery this secret and what is the secret we'll look in verse number six That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel And so the secret is basically this: God revealed to Paul the message that there's no longer a distinction between Jew and Gentile, that in Christ they are brought together as one. And God made Paul the minister of that message that the that the barriers have been ripped down And Paul is to go around and reveal this secret. Again, we see this in verse 1, for this cause. That statement points back to everything Paul said In chapter 2, verses 13 to 22. And what was the message of that? If you were here last week, you heard it. We are united in Christ. That's the message. Jews and Gentiles have been brought near by the blood of Christ. It is no longer the blood in your veins that identifies you, it is the blood of Jesus Christ that marks your identity. And all man-made racial, social barriers, they've been all ripped down. We are all now one in Jesus Christ. Christ has abolished those barriers. We are all citizens in the kingdom of God. We are all members in the family of God. We are all living stones. being built up in the temple of God, Jesus Christ being the cornerstone built upon the foundation of apostles and prophets as Christ is that cornerstone. We are being built together, fitly framed, to be a dwelling place of God and his spirit Now, Paul had already made that clear in chapter 2, verses 13 down to verse 22. You say, well, if Paul just said this before, why is he repeating it again here? Well to me this is evidence that the crowd that Paul was speaking to were Baptists. They needed to be reminded again and again. Need to be told over and over again. It must be repeated. But look at look in verse two again. He's Paul says, if We could put in brand in brackets there if indeed, if indeed you've heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me, you word. In other words, Paul's saying, look, did you hear what I just said? Did you hear what I just said? Or hey Have you all, are you aware of the fact that I'm a minister to the Gentiles? Now, Paul's probably using sarcasm or irony here. It'd be like me walking into a McDonald's saying, Hey, uh do you know where I can get a good hamburger? Well, we've been selling them for years. Paul was saying, hey, do you you know, are you aware that I'm a minister of the Gentile? Well duh, Paul. You know, that's been well known for years. That was Paul's whole ministry. That's the reason he was in a Roman prison. Because he was a minister to the Gentiles. In fact, the Ephesians were Christians because of Paul's ministry And what Paul's saying in essence here is, if this is what it takes for you and other Gentiles to get to know, Jesus Christ is worth it. It's worth me being a prisoner. How I thank God that God revealed this mystery to me and made me a messenger of this mystery. This mystery that was not known in other ages. God's now revealing it to apostles like me and to others, and I get to be a messenger of it. I am humbled that God would give me this secret so that I could use it to win precious souls to Christ. And now we are all one in Christ. Let me ask you a question. Are you willing to suffer for the truthfulness of the gospel? We all claim to be Christians. We all have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. How much are we willing to suffer for that message If that message runs counterculture, if that message costs us something, are we willing to stand without compromise, even to the point that we may have to go to prison? I know that sounds crazy, living in a free country like America. But the real issue is how deeply do we believe in this message? Are we willing to live it out? Are we willing to pay a price for it? You can dodge a lot of hassles as a preacher if you tiptoe around difficult doctrines. Just a nice message every now and then to make people feel good. That's all really you need to do. But Paul couldn't live that way because God had revealed to Paul certain doctrines, and Paul lived to please God, not man. Paul would refuse to compromise the gospel in any way. It would have been easier for Paul just to appease the Judaizers, but he wouldn't do that. He could have said, you know, you know, we we just don't agree on these issues, but I think unity is more important than truth, so I'm not going to really talk about this No. Instead, Paul firmly stood for the truth of the gospel, even to the point where it meant him being thrown into a Roman prison where he had to defend the message of the gospel before Caesar himself. Paul said, I'm thankful to be a prisoner of Jesus Christ. Why? Well, because a mystery was being unveiled But here's number two, write down, a ministry was being unleashed. Look at verse number seven. Whereof I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Now, being an apostle was not Paul's career choice. Rather, it was given to him as a sacred trust. Paul was made a steward. It was because of all the grace of God. Again, Paul didn't choose this. Paul was on the road to Damascus. He was on that road to go and persecute Christians. But on that road, he met up with Jesus. And he was converted. And now the Lord said to him, Get up and go unto Damascus, and there I'm going to tell you what you must do for me, uh what I've appointed you to do. In other words, Paul was drafted to be a minister. The word minister here is where we get our word deacon from. It means to serve, even in the most menial way, to serve tables. Paul's not free to do his own thing. Paul now is a minister to his master, the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, if you're saved. God did not save you, as one preacher said, so that you can sit, soak, and sour. He saved you so that you could serve Him. And He has a ministry for you. If you're not involved in serving Him, you need to find out what that calling is for your life and get busy serving the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul's grateful for the ministry that God has given him. Notice the power of this ministry in verse 7, where he said, according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Paul mentions that it's by God's mighty power that this came about in my life. That's what the gospel does. It's the power of God that transforms lives. We during our announcements we mentioned Chris Ashley, who's going to be teaching a men's class on 945. And several weeks ago, Chris preached in our Wednesday night service and did a tremendous job and he gave his testimony of how the gospel transformed his life. When I first came here and visited Chris, he was in a He was in a a mental ward in Johns Hopkins University Hospital. And just all kind of things going on in his life. But you know what happened? Jesus Christ transformed him by the power of God. And now he teaches the Word of God, does a great job. And now he's going to be teaching a Sunday school class. That's the transforming power of the gospel. You see, that's what salvation does. By God's mighty power. Paul himself was transformed. He was a violent racist. But now he loves the very people that he hated, the Gentiles, and now he is a minister to the Gentiles. That's what the gospel does It transforms the heart by the mighty power of God. Beware of cultural Christianity where you assume that you're a Christian because you live in a Christian country and you attend a Christian church. You are not a Christian unless you know the life-transforming power of God in your heart. That's what the word effectual working means in verse number seven. Energia, where we get our word energy. When God called Paul to a specific ministry, he gave Paul the gifts, and he also gave him the power to carry it out. And the same is true for you. The Bible says, faithful is he that has called you, he also will do it. He will give you the courage, he'll give you the perseverance, he'll give you the strength, the ability to do what God has called you to do. A story from India tells of a mouse who was terrified of cats until a magician agreed to transform him into a cat And that solved the problem until the new cat met a dog. So the magician transformed him into a dog. And then the new dog met a tiger And the magician transformed them into a tiger. And that worked until the the uh the new mouse who became a cat who became a dog uh who became a tiger met a hunter And he complained to the magician, and the magician changed him back into a mouse. And he said, you know, you have the body of a tiger, but you still have the heart of a mouse. You know, God reverses that process for the believer. We still have the body of a human being, but we're given the heart of the Spirit of God. And he gives us the strength and the ability and the courage and the perseverance to do the things that God has called us to do and to overcome the challenges that God puts in front of us. That's the power of this ministry. But notice the privilege of it. Look again in verse 8 where he says, Unto me who am less than the least of all the saints is this grace given. Paul is expressing emotion and wonder, amazement. In other words, he's saying, why me, Lord, I'm the least deserving. When Paul was converted, he changed his name from Saul to Paul. Paul means little. He called himself the least of the apostles. And here he calls himself not the least of all saints, but less than the least of all saints. Paul understood the privilege that God had called him to. But also notice the preaching of this ministry, again in verse 8, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. The unsearchable riches of uh Christ uh includes all that Christ is and all that Christ has. Unsearchable is a word that just means impossible to understand, unfathomable, inexhaustible. All the riches of Christ, they're so Rich so deep that it's hard for us even to comprehend all of these riches, but it's important for us to understand how rich we are in the Lord Jesus Christ. So that you can learn about these riches that you've been given as a Christian. If it was revealed to you that somewhere in your backyard a strong box with a million dollars was buried. You'd be out there this afternoon with a pick and a shovel. And you'd be digging around and you wouldn't stop until you got that box. Well, you've got something far greater than money. You've got the unfathomable riches of Christ. And they're right here in the scripture. Start digging. Start digging. So we see the power of this ministry, the privilege of this ministry, the purpose of it. Look in verse number 10. Notice what he says. To the intent that now unto principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church, the manifold wisdom of God. The purpose of God revealing the mystery uh of the of unto the church or of the church is that the manifold wisdom of God might be put on display. So that there'll be those that can see what God is doing. God is making one new man. God is tearing down all the barriers. He's taking Jews and Gentiles and bringing them together. And He's making them united in Christ. That's God's wisdom doing that. Now, who does God want to make this known to? Well, first to the angels. Look again in verse 10. Under principalities and powers in heavenly places. God is educating the angels in heaven by means of the church They're watching God build his church, and they're amazed to see what God is doing, how that God is bringing unity and oneness into a sinful humanity. And the angels respond in praise and honor to God. The church doesn't simply exist to get out the gospel and bring people to know Christ, although that's important, that's wonderful. But the ultimate purpose is for God to be glorified as He's bringing together everyone into one new man, into the church. The ultimate purpose is that God be honored in that. This wonderful unity. Last week we had an election. Did you hear about that? And always after an election there are people who will There's people who are happy at how it went. There are people who are angry at how it went. And there's always talk from newly elected leaders who say, oh now we need we need to unite everyone and bring everyone together. Well good luck with that But let me just tell you something, dear friend. There's no one leader that's going to be able to unite everybody together. Except Jesus Christ. He's the only one that can do that. And this is why the angels in heaven look down at the church and they see this incredible unity and oneness that previously existed in the sinful heart of man. It's the tendency of depraved sinful man to put up barriers out of pride and to make distinctions and to look down on others. And yet, when the angels look down and they see the church and they see all those things removed because we are now one in Jesus Christ, and we all have that same Holy Spirit dwelling inside of us, the angels give praise and glory and honor to God. At what God is doing. They marvel at the manifold wisdom of God in bringing together the church So God makes known his wisdom to the angels for his own praise and honor and glory, but also to all men. Back up to verse number nine, and notice what it says in verse nine. And to make All men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world had been hid in God who created all things by Jesus Christ. God wants the w all the world to see His wisdom in forming this new relationship between Gentiles and Jews in the church. He wants all the world to see this one new temple. with living stones fitly framed together unto a holy habitation. I mentioned last week how that some churches out there In response to the evil of racism, they're teaching, they're kind of baptizing and bringing into the church critical race theory. And uh which is really a theory that is based on Karl Marx, who was an atheist, whose big hero was Charles Darwin. And here we have this atheistic philosophy of dividing mankind up into oppressed and oppressor. And there are actually ministers and churches that are kind of Baptizing that atheistic philosophy and bringing it into the church, hoping that it'll bring racial unity into the church. And what it's done is actually destroyed many churches. And you know you know what when I hear of churches and ministers incorporating this into the church, you know what they're basically saying? You understand what they're saying? They're saying what Jesus did on the cross is not enough. That's essentially what they're saying. That Jesus needs the help of Karl Marx to unite his people. You're actually going to tell a watching world who's watching the church and they're watching the results of the gospel. And you're going to say to the world, oh well the gospel doesn't get it done, so we need to add a little bit of man's wisdom into this in order to unite us. That's really what you want to tell the world? How does God get glory in that? That's blasphemous. The gospel is sufficient. Christ is sufficient But you know what else you tell the world? You're telling the world that God's wisdom and uniting people together in Christ, it's not all that impressive. I mean the angels in heaven might be impressed with it, but we're not. We would rather trust in the wisdom of man. To unite people together. What an abomination that is. The reason many churches are weak and ineffective is because they do not understand what they have in Christ. And they don't apply it. And the cause of this is often spiritual leaders who are not good stewards of the mysteries of God. And telling people what God is doing. That's why Paul was glad to be a prisoner if it meant that the mystery of God was getting communicated. What's the mystery again? That God's tearing down all the barriers and he's bringing all the people together as one in Christ. Paul was glad to be a minister of that. Thankful to be a prisoner of Jesus Christ. But let me give you the last thing quickly Paul is a prisoner and is thankful to be because a mystery was being unveiled. A ministry was being unleashed. But here's the final thing: a mission was being underscored. Look at verse number 13. Wherefore, I desire that you faint not at my tribulations for you, which is your glory. Now when the Ephesians found out that Paul was in prison, they were asking, why is Paul in prison? Why did God permit such a thing? And why would God put him in this prison for so long? The news was causing some of them to lose heart. The word saint in verse 13, to grow weary, to lose heart. There are some Christians that believe they should never go through trials. And they lose heart when they do, or they see someone else go through a trial, they lose heart. But friend, God has a purpose in every trial that he brings in our life. And Paul says to these Ephesians, look, don't lose heart because of me. The reason I'm in this prison is for you, for your glory, for your good. God's actually unleashing something great. He's using this to get the message of the gospel out even more. Paul wrote to the Philippians when he was in the same prison, he wrote another letter to the Philippians. He said, Look, the things that have happened to me have fallen out rather for the furtherance of the gospel. It hasn't hindered the gospel, it's only furthered it even more. And Paul felt uh a great privilege to be a prisoner of Jesus Christ, so that this mystery uh would be revealed. It was a testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel that Paul is even willing to go to prison for this message of the gospel. That underscored the fact that the gospel is true. You show me a Christian that's not willing to pay a price for the gospel, I'll show you a person who doesn't really believe the gospel. Because if you really believe it, you'll underscore it with your life. On July 6, 1415, John Huss, the Bohemian preacher, was burned at the stake Why? He was killed by the Roman Catholic Church for heresy. What was his heresy? Well, he proclaimed that Christ was the head of the church, Christ and no other. He also proclaimed that salvation was in Christ alone, by grace through faith, in Christ alone. That was the heresy. Huss was deeply influenced by the teaching of John Wycliffe. who wrote a Bible, translated a Bible for the English-speaking people. And Huss was so deeply influenced by Wycliffe that he began to teach exactly what Wycliffe was teaching and then the the Holy Roman Emperor had enough of it and he called John Huss to a meeting, a council meeting. He was promised safe passage, that he would be treated fairly, but w no sooner did he get there was he betrayed and they determined that they were going to burn him at the stake. And they took him away to be burned at the stake, and they put a paper hat on his head that said, Here's the chief of false teachers, of blasphemers. And just before they lit the fire, they piled the wood around him. And just before they lit it, they said, would you like to recant? Your teaching, would you like to recant what you believe? And John Hush said, No. What I have taught with my lips, I now seal with my blood. He underscored his message by being willing to die for it. And so Paul says, look, I'm in this prison, but I'm not a prisoner of Rome. I'm not a prisoner of the Jews. I'm a prisoner of Jesus Christ. And I'm privileged to be a prisoner of Christ because a mystery is being unveiled And a ministry is being unleashed, and a mission is being underscored. He had his eyes not on his circumstances, but he had his eyes on Christ Whose prisoner are you today? Let's bow for prayer together. Father Heaven, we thank you for the grace of the gospel. How we thank you, Lord, for what you do in hearts and lives. When you save us, cleanse us of our sin, transform our hearts by your magnificent power. And make us all one in Jesus Christ. What a wonderful mystery that is revealed Lord, we marvel at your manifold wisdom that at the cross all these things were done. Lord, it boggles our mind to think about everything that took place at the cross in Christ. The enmity between God and man was removed. The enmity between man and other men have been removed. So now we can love God. Father, we can love you with all our heart. And we can love our fellow man. And be united together in Jesus Christ. And Father, we give you glory for that. And we know that throughout all the ages, Lord, we will praise you and magnify your name for your grace in saving us. Making us living stones in your temple. And Father, I pray if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, that today will be the day of salvation. And my friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, could I just, before we dismiss, invite you to come to Jesus Christ if you don't already know him? If you're not absolutely certain that Jesus Christ is your Savior Right now is the time of salvation. God's calling out to you right now. It's no accident that you're here, it's no accident that you're under the sound of the Word of God. God wants you to know His Son He wants you to be saved. And that happens when you reach out in faith. Realize that salvation is a gift purchased by the blood of Christ on the cross. On the cross, he paid your sin debt. On the cross, he satisfied the wrath of God the Father. And we know that God was satisfied with the sacrifice of his son Jesus. So how do we know that? Because God the Father raised him from the dead. And now Jesus lives. The only way of salvation is through Christ. It's a gift. We don't work for it. It was purchased by Christ. We receive it by faith when you put your faith in Jesus. Have you done that, friend? If not, would you be willing to right now where you are just praying and say, Lord Jesus, right now I'm reaching out to you in faith, save me. I'm a sinner I know that I have offended your holiness, but I'm asking you now to forgive me, cleanse me, make me your child because of what Christ has done And friend, if you pray that, mean it in your heart, you can become a Christian, a child of God. The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Come to him in faith. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, please let us know. We want to encourage you in your walk with Christ. Let's all stand together.