Psalm 127. Of course, this is a special Sunday and we want to recognize fathers, but I want to preach about fathers today. And uh hopefully have a word of encouragement. I don't want to beat you up. I want to encourage you guys because I know it's not easy being a father, is it? It's there's no greater responsibility than that of a father. I'll never forget the first time I held my first child, Abby, um, in my arms when a doctor brought this beautiful little red-headed girl to me And it dawned on me that now I'm a father. What an incredible weight of responsibility that I felt. I'll never forget that. An incredible feeling. It's so overwhelming. I heard about three dads that were in the waiting room. A nurse came and said, Is Mr. Smith here? He said, yes. She said, congratulations, you have twins. He said, oh really? Because I I work for the Minnesota Twins Organization. Hmm and I have twins. She came in later and says, Mr. Jones here. Yes, I'm here. You have triplets. He said, oh, interesting. I work for 3M corporations. And then she came in later and said, Mr. Monroe, are you here? There was no answer. Someone said he left. She said, uh where'd he go? He said, I don't know, but I just heard him say, Oh my lord, I work for 7 Eleven. That's a quiverful. You know, fatherhood is the greatest responsibility we have, but also it's the greatest challenge that we have. You know, we are responsible to provide physically with our work And in today's financial climate, man, it takes everything that you have, I know, to make ends meet. It's just not easy. You have to work very hard to provide for your family food and clothing and all the necessities of life Someone gave a definition of a father. They said a father is a man who carries his pictures in his wallet where his money used to be We are responsible to provide emotionally with our warmth. Not only our work, but our warmth. You know, families need a father's love. They just do. There's nothing that replaces that. We need to be responsible as fathers to love our families. Did you know that according to one survey, a father's involvement in a child's life increases their IQ? It increases their motivation to learn, their self-confidence, also develops in them a sense of humor as well as an inner excitement. Uh and so we have to kind of think of it this way. I was reading another study, you know, all of our family, they have like this emotional tank, and it has to be filled every day by our us fathers We have to fill that emotional tank. Sometimes a rebellious, what we call a rebellious child or a frustrated child is just a child that needs that emotional tank filled. And it needs to be filled by love. You say, how do we do that? Through our time? Just spending time. Through our touch, a meaningful touch, a meaningful embrace, a hug. According to a study from UCLA, Uh a child needs eight touches a day just for emotional stability. And that has to be from a dad. And we fill that tank when we do. And then our talk, just by giving them meaningful words, affirmation, encouragement, appreciation. And so it's our work. We have to provide for our family with our warmth. We have to love our family with our worship. We have to lead our family. We are responsible to lead our family in the things of God, men. That's God's calling to us. We have to worship God personally. And so I would challenge every dad in here. Make sure you have your time with the Lord. Make sure you're reading the word. Make sure you're praying, seeking God. We must worship God corporately. Coming to God's house, it's wonderful to see you here today with your family. Be faithful. And also we must worship God as a family. Let me encourage you, pray with your family Lead your family in devotions. One of the greatest things I did with our family is to have family devotions with them to pray and read the scripture together. And so there's all these responsibilities that we have And quite frankly, there are fathers today that are overwhelmed with all that we have to do. And there are some fathers that may even be frustrated. Because they feel like, man, it just seems like we're not making any progress in our life and things aren't going the way that we want them to go. Well, if you're a frustrated father, Psalm 127 is for you Knowing all the responsibilities we have, sometimes it could get to be a bit overwhelming. I think that this is a psalm that ministers to us. Look again in Psalm 127 and notice what it says, except the Lord build the house They labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keeps the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. I want you to look just above verse 1. In your Bible, it should say a song of degrees Or maybe a song of ascent. You say, what does that mean? What is that subtitle? Well, these songs of degrees or songs of ascent were sung by Jewish pilgrims. When they would travel to Jerusalem for the various feast days, Jerusalem geographically was located in a mountain or a hill, they would have to travel upward. And as they would travel and ascend, as it were, into Jerusalem, they would sing these songs on their way Now this is one of these songs, and it was written by Solomon of all people. Solomon the son of David. And you talk about a man who understood frustration. He did. There was a time in his life when he forgot God. He walked away from the things of the Lord. And when he did, there was no blessing in his life. He was very, very frustrated. And I think he kind of understands frustration and what it is and how we can overcome it. And so I want you to see here three lessons we can learn from this psalm. For fathers, especially fathers who might be a little frustrated, you say, man, I'm doing everything I can, but it just seems like, what do I do next? Well, here's the first thing. If you're taking those, write down number one, just write down this. Learn to fully rely on the Lord. Fully rely on the Lord. Look again in verse 1. Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Notice, accept the Lord. Unless the Lord, notice the word vain there, it's used three times here. And the point is you can labor diligently all you want to, but unless you are fully relying upon God, all your labor is vain. And the word vain here means useless. Here's the bottom line. We can't do it on our own. We just can't. That's what we have to learn. Now, before he narrows it down to the home, Solomon the author begins with a broader principle. He begins with building a house, guarding a city, working a job. It's all worthless unless the Lord is in it. Again, it's vain. Now, why does he make this point? Because Solomon knows the pride of the heart of man. Sometimes we like to take credit for things, or sometimes we like to try to do things independently of God. And we have to learn this foundational principle. We can't do it without God. This is so foundational. You say it's so simple. Yes, I know. But the heart of man wants to do it on his own. He has a tendency to walk away from God and say, I'm strong enough, I can do this. And the truth of the matter is we just can't. You can read all the books you want to. You can go to all the seminars you want to. Listen to all the experts and do all of that. But if you're not fully relying on the Lord, you're not going to be able to do it. And that's the idea here. If you leave God out, it's all meaningless. It's frustration. The city of Edinburgh in Scotland has a motto right above As you enter, it's a crest and it reads in the Latin, really based on this verse, Nisi Dominus frustra, without the Lord frustration. From this verse here, because they knew that we can't have a city with the blessing of God on it without Him Now there are five activities that he mentions here in this psalm where without the Lord they're useless, laboring at building a house. He mentions that, he mentions guarding a city. He mentions of rising up early to work and then staying up late, that's another thing, and then eating food earned by heavy labor. You do that all on your own. It's useless what he's saying. You do that by yourself. So we have to depend upon God. You say, well I I've built a wonderful house. Yeah, I know, but there's a difference between building a house and building a home. Right. Any man can build a house, but only God can build a home. There's a difference. Solomon built a big house. But he didn't have a really nice home because he wasn't relying on the Lord. What's the difference between a house and a home? A house is a physical building. A home is a spiritual blessing. A house is designed by an architect, a home is designed by God. A house is built by men, a home is built by God. A house is built from the ground up, a home is built from heaven down. A house is built on semen. A home is built on the rock of the Lord Jesus Christ. A house provides a roof over your head. A home provides a foundation under your feet. There's a difference. I don't want just a house. I want a home. I want a home that God blesses. Now again, Solomon, he he was a builder. He was a master builder. If you read Ecclesiastes, you're going to find that he built a lot. And he was very rich. He built his own house. It took him 13 years to complete that house. It was wonderful, beautiful, majestic. He built cities. He built uh fortified cities. Listen to Ecclesiastes 2, verse 4. I made me great works. I builded me houses. I planted me vineyards. I made me gardens and orchards. I planted trees in them. He goes on to describe all that he had in those houses. And then he says this, so I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. And whatsoever my eyes desired I kept not from them, and I withnet with uh withheld not my heart from any joy. You say, man, a guy like that must have been really happy. Built all this stuff, had all these riches and luxury. Listen to what he said in verse 17. Therefore I hated life. He didn't love life. He hated life. He built the house, but he didn't have a home because he wasn't walking with the Lord at that time. And he wasn't fully dependent upon God. And so, men, here's the thing that we have to learn. We have to say, Lord, I can't build this. I can't do this. I can't do this without you. Lord, I need your help. We need God's help to help us build a home. I don't know about you, but I don't know how to build anything. I'm terrible at building. And my wife, she's good at building. I bought her tool set, she's very good with it Something breaks, she fixes it. It's really nice a pink tool set. But I'm not a good builder. I need the Lord to help me. I'll never forget, just to illustrate this principle, when I was 17 years old, our founding pastor um actually gave me my first car. He sold me a car for uh Two Buick's for fifty dollars, which is to say he gave them to me. One of them was good for running, the other was good for parts. That was the first car I ever had. My brother took some of the parts off of one and fixed the other. And so I drove around in this Buick It was wonderful. The thing I liked most about this Buick was it had a four-barrel carburetor. And some of you guys you know, you know, I was a teenager. And when I would get on the exit on the beltway, I would floor it. And you would hear those carburetor, you would hear it just jump in, you know. You understand the sound, guys? I could see on some of your faces they're like, yes And my dad would warn me, he'd say, look, you're gonna blow that engine if you keep doing that. You're gonna blow that engine. And sure enough, one day I jumped on the beltway, short it, I heard a bang. And then nothing. Pulled over to the side, got to a phone, called my father. He didn't even ask me what happened. He just said, where are you? Towed me back to the backyard. I thought he was going to give me a tongue lashing and uh he didn't say anything. I thought, man, I got away with this. Four in the morning, the next morning, he comes into my room. He wakes me up. He says, get up. You're going to change the engine in this car. Now I want you to know something, ladies and gentlemen. You're looking at the worst mechanic there ever was. I'm terrible. If you ever see me, I tell my family ever see me under a car, please call 911. Because I am not working on that car. But I remember that day he got me up, we went to the backyard, he said, You're gonna change out this engine. And he stood over me all day long. He said, Now do this, now do that, now do this. He told me what to do And by the end of the night, we had changed out the engine in that car. And I want you to know you're looking at someone this morning who changed a car engine. And yet I'm the worst mechanic there ever was. How did you do that? I just listened to my father. He knew what to do. And he told me what to do. And I was fully dependent upon him. He would not do it without me. I couldn't do it without him. And so, you know, I gotta tell you, we had a good fellowship there, talking and learning And that's the way it is with God. And building a home. Fathers, listen, we can't do it without God. You say, how do we do this? We just listen to it. Listen, we have a heavenly father that knows how to do it. And what we have to do is we have to listen to him. I suggest that you put Jesus at the head of your building committee for your home. He knows how to build. He built this world. He built us our first home in the Garden of Eden. He's building his church. I thank God that I don't have to build a church. Jesus is building the church. He said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He's building us a home in heaven. And so this is the first principle we need to understand. We need to fully rely on the Lord. And just tell God, God, I can't do this without you. And we rely upon him, not only for building the home, but protecting the home. Look again in verse 1, except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it, except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. Now ancient cities were protected by very high walls around the city. That was obviously to keep the enemy out. And the watchman was there in a tower on the wall, and where it says wake if there, that's a word that just means he had to stay alert. He had to stay vigilant. He had to protect that city at night. That was his job. But here's the principle again. You can have the best protection that man can give, but if you're not depending upon the Lord. Doesn't matter. God is our protection. Now, it doesn't mean that we're not supposed to do what we need to do. Yeah, we have to take all the proper measures. But in the end, we fully trust in the Lord to help us, to protect our home. You remember in the Bible when David sinned against the Lord? The Bible says he numbered the people. Sometimes people think, what's the big deal? Well, David took a census of the military. Why? Because he was boasting in his own military power. And what did that show? That his heart was dependent more on man's military might than on God. That was a sin of pride, and God didn't like it. And God punished him for that. That's how serious God takes it. Look, go ahead and do all the things you need to do. But remember, we're relying on the Lord to protect us. Go ahead and build those walls. But also rely on the Lord. So number one, we must learn to fully rely on the Lord. You got that? Here's number two. Learn to faithfully respond to the Lord. Look at verse 2. It's vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrow, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. We could say, learn to rest in the Lord. And here's the principle here. While we're relying on the Lord, it doesn't mean we do nothing. We do what we're supposed to do, and then after that we rest. So when we say we're relying on the Lord, it doesn't mean we sit around and do nothing. I kind of alluded to this a little bit already. We have to do our part, and then we trust God to do his part. When it comes to building our homes, we need walls around the home. Don't we need that? We need walls of protection. What do we mean by walls? Well, we need rules to guide us. By the way, that's why God gave us his word You know when God gives us a commandment in Scripture, it's not because He wants to keep us from having fun. He wants to protect us from things that are harmful. And so all of His commandments, all of His principles are for our protection. And we need to teach these things because this is the walls that we put up around our home. We have to do that. But then having done that We rely, we we rest in the Lord. In other words, there's a balance here between, and I see this all over in Scripture, between human responsibility and divine sovereignty. We have to do what we're responsible to do, but then after that we rest in the Lord. That's it. We don't worry after we do it. Do what you're supposed to do. Respond to what God has told us and taught us in His Word, and He's made it very clear. But once we do that, after that, we say, Okay, Lord, now I'm resting in you. I've done my part. You see, that's the way we live our Christian life. And I see this principle all over in Scripture. For example, who's responsible for your sanctification in your life? Who's responsible? If you say I am, you're right. But that's half the story. If you say God is, you're right again. But it's not either or, it's both and Remember what Paul said in Philippians? He said, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And then the very next verse, what did he say? He said, For it's God who works in you. Both to will and to do of his good pleasure. You say, well, is it me working or is it God working? Yes. You work out your salvation. You work out of you what God has put in you. And then you have to realize God is working in you already. He's doing his part, we're doing our part. But once I do mark my part, I do all I'm supposed to do, I'm resting in the Lord that he's going to do his part. That's the key there. That's where we don't get frustrated. We say, okay, Lord, it's you. Not I, but you. I do my part. But then I'm resting in you. Listen to what Paul said. He said, But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. But listen to this, but I labored more abundantly. Paul said, you know, oh God, it's all your grace. Anything you see, it's just you. And yet, I'm laboring. I'm doing all that I'm supposed to do. You see, it's my responsibility, but it's my response to his ability. What he does. And so we learn to rest in the Lord. Now extremes are to be avoided. A lot of times parents say, Well, I'm just trusting God, but you're not doing anything. You're not erecting walls. You're not spending time with your children. You're not loving your family. You're saying, oh, I'm just giving it all to the Lord. That's a pop-out. That's not an excuse to be passive You've got responsibilities. Do those responsibilities. That's one extreme is to say, oh, that's just all up to God. The other extreme is, oh, it's up to me and you're not trusting in God at all. We avoid either extremes and we say, you know what, I'm going to do my part. And then I Rest in the Lord. That's the principle that He's giving us here. It is the Lord who makes all of our labor meaningful. You got that? All that we do, he's the one who makes what we do meaningful. So we learn to rely Upon the Lord, we learn to rest in the Lord, having done what God called us to do. But here's the third thing and the last thing today. Learn to freely receive from the Lord. Freely received. Now the rest of these verses here in this psalm speaks of the blessing of God that he gives the home. And notice the psalmist begins with the city and he moves to the family. You know why? Because the family is the basic unit of society. It's the first divinely appointed institution. It's the family that's blessed by God. And when God blesses the family, you know what? The rest of society will be blessed. When God blesses the family, it has a trickle-down effect. The city will be blessed, the country will be blessed, but then it's but first it starts with the family. Has to start there. I was reading about Richard Baxton, the great Puritan preacher, and God called him to pastor a church where the people were so very cold. And the fathers weren't interested in their family. They were interested more in social status and their work. And the homes were unruly. And the children were out of order, hard to handle. And so pastoring them was very difficult work in that church and in that town. But this is what Richard Baxter decided to do. The Lord laid upon his heart this one idea. Go around to every family. And persuade the father to lead the family in Bible reading and prayer, family worship. And he decided to do that. It took him some time, but he went to every family in his church. And he persuaded the father. He didn't even show them how to do it. Here's how you lead your family in family worship. And you know what happened? That church began to catch fire. Revival came to that church. And not only did it just stay in the church, it spread to the whole town. God did a great thing there. You know why? It started with the family, and it started with the father. When the father got serious about the things of God. And so how does God bless a home? Well, he gives for that home godly children. Look in verse number three. Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord And the fruit of the womb is his reward. First of all, notice the desirability of children. This is something very desirable. He says it's a heritage of the Lord. This is something given by God to you. It's a gift. You know, children are not a penalty or a burden, they're a gift from God. The Bible says they're his reward, a reward from God. Now we live in a world today where a certain part of society wants to say that children cramp your style. Our children are a burden. Some people say, oh, they're so expensive to have children. If I have more children, I won't be able to drive the car I want. I won't be able to own the house that I want. But you got it exactly opposite. Children don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. That's what the Bible says right here. I can't take my car or my home to heaven with me, but I can take my children with me. They're the most valuable thing that we have. They're a gift from God, and we need to communicate to them that they are a gift from the Lord. By the way, I'm reminded of this every year on my birthday. You know, my first child, Abby, was born on my birthday, which is pretty neat. I haven't had a birthday ever since. She has she has hogged that whole day, which is okay with me. Because every year I'm reminded that she's a gift from the Lord. The best gift I ever got. was her and then her brothers and sister that followed. They are gifts from the Lord. That's what this verse is telling us here. Every child is a sovereign gift from Almighty God. And we need to communicate that to our children, both verbally and nonverbally. The things that we do communicates to them how valuable they are. to us. But not only the desirability of children, notice the directability of children. Look in verse 4. As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth Now, another attitude we must have towards children is that they require our time to shape and reshape them. The Bible compares them to an arrow, just like an arrow. You know something about arrows back then? You couldn't just go to the sporting goods store and buy arrows for your bow. A warrior had to learn to shape his own arrows. That means he would have to take a raw stick and then shape it and polish it, make it an arrow, put it in his quiver, and when he had his own arrow that he shaped that he polished, that was something very valuable to him. But he didn't take that arrow and put it in his quiver to keep it there. Because the arrow is no good in the quiver. What does the arrow have to be used for? It has to be launched out. It's got to be pushed out. Arrows must be polished, pointed, and then propelled. You know, God gave us children, but he didn't mean for us to keep them all of our life. We point them in the right direction, and then you know what we do? We launch them. You see, an arrow can go where the warrior cannot go. And if I do my best to teach my children the things of God, and then I launch them for it, that means that wherever they go, they're going to take the message of the gospel with them They're going to take the things of God with them so they can have an impact wherever they go. That's the thing there. We need to teach our children that the first priority of our life is to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. They need to learn that from us We point them in the right direction, then we propel them, we let them go. You say, well my child might be called to be a missionary and then they'll go to a foreign country and I won't ever get to see them. Well, that might be the price to pay But what a privilege to have a child in missions, doing the work of God. Jim Elliott, who gave his life trying to reach unreach people, became a martyr. One time his parents were complaining about him being a missionary having to leave. And this is what he wrote to uh parents. Grieve not if your sons seem to desert you. Remember how the psalmist described children? He said that they were as an heritage of the Lord. And that every man should be happy who had his quiver full of them. And what is a quiver full of arrows? And what are arrows for? But to shoot. So with the strong arms of prayer, draw the bowstring back and let the arrows fly, all of them, straight at the enemy. It's good, isn't it? Let them fly. Let them fly at the enemy. So there's the directability of children. Then there's number the last one, number three, the dependability of children. Look in verse 5. Happy is a man that hath his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the the enemies in the gate. So here is a picture of a happy man, and again it's a picture of a man who has a large family, many children. His quiver is full. And these are children that God has blessed them with. And because he has been fully relying on the Lord, he's been doing his part and then trusting God for the rest. God has blessed his family And they're children that love him and love God. And they're right there with them. And you know what? Because of those children, he's not afraid. He's not ashamed. Why? Well when the enemy comes to the gate, his children are standing there right behind him. When it talks about the enemy at the gate, you have to remember that And they were back in the b in the city, they would have a gate of the city. And when an enemy planned to invade that city, they would try to get through the gate. And sometimes the enemy would come and want to talk to someone in the city And so if you had to meet the enemy at the gate, you're not afraid to meet him. You know why? Because you got all these burly boys behind you here. They're your backup. You're not afraid of any enemy because you've got warriors on your side. That's the principle there. You see, if we fully rely on the Lord, We do our part and then we rest in the Lord. And then we receive God's blessings because we've done our part and we're trusting Him. You know what He'll do? He'll raise up a generation of children that are strong. That can meet the enemy to where we say, you know what, we have no concern. We have no worries God has blessed us with a generation of God-fearing strong children. That's our heart's desire. That's the prayer of every father here. We want godly children that can meet the enemy, but I want to tell you, we can't do that. Only God can do that. So let's confess today with all our heart. That we're fully trusting God for this. We're asking God for this. Let's bow together for prayer. So Lord, we come before you very humbly, understanding the incredible responsibility that you have given us And Lord, we come confessing freely that we can't do this. We don't know how to build a home. We can build a house, but not a home. Lord, only you can do that. And Lord, we can do all that we can, but if we do it without you, Lord, we have nothing. So we crave your blessing. We plead for your blessing. We don't want to be irresponsible. We want to do our part. We want to do all that you've called us to do. But the Lord, having done all that, If you don't bless it, then Lord, it's nothing. So we come to you today very humbly and we say, Lord, bless the work of our hands. Help us in what we seek to do. Lord, being a father is a tremendous calling. So, Lord, will you help us? Will you bless us? And Lord, may we raise a generation of children that know how to meet the enemy. And Lord, there's enemies all around. May we raise a generation of children that are strong, strong in the word, strong in prayer. That know how to walk with you, that know how to face the enemies today. And Lord, only you can do that for us. Please do that for us. And may we say, like the psalmist, Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain to build it. How many heads bowed and eyes closed, fathers will say that's my prayer today. Would you lift your hand and say, Before God, that's my prayer. Fully trusting in God today. Fully trusting in Him. Father, bless these. Bless these hands, bless these hearts. They come to you today and say, Lord, it's up to you. They're trusting in you and you alone. We pray in Jesus' wonderful and matchless name. Amen.