We know this past week has been very eventful. It's been difficult for us here in Baltimore. I think as we're gathered here tonight, our minds are still on what has happened this past week. We're thinking about our city and the riots that have taken place. I've gotten calls from people all over the country asking how things are going. We're safe. I'm sure you probably had the same thing happen My daughter Abby actually called said that things that happened here made news over there in London. So this just isn't just a national news that's happened here in Baltimore. It's also international Of course, our hearts are burdened. We're grieved. We're concerned. As I come to you tonight, my heart is burdened. We grieve for the family that lost their son, the gray family And we should pray for them. We're burdened for the neighborhoods and the people that suffered as a result of the destruction and the looting that's been going on. And these things have happened here, they've happened in other places in our country, and what it reveals is a general lack of trust towards government or a lack of respect towards civil authority. And it's a general rebellion, and it seems to be fomenting all over, not just here, but all over. There's this general rebellion. It's dangerous, it's contagious, this growing distrust. And what we have seen in the past few days is really just the fruition of this distrust. I was reading on the Internet, uh doing some research, a recent a recent poll showed that 73% of Americans Distrust government. That is high. 73%. I was kind of amazed by that. According to the National Institute of Justice, another uh website I kind of looked at, they said, quote, racial and ethnic minority perceptions That the police lack lawfulness and legitimacy, based largely on their interactions with the police, can lead to distrust of the police. Distrust of police has serious consequences. Well we we know that. We've seen that. It undermines the legitimacy of law enforcement, and without legitimacy, police lose their ability and authority to function effectively. End quote. Now some of the distrust that has taken place, I think some of it is understandable based on some of the abuse of authority. We know that. But then some of it is just plain pure simple rebellion. When you fight injustice with injustice, it reveals that you really don't care about justice. That all you really want to do is rebel. So I just want us to look at the Bible tonight. What does the Bible have to say about this? What should our response be as Christians? I I just have one concern, and that is to give a voice to what God says. We're not political. I don't have any political agenda. I my calling and the calling of any preacher is to give a voice to what the Word of God says. And how does God's word apply to all of this? What should our attitude be towards government? How should we respond to the perceived injustice of government? Well, let me just give you a little bit of background before we get into Romans 13. Scripture teaches that God has used four instruments to restrain evil that is in the heart of man. Four instruments that God has used to restrain evil. Number one is conscience. Just write down conscience if you're taking notes. We know what the conscience is, it's that inner sense of right and wrong. It's given to us by God, it's really an expression of the grace of God to restrain the evil that is in man Scripture speaks of the birth of conscience. When did that take place? That took place in the Garden of Eden, right after Adam and Eve fell. Because right after that they felt something they had never felt before. It was the sting of conscience. It was shame over sin. They hid themselves. As a result of eating the forbidden fruit, the conscience was given to them, and this came also with that conscience came the sense of right and wrong, the sense of guilt over actions that they had committed. And so that was God's gracious gift to fallen men. You think things are bad. If man did not have a conscience today, things would be a whole lot worse. A whole lot worse. Some metaphors used about the conscience, it's the inner light or inner voice. Proverbs 20 27 says, the spirit of men is the lamp of the Lord. searching all the innermost parts. And so it's an inward light, an inward lamp, an inward sense of right and wrong. It lets us know when we do right, but it also accuses us when we are ready to do wrong or do wrong. Romans 9. 1, Paul said, I speak the truth in Christ. I'm not lying. My conscience bears me witness. Paul says, My conscience is excusing me, and it's telling me that I am telling the truth. In 2 Corinthians 112, Paul said, for our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience that we had behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity. Paul said, You may accuse me, but my conscience doesn't. My conscience excuses me and it gives me peace to know that I am doing the right thing. The Bible says holding faith and a good conscience. And we can go on. There are other places where that is used David talked about his heart smoting him. That's a reference to the conscience inside. And so it's a warning. Now we know that people, however, can ignore that conscience. We know that people can abuse it, that people can harden it, that the conscience doesn't always hinder man from doing wrong. And we've seen that, right? You can ignore your conscience. The waves of depravity can beat against that barrier so much that finally it gives way. And there's no more conscience that is restraining man. That's why we can see some of the things that we have seen not only in Baltimore but in other places, the the beatings, the looting, the destruction, the crime. All that is man overcoming the conscience, the barrier that God has put in him to do what he knows to be wrong. And when the conscience isn't working, there's another barrier, however, that God graciously has given to restrain evil. And you know what that is? Number two, write this down, family. Family. God's given the family unit. You know why? One of the reasons God gave the family unit, it is a restraint against evil. Parents are responsible to teach their children the sense of right and wrong. They're to teach them to obey the law. Deuteronomy six. And these words which I commit thee this day, command thee this day rather, shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy Children. What were the words that Moses was referring to? He was referring to all the law, but in that law was the moral law, the Ten Commandments. All these things you're to teach to your children. Moses said, and that responsibility is laid upon all of us. God expects parents to restrain their children from being lawless. In the Old Testament, when Eli did nothing about his lawless children, God sent a prophet, a man of God, to the household of Eli, and through that man of God, God said to Eli, You have put your children ahead of me. When parents refuse to restrain their children, God says, you put your children ahead of me. He takes a personal. Parents who teach their children to be submissive, that restrain their children, literally save their life. The Bible says you save your your children from Write down Proverbs 23, 13, and 14. Withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with a rod, he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and thou shalt deliver his soul from hell. You save their lives by correcting them. And that at times includes, you ready for this, corporal punishment. Spankings. Society is so mixed up it tells parents not to spank their children and then are surprised when the children riot. Parental correction. I'm talking about loving parental correction is a restraint against evil and depravity Foolishness that is in the heart of every child. Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. And so uh the Bible teaches this, corporal punishment. The rod that it's talking about there, it's not talking about a big club, it's talking about a switch. That which is at the end of a branch, and some of you grew up with that switch. It is a magic wand. It is able to correct behavior in children. And the Bible says that will drive the foolishness out of the heart of a child. I think you probably all have seen the video that uh has gone viral. The mother who grabbed her son who was rioting and she began to perform a smackdown on him right there on national television And uh I you know, th she's been interviewed and that thing's going around and uh I I saw one paper that said, um, don't send in the National Guard, send in the mamas. Because they could do the job. There's a lot of you know, there's a lot of truth to that. There's a lot of truth to that. It's funny, under normal circumstances if this had took taken place, she would probably be accused of being abusive. But now she's a hero in that context. What I say to parents, do this smack down before the riot starts. And you know what I mean by that. I don't mean abuse. I mean loving correction. Because again, this is something that God, in his grace, has given to us as a restraint on evil. But of course we know that there's been an attack on the family. We know that the family has disintegrated. We know that Uh it's a burden to us to see f homes that are not functioning the way God intended. We have so many single parent homes and a mother is left to do all of it herself to work and be the mother and the father and our hearts go after that The family unit is not functioning the way God wants it to function. There are attacks all over on the family. And because of that, this God-given common grace to restrain evil is not working the way God intended it to work. So we so then we have the conscience that can be ignored, that can be defiled And hardened and seared, and then we have the family unit that is not functioning the way God intended it to function. Well then what is the next restraint that God has given to our world to restrain evil. And this is number three, and this is the government. Government. And so God has given us this, and this is where I want to dwell tonight, because in order to function reasonably well in a reasonably safe world, There has to be restraint, and there's a restraint that has to come from governmental authority. And this I feel is the next thing that is really under attack right now because of this great mistrust God expects us to be submissive to government. Even government that is less than perfect. Even government that sometimes can be abusive and sometimes won't get it right God expects us to be submissive even then. You say, what's the basis for that? What's the justification for that statement? Jesus Jesus Christ. All I need to do is just point to Him. He's the great example in all of this. Jesus taught us this very thing. For example, some of you may know, and we don't have time to turn there tonight, but in Matthew 22, there were some men who came to Jesus. They were Herodians and Pharisees. They were normally enemies, but they came together to try to get Jesus. They wanted to ensnare him. And so first they flattered him and then they tried to trip him up. They tried to ask him a question that would trap him, that would ensnare him, that would cause him to lose credibility. And he said, what was the question? The question was in regarding to abusive government. And in that sense, they were asking him a question on how Should we respond to government that is less than perfect, government that can be abusive? That was the question. You know the question. Tell us your opinion, Jesus. Is it right to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Now keep in mind, who was the government back then? Who were they referring to? The Roman government. They were less than perfect. And there was a fomenting rebellion even in Jesus' day where people didn't want to submit. People didn't want to submit to the abuse. And so they asked Jesus this question. This was a devilishly clever question. If Jesus said no, he would be branded a traitor to Caesar, which is what they were hoping for, so that He would eventually die and be put to death. If he said yes, he would be called an antipatriate and his ministry would be discredited. Because many of the Jews were rebelling at that time. So how did Jesus answer them? And you know the story. Jesus said, You hypocrites, why are you trying to tempt or trap me? Show me a coin. And they brought a coin to Jesus. And you know the story. A hush came over the crowd. He held the coin up. He said, Whose image is on this coin? And they said, Caesar's And what does Jesus say after that? Render therefore unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. And in that one statement, Jesus, with a brilliant answer, by the way, the critics all they could do is walk away and shake their heads and wonder. But then in that simple statement, Jesus was establishing the validity of human government, even abusive government, while at the same time saying that there are limits to human government. That while Caesar has his imprint on certain things, God has his imprint on your soul. So there is a limit to it. However, there should be submission. Now here in Romans thirteen, Paul really is giving an exposition of that statement from Jesus. By the way, I think that was the most important political statement ever made, the one that Jesus made. But I want you to look in Romans 13 because again, this is Paul's explanation of that statement. Paul tells the believers their responsibilities in rendering under Caesar the things that are Caesar's. And by the way, again, the background of Romans 13 is this is a political situation that was explosive for the early church. Remember, he's writing to the Romans who were from Rome, and that was the capital of the world then. That was where Caesar reigned. And there were many troubling things happening there at that time. As we look out at our country today, there are troubling things happening in our country. I know there are people that are unhappy with the government. But I want to tell you something uh something folks, if you think that things are bad uh uh were bad now here in America, they weren't nothing compared to the way it was in Rome. It was incredibly bad. Let me give you a few facts. Nero was on the throne at the time Paul wrote this. I would say he was less than perfect as a leader. He persecuted Christians. You know the story of that. The Roman state did many evil things. Its court system was biased biased about social classes, it was prejudiced against slaves and minorities that were in the empire. They were, the people there were under heavy taxation at the time. Rome was taxing the people to death, literally sucking the life out of people. Because it was expanding its empire. It was building its infrastructure. It was building Roman roads all over the place And it was sapping money from the people. It was a heavy burden. There was the worship of Caesar, the emperor, and they demanded all citizens to be loyal to that. And to add to that, Christians were suffering under this oppressive government. In fact, the Roman government often lumped Jews and Christians together. They didn't see a distinction between the Jews and the Christians And when the Jews began to revolt, you know what the Roman government did? They cast all of them out of Rome. They kicked out all the Jews and all the Christians for a time If you were a Christian, you had to leave. That's why Aquila and Priscilla had to end up leaving and going to Corinth, because they were kicked out of Rome, because the Roman government didn't see a distinction between the Jews and the Christians And so it was bad. So when Paul wrote this epistle, he was very careful to teach believers their proper role towards government. And what is the role then? What is the role of the believer? Well, I just want to give you just in these next seven verses just three aspects of our submission to government. Just three. First, I want to talk about the responsibility Then the reasons, and then finally the rendering. Number one, responsibility. Look at verse 1. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Now verse 1 is very straightforward. It's very easy to understand, very simple, and the command is simply to be submissive to government. Paul is establishing this basic principle. Whatever the form of government, whoever the ruler Be submissive. Civil government should be obeyed and submitted to by all people, but especially Christians. This is the duty of every person to his nation, even if the ruler is Nero, who was on the throne at that time. That's the principle. It is unqualified. It is unlimited. It is unconditional. Notice again the phrase, every soul. That is the Hebraism for every person. And notice where it says be subject. That's an imperative. That's a command. The Greek word is hypo-teso, a military term meaning lining up under and taking your orders. Being submissive to an authority. And this authority was called rulers in verse 3, for rulers are not a terror. And so this text makes it very clear that We're to be submissive, and there's no distinction between good rulers and bad rulers and fair laws and unfair laws. It doesn't make any distinction with that It just says be submissive. Let me tell you something, friend. There is no such thing as perfect government. You understand that? No such thing. And there won't be any such thing as perfect government until Jesus Christ comes back and he sets up his throne, just like the Bible says. That will be the perfect government. But other than that, God uses sinners in these positions. In fact, it was obedience of Christians to unfair laws and unjust laws, it was the Christian submission to the oppression of the Roman government that ultimately caused the Roman government to accept Christianity. Which helped Christianity to spread in that time. Write down 1 Peter 2:12. Having your behavior honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works Which they shall behold. Glorify God in the day of visitation. In other words, they may speak evil against you, but let that be a lie. Let them see your good works. It's obviously a lie what they're saying. But then let me give you the the reasons, by the way. The reasons. Um Look in the again Romans 13. Not only the responsibility, but the reasons. Look again in verse 1. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. You say, what's the reason? Here's the first one. Because government is ordained by God. That's very simple. Government is ordained by God. Paul says there is no power but of God, period. Any power or authority that someone has has been given to them by God. It is ordained by God. No civil government exists in any nation apart from God. That's the point that Paul is making here. Psalm 62, 11, power belongeth unto God. So anyone who possesses any kind of government authority that's been delegated to them, that's been given to them by God. You remember when Jesus was standing before Pilate? Listen to what John 19 says. Then said Pilate unto him, unto Jesus. Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest not that I have the power or authority to crucify thee and have power to release thee? In John 19, 11, Jesus answered, Thou couldst have no power at all against me, except it were given to thee from above. Pilate, you wouldn't have any authority unless it were given to you by my Father. And so here's Jesus. standing before an abusive, corrupt leader, an unjust government, and by the way, uh a just government, a right government would never crucify someone who is innocent They would only crucify someone who was innocent if they were corrupt. And Pilate knew that he was innocent. And yet he allowed them to be crucified. So you might say that God used an abusive, corrupt government to crucify the Savior to give us salvation. You know what that means? That God and His sovereignty can use even corrupt officials to accomplish His sovereign purposes. Because that's exactly what the cross was. It was injustice. It was abusive. It was not right. And yet God used that to bring salvation to the whole world. And that means that God has designated a sovereign purpose for every government that exists all over All over. Nebuchadnezzar was more than cruel, and yet the Bible says that God is the one who set him on the throne. The Bible says in Daniel 4 17, this matter is by the decree of the watchers and the demand of the word of the Holy Ones, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will. So we submit because government is ordained by God, but also right now because resistance is rebellion against God. Look again in verse 2. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power Resist the ordinance of God. The word resist here, used in the perfect tense, we could say it like this. Whoever has and can continues to have a permanent attitude of resistance against the government is resisting God. When you resist the authority, you resist him. Robert Haldane, in his great commentary on Romans, wrote this: quote, the people of God then ought to consider resistance to to the government under which they live as a very awful crime, even as resistance to God Himself. And so it doesn't matter if the Emperor is good, evil, or a persecutor of Christians, or a lover of Christians, or elected by a group, or no matter how he got there. It's established by God, and we're to submit And again, we see this attitude in Scripture. David, his actions towards Saul. Saul was hunting him down. Saul was the leader. He was the authority. Was it right to hunt down an innocent man? No. Was it right to try to kill an innocent man? No. And yet he was doing it. And yet what was David's response to him? To being submissive. Even when he cut off a part of his robe, his conscience bothered him, and he confessed it and he humbled himself. And when Saul died, David wept. So he submitted himself even to injustice. And God honored him for that. So, not only because the government is ordained by God, that's the first reason, because resistance is rebellion against God, but here's the third reason, because resistance results in judgment. Look again in verse 2 Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves what? Damnation. Paul says, look, if you resist, you're going to be punished. Damnation here is a translation, is a word that translates the word judgment. It speaks of a judgment from God. This is a judicial punishment that is from God. If you resist You will be punished, Paul says. The Bible gives several means of punishment, restitution for lesser crimes, corporal punishment for lesser crimes, and then all the way to capital punishment for greater crimes. And so let me give you the fourth reason. Because government restrains evil. Look again in verse 3. For rulers are not a terror. to good works but to the evil. That is, and here's the point, government is given to restrain evil. Even communist governments, even oppressive governments can do that, can accomplish that purpose. Government is designed by God To put fear into the hearts of men so they will not fully live out the evil that is in the depraved heart And that's why Paul says here in this verse, Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Verse 3, see that? Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power, the word fear phobas Where we get the word phobia, a certain terror. Paul is saying that government is not a terror to people who do good, but to those who do evil. And so government is to do that very thing. It's to strike fear into the hearts of those who would do evil. To restrain that evil. But then let me give you the next thing. Government is ordained by God. Resistance is rebellion against God. Resistance results in judgment. but also government restrains evil. And then notice the next thing, because obedience brings approval. Look at verse 3 again. For rulers not a terror to the good works, but to the evil, wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have what? thou shalt have praise of the same. If you do what is good, it'll be approved, it'll be commended, it'll be praised by those that are in authority, and most importantly by God. himself. Thank God for good citizens. Thank God for good submissive people. That is praiseworthy. Some of you may have seen the uh the picture of some people that were actually lining up, citizens, lining up in front of the police, so as to defend the police from the riders. That was a beautiful thing That's a praiseworthy thing. If you do good, that's praiseworthy. But let me give you the next reason. Because government is God's servant for good. Look again in verse 4. For he is the minister of God to thee for good. The word minister, thiconos, this is where we get the word deacon. And uh and so rulers have been granted this great honor. They are the servants of God. When it says He is the minister of God, who's the He there? The He is any of those that are in that God-given, ordained government authority position. Whether it's a senator, whether it's a uh a policeman, they are the minister of God, the Bible says for good. They may not realize it But they're God's servant. They're God's minister. And they represent him. But let me give you the next reason. Because government has authority to use capital punishment. Let me get in verse 4. For he is a minister of God, a revenger. Notice this next thing. Actually, let me back up. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he beareth not the sword in vain. For he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. And so Paul's saying, listen, because government has the authority even to use capital punishment. You don't use a sword to spank You don't use a sword to uh to threaten. The sword here is to put to death. Paul here is referring to government's right. to inflict final punishment if necessary, the ultimate punishment, which is death. Write down Genesis 9. 6. When God was laying down some basic rules, Genesis 9, 6, Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. That is not just a civil law for Israel. That was a law written long before the the law to is the laws to Israel. This is a universal moral law that God laid down And it was intended to be remembered, and the form that it is given, it's a chiasm in Hebrew. It has symmetry, so you can remember it Kind of like when the going get tough, the tough get going. Whoso sheds the blood of a man, by man shall his blood be shed. It was phrased that way for emphasis. And this is God's way of, again, restraining the evil that is in man. And so Scripture says the government even has the ultimate authority to inflict capital punishment when necessary. And Jesus affirmed this. Write down Matthew 26, 52. Peter, you remember when he took out his sword when people came to get Jesus, and Peter took that sword and he was trying to take a guy's head off. And he only got his ear. And Jesus said to Peter, what? Peter, put away your sword. Because him who lives by the sword will what? Die by the sword. Jesus there was upholding that rule of capital punishment. Peter, if you take a man's life, you're going to have to give your life. That's the law. That's what God expects. And that's what government is to do. You say, you believe in capital punishment? I believe what the Bible says, and the Bible makes it very clear. Those who are guilty of murdering another, they should have their lives taken. That is a deterrent to further crime. It just is. I know that's not popular, but that's the Bible. That's what Scripture says. And I think that the reason why we're having so much problem here in our country is because there's so much unrequited blood that is crying out to God. Remember that story in the Old Testament of Cain and Abel when Cain slew Abel and God said to Cain that the blood of your brother is crying out unto me? I think God in heaven hears the blood of so many innocent people that are crying out to him. And I think part of the reason why we're in such a mess here in our country is because we have not, as a country, uh Given justice to those whose blood has been crying out. In fact, we're a country that is guilty of slaughtering innocent children through abortion. It's unrequited blood. I think that's part of the reason for the problem that we're having. I think there's a sense in which God withdraws his grace because this country has said we don't want God anymore. And if we don't want God anymore, then we don't have him, because God will withdraw. And when he does, he withdraws his restraining grace. And that's why we have this downward spiral I want to tell you the best thing we can do as a country is to get on our face before God and confess our sin and recognize that we desperately need God again. I want to tell you something, folks, that starts with us here in the church. starts with us in the church. So let me give you another reason we're we're when we'll be done. Another reason for our submission is because submission to government silences the conscience. Look in verse 5. Wherefore, you must needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience. This is the highest motive and reason for submitting for conscience sake. Yeah, we conform for fear, but most importantly, we want a clean conscience before God, and so that's why we obey. We submit. So we see the responsibility of submitting. We see the reasons that Paul lays out But then finally, the rendering. Look at verse 6. For this cause pay ye tribute, also for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. That is, very simply put, as we're closing, this is the reason why we we pay taxes. We're giving, we're rendering unto government, all their dues, that is all their taxes, tribute upon whom tribute is due, custom upon whom custom is due, fear upon whom fear. You say, what do we owe it? We owe submission, we owe paying what we're supposed to pay, what is given to us to pay as far as taxes. We owe honor and fear, the Bible says. Fear and honor to whom honor is due. But then there's one more thing that we as Christians need to do, and that is simply pray Prayer. 1 Timothy 2, the Bible tells us to pray for all those that are in authority. And so God uses government as a restraint. for evil. He uses conscience. He uses family. He uses government. You say, what's the fourth thing? What's the last thing? Write down number four, the church. The church. And this is God's best tool. You say in what sense? In the sense that there's only really going to be true peace when the gospel of Jesus Christ spreads, when Christ reigns in the hearts of men, then will there be true peace. That's the best way. And that's what the church is here to do. We're not here to try to restrain evil with the sword. That's not our job. We We offer to the world the greatest gift to restrain the depravity in the heart of man. We have the answer. We have the gospel We have the good news. And so the best thing we can do is we just keep preaching the Word of God. We use these opportunities to shine brighter. The greater the darkness, the brighter the light will shine. And so in times like this, when people want answers, what a great opportunity to open the Word of God and to show other people, let me tell you the hope that we have. Let me tell you why we're not marching in the streets and rebelling and revolting. Let me show you what Jesus Christ has done for us. Now we weep with those that weep. And we weep over some of the injustice. We don't justify any of that. We give place to God who promised to bring vengeance. The Bible says, vengeance is mine, says the Lord. And if there's someone in a position of authority that is abusing that, don't you think they're going to get away with it, friend. Because God says vengeance is mine. In fact, in Romans 12, just back up there as we're closing. Look in chapter 12, verse 19. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And so as the church, what are we? We're salt and light. We're the leaven that Jesus spoke about in Matthew 13. We're to silently yet thoroughly influence society from the inside out. By our life, by the peace that people see in us, by the Lord Jesus Christ that people see in our lives, by spreading the gospel, we're to be an example of godliness, an example of submission. We live out the gospel as well as give the gospel, and by doing that, we have an impact on society. We patiently endure injustice. In fact, Jesus, again, is the example of that for all of us. We endure it. We bless those who persecute us. We feed our enemies. We bless our enemies. And if necessary, we even suffer martyrdom for the cause of Christ. But we live a life that is honoring to God for his glory. That is the role of the church. And that's what we're to do to help. So let's bow for prayer tonight. Just some biblical things to remind us. God uses conscience, he uses family, he uses government, but he uses also us the church. We're the leaven, we're the light. And tonight what I would like for us to do as we close, I would like for us to just take a moment there in silence and just pray for our city. Let's pray for our city. Let's pray for our government officials. Let's pray for wisdom for our mayor, for our governor, for all the other authorities that we are under. Would you just take a moment there quietly and would you just pray? Just take a minute and pray to yourself. This is intercessory prayer And so, Father, we do come before you, lifting up to you the burden that we have over our city. And the things that we've seen that have troubled us. Father, we pray for your divine restraining grace. We pray for people to be brought in submission to your authority. We pray, Lord, that in this time that we would use these opportunities to share the light of Christ whenever you give us that opportunity. Lord, may people look at us and wonder about the hope, ask about the hope that they see in us. Lord, help us to truly weep with those that are suffering. Help us, Lord, to be grieved over injustice and pray for your overruling hand in every case of injustice. And yet, Lord, at times, help us to be patient and forbearing and to suffer if necessary under that, if it please you, if it accomplishes your divine purposes So Lord, we need your grace in all these things. We need revival in our country. We need revival in our land. So we pour out our heart to you tonight, Lord. Bring revival. Bring salvation. Bring peace to us. And Lord, may you receive honor and glory And all of this. In some way, Lord, may the gospel and Christ be exalted. And may you receive honor and glory, we pray. And we pray all this in Jesus' worthy name. Amen.