Good to see you here tonight. I want you to take your Bibles open to 2 Samuel, please. 2 Samuel chapter 19. We really just have a few more sermons in the life of David. We're really coming to the end of it. And tonight we're going to look at 2 Samuel chapter 19, just a passage there. I want to talk about a royal act of forgiveness. While you're finding that, I read an article this week. That kind of touched my heart. We all have heard of some of the horrible things that have been happening in Charlottesville, Virginia. And a person wrote an article, and let me just read to you just some excerpt. life and with voice occasionally quavering called on people to answer hate with forgiveness Just two days earlier, a driver rammed a car into a group of people protesting a white supremacist rally, killing Hayer's daughter, Heather, 32 who was 32 years old, and wounding 19 other people. Article goes on to talk about the man behind the wheel. He was a man of sympathies for Nazi ideals. and uh a man of great hatred and how it also talks about a an investigation is is being conducted into this. But the thing I want you to hear in this article is the words of this this grieving father. This is what touched my heart so much. This is what he said to the local paper. paper. He said this quote, people need to stop hating. They need to forgive each other. And I include myself in that. In forgiving the guy that did this, he said He doesn't know no better, you know, he says. I j I just think of what the Lord said on the cross. Lord forgive him. They don't know what they are doing. And that really touched my heart. And we know when I read that article, I thought, you know, could I forgive like that if someone took the life of my child The worst pain that a parent can endure, I imagine, is just losing a child, especially to something senseless like this. I want to tell you that kind of forgiveness is not natural. comes from God. I don't know for sure, but I I I dare to say this man is probably a Christian. When he says when he's quoting his Lord and what the Lord says on the cross. This is the very example of Christ likeness that the world needs to see today. Our world is so filled with insensitivity. It's so filled with cruelty and Uh people will say and do things out of just sheer hatred and we see this all the time. And you know, add to that that we are born kind of to retaliate. You know, we want to retaliate over the smallest offenses that are Or dished out to us. We want to get even or worse. We want to get more than even. We want the people who have harmed us to suffer. Deep down in the human heart there's this Retaliatory spirit that's part of the sin nature that is in all of us. And so, and by the and by the way, our society makes heroes out of people who take nothing from nobody. Those are the ones that are looked upon as heroes. Our society looks down on the meek. Our society looks down on those who refuse to retaliate. The gentle, the forgiving, the gracious, the merciful. The question is, as Christians, how are we to respond to all of this hate? Christians are not to be obsessed with vengeance. We're to be obsessed with forgiveness. That's the example that our Lord Jesus gave us. And there's a clear illustration of that. Just write down in your notes if you're taking Hebrews 11, 4. It talks about Abel. He being dead yet speaks. What does he speak? Well that is an allusion to Genesis four, where God said to Cain, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out from the ground. And what was Abel's blood crying out? Of course this is a figurative expression. His his blood wasn't literally crying out, but figuratively the blood of Abel was crying out from the ground. Why? Because Cain killed Ah Right? And what was Abel's blood saying? Vengeance, justice. It was crying out for that Justice needed to be done. But then the writer of Hebrews makes an interesting contrast in Hebrews 12, 24. The writer there mentions the blood of Jesus, and he says, which speaks better than the blood of Abel? The blood of Jesus is crying out figuratively and is crying out better things than the blood of Abel. Well, the blood of Abel is crying out for vengeance, the blood of Jesus is crying out for forgiveness. And that's why it speaks better things. And there's nothing wrong with desiring justice. God honors justice, and justice honors God as well. It's legitimate to want to see wrongs made right. But the longing for forgiveness is better. And the crying out for forgiveness is better. Now, this is illustrated in the life of David. We're going to look at an illustration of this here in 2 Samuel chapter 19. This story, I think, is a tremendous example of this principle of forgiveness. If there was anyone who could take vengeance, who had the ability, the authority to take vengeance, it was David. And I want you to look in 2 Samuel chapter 19. I want you to look down to verse 16. It says, And Shimei, the son of Gerah, A Benjamite was in Bahurim, hastened to King came and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. So So this is his time in the life of David when David is returning to Jerusalem after the rebellion of Absalom had been crushed. And now he's coming back. He's about to cross the Jordan River to go back into the region of uh the promised land and then go on into Jerusalem However, there's a man there by the name of Shimei, and he's waiting. By the way, he's not the only one there. There's a thousand from the tribe of Benjamin. There's many from the tribe of Judah and they're waiting there on that side of the Jordan River for David to cross over. Some of them don't wait for David to cross over. They go on the other side and meet him. And cross over with them. And by the way, the place where he crosses over is an important place. This is precisely the spot at the Jordan River where the children of Israel crossed over into the Promised Land Under Joshua. Later, Jesus would be baptized at this very spot. So this is an important spot. So they're there, they're waiting. Look at verse 18. And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king's household and to do what he thought good. And Shimei, the son of Girah, fell down before the king As he was come over Jordan. And he said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me. Neither do thou rem uh do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely. The day that my Lord the King went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart. So what's he doing? Notice the word impute in verse 19. Please don't impute my iniquity unto me. That's a key word. We saw David use that word last week in Psalm 32 And now he's using the same idea. Don't count me guilty. Now, by the way, Abishai, look at verse 21, who's with him, but Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, answered and said, She said. Shall not Shimei be put to death for this because he cursed the Lord's anointed. Abishai wants to kill this guy. So David has a choice to make. What is he going to do? Now, what was it that made him so angry? That is David's servant there. I want you to go back to 2 Samuel chapter 16. I want us to look at this whole story and then we'll come back to 2 Samuel chapter 19. Let's get a little bit more understanding of what happened in this circle Circumstance. What I want you to see are just basic three elements here to this story tonight. First, I want to talk about the accounts of the offense. There was an offense that Shimei committed against King. David. So 2 Samuel chapter 16 and verse number 5 is where we're going to start. Now again, let me give you the background. We talked about and we looked at David's sin with Bathsheba. We know that it set off a chain reaction of bad events in David's life. Because of that, terrible things happened. Four sons would die, his wives would be taken advantage of in public. There was a rape and a murder in his family. And so chapter 16 is the account of when David is leaving Jerusalem. Jerusalem fleeing for his life, and as he's leaving, he is approached by a man by the name of Shimei, who decides to hurl insult on to David. Talk about adding insult to injury. This had to be a difficult time for David. Talk about rubbing salt in the wound. This is what Shimei does. He's very mean, he's very spiteful, he's very hateful. And notice what he says in verse 5. And when the King David came to Bahurim, Behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Girah, and he came forth and cursed still as he Cain. So here's this man. He's mean and spiteful. Notice this offense that he commits against David. Several things about it. First of all, again, it comes at a Time of sorrow. Again, this was a very low time for David. He's on the bottom. This may have been when David wrote the words, the Lord, uh, I waited patiently for the Lord to deliver me out of this mire. Pit. This may have been the time when David wrote those words. He was in a pit, literally a pit of destruction. You ever been that low? You feel like, man, I'm mired. Down in this pit. And Shimei comes out of nowhere to add misery to what David is already feeling. I mean, to put it very bluntly, this guy's really a jerk. I mean, you know, who hits a guy while he's down? What kind of person does that? Shimei does that. Alexander White says he calls him a reptile of the royal house of Saul. Our world is filled with Shimiais, people who will kick you while you're down. It came at a time of sorrow, but also it came from one who opposes him, because again, if we look at In verse number five, we see that he was a man of the family of the house of Saul. Now that kind of gives us a little bit of understanding why he hated David so much. He's from the house of Saul. He's a relative of Saul. This helps us to see his hatred. He's on the other side of the spectrum, we could say politically. He no doubt he resents the fact that David is now the king and he took the throne from the house of S Saul and remember the the spot where David is. Bahurim, that is a little village in the territory of Benjamin. And and this was where Saul was from. Remember Saul And so no doubt there are still pro-Saw forces that are strong in this region. And this guy is definitely a pro-Sol. And when he sees David coming, he he begins to curse at him. He just simply is against David, period. Another lesson from this. Right? You realize that we live in a world where there's all kinds of people that are gonna hate and be against you for their various reasons. It came from one who opposed him, but also, again, it was filled with great hatred. If you could just almost feel the hatred in the words here, again in verse number five, where it says, And he came forth and cursed us Still as he came. Now the form of the verb here as well as the context seems to indicate that this wasn't a single insult, but it was a series One person translates this hurling insults as he came. Or another way we could say it, he uttered curse after curse. He just continually cursed David. This was verbal abuse. This was a verbal beatdown on David. And again this shows the utter hatred that he had for David, using his mouth to abuse him. It's amazing to me to hear some of the hatred that spews out of people's mouths against other people. Uh sometimes their mouth is just like a broken sewer That just utters nothing but corruption. Jesus said this in Luke six forty five A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which Which is evil. Sometimes it's hard to forgive and forget such hateful insults. And I and I think that's true. A good insult, sometimes you never forget it. You carry it to your grave. And sometimes they're hard to forget and forgive. And so it came at a time of sorrow. This this offense against David Add to that. He was trying to humiliate David. Look at verse number six. And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of the king, and all the people, and all the mighty men were on his right hand. And so here's David as he's going along. All the people who are around him, you can just picture him riding there, perhaps on a horse or a mule, and there are people around him. His mighty men are on either side. These are men that respect Expected David, that no doubt David wanted to maintain his dignity and honor in front of people like this. All these people that are around him. And here's this man publicly cursed. And shaming and humiliating David before all. Some of the most hurtful offences that can be done It just adds shame and embarrassment. You ever been there, you ever been in a public place where someone shamed you or embarrassed you? By things that they said against you. It just intensifies the hurt. These are deep wounds. And so at a time of sorrow from someone who opposed them, who was filled with hatred, In public, designed to humiliate him. Another thing about this offense, it was accompanied by violent acts. Look again in verse 6. And he cast stones at David. David. Drop down to verse thirteen. It tells us a little bit more about that. And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hills. And cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust, that is, we could say he threw clumps of soil. So here he is, he's not just content to verbally humiliate David. He wants to hurt him. And he knows he can't really get that close to David with his Mighty men around him. So he's on the other side. He's on a hill. He's throwing rocks downward at him. His intention was to hurt him. To hurt him bad with a stone. And he could he was picking up whatever was closest and just throwing it at David. And again, this reveals the hatred that is in his heart. Violent acts towards others reveal a deep And this is what's going on here. But also, I want you to notice another thing about this offense. Actually, some of the accusations that were made were accurate. Look down in verse number seven. And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, thou man of Belial. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Sah. Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned, and the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, thy son, and behold thou art taken in thy mischief, because thou art a bloody Man. Now, again, some of the things he says here are accurate. And by the way, some of the insults hurled against us, the ones that hurt the most are the ones that are sometimes true. That are accurate. This is what's going on here. It is true that David was a bloody man. Why? Because David had committed murder. And it is true that the Lord is returning the blood upon David. He was indeed reaping what he had sown. And some of the Acts that David committed. And the Lord did allow Absalom to take his kingdom from him for a time as a punishment to David for some of the things that he had done. And David was suffering. Because of his own mischief. So there's some accuracy here in what he's saying. One person paraphrases these insults like this: Get out of here, you murderer, you scoundrel. The Lord is paying you back for your murdering. Another person says Shimei was your basic reprobate, the kind of person who kits you while you're on your face down and out And by the way, he kind of in this story represents Satan, the accuser of the brethren. You know what Satan does constantly? He hurls at And you know what? A lot of times Satan's accusations are true. They're accurate. But you know what? Thank God that we have an ad that get called Jesus Christ. And Jesus says, I have paid for all of those sins with my own blood. So what is David's response? Here is this offense. Here's this man cursing him, doing violent acts towards him, casting rocks, trying to publicly humiliate King David. So I want you to see the second part of the story, not only the account of the offense But write down number two, the attitude of the king. Because again, David now has a choice. He can be offended and become resentful and take revenge on this man, or not. And by the way, what Shimei did was a crime. Did you know the Bible says it is against the law to curse at a king? So Shimia was breaking the law while giving vent to his hatred of David. Write down Exodus 22, 28. You shall not revile God nor curse a ruler of your people. The Bible says you're not to curse a ruler of your people. It surprises me sometimes to hear what some say about leaders that God has placed and God ordained authority over. You're not to speak evil of anyone, the Bible says in Titus chapter 3, verse 2. One of the characteristics of apostates is that they're not afraid to speak evil of God ordained authority. And so what does David do then? Well notice first of all, he refuses to take vengeance. Look at David chapter 16 look in verse 9 then said abishai the son of zeruiah unto the king why should this dead dog curse my lord the king King. Let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. Abishai says, David, there's a solution for this situation. It's called decapitation. Because a person who's decapitated can't talk anymore. So let me go over and let me just cut him down the sides. Let me remove this guy from you. One writer again paraphrases Abishai's words like this. Let me at him. I'll slice his throat so fast he won't know it till he sneezes. Now that's not a literal translation. Of that verse, I want you to know. Again, it's just a paraphrase. You always have people like that out of there out there just trying to tell you this the same kind of thing. Hey, don't take that Don't you shouldn't take that from anyone like that. Let me let me handle this situation. Just you know, stand up for yourself. And it's almost what he is saying here. You know, Abishai represents the prevailing view of people today who Who just want to get even, who just want to retaliate. They want to fight fire with fire. But notice David's response to him. Look down at verse 10. And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of zero? What am I going to do with you? What does that mean there? What have I to do with you? This could be rendered like this. What do you and I have in common? And it's really a way of David gently saying, look, this really doesn't concern you. This is my problem. And you and I, we're different. We don't have anything in common. In fact, the Hebrew U here in this verse is plural. And so David is He isn't talking to just Abishai, he's talking to all the sons of Zeruiah, which includes Joab, uh who was also there. And by the way, these men were known for their violent military military actions. They were the ones that killed um uh Abner, if you remember, back in 1 Samuel 26. And also uh Abishai was the one who was telling David to kill Saul Remember when they went into the camp at night and Saul was in his tent and Abishai was saying, look, here's your chance, take the spear, just kill him, or let me do it So these were kind of violent men. They were built with a short fuse. They kind of walk around with a chip on their shoulder and they were always ready to fight at the drop of a hat. But David doesn't follow their example. He basically, in essence, says to them, you and I, we have nothing in common. What have I to do with you? I don't want to follow what you're telling me. And by the way, this is to be our response as believers to the world today. Don't let the actions of the world influence you. We're different as God's people. Don't allow the hatred, the hostility, the vengeful spirit of the world to get into your heart and make you like them. We don't have anything to do with that type of Spirit. And so he refuses to take vengeance. But notice the next thing: he receives it humbly from the Lord. The offense that was given to him, David just receives it. In fact, look in chapter 16, look in verse 10. And the king said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zerah? So let him curse. Because the Lord has said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou And David said to Abishai Shiah and to all the servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my boughs, seeketh my life. How much more now may this Benjamite do Do it. Let him alone. Let him curse, for the Lord hath bidden him. David's attitude was one of Submission because he accepted Shimei's abuse as if it was from the hand of the Lord. Now David had already said, you know, I'm just going to submit to whatever punishment God sees fit to give me. In fact, go back to chapter 15. I want you to see it here. Chapter 15 and verse number 26. Actually, verse 25 will start there. This is when David was again leaving Jerusalem, and on his way out of the city, there were some priests that met him with the Ark of the Covenant. They thought that David went the Ark with him And so they're doing this in honor of David. They bring the Ark of the Covenant. And notice what David says to them in chapter 15, verse 25. And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God But if he's not going to be able to do that, you can do it. Notice what David says? Take thee ark back. If God favors me, if he delights in me, he'll bring me back to Jerusalem. I'll be able to come into his presence again. But if if not If that's not what God wants, then let him do with me as seems good to him. You know what David is saying? I'm going to submit myself To what the Lord has. I'm going to submit myself to God's punishment. Whatever the Lord has for me, I'm going to accept And so David knew that what was happening to him was a result of what he had done. He understood that this was And when David considered that he was an adulterer and a murderer who deserved to die, yet God let him live. And if Absalom, David's own son, wanted to kill him, then why should David be so upset when this stranger wants to throw rocks? at him. And so David responds here with great humility. And you know what he does immediately? He just forgives Shimei of the re of the humiliation. And he He doesn't retaliate with violence, and he commits himself to God for God's mercy. Look in chapter 16, look in verse 12. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, that the Lord will requite me good for his His cursing this day. David's hope was that God would look on him in his affliction, that God would be merciful to him and help him out of this situation. He humbled himself under God's hand, hoping that in due time. God would what? Lift them up. That God would change the circumstances. And maybe David was thinking of Deuteronomy 32, 35, where it says, Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will By the way, this is exactly what David's greater son Jesus did a thousand years later. The exact same attitude. I mean, Jesus is our example of how to respond to David's doing. He's suffering, he's taking it patiently. And then Peter says this, for even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in him. His steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. And when he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him who judges Righteously. That's exactly what David's doing. He's humbling himself, he's committing himself to God. He patiently endures the insults. Look at again, chapter sixteen, look in verse thirteen. And as David and his men went by the way, that is they just continue going on their way, patiently enduring, they go they went beyond Beharim, some twenty miles To the fort of the Jordan River, and they cross over, and David just takes patiently what's happening here. You know what? It made him a better person. It made him more like Jesus, to be rejected, to humble himself. And here's the next thing: He forgave his enemies completely Go back to 2 Samuel chapter 19. Let's go back there now. Now it's later. Now David is coming back to Jerusalem. He's returning. God did look on David's affliction. God did have mercy on David. David's throne is restored to him. And God does demand Defeat all of David's enemies. Indeed, the Lord does turn the situation around for him. And now he's coming back to Jerusalem. And now here's a delegation of people that's ready to meet David. And guess who's there among them? Shimei. And you know what? He's singing a different tune this time. How different are his words? Again, we look in verse. Verse nineteen. And he said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me, neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my Lord the King Went out of Jerusalem. For the king should take it to his heart. Don't impute this to me, David. Don't count me guilty. This had to ring a bell for David because again After David committed his sin and Nathan pointed him out, David says basically the same thing to God. Don't impute iniquity to me, God. And then David later writes Psalm thirty-two, Blessed is the man to whom the Lord Now here is this man and he's asking the same thing. And again, David forgives him. Again, look again at Abishiah Abishiah or Abishiah, either way. You probably heard me pronounce it two different ways, but look at look what it says in verse 21. And Abishai the son of Zeriah answered and said, Shall not Shimei be put to death For this, because he cursed the Lord's willingly. This guy still wants to kill him. Still wants to kill the guy. And David pretty much says the same thing in verse 20. 2. And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zero Ayah, that ye should this day be adversaries unto me? David again Confirms that he had forgiven Shimei. Again, he says, we have nothing in common. And verse 23, therefore the king said unto Shimmi, Thou shalt Not die. And the king swear unto him. So David forgives. In fact, you know what the theme of this whole chapter is? David forgives all of his enemies. That's really what the whole point is. He doesn't just forgive Shimei. He forgives a Mesa. Look in uh you say who is that? Look in chapter 19, look in verse 13. And here's David talking to the men of Judah, and say ye to Amesa, art thou not of my bone and of my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host. Now here is David, and he's speaking uh through the men of Judah to Amesa, and he says, You tell him that he will be my captain of the hosts. Now again, who is Emesa? Let me tell you who he was. When Absalom rebelled against David, Amesa was Absalom's general. Do you know what his job was? Absalom gave a Mesa this job. You go out and you hunt down my father David and you kill him. That's what he was trying to do. do. And now what does David say? He says, you just tell Emesa that I'm going to make him my captain of hosts. And so David forgives him And by the way, this is an incredible act. And notice what it does. If you look in chapter 19, verse 9, it says, And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king save us out of the The hand of the our Philistines, our enemies, Philistines our enemies, and he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines, and now he is fled out of the land for Absalom. David, but then when David forgives this man and makes him his captain of hosts, notice how they change. Drop down to verse 14. And he that is David bowed the heart of all the men of Jesus. Judah, even as the heart of one man, so that they sent his this word unto the king, return thou and all thy service. When it says he bowed the heart, that means he touched their heart In other words, that before they were complaining, but when they saw the incredible forgiveness of David, the fact that he He forgave Amesa. And then later David will forgive Shimei. And by the way, that was an incredible act. You say, why? Because if David is willing to forgive this man from the tribe of Benjamin, the family of Saul who cursed If David's willing to forgive him, David's willing to forgive anybody. If David's willing to forgive Omesa, the man who was hunting him down and trying to kill him, then David will forgive him Forgive anybody. And it says he bowed the hearts of all the men of Judah, and they became as one. It unified them. You know what forgiveness does? Forgiveness unifies. Forgiveness brings people together. Again, this is one of the major ideas in chapter 19 eighteen. How will David respond to those who opposed him? How will David respond to those who supported Absalom in this rebellion? How will David respond to those who cursed him? And how will he respond to those who tried to To kill him. And we got the answer. He's willing to completely, totally forgive. He forgives Shimei. He forgives Mesa. He forgives Ziba. And we don't have time to look at all of this. He forgives Mephiboshev. There was some question there about his actions after David left. Gives them all. He gives them all a pass. He says, You're all forgiven. And by the way, this again was wise because there were a thousand men from the tribe of Benjamin there listening. And when they saw the heart of David, it knit their heart to him. Now, if David hadn't done that, this would cause probably another revolt in the kingdom. In fact, there is one little skirmish that will happen in chapter twenty. 20. But a generation later, when the tribes do split up, the tribe of Benjamin stays with the tribe of Judah, David's tribe. So David wins them over. And how does he win them over? He wins them over with forgiveness. He forgives them all. And the people's hearts are knit to him. Now let me just give You one final thing here. We're actually we're out of time. We saw the account of the offense. We saw the attitude of the king. But let me just give you the third thing real quickly: the application of the principle. You say, how does this apply to us? This is biblical forgiveness. This is unconditional, unilateral forgiveness. And you've heard me probably say this before. This is the default mode for the Christian. This is the way we operate. This is the way we live. You say, now wait a minute, aren't there times when forgiveness is conditional? Yes there are There are times in the Bible when the Bible says your forgiveness should be conditional, but the Bible is very specific about when those times are. If a person who commits an offense Is doing this where it would hurt that person, then you must confront them. And then your forgiveness is conditional, like Matthew 18. Or if this person is doing something that will hurt somebody else Then it must be conditional because I don't want what this person does to hurt anyone else. Or if this what this person does is a scandal to the body of Christ and it might hurt other believers, then my forgiveness must be Must be conditional, but again, even in those times, it's conditional because I'm not concerned about myself. I'm concerned about other people around me. I'm concerned about the good of the person who's even done this offense On those occasions, forgiveness is conditional. But other than that, the normal mode for the Christian is universal Unilateral, unconditional forgiveness. Because that's what the Bible teaches. Listen to this. 1 Peter 4:8. Above Paul, keep loving one another earnestly, because love covers a multitude of what? Sins. That's the idea. We just our love covers sins. Even the offenses that may be against us, the insults, the injuries, even if it may be public at times, we forgive. We let it go. Again, Proverbs 10:12. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers offenses. And the Bible tells us Tells us that's our mode. That's the way we live. We forgive. We let it go. Because that's what our Lord Jesus lived like. That's how he lived his life. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, help us To embrace this kind of forgiveness. It's not easy. And we're a lot of times we don't have that capacity to do it. It's not of us. Our human nature, our sinful nature, doesn't want to forgive. We would rather retaliate. We would just as soon sit in a judgment seat rather than a mercy seat. And so, Lord, this is something that you must do in us. You must do through us. But Lord, the world needs to see this kind of example. They need to see Christ in us. So Lord, help us to practically, deliberately choose to forgive, as you taught us. Be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Lord, let this be our mode of life. And help us, Lord. To face hatred with forgiveness. Because that's what our Savior did. And that's what people need to see. And let may this lead to others Coming to know Jesus. So Father, bless these words to our heart. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, and I'm not looking around either. Maybe you just need tonight to release someone From the prison of your heart. Maybe that you're here and you've been harboring something against another. They may not even know it. They may not even know that they've offended you so Grievously. It just goes to show you that unforgiveness doesn't really hurt anyone else, it only hurts us. And maybe right now before God, you need to release that prisoner. From your heart and say, I forgive fully, freely, deliberately, I forgive. I choose to forgive Not because we feel like it. Forgiveness is not a matter of our heart emotion, it's a matter of doing the right thing. It is a choice that we make to release a prisoner from our heart and to say, I forgive. I declare them not guilty. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And may we indeed, Lord, have the freedom of forgiveness in our heart, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen