Well, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. We are now going to get into God's Word. Would you take your Bibles, please, open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms? We've been looking at Psalms a lot on Wednesday night. And I gotta tell you I love reading the Psalms. I read 'em pretty much every day in devotions and it never fails to have my soul encouraged. and challenge when reading. So I hope that these sermons are are a blessing to you. Tonight it's Psalm 126. Psalm 126. Just um Just six verses here, but a beautiful song. And tonight I want to talk about joy. This song just really is all about joy. Let me ask you a question. How long can you hold a smile? According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the record holder for the longest smile is 10 hours and 5 minutes, set by a little girl named Lisa Lester. Uh she broke the old record that was seven hours and thirty-two minutes. Can you imagine trying to set that record just, you know, smiling for ten hours like that? That would be a big challenge. Now the truth of the matter is you can only smile for so long. But you know, joy goes way beyond a smile. We can't always smile, but we can always have inward joy. You know, our happiness on the outside is dependent on our happenings. If things happen around us that are good, we're happy. And so happiness is really dependent upon circumstances, but joy is not. Joy goes a little bit deeper You can have joy no matter what your circumstances are, because it's something that is again an inward work that God does Someone said the shortest verse in the Bible is Jesus wet. Well I beg to differ. Actually the shortest verse in Greek is rejoice evermore. Jesus wept might be the shortest verse in English, but the actual shortest verse in Greek is rejoice evermore. And that's what God calls us to do, even in the difficult times. we can still have joy. Now as we read Psalm 126, this seems to burst forth with joy. You can just feel the fresh breezes of heaven swirling about these verses because they just ooze with this kind of refreshing. Look at verse number one. When the Lord turned again to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed, and we had a dream fulfilled. This is uh something we dreamed of. And then in verse 2, there's the word laughter. And the Lord has done great things in verse number 2. And then in verse 3, we see the word singing. Or gladness we should say. The Lord has done great things whereof we are glad, and then which is really a song. But then in joy in verse number five, they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. And then in verse number six, there is rejoicing. And so this psalm just seems to burst forth with this joy. And also notice that in this psalm it is called a song of degrees. You've heard me talk about that before, right? We've looked at some of these before. And a song of degrees is the word degrees simply means ascending. And these were songs that were sung by Jewish pilgrims as they ascended Geographically they were ascending into the city of Z Jerusalem or Mount Zion. And scholars say that these were songs that were sung by these pilgrim travelers as they were traveling to Jerusalem on the various feast days. fifteen of these Psalms of degree. Some say what uh they may have been sung on the fifteen steps leading up into uh the temple. That's another idea there. But I really think these were sung by Jewish pilgrims. They were singing as they were traveling to Mount Zion. And I think that's a beautiful picture of us in the Christian life. We're all pilgrims, right? This world is not our home. We're just passing through. We're all journeying to Mount Zion. That's our heavenly home And we should be singing on the journey as we go. And uh and so these psalms speak to us about this pilgrim journey that we're on. And we can have joy, even though the journey can be difficult. Even though the journey can be dangerous, we can still have joy as we head towards Mount Zion, our heavenly home. Now in this psalm here, I want you to see three sources of joy. that we can you know locate here in this psalm. First of all, there's joy and freedom. There's joy and freedom. Notice that this psalm speaks about a captivity. Again in verse 1. When the Lord turned again to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed. Then was our mouth filled with laughter and our tongue with singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us, whereof we are glad. So there's a captivity that took place here, and then there was obviously a release, some kind of event that happened that caused tremendous joy for these believers. The question we have to answer is which captivity is the psalmist referring to? Now scholars differ on this. Some say that the captivity the Psalmist is referring to is the Babylonian captivity. You remember when God through his prophets prophesied that because of the sin of the people, that uh the the cat the citizens of Jerusalem and Judah, some would be carried off into captivity to Babylon. And of course we know that happened in the history of Israel. under Nebuchadnezzar who came in and he basically conquered the city and and and and carried people away. So Some say well this is referring to when they were finally released from captivity and and and so on, the captivity of Babylon. I don't agree with that And let me tell you why I don't. First of all, in verse one, we see that the captivity is the captivity of Zion. That's the whole city, not just individual people, but the actual whole city was captive. was was cap was captured. And then of course Zion is a is another name for the city of Jerusalem. Mount Zion was a hill in the city. Later it became known as the whole, you know, the whole city was called Zion. And so Jerusalem was held captive. And the psalmist implies here that the city's deliverance was something that was sudden and unexpected. Now the cat the bat release from the Babylonian captivity was not something that was sudden and unexpected. In fact, it was prophesied in the Bible by Jeremiah and other prophets. So it wasn't really something unexpected after they had been in captivity for seventy years. Another thing about this, the Gentile nations around them rejoiced when this deliverance from captivity took place. We see this in verse two. Then said they among the heathen, the Lord has great d has done great things for them. And so then the the neighboring nations, the Gentile nations around, when they saw what happened, they rejoiced with Israel over this release from captivity. Now did that happen at the release of the Babylonian captivity? No, that didn't happen. In fact Um, if you're reading the Bible, you'll find out that the neighboring nations did anything but rejoice when is when some of the captives were released from Babylon. Uh they were conspiring against them. And so they were against the people trying to rebuild the wall and rebuild the temple. So we don't see the Gentile nations rejoicing. at the end of the Babylonian captivity. And another thing about this, the ki the deliverance was miraculous. This was something that was unexpected. It was miraculous. And The Babylonian captivity, I don't think we can put that under the category of something miraculous. Again, it was something prophesied, and of course anything that God does is powerful. It's awesome. His providence is incredible. But this was something that happened where it was a miraculous deliverance of the whole city. Now, is there a place in Scripture where God miraculously delivers the city of Jerusalem from certain destruction? Yes. Yes. Where? I'm glad you asked 2 Chronicles chapter 32. Just turn there real quick. We'll just re refer to it quickly. In 2 Chronicles 32, let me give you the background. This chapter records the siege of the king of Assyria, Sennacherib. You may have heard me talk about this before in other psalms, because I think there are other psalms written up on this occasion. And Sennacherib's army surrounds the city of Jerusalem. He cuts off their supplies. He sends a letter to Hezekiah arrogantly boasting that he was going to destroy the city. And he also said in the letter, and you should never say this if you're a pagan, there's nothing your God can do about it. He basically threw down the gauntlet and challenged, Almighty God. Not a good idea. And so what happens is God responds. In chapter 32, look down at verse number 10. Then saith Senacarib, the king of Assyria, Whereun do ye trust that ye abide in the siege in Jerusalem? Does not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die by famine and by thirst, saying, The Lord our God shall deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria? Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places, his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar and burn incense on it? And know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all the people of other lands? Were their gods of the nations of those lands anyway able to deliver their lands out of my hand? Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my father utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of mine? Boastful, arrogant words from this pagan king. Look at verse fifteen. Now therefore, let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on this manner. Neither ye believe him, for no God of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand, and out of the hand of my fathers. How much less shall your God deliver you out of my hand And his servant spake yet more against the Lord God and against his servant Hezekiah. He set himself up for trouble, didn't he? That's never a good idea to speak like that. Here he is, arrogantly challenging Almighty God. And so what happens? Now, when he's making all these challenges, he's issuing all these challenges, the people of the city of Jerusalem, they are petrified. And even King Hezekiah, he is afraid. But you know what they did? They did the right thing. They cried out to God. Look at verse number 20. And for this cause, Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amos, prayed and cried to heaven. That's always the right response to a crisis. Cry out to God. Tell God all about it. You know what? Our God hears and He listens. So they cry out to the Lord. And what does God do in response? Look at verse 21. And the Lord sent an angel which cut off all the mighty men of valor and the leaders and the captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he was coming to the house of his God, they that came forth of his own bough slew him there with a sword. That is, his own sons ended up killing him. So here, God I I kind of picture it this way in heaven. God says, you know, there's there's a king down there challenging me. You, angel over there, go take care of my light work. And God dispatches one angel. And this one angel destroys the Assyrian army, 185,000 soldiers. That's that's incredible. I mean, you talk about a miraculous deliverance. You talk about something that was sudden and unexpected. And when the Gentile nations heard about it, they rejoiced. Look at verse 23. And many brought gifts unto the Lord. Um actually I need to back up a little bit and get a little bit more. Verse 22. And thus the Lord saves Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all other and guided them on every side. Verse twenty-three And many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem, and presents to Hezekiah, king of Judah, so that he was magnified in the sight of all the nations from henceforth. You know what that is? All the Gentile nations are rejoicing. They're seeing this incredible miracle from the God of Hezekiah. And they're bringing gifts. And so this kind of fulfills, I think, what we're talking about in Psalm 126. This was a miraculous deliverance. It was sudden. The Gentile nations rejoice with them. And can you imagine the joy and the thrill that the citizens of Zion had when they saw this miraculous deliverance from Almighty God? I mean they probably that next morning went around singing all over the city. We're free. We're free. You know. The night before when they went to bed, they were captives. They thought they were gonna die. The next morning they get up, they're free. They went to bed perhaps with fear, and they wake up with joy. They went to bed weeping and they wake up to rejoicing. Weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. And God did a great miracle, and he freed them from captivity. Now, how does this apply to us? You know, we're much like the people there in Mount Zion in that city. Just as the king of Assyria had them in captivity, even so, before we were saved, you know what? All of us were captives to an evil king. You know who that evil king was? That was Satan. The Bible says in 1 John chapter 5, the whole world lies in the lap of the wicked one. This world is under the control of Satan, the evil one. Satan has this world in captivity. We were children of a devil. We were subject to the devil. And just like the king of Assyria shouted lies and blinded the minds of the people that were there in that city, Satan lied to us, and he blinds the minds of them that believe not. He's constantly doing that. The king of Assyria, Satan was saying to you, you have no hope. No one can deliver you from my hand. No one's more powerful than me. I've got you as captive. And sometimes that's the way sin talks Sometimes you may be struggling with sin in your life, and sin is like a tyrant, like an evil king, and sin tells us there's no deliverance from me. You can't get victory over me. This is what sin and Satan does to lost men. And you know what? He wants people to give up hope. Might as well he wants people to say there's no hope, I may as well just give up. He loves to sow fear into the heart of his captives. But you know what? Salvation did? You know the greatest miracle is when a person gets saved. I think that's the greatest miracle. Because we are freed from the bonds of Satan. We are freed from sin. It's an incredible deliverance. God freed us. He defeated the armies of darkness and delivered us from the captivity of sin and Satan. And that's why we have joy as Christians. We should be rejoicing all of the time. I mean, Jesus is the way to freedom, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. And when you know Jesus, dear friend, he frees us. There's joy in freedom. It's wonderful to see people get saved. And it to see the joy that they have when they realize they have been forgiven of all their sins. They've been delivered from Satan and sin. And they have a home in heaven. You know, I know you heard me talk about it a lot, but I I just I can't think about this without thinking about, you know, when my father got saved and I saw what God did in his life. I saw immediately after he was he under the past under the preaching of Pastor John Cindy got saved and came home and I didn't I didn't recognize who that guy was. And part of that reason was because he had such joy in his heart. It seemed like before salvation he was carrying a constant burden, a guilt, a weight. But after salvation, all of that was gone. And God had cleansed his conscience, and he knew that he was free from sin and he knew he was forgiven. And there was such a joy that came from him. That's the joy that comes with salvation. Let me tell you something. Don't let anybody take that joy from you. You know what? The only thing that can take your joy that God gives you at salvation is sin. Sin can rob you of joy. Don't let sin rob you of that joy. As believers, we need to confess our sins. And we need to, like David, say, Lord, restore unto me the joy of my salvation. Don't let that joy leave you. I remember one time at Bible college In my freshman year we had a a guy who was so filled with z zeal and joy. His name was Ed Stowe and and he had been saved out of a wicked background and uh been saved a short time and came to Bible college and he was just so bubbling over with joy all the time. And he would go around saying, you know, Jesus is real. Jesus is real. And uh he was just, you know, just so zealous for God. And I remember some of the students there on campus saying, Oh, you'll get over it. You'll get over it. They were like wet blankets. You'll get over it, Ed. You'll get over it. You know what? We should never get over the fact that we have been freed. That we're free. So there's joy and freedom. And number two, there's joy and fullness. Look at verse number four. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as to streams in the south. Now what is the psalmist talking about here? What are the streams in the south? He's speaking of a particular area there in Palestine known as uh the negative or the south. The word negative means dry because this was the area south of Israel near the desert. And during the dry season, the riverbeds would basically be exposed and dry and empty. These are sometimes called wadis, like little creeks. And at certain times of the year, they're just dry. Um you know, during the dry season. But when the spring came, the stu the snow would would melt from the mountaintops of Mount Herman. And then that then that water would flow down into the headwaters of the Jordan all the way up north in Israel by Dan. And they and this this was called in the Bible, you'll see it many times called the swelling of the Jordan. You know, when the spring came the Jordan the Jordan River would just swell up and fill up with water and it would have that that effect where it would go all the way down into the south. And for a time, even in the south dry desert, those waddies, those creeks would fill up the overflowing. And that was always a wonderful thing to see. And the psalmist is using this picture here to talk about themselves. Lord, fill us like you do the streams in the south during the springtime. When the snows melt and the water comes down from the head headwaters of Jordan. Lord, fill us the way these streams are filled. They were filled to overflowing. You know what I believe at least sometimes there are times when God's people go through times of barrenness and drought. There are times when we just go through seasons of dryness. Right? We have to admit that. Don't raise your hand. You guys look all spiritual tonight and everything. I'm kidding. But I will admit that there have been times in my life when I've gone through a spiritual dry spell. And I need to go get filled with the fullness of God. It can happen. It can happen to any individual Christian. A. W. Tozer wrote this, Satan's distracting words often come from the most unexpected quarters. Mary would call Martha would call Mary away from sitting at the feet of Jesus. Sometimes, if we're not careful, our best friend may distract us. Or it might be some very legitimate activity, he says. This day's bustle and hurly burly would too often and too soon call us away from Jesus' feet. These distractions must be immediately dismissed, or we shall know only the barrenness of busyness. I like that expression. The barrenness of busyness. We can be so busy doing good things. We can so be so busy doing things that are necessary. that we're not spending time at the feet of Christ. And there's a sense in which we can grow dry doing spiritual activities. And we need to be careful about that. And so it can happen to an individual. It can happen to churches If we're not careful, we can get so busy doing all the things that we need to do that we we're not abiding in the vine. That is our source of life. We can do without Christ, we can do nothing. We need to be absolutely totally dependent upon Christ. A pastor was visiting a man who had not been to church for a while and he said, Sam, we missed you at church last Sunday. The man said, Well, it was raining last Sunday. Pastor said, well it was dry at church. The man said, yeah, that's another reason, Pastor, it's dry at church. Ouch. It can happen to churches. It can happen to denominations. It can happen to so-called spiritual movements. And when these times come, there's great need for revival from God. A time when our soul gets dry and barren. We need to cry out like this psalmist, Lord, make me like the strains in the south. Fill me, Lord, to overflowing. This is a beautiful poetic way of saying, Lord, please just fill me. With the Spirit. Fill me with you. That ought to be the desire and prayer of every child of God. We shouldn't just be happy with little things. We should want all that there is of God's fullness and blessing. That is a spiritual hunger that we should have. And if you lost that hunger, you're not in a good place spiritually. You should be like this psalmist. Lord. Make us like the streams in the south. God wants to fill his people with spiritual blessings. Now, let me just give you a few verses here in the New Testament. God wants us to be filled with the knowledge of His will, write down Colossians 1 9. Paul said this, for this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that you might be filled with all the knowledge of His will, and all wisdom and understanding So many times people think God is hiding his will from us. He's not hiding it. He wants you to know it. In fact, he wants to fill you with the knowledge of his will. Some would say this is a generation of guided missiles and misguided men. You know, we got all this technology and all this knowledge, but people don't know how to tap into real wisdom, which is from God. Jeremiah ten twenty three, O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself. It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. Man in his own wisdom cannot find God. It's not in him. Jeremiah, it's not in man that walketh to direct his steps. I know the way of man is not in himself. You say, well, I know this philosopher. Yeah, he might be pretty impressive, but he can't help you find God. Because the way of man is not in himself. The only way you're going to find God is through Scripture, through the Word of God, through Jesus Christ, revealed in Scripture. 99% of the will of God is revealed to us by the Word of God. And this leads to the next point that we might be filled with the Word of God. Right down Colossians 3. 16. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. The word dwell to live in or to be at home. Paul is saying, let the word of God take up residence in your life. Are you filled with the word of God? That's what Paul's saying here. We're to let God's word dwell in us. We are to dwell in it. Thomas Manton wrote this barrenness and leanness of soul is a very great defect, which God's children often complain of. One great reason is because the Word of God does not dwell plentiously in them. And then here's the next one, filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 5. 18. Be not drunk with wine, we're in his excess, but be filled with the Spirit. That's why some believers have no joy. They're not walking in the Spirit. They're not filled with the Spirit. You try to live your Christian life in your own strength, that is a recipe for frustration. I mean you can't live the Christian life in your own strength. You know? What if a man out here is showing me his car and he was showing me the the uh beautiful seats and the and the you know all the the uh the uh sound equipment on the inside with all the latest bells and whistles showing me the beautiful tires and the paint job And then I say, Well let me hear you start it up. He said, Well the engine doesn't work. Engine doesn't work. I gotta push it everywhere I go. What That doesn't make any sense. You know what? Trying to live the Christian life is like trying to drive a new car without turning on the engine. If you try to live the Christian life without the Holy Spirit, you can't do it. What an engine is to a car, the fullness of the Holy Spirit is to the believer And we need to get in touch with the power in order to live this Christian life. And so that's why some don't have joy. Because they're not filled with the Holy Spirit. And it's available to any Christian who just says, Lord, I want my my life to be filled with your spirit. That's the birthright of every believer that you would walk in the Spirit. And so there's joy in freedom. And there's joy in fullness. But let me give you the last thing here. There's joy in fruitfulness. Look at verse 5 and verse 6. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Now these verses speak about people who were reaping joy. They had sowed seeds and tears, and now they are reaping and joy. And the psalmist here finds joy in the principle of sowing and reaping. The metaphor sowing and harvest, this is used a lot in the Bible, don't we see this a lot? Sowing and reaping, sowing and the harvest. In fact, Jesus spoke of sowing as spreading the message of the kingdom. and harvest as people who receive him by faith. We see Jesus use this metaphor in the New Testament Now here this is specifically speaking about the people when they were free from captivity, how that you know God had given them a harvest of joy. They had sown in tears, but now they're reaping in joy. And again, Jesus kind of uses this same metaphor in the New Testament to speak about Going out and sharing the gospel, the seed of the Word of God with others. Let's examine these verses because really distilled in them is a great message about Personal witnessing, sharing God's word, evangelism. We should all be involved in getting the word of God out. Just this afternoon I had the privilege to witness to a young man. Um he said he was an agnostic, very intelligent young man, and what's interesting was that he had previously studied theology. Uh he was studying for the priesthood as a Catholic and he grew very disillusioned and he just kind of dropped out of all of it and he now he he says I'm an agnostic. And I was just sharing some of the Word of God with him. And by the way, I'm not done yet. I'm going to continue talking to this young man. But he was very, very interesting, interested in what we were talking about. God will bring people to us so that we can share Jesus with them. So we have to be willing to do that. Notice notice here, first of all, what I call the task. He that goeth forth Goeth forth. That's the first thing you have to do. You have to go. Every believer, we're given three commands by the Lord. Come. Let's come to Jesus in salvation. We've done that. Learn, learn of me. That's what we're doing when we learn God's word. And then he says, go, go. And so are we obeying that command to go? You know, this this is a picture of someone just sowing seeds in the New Testament in Mark. And in Matthew, Mark 3 specifically, Mark Mark chapter 4, verse 3, where it says the sower went forth to sow, he had a canvas bag over him, and he would just take seeds out of that bag and just begin to spread them indiscriminately wherever he went. And that really kind of is a picture of us being like our Master, the Lord Jesus, wherever we go, we should be, when God gives us the opportunity, spreading the seed of God's Word, the seed of the gospel. Go. We're to be like sowers going forth. D. L. Moody made a covenant with God. He said he would intentionally witness to at least one person every day. He would not let one day go by without sharing the gospel with at least one person. That was a covenant that he made with God. And one day he got ready for bed and he climbed into bed. He was ready to drift off to sleep, and he realized that he had not witnessed to someone that day. And so D. L. Moody got up, he got dressed, he went outside, found someone to witness to, shared the gospel with them, and that man gloriously decided to receive Christ. He prayed and repented and asked Christ to save him. No wonder God used Dio Moody so greatly. That's not a bad covenant to make. I want to witness to at least one person every day. And so we have to go. But then here's not only the task, but the tears. He that goeth forth and weepeth. Here's a sower that was unusual. He wept You know, we've kind of stifled tears in our day. We've kind of m had a mistaken idea that crying is not cool. It's unmanly. You know, we kind of relegated tears to the hyper-emotional and so on. But that might be the reason why maybe we're not winning as many people as we should. There's nothing wrong with tears. And it's not unmanly to cry. Sometimes that's the most manly thing you can do. Because it shows you have a heart. You are Burdened over the loss. We don't weep enough over those that are without Christ. We need to have a heart that's broken. Think about Moses, the great Leader of Israel. He prayed with tears for people in Israel. Jeremiah was called the what? The weeping prophet. He's constantly weeping over the people. He said, Oh, that my uh my my head were waters and my eyes a fountain of tears. Jesus went before the tomb of Lazarus, Paul the great theologian who hammered out the great doctrines of the faith. On several occasions he said, Night and day I was with you in many tears. He wept. People don't really care what you know until they know that you care. And so here's this sower, and he is weeping, but also not only the task and the tears, but the treasure. He that goeth forth weeping, bearing precious seed. The seed, of course, represents the word of God. God's word is the seed. In Luke 11, 8, Jesus said, the seed is the word of God. Peter said, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. I promise you this, when you plant the seed of God's word, it will not return void. God will accomplish his purpose. Charles Spurgeon one day was walking through the tabernacle. Workmen were remodeling the auditorium. He wanted to test the acoustics, and so he just said one verse from behind the pulpit. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. We didn't know there was a workman in the balcony heard the verse, and the rest of the day that verse kind of rang in his heart until finally he received Christ as his Savior. That's what the power of God's word. God's word is the one that is the thing that changes the heart. So there is the the task, the tears, the treasure, and then the triumph. Look again. He that goeth forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. This is a promise of success. This is a promise of victory. You won't win everybody you witness to. But you won't fail either. I'm not responsible. I can't control people's response. That's not that's out of my hands. It's not my job to keep hammering on a person and try to manipulate them into the kingdom. That's not my job. My job is to simply clearly share the beautiful message of the gospel with love, with concern, with compassion. And then I have to leave the rest up to God And not everyone, sadly, is going to respond. I wish everyone would. I can't understand someone, you know, not responding to the message of the gospel. But I tell you this, we're to go to everyone. That's that's pretty clear. I believe God has given us that commission. There's no wrong person to witness to, and I believe every person has a genuine opportunity and responsibility. to repent and and receive the gospel. The Bible commands all men everywhere to repent. I know that God is the one who does all the work. You know, but I also believe that we're all we all have the responsibility to go. And a person is not going to get saved unless they hear the gospel. So we have to go and share it with everyone. But I tell you what, if it just win one person, that makes it worth it. Just one person. You know, during all my days in Bible college, I went out witnessing a lot. And I'm not sure, you know, how many of those people that I shared the gospel with actually got saved. I do know of one I can tell you about. I remember when I was going soul winning, I often went to Chicago And I remember one time I was dropped off on the corner of Houston and Baltimore Street in Chicago. South side of Chicago. Well I'm from Baltimore. I'm gonna go down Baltimore Street. So I went door knocking in South Chicago down Baltimore Street and I knocked on a door and there was a guy who answered the door, his name was Bob. Very friendly, invited me in. I shared the gospel with Bob. And you know, he did not, you know, he didn't respond. He listened. He was polite. I said, well, Bob, can I come back and see you next week? Can we talk more? He said, sure. So I went back the next week. Then I went back the next week. And then the next week. And then the next week. For months, I would go buy his house on Saturday. And he wanted me to come and he never responded to the gospel. Never prayed with me to get saved. Twenty years later, I was in Chicago. I got on a bus. When I stepped onto the bus was going to sit down the bus driver, put the bus in stop, threw on the emergency brake, stood up and walked to me and gave me a huge bear hug I'm like, please help. No, it it was Bob. Bob was now a bus driver And he recognized me. And Bob had gotten saved. God had done a work in his life. And he was married to a wonderful Christian woman. And he was serving the Lord in a church. And and you know, he just couldn't believe that it was me. It was 20 years later. I'm shocked that he recognized me. But God had done a work in his heart And had gotten saved. You know. And you know, all the work that I did, if only if Bob was the only one who got saved, it was worth it. Just just for him. You know No. I heard recently that he he just died. I got word that someone sent to me that he had he had died. And but you know what? He's rejoicing in the presence of the Lord. Thank God for that. You know, we we won't fail if we just go and share the gospel. Not everyone will get saved, but you won't fail. And then there's also, we see here, not only the task and the tears and the treasure and the triumph, but then also there's the thrill shall come again with rejoicing. With rejoicing. You know what gives you joy when you see someone come to know Jesus Christ? That that's just reliving your own salvation almost. When you see someone else repent and truly get saved and come to know Jesus. And then there's the trophies. Where it says, bringing his sheaves with him. And that has the idea of just, you know, bringing in a harvest. When harvest time came, they cut the grain, tied it in bundles, laid it at the path to be carried to the threshing floor. And that was a time of rejoicing when they would bring in the sheaves. I'll just close with this. Tell you a story about a man. His name was Knowles Shaw. When he was only 13 years old, he stood at the bedside of his dying father. And his father, who was a believer, said to his son, Prepare to meet thy God. He was quoting from Amos 4, 12. Those were weighty words for this young thirteen-year-old man. But he he really ignored those words. To heaven. And Knowles Shaw went on to be a a talented violin player, but he lived a really careless life, kind of a um a wild life. And five years later, when he was at a party, something happened where he just remembered the words of his father at his deathbed, prepare to meet thy God. And he knew that he was not a Christian. And suddenly all the things that his father had shared with him all that time came rushing back into his heart. He knew that he was wrong. He wanted to use his talent for God and suddenly he remembered the gospel and he put his faith in Christ. So at the age of 18, He repented of his sin. He trusted Jesus as his Savior. And right after that, God did a mighty work in his heart, and he became an evangelist with a passion to win people to Christ. He was known as the Singing Evangelist of Indiana. He died when he was 43 years old in a train accident. But people who knew him recorded that he had won so many people to Christ as an evangelist And you know what? He wrote a gospel song that we sing sometimes. It's based on this psalm, Psalm 126, 5 and 6. Let me let me just read you the words. Going forth with weeping, so we for the Master, though the law sustain our spirit often griefs, when the when our weeping is over, he will bid bid us welcome. We shall come rejoicing. I know you know that song, Bringing in the Sheaves. Bringing in the Shees. And of course you know that song. It's a beautiful song. And it's a song that reminds us that we don't want to meet Jesus empty-handed. That we want him to use us to share the gospel. Now we know that it's God who does the work, but isn't it a privilege that God would use us? to share the gospel, to see someone else come to know Jesus Christ. And so when you get to heaven, you'll be able to have people there and you can say, you know what, thank God that God gave me the privilege. To share the gospel with this person so that they would come to know Christ. What there's joy in that. There's joy in freedom, there's joy in fullness, and there's joy in fruitfulness. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads about an eyes closed. Let me just ask you a question. How how is your joy? Have you been rejoicing as a believer? Are you still rejoicing over the fact that God has freed you from sin and the devil? Is there a dryness in your spiritual life where you say, God, would you please turn again? Oh Lord, make me as the streams in the south. Turn my captivity. Remind me of what I've been saved from. Fill me like you fill those streams in the South Give me that fullness as a believer. That's my birthright. One of the gifts of grace that accompany salvation is this fullness, Lord. And please give me that. And then how many of you, you don't have to raise your hand, it's just before the Lord. You're not trying to press anyone or but between you and the Lord, how many of you be willing to say in your heart, God, will you use me, please? to bring at least one person to Christ this year. Just at least one person. And I want to be a witness. I want to share the gospel, but please. Let me let me just bring in the sheaves. Will you please allow me that privilege? And friend, if you ask that, I think God will use you and you mean it. But you have to be willing. And you have to be willing to Take the opportunities that God gives you. Sow that seed. He that soweth bountifully will reap bountifully. Father, thank you for this beautiful psalm. And the reminder that we should be living in joy. That should be our default mode as a Christian. And so many times, Lord, we're living below our calling, our privileges. Lord, just restore us. May we say, like the psalmist, the Lord has done great things for us. Whereof we are glad. And do these great things in the lives of your people, Father, for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.