Take your Bibles now and open with me to the book of Second Samuel chapter twenty two. We're coming again to the end of uh the life of David. In fact uh I'll preach tonight from this passage and then one next week and that'll be it. We'll be done dealing with the life of David. But we really can't uh Finish up until we come to really David's song of praise. And that's down in chapter 22 of 2 Samuel. Some of you may have heard of the man named Peter Marshall, a great preacher. At one time he was the chaplain. of the Senate. He's very well known for his eloquent, powerful prayers that he prayed as a chaplain. When he was a young man, growing up in Scotland He worked very hard and he would travel from village to village, sometimes working, and one particular night he was walking, it was very dark, it was a starless night. He was walking to a nearby village and as he was walking it was so dark that he couldn't make out the path and He kind of got lost. And uh he he continued on his way until he heard a very loud voice call out his name with urgency. And he stopped dead in his tracks. And he said, Yes, who is there? And there was no response. And so he began to walk again. But a second time he heard his name called out. This time it was even louder, and this time it was even with more urgency. And uh when he heard his name the second time, he kind of stumbled and fell. Fell to his knees And uh he began to feel around kind of in a semicircle to see where he was. And what he discovered was that he could feel nothing in front of him. In fact, he later found out that he was on the very edge of a stone quarry, and had he taken one more step forward, he would have plunged to his death. And he would often look back on that moment of incredible deliverance and talk about that, about God's work, God's hand in his life, God's great deliverance. And uh how special that was that the Lord would deliver him. He knew that God was with him. And and when people ask him about the source of that voice Peter Marsha would say, I have no doubt that was the the Lord was the source. He may not have been the voice itself, but he was the source of that voice that kept me from falling over. Well when we talk about deliverance, that's really what David is talking about here in chapter 22. That's really the focus of this song of praise. I'm convinced that this is perhaps the last Psalm that he wrote, the last song of praise for the Lord that he wrote. And you have to picture at this point in David's life that we're beginning to see the the long shadows of age and the pressure Stretching across his life. David is not the young warrior he once was. He is a man now in the twilight of his years. And of course, throughout his years, David has learned to trust God So as we come to this phase in David's life, we have to remember this second half of his life, he's had a lot of burdens. He's had a lot of trials. He's had a lot of heartaches, a lot of difficulties. In fact, he went through the the anguish of the premature death of his son Absalom and had to deal with that incredible suffering. He was betrayed by his people at one point. You remember during that time of rebellion, many people that he trusted in, that he felt would be loyal to him. uh all of his life. They betrayed him. Joab even seems to have shifted his alliance from him. You know, betrayal can be very, very difficult. And then there was a famine that had come upon the land, and that caused problems. And there were perhaps some people that were blaming David for that. And then of course there was the age-old enemy of the Philistines that came back again to war against Israel. However, this time in this war that David had with the Philistines, he was not the young man that he once was. You remember that we we saw this last week in chapter 21. Where the Bible says that David, in verse 15 of chapter 21, that David on the battlefield with the Philistines, he waxed faint. That is to say, that he was very tired. He was exhausted. He became exhausted. And uh, you know, again, he's he's not the young man he used to be. And by the way, uh he's only human and who wouldn't be exhausted after after everything that David has been through? I mean the human body can only take so much. A person can only take so much with all the suffering and everything that's gone on and all the difficulties and all the perseverance that he has shown throughout all of his life So when we come to chapter 22, this is really David's a final psalm, we could say. We could say it's a psalm uh the the last song, but I want you to notice that the tone of this song we're going to see is not one that is down. This is not a dark, somber dirge, but this is a song of praise. This is this is not what one would expect. You would probably expect for him to be somewhat uh melancholy in this song, as he is in some of the other songs that he wrote But that's not the case. This is a very happy song. This is a song of praise. Look in verse number one. It says, And David spake unto the Lord. The word spake there, we could translate that word sing because this is a song. David in his waning years is not somber, he's not melancholy, he's not uh r um regretting uh things in his life. He's not complaining. What is David doing? He's praising God. He's giving praise to the Lord. It's interesting that in the Hebrew Bible, 1 Samuel and 2 Samuel are one book. They're not divided like they are in the English Bible. It's just one long book And in 1 Samuel in our English Bible, it opens up with a song or a psalm. And who wrote that song? Do you remember? That was Hannah. Remember that She wrote a song of praise to the Lord. And now we come to the end of 2 Samuel, and David is now writing a song of praise to the Lord. Now, first of 2 Samuel is really uh two books about the dark days and painful memories. And there's a lot of bloodshed, there's a lot of uh burdens. However, it's bracketed with praise. It begins with praise It closes in praise. And uh it teaches us that no matter how dark days may be, we can always praise the Lord. We can always give praise to God. Now again, the theme of this chapter is deliverance He's praising God for his deliverance. Look again in verse 1. And David spake unto the Lord the words of this song in the day that the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies. And so this is the key. God's deliverance. God had brought David through many things. He's remembering back to all of God's deliverance in his life. He's meditating on it. He's thanking God for it. And by the way, that's something that we should do often. We should remember the deliverance of God in our life. We should remember the many times that the Lord has pulled us out of the trouble and times of distress in our life where we cried out unto the Lord and the Lord has the answer. And he brought us through that distress. And so he's writing this again. This is late in his life. And he's looking back. It reminds me of the song that we love to sing. We call it the Baptist's Anthem. And what is it? Amazing Grace, right? That one line that says, Through many dangers, toils, and snares. In fact, that's what would be a good sermon title for this psalm here, because in fact that's what David is really talking about through the many dangers, the many toils, the many snares that he had in his life. God's grace brought him through all of that. And that's perhaps why this song is so long. This is the fourth longest song in all of the Bible. Because he's focusing on all the things that the Lord has done. And notice again in verse 1 where he says, The Lord delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies. The word hand is very interesting words of Paul. It reminds us of 1 Samuel 17 when he was going to fight Goliath, and he said, The Lord delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear. And he's delivered me out of the paw here in this verse of all my enemies Now what's interesting, I want you to notice in verse 1 where it says, and the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies and out of the hand of Saul. What you just see he makes a distinction there. That's interesting to me. He doesn't call Saul his enemy, even though Saul may have called David his enemy. David doesn't call Saul his enemy. He says the Lord delivered him out of all his hand of all of his enemies, and Saul. Saul, because David was always very kind to Saul. And he was always trying to do the right thing with regard to him. That speaks a lot about the character of David. So again, it's all about deliverance. Notice how many times David mentions it. Look in verse 18, where he says, He delivered me from my strong enemy, from them that hated me. In verse 20, the second half of verse 20, he delivered me because he delighted in me. And in verse 44, he again says the same thing about deliverance. Thou also hast delivered me from the strivings of the people. And so verse 49 he again mentions you brought me forth from mine enemies. In verse 49, B, thou hast delivered me. From the violent man. So over and over again, he's rejoicing over God's hand of deliverance. And by doing this, you know what David does? He deepens his love for God. He deepens his passion for the Lord. And again, that's a good example for us to follow. So let me just show you three things here tonight out of this song. Number one, the power of the deliverer In the first 19 verses, he's going to talk about the power of the one who delivered him. David first thinks about the power of God manifested in his deliverance. You know, we cannot comprehend how powerful God is. He's omnipotent, all-powerful. We can't even comprehend that, that God is that powerful. But what he's going to give us here is first of all the symbols of God's attributes. And from verses 2 on down to verse 5, these opening verses, he's going to give us several metaphors. that describe God's character. You know, God, the Bible says he's incomprehensible. That's the beginning of all of our study of theology. God condescends to show us his attributes, but even knowing something about the greatness of the attributes of God, really he's incomprehensible. His greatness is beyond our power. And yet the Bible gives us metaphors so that we can relate to some of the great attributes of God. And that's what we see here. And poetic psalms, especially this one here. And notice in these verses, by the way, I want you to notice how he often he uses the word my. The Lord is my rock. My shield, my high tower, my refuge, my savior. He's my, you know. Someone said that's the first word that a child learns to use. My, my toys. my room, my cookies, you know. And so this is really David's in a way childish way of saying that God is all of that to me. He's all of these things. First of all, he's my stability. In verse 2, he says, the Lord is my rock. He is my rock. When everything else in the world is being tossed and twisted, God forever remains the same. And that's what that metaphor is designed to teach us about. He is the same God. And we can stand upon that rock. We can trust in him. In fact, I think that this is the key metaphor in this whole chapter because he's going to refer back to it many times. He's going to talk about God, his fortress, and his refuge, and all those imply God being a rock to him, the place that he could run to for safety. I want you to remember that David, much of his life, in fact ten years of his life, he was running in the wilderness. He was running from cave to cave. He was constantly hiding. Can you imagine ten years of your life being a fugitive? How difficult that must have been. These were years of his life where God was bringing David through one test after another. He was actually making him strong. because he was going to be his next king. And God had to try him. God had to test him. He had to run for his life and learn to trust in the Lord. But where would David go? Many times reading through 1 to 2 Samuel, we've often seen how David would run to a rock. He would run to a refuge. I I think I told you when I was over in Israel, you know, it's it's it's good to see some of these things, to see uh w uh you know what the scripture is talking about. And I remember in that region around the Dead Sea in And Chris can also bear witness with this, it was a very rugged area. There were many high mountain places that a person could run to and hide. You could just walk up into there, there was waterfalls, everything that you could need was right there in that rock. There was another place that David hid. I'm convinced that David also hid at a place called Masada, which wasn't too far from Angeti. And it's a huge mountain, rock, just jetting up out of the desert. And you climb up there and you can see for all around for miles You could say it was a fortress, it was a high tower. And David would run to places like that because it was a place of safety. And I imagine when he got on top of that rock, he could look out, he could see all around him, he could see the enemy approaching from any direction. And he felt very safe in that rock. And not only that, that that place seemed to give him everything that he needed, even the water that he needed. was there. And so I think that when David mentions God being a rock, he's conveying that he feels protected by God. He feels that God is all that he needs. He feels safe in that strong fortress, that rock. And that's what God is to us. God is our protector. He is, and David goes on to say, he's like a fortress. Look again in verse number two. The Lord is my rock, my fortress. David's saying, God is my safety when I'm in this rock, Masada, or in Getty, I feel safe. Even so, that's what God is to me. He's my protection. Now you don't have to have a desert fortress to be safe in God. Every child of God here tonight, if you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, you're his. And he watches over and he guards and he protects you because that's the kind of God that we have. He says he's my savior in verse number two, my deliverer. He uses that expression there, which means savior. He says in verse 3 again, the God of my rock in him will I trust. He is my shield. He's a God who shields me, the horn of my salvation. And verse 3, he says he is my strength. And so on. Um thou saveth me from from violence. And so all these things are uh uh is God to David, I should say. And David is just rejoicing in all of this. The Lord is my protector. he says. You know. I think some of you remember that a few wednesday nights ago I was I was in an accident and um you know it was one of the kind that you don't want to be in. And I hope that you never have to go through that where you're hanging upside down in your car. And I have to unbuckle the seatbelt to get out. But you know the Lord was just so gracious and just so kind that I didn't have a scratch on me. And I I know that sounds hard to believe. I I didn't even feel sore. I had no pain. Um I had one dear saint here give me a card to go to a chiropractor because They were worried about me, that I probably needed to get my bones back into place and everything like that. My bones have always been out of place, so I'm okay with that. But you know what I again have no pain. I didn't feel the need to even do that. That's not because I'm a tough guy. I'm not. It's because God is great. Gracious, it's because God is good. You know, the the the police officers and the firemen were there. I had one fireman there, you know, he wanted to, you know, you know, check me out all over. He wanted me to take off my jacket. I still have my church jacket. it on. So I have my tie straightened up, you know. And uh he wanted to check me all out and I just said, look, I'm fine. I'm fine, honestly, I'm I'm good. If I weren't I would tell you. But that's what the Lord is to us. He is a shield. He's a shield. I have felt so very protected by God in my life. And I know you have too. Many of us could stand here tonight and talk about the goodness of God. and delivering us and protecting us from harm. I think I may have told you before I read about a little church in Kansas, just an incredible story. The choir normally met on Tuesday night at seven thirty, and normally the choir was on time. However, that night for some reason all of them were late. All forty members of the choir were late And it was a good thing because at 7. 36, there was an explosion at the church. And everyone would have surely been killed if they were there at the church that night. A gas leak, a uh there was a rupture in a gas line and the and the gas leak caused an explosion, a very violent explosion at 736, and by the providence of God every person was spared. Because God is a God who delivers. And that's what David is saying. God's my stability. He's my safety. He's my savior and my strength and my shield. But also he's my supply. If you look in verse three, he calls God my horn of salvation. He's my horn of salvation. When I think of the the the horn, I think of the horn of plenty, you know the And I think he David is talking about how God has applied uh supplied for him abundantly, and then my security again, the Lord, my high tower. So God is all of these things to David and more. And so we thank God for His His presence, for his security in our life. And notice the circumstances that he describes. In verse number Five. When the ways of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men made me afraid. The sorrows of hell compassed me about. David here is describing a very dangerous circumstance that he was in. That he was in many of circumstances like like this. But here's one particular one where he says that he felt surrounded. Floods of ungodly men were around him. And this is the image of drowning. You know, like you're under the sea and the and the waves keep beating down on you and you can't get up and you can't catch your breath and you feel like you're gonna pass out Because you're being pummeled by the torrents of billows that are rolling over you. Except here in this metaphor, he's talking about ungodly men who wanted to kill him. He talks about the sorrows of hell. The word for sorrows means cords. So here's another image. David felt tied down like a prisoner of death. The snares of death, he called him. And this was a very bad situation. That he was in, that he's describing. So what does he do? Well, what would any rational Christian do when you're in a situation like that? You cry out to the Lord. And that's what he does. So I want you to see not only the symbols of God's attributes, but notice the second sub point here, the swiftness of God's attributes. Actions. Because look at verse 7. In my distress, I called upon the Lord and cried to my God. I love the way he says that. I cried to my God, and he did hear my voice. voice out of his temple and my cry did enter into his ears. What a wonderful testimony that is. I cried out to the Lord. God heard me You ever had that sense when you prayed you know the Lord heard you? And you know God moved on your behalf. What a wonderful thing that is. And this is what David's talking about. God was no distant deity, preoccupied with the galaxies or concerned with the changing of seasons. No, to David, God was a God that whenever David cried out, He would come running to his side, running to his aid. And notice the magnificent way that David describes this here. What he's talking about here when it says the Lord uh uh heard me, he came to me, really what I think about is the cry of a child. You ever notice how that uh a room could be filled with noise? And all of a sudden you hear the cry of a child, and that mother on the other side of the room is able to distinguish that one voice out of all of the noise that's in that room, she hears the voice of that one child and comes running across. The one thing I want to ask is how in the world did you hear that? With all these other voices in the background. But there's something about the ear of a mother that's in tune with her child, isn't it? And this is really the description that David is giving about God. God is in tune. David said, when I cried, he heard my voice. He heard my voice He heard my cry, he said. It did enter into his ears. And then notice how God responds. Now this is an incredible few verses here. It's very majestic. And it shows how the Lord just runs to David's aid. Very descriptive. Look in verse 7, or verse 8. Talk about running to David's aid. Look at verse 8. What did God do? Then the earth shook. That's a big response. God heard me and he came to my aid. Then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of heaven moved and shook because he was wroth. What an image. You know what David is saying? God's moving heaven and earth to come to my aid. He's moving heaven and earth to come to my side, to deliver me, to help me. Great image there. And then he says this. Then then there went up a smoke out of his nostrils Fire out of his mouth devoured coals were kindled by it. He bowed the heavens also and came down, and darkness was under his feet. He rode upon a cherub and did fly. He was seen upon the wings of the wind And he made darkness pavilions around him, dark waters and thick clouds of sky. Through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled. The Lord thundered from heaven. And the Most High uttered his voice, he sent out his arrows and scattered them, lightning, and discomfited them. And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the world were discovered, at the rebuking of the Lord, at the blast of the not And then it says this. He sent me he sent from above. He took me, he drew me out of many waters. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that hated me, for they were too strong for me. They prevented me in the day of my calamity. But the Lord was my stay. Isn't that beautiful language? Beautiful imagery that David is using to talk about the God's wonderful, powerful Work in his life, his deliverance. Now, where did David get these images? I think David was a gifted poet, but I don't think he came up with a lot of this on his own. Where did David get these images from? Well, if you look at these images that he's using here in these verses, he's describing manifestations of God where? In the Old Testament law. In the book of Exodus. And also in the book of Joshua. We see this in God's deliverance of Egypt. We see this in the conquest of the Canaanites in the promised land. I think in verses 16 and 17, he's describing the parting of the Red Sea. And so David lists all of these beautiful images of God's miraculous deliverance. For his people in the past, and David applies them to himself. So what's the point? Here's the point. That God always has been and always will be a deliverer of his people. In fact, that's how they originally learned about God. God manifested himself to Israel while they were in bondage in Egypt, and how did God come to them? as a deliverer, as a mighty deliverer, who did all of these powerful things to rescue them out of their prison. And David is using these same things to say this is what God is doing. He's not just a deliverer for people in times past and history. He is a deliverer to me personally. This theology becomes personal for David. You know, you know what we have to do with the theology of the Bible? We have to make it personal. God's not just a deliverer, past tense, He is delivering present tense. Intense. And he does it for us. He does it for me. He does it for you. So we see the power of the deliverer. But then I want you to see the purpose of the deliverance. And I want you to look down, this is the second part of this song, this song we could say. Now we're not going to be able to go through every verse. There are 51 verses in here. We're really just getting a burden. But the question really that I want to deal with here is this why? Why did God deliver David? You might be saying, you know, I I've prayed for the Lord's deliverance and the Lord didn't seem to really run to my aid in that way. Well, David talks about perhaps the reason why God did that. Look at verse 20. He brought me forth also into a large place. And I love that. You know, David was in a lot of tight places, running from Saul, but the Lord brought him into a broad place, a large place. And notice what it says in verse 20. And he delivered me because he delighted in me. Because God was pleased with David. This is one of the reasons. God was pleased with David's life. He was pleased with the way he walked in his life. And notice what he says in verse 21. The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands. He has a recompense And this is what he's saying. He's saying, you know, the reason one of the reasons Why God was so quick to come to my side is because God was delighted in the uprightness of my life. Because I tried to please the Lord. This is, we could call this the pattern of the upright. Now, someone might ask the question, you say, now wait a minute, how could David claim to be upright when he committed a horrible sin with Bathsheba? We went over that in the scripture. Well, David didn't claim to be sinless. He claimed to be to be blameless. You know And you know, basically David fell. He sinned against God, but he got up, he confessed it. He asked God for his cleansing. He paid the consequences for a sin, but he continued to walk with God. You see, walking uprightly does not mean that you'll never fail Or never sin. If that's the case, then you know what? How many of us can walk uprightly here? None of us. Because all of us have failed. All of us have sinned against God. Walking uprightly doesn't mean you're sinless. It just means the normal pattern of your life is this. You're going to try to please the Lord with what you do. You're going to try to please the Lord with obeying his word, with how you treat others. You're going to try to be upright. You're going to resist temptation and sin. You're going to battle against sin in your life And of course in the New Testament, the Bible often speaks about this, about mortifying the deeds of the body and overcoming sin in our life And David sought to do that. But notice where where he says another thing that we see here, the way he treated others, look in verse 26. With the merciful, thou wilt show thyself merciful. And with the upright man thou wilt show thyself upright. And with the pure thou wilt show thyself pure. And with the froart, thou wilt show thyself unsavory. And really what David is saying here is, you know, he gives us the general principle, and we would call this in the New Testament simply reaping what you've sown. The person who shows himself merciful, God will be merciful with him. By the way, that's one of the reasons why I like to show mercy. Because I need a whole lot of it. So I want to be merciful with others because I need the mercy of God in my life. I want to be kind to others because I want God to be kind to me. I want to deal justly and rightly with others. because I want God to deal that way with me. And this is what David is saying. And you can just think back to how he walked with reference to King Saul when Saul was trying to kill him. David didn't reciprocate with evil. No, he did what was right before God. And now David says, I'm being recompensed. God is paying me back. Because when you do what is upright, God will bless you for that. When you show mercy, God will sh uh show mercy to you. The great Old Testament scholar Lupal wrote about these verses. He said, God very appropriately deals with every man as that man deals with him. And that's the principle. And so David knows the purpose of deliverance. But let me show you the last thing, the praise of the deliverance. We see the power of the deliverer. We see God's awesome power that delivers us. We see the purpose of deliverance. God will be swift to deliver those that He's pleased with. Because they do what is right in his sight. But then the praise of the delivered. David is now going to give praise. Now from verse 32 on down to verse 51, David just begins to praise God. Look at verse 32. For who is God save the Lord? And who is a rock save our God? Good question, is it? Nobody's like our God. Who's a rock like our God? Nobody. He is unique. We have no other besides our God. So David was basically saying, why go to any other source for help when you can go to God? Why go anywhere else who is like our God? I love the story of the young preacher named Augustus Toplay, and he was going through the countryside, and uh there was a great storm that came. And uh he he tried to run for refuge and he found uh a kind of a rock formation with a a cleft, an opening in it, and he ran to that rock For refuge during that time of storm. And he was a young man that loved the Lord, and he began to think about the refuge that God had provided for him there on that day in seventeen seventy five and he happened to look down on the floor of that little cavern there and there was kind of like a little card So he picked up that card and he began to write some words, a poem, and he wrote the words, Rock of Ages cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee And that's where we get that beautiful song. Let the water in the blood from thy wounded side which flow, be of sin the double cure, safe from wrath, and make me pure. There's no other rock to go to for refuge than our God. So do you need a place to hide? God is that place. Why go anywhere else And notice what David mentions. God enlightens. Look at verse 29 back up. For thou art my lamp, O Lord, and the Lord will lighten my darkness. It may be that you're in darkness here tonight in some way. You know what? Run to the rock. Because God is a light. He will give you light, the light that you need. David says, God's always given me the light that I need in times of darkness. God energizes. Look in verse. 30 for by thee I have run through a troop. By my God I've leaped over a wall. He's talking about military exploits here. Not too many guys can run through a whole troop of soldiers. Not too many guys can leap over a wall. What kind of wall is he talking about? The wall that surrounds a city. You ever see how high those things are? How can you leap over that wall? These things are beyond human ability. And David is using obviously metaphorical language to talk about that whenever in battle he was able to overcome the enemy, it was not David's strength. It was supernatural strength. God energizes me. And the idea here is that there are obstacles and opposition that you face in your life that you can't deal with on your own. You can run to God. God will energize you. He will empower in verse 33. God is my strength and power. He maketh my way perfect. And then he says in verse thirty-four, he maketh my feet like hinds feet, and setteth me upon high places. And here's he's referring to the deer that would climb those those uh mountains there in Israel, those sharp mountains. Mountains that were so very steep, and no man could walk on the side of those mountains, but you could look up and see the deer just running along as if they were running on a flat surface. because their feet were so sure. And David is saying, that's what God does for me. He empowers me so that every step that I take is on solid ground. That's my God. He enlightens, he energizes, he empowers, he equips In verse 35. He teaches my hands to war, so that a bow of seal is broken by mine arms. David says, God is the one who taught me the art of warfare. who gave me a special protective shield and then taught me how to use the bow. God is the one who helps us in our, we could say this, our spiritual battles. You say, does God make warriors? You better be a warrior because you're in spiritual warfare and you have a lot of enemies out there And God is the one who teaches us. He enables us to war good warfare. And then verse 43 on down to verse 50. is how David describes how God exalted him over all of his enemies. And again, we'll just close it in verse 51 because we're out of time. And again, we're just taking a bird's eye view here. He is the tower of salvation for his king, and showeth mercy to his anointed, unto David, and to his seed forevermore. So David is just blessed. He remembers God's deliverance, God's faithfulness. He meditates on it. And I think his passion for God is His love for God is sturged, which is what we must do. Don't forget God's deliverance. Don't forget it. John Wesley, when he was a little boy, almost died, didn't make it out of childhood. Here's this man that preached till he was eighty-eight, forty thousand Sermons rode all over the the countryside. And yet as a little boy he was in his house caught fire. His eight brothers and sisters made it out, but he was stuck in the house. And it looked to his father, Samuel Wesley, his reverend father, that his son was going to die. And so outside, helpless, nothing he could do, he prayed and committed his son, John, to the Lord. And at that moment he saw that his son, John Wesley, the little boy, stood on a chest and appeared in the window And two men helped. One man put another man on his shoulders, and they were able to reach up and grab him. And they pulled him out of the window and fell backwards onto the ground. And at that moment The floor that he was standing on caved in at that very moment. And he his life was spared. And John Wesley All this life referred to himself by the passage in Zechariah that says he was a bran plucked from the burning. A bran plucked from the burning. You know what? That's true of every one of us. We have been plucked from the burning because of God's miraculous deliverance in our life. May we never Ever forget that. And here's David now in the twilight of his years. He's looking back. He's praising God. He's very happy. He's very upbeat. He remembers God's wonderful hand. of deliverance in his life. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, we thank you for this beautiful song. It's really the testimony of not just David, Lord, but all of us. I see myself in here. I see your hand of protection on my life. blessing on my life. Lord, you have been my strength, my song, my stronghold, my safety, my security, that and more. You are the rock that we can run safely. For help. And Father, I pray that as we meditate and think about these words, that Lord, we would never ever forget your great love And Lord, in times when our hearts can get cold, I pray, Lord, that we would run back to a psalm like this and be reminded once again of all the blessings that we have. With heads bowed and eyes closed. Maybe there's someone here tonight and you you just need what was said here. You know, God's word is so sufficient, it gives us what we need. Maybe that you're here tonight and you are in trouble. You need help, the help of God. Maybe you haven't been running to the rock. God. You've been trying to do things on your own. You've been trusting in your own strength. And what the Lord wants you to do is to learn to depend upon Him. Run to Him. He's your security, He's your safety. And this is a word for you. The Lord is saying, Come, let me be your help. Trust in me. Maybe there's some uh of people here tonight that say that's what I need to do. I need to run to I need to hide myself in him. Is that your prayer? See, that's my prayer tonight. Bless you, friend. God bless you. Father, use these words. Strengthen your people for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.