Wednesday night we've been going through certain psalms here and looking at these psalms and drawing instruction from them. And tonight we look at Psalm fifty-one. And I want to talk about a song of confession. That's what this is about. This is one of the most graphic pictures of confession found anywhere in the Bible. And really it's a model for confession for all of us as believers. One of the early church fathers, Anthonyus, said that we should repeat this psalm when we're awake at night. We should memorize it and repeat it over and over again. And it helps us to remind us of this discipline that we need to have in our Christian life, this discipline of confession of sin. So let me ask you a question: what happens when a Christian sins? What happens when a believer sins? Well, we know that our legal standing before God is unchanged. The Bible says in Romans 8:1, there is therefore now no what? Condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. So our salvation we know is not based on our merit. It's based on, of course, the free gift of God. And we were we're still a part of God's family when we sin. God doesn't get rid of us. I know that there are those out there that preach you can lose your salvation, but we don't see that in the scripture. I don't understand how you don't get Romans 8. 1, there is no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus, none. And that one's expression there should help us to understand that a person can't lose their salvation God doesn't kick you out of his family when you sin. Sometimes when a person uh believes you can lose your salvation, I'll ask him this question you have any children? Yes. Your children ever do anything wrong? Yes. Will they ever do anything that will cause you to disown them? Now some parents will say yes, but most loving, normal parents will say no. There's nothing, my child, that would ever do that would ever cause me to disown my child. And then I asked this question, who's a better parent? You or God. If you don't disown your children, do you think God is going to disown his children? He never casts us out of his family. In theological terms, we keep our adoption status. He's never going to throw us away. But the second thing we have to realize, when a Christian sins, however, even though we don't lose our salvation, our fellowship with God is disrupted And the Christian life can be damaged. When we sin, even though God doesn't cease to love us, He cannot love us more, He will not love us less. But even though He doesn't cease to love us, He is displeased with us. And we can anger him sometimes with our sins. It's possible the Bible says in Ephesians 4, verse 30, to grieve the Holy Spirit of God That's why as Christians we have to have this spiritual discipline of learning to continue this to confess our sins before God. Spurgeon said a Christian must never leave off repenting. Because he says, I fear we never leave off sinning. And and he's absolutely right. This is why confession is a necessary discipline in the Christian life. What does the Bible say? If a man judges himself, he'll not need to be judged. If we judge our own sins, we won't need to be judged by others. One time I was at the administrator of a school, we had a school here. And um a teacher brought a little elementary school student to me who has been really bad, and uh he was afraid to come in to uh speak to the mean old administrator, Mr. Harmon And when she brought that student in, he was already crying. I mean, big old tears rolling down his face. He was just, you could tell he was already upset. You say, what did you do? I said, go and sin no more. That's all I said to him. You know why? It's no use for me to judge him. He's already judging himself Right? He's already judged himself. He already knows what he did is wrong. He's already punishing himself. There's no need for me to render judgment on him. And God says the same the same thing to us as his children Uh it says in 1 Corinthians 11 31, for if we would judge ourselves, we would not need to be judged. If we had the practice of judging our own sins, the daily sins that we commit, and bringing them before the Lord in confession. Then God doesn't need to deal with us if we're dealing with ourselves. What does 1 John say? If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so that's what it means to judge our own sins. We examine our own heart. We bring our sins before God. We judge them in the light of Calvary and the blood of Christ. We get cleansing from God. And even though we know we can't lose our salvation, we know that sin is damaging in our life. And we don't want it to remain there. And we don't want our fellowship with God to uh to lack any time. So we need to keep a short account with God and we need to confess our sins. And so this is what this psalm is about. We need to be encouraged to do this. You know why? Because we have a tendency to want to cover our sins or to blame them on someone else instead of taking personal responsibility for it. Remember when, and this goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. You remember in the Garden of Eden when Adam sinned and God came to Adam. You remember what Adam did? He blamed the woman. He said, Lord, the woman that you gave me It wasn't my fault. I I went to sleep single and woke up married. It wasn't my idea about her. This was your idea. Everything was great until you brought her into my life And when God approached Eve, rather than taking a responsibility, what did she say? Well, it was the serpent that you made. I didn't make the serpent, you made the serpent. And so, as the old saying goes, Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, and the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on. But God wants us to learn to judge our own sins and to confess our own sins. And this is what this we learn from Psalm 51. That's why it's such a valuable Psalm. This is the great Psalm of Confession. So I want you to see two things, two major lessons from this. Number one, I want you to see the cost of covered sins And then we're going to talk about the cleansing of confessed sins. But think with me first of all about the cost of covered sins. And the Bible says in Proverbs that he that covers his sins will not prosper. But whoso confesses and forsakes will have mercy. So look at verse number one of Psalm 51. Have mercy upon me, O God. according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, my sin is ever before me. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. David wants to be cleansed from his sin Now really in in order to understand what's going on here in Psalm 51, just like we do with many of the Psalms, we have to look at the background upon which this song This psalm was written. So hold your place in Psalm 51 and go to 2 Samuel chapter 11. We'll take a brief look at the circumstances that led up to the writing of this psalm. In second Samuel chapter eleven and verse number one, it says that it came to pass after the year was expired, at a time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Raba. But David tarried still at Jerusalem. The story begins with David lingering from battle. And I would just say, you know, the sometimes the first step towards sin is when you neglect doing your God-given duties, when you're lingering, when you're doing things that perhaps you shouldn't be doing. David, as a king, should have led his troops into battle. But here he stays back. And the Bible says in verse 2, at the evening tide that he arose from his bed, he walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon Do you ever been to Israel and ever visited the the city of David, the the the palace that they're excavating and uncovering their archaeologists You can understand this passage very well because the Palace of David sits up very, very high, and you can look down all around you at the houses and the rooftops all around you. David was on his own palace in his own palace on the rooftop. He looked down and the Bible says he saw a woman bathing. And of course, we know this story. He lusts after her, he sends for her, he commits adultery, she is going to have a baby, and then he goes to try to set things up to cover his sin. He begins this elaborate plan to make it look like it wasn't him or that this baby is not his. He even goes so far as to call her husband Uriah from the battlefield, bring him back. He has a scheme to try to make him drunk so he can cover his own iniquity. And that plan fails. So he goes into plan B. And plan B was to have Uriah killed. He sends Uriah back into the battle with it with a letter in his hands. That letter is his own death warrant. He brings it back, Uriah does, to the battlefield. He hands it to Joab. Look in chapter 11. Look down at verse number 14. It came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah, and he wrote in the letter saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten and die. The instructions were clear in this letter that David gives to his general Joab to put Uriah in a very vulnerable spot and then abandon him. Leave him that he might die in battle. And sure enough, that's exactly what happens He dies. And then David marries Bathsheba. And he, on a human level, is successful in covering up his sin, at least from a human standpoint. And by the way, notice how sin is never in isolation. One sin always leads to another. Especially when you try to cover it. There's lust, there's adultery, there's lying, there's murder, there's hypocrisy, one thing after another after another. And it's just a terrible thing. Now, again, from a human perspective, he was able to hide it. But look in chapter 11, look at the end of verse 27, where it says, But the thing that David done had displeased the Lord. You can never hide your sins from God. We might cover them from others, but you'll never cover them from the omniscient God. And the Bible says what David did. displeased the Lord. Again I say sin displeases God. It makes God Now, of course, we know in the story that God sends the prophet Nathan with a story of a parable designed to convict David. And at the end of the parable, Nathan points a finger and says, Thou art the man. And David understands that he sinned. And look in chapter 12, look in verse number 13. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. He understands now that God is not going to let David get away with this. David confesses, I sinned against God. And by the way, if you ever want to see the devastating consequences that sin does, just look at the life of David in 2 Samuel. The whole first part of the book is going upward. There's Davish triumphs, one blessing after another, after another, and then you have transgression, and then it swings like a hinge, and there's tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. But David confesses now his sin. Now, this was the background of Psalm 51. Think about this. David lingered with covered sin in his life. For over a year. He thought that he had covered this transgression. But friend, when you live with covered sin, all is not well. It's not well with your soul. It damages you inwardly. And we're going to see this in Psalm 51. So go back to Psalm 51, and we're going to see what I want to call the cost of covered sin. What were some of the consequences that David had to pay when he was covering this sin? Well, look in verse number two. Wash me thoroughly. from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. You see, first of all, sin dirties the soul. David prayed and said, Lord, wash me, cleanse me. You know why he prayed that? Because David felt dirty. He felt dirty on the inside. The most miserable person in the world is not a hellbound sinner living in sin. It's a heaven-bound saint who's living in covered sin. That's the most miserable person in the world. And David was miserable during that time. He felt dirty on the inside. He may have bathed in a royal bathtub. He may have used perfume soap He may have slept in a bed with silk sheets, but he felt dirty. And that's what sin does. Sin will dirty you on the inside. We know that David had a conscience that worked. You remember that story when uh Saul was in the cave and David cut off a part of his robe, and then David the Bible says his heart smote him. Well we know that David had a sensitive conscience. And so during that year of covered sin, his conscience, you know his conscience was at work, working overtime, and he felt so very Dirty. You see, again, that's the basic difference between a child of Satan and a child of God. Christians, when they sin, will feel dirty on the inside. A child of the devil won't feel dirty. In fact, a th a person who's not really saved, they have no sensitivity to sin. A true child of God will be sensitive to sin, and we learned this in 1 John. What does 1 John 8 say? If we say we have no sin, we we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. That's not really a true believer If there's someone who said, oh, I don't have any sin in my life, well, John says the truth is not in you, but the next verse is, if we confess our sins. That's a true believer there. You know one of the characteristics of true believers? We just continue to confess our sins. You know why? Because there's a sensitivity to it. When you get something in your eye, you don't just leave it there and say, you know, I'll get it out at the end of the day. Walk around one eye all day long. How many of you do that? Don't raise your hand You don't do that. When you get something in your eye, you've got to stop that very minute, you've got to get it out. You know why? Because it's irritating. That's a sensitive area, the eye. The eye's not gonna I mean it's just terrible to keep it in your eyes. So you stop and you you get it out. You gotta get it out because it's so irritating. And that's the way it is for a true believer. When sin enters into the picture You don't just say, I'll just take care of this later. No, you need to take care of it right now. You need to deal with it. There's that sensitivity to sin. And if you leave it there, It's going to do some damage to you. And it did to David. David felt dirty. But here's another thing: sin dirties the soul, but sin also dominates the mind. It dominates the mind. Look in verse number three. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is what? Ever before me. You know, that means I'm constantly thinking about it. It was constantly on his mind. David couldn't sleep well. He dreamed about it. He kept trying to forget it, but it kept coming back up. He would purposely push it perhaps down in his subconscience, but it kept popping back up in little ways. It haunted his mind. Kept coming back. Wouldn't let him go. I heard about a man who wrote a letter to the IRS and said, Enclose you'll find a check for $150. I cheated on my income tax return last year. I haven't been able to sleep ever since. If I still have trouble sleeping, I will send you the rest of it. Couldn't couldn't stop thinking about it. Now, it doesn't mean that you'll think about it all the time. It just means it'll just keep coming back up. It won't go away. It might show up again with a migraine headache. It might be an irritable disposition It might be the inability to pray. There's no joy there. Someone has written that there are two wounds to the human psyche. Sorrow, which is a clean wound, that will heal in time. and the grace of God, but guilt is a dirty wound that can only be healed when the sin is confessed and you get it out You know, there's certain wounds when a foreign object enters the body. I remember Abby when she was just a little thing, she was probably two or three years old, she ran a toothpick into her foot and it broke off And and we couldn't get it out. And it never got better. Finally we took her to the doctor who was really a neighbor. uh a professional doctor right across the street and he looked at her and he he took the little tweezers and he finally pulled that thing out And then he put antiseptic in there, and then it started to get well. But it never would get well until first that that thing was removed. And so it is with sin in our life. The dirty wound has to be cleansed. It has to be expelled. It has to be healed. So it dominates the mind the soul, it excuse me, it dirties the soul, it dominates the mind. Another cost of covered sin is it depresses the heart. Look in verse number 8 Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Now here the sweet psalmist of Israel was silent. for one year. His heart was depressed. There's no songs written in that time of his life because he's not filled with joy. And don't get happiness and joy confused. Happiness is kind of outward superficial. We can't always be happy, but as a believer, we can always have joy, right? How many of you have ever had that experience? Even though you have a deep sorrow that comes, underneath you still have joy. I mean, I can say that. I can say in some of the most sorrowful moments of my life. I still had the joy of the Lord down deep. It was still there, upholding me. And that's true of any believer. But the only thing that can take away that joy that's there, that God put there, is sin. Sin will stop that flow of that fountain of joy in your heart. And this is what David praised. He said, Lord, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Look down again in verse 12. Restore unto me the joy. He writes in verse 12. Again in verse 8, make me to hear joy and gladness. David wanted his joy back. And that's again, that's the default mode for Christians, at least it should be. As believers, we have joy, unspeakable, full of glory. We are thrilled to know all the blessings we have in Christ. But friend, what takes away that joy is just sin. And David is groaning. Psalm 32 was written during this same occasion. He talks about groaning. All day long, the joy was gone in his life. But here's another cost of covered sin. Not only does it dirty the soul, dominate the mind, oppress the heart, but it diseases the body. Again, if you're looking at verse 8, make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. He talks about physical pain here. Lord, the bones which you have broken Again in Psalm 38 he said, There's no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There's no health in my bones. In Psalm 32, verse 3 and 4, he said, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day, for day and night your hand was heavy on me, my strength was dried up like the heat of summer. You see, when we sin, God doesn't loosen his grip, he tightens his grip. That's what David said. He said, Lord. Your hand was heavy on me. You were strengthening your grip on me. And David said, his body. was wasting away. Um there is such a thing called psychosomatic illness A psycho-soul soma is the word for body, and it's the idea that the sins of our soul can affect the physical health of our body Our spiritual emotional being or state can actually do damage to our physical body. One person wrote a book about this. And he talked about a university student who experienced drumming noises in his head, blurred vision and dizziness, a woman who suffered from uh neuritis, a medical student suffered from mental disorders. And he goes on to list others, but he writes this in each case relief came when the patient finally broke down and confessed the uh sin that was hidden away in their life Well, that just matches what the Bible says. In Proverbs 17, 22, it says this: a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, right? You ever read that verse? And a but a broken spirit dries the bones Our spiritual condition can have an impact on our body. And David, I'm sure he felt that. Covered sin dirties the soul, it dominates the mind, it depresses the heart, it diseases the body. But here's another thing: it defiles the spirit. Look at verse 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. Again, why does he pray that? Why does he say, Lord, renew a right spirit in me? Because David had a wrong spirit while he lived with covered sin. You know what happened? He developed a critical spirit. He had a bad attitude towards others. He began looking at the faults of others. He became pretty judgmental about the sins of others. He didn't worry about the log in his own eye. He was searching for the splinter. in somebody else's eye. Say, how do you know that? You remember when uh Nathan came with that parable and he gave the story of a man? Who had this little ew lamb and he loved it and he cherished it. And then there was a rich man who had all kind of lambs. And when the rich man had a friend come, According to the laws of hospitality, you feed your friend. And this rich man, rather than going to his own flock and killing one of his own lambs and having lamb chops that night, what does the rich man do? He steals the one little ew lamb from the poor man. And he and he and he has that one roasted. And when David heard that, you know what David did? David said, That man shall what? Die. that. Well think about it. David had done something far worse than what that man did. Now we know that's a parable that Nathan was using. But David did far worse. It's far worse to kill a man than it is to kill a lamb. And David was so very judgmental there. And he has to pray, Lord, create in me a clean heart, a right spirit. Because I want to tell you, when you have covered sin, what it's going to do is it's going to give you a bad spirit. A critical spirit towards others. And then here's another thing: it destroys the testimony It destroys the testimony. Look in verse number 12. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Again, David was silent for over a year. Because of this covered sin. He didn't witness to anyone. He didn't sing one song or write a song. He didn't worship with a psalm. His lips were closed about God. And he's saying, Lord, when you cleanse me, then again I will teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners will be converted. I try to encourage all of us all the time, share Jesus wherever you go. You understand that's your responsibility? To be a witness for Christ wherever you go. And you really have no excuse. We've given you, we've got tracks, we've given you those little cards with the true life. org website on it. I'm encouraging everyone, give those out, invite people to come. There's no excuse for us not to do it Unless you got covered sin in your life. And maybe that's the reason you're not witnessing And because that's what happened to David. He he closed his mouth, he didn't say anything to anyone, because that's what covered sin does. It kind of destroys the testimony. You'll say to yourself, what right do I have to share Christ with anyone else? Such a a sinner. But David said, Lord, when you cleanse me, I will teach transgressors thy ways. And so it heard his testimony Don't let that be your condition. But then here's the last thing, and I saved the worst for last here, and that is it dishonors the Lord. Look at verse number four Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. Lord, I've sinned against you. You know the worst thing about sin? It's against God It's against God. We were created to glorify God. You know what glorify God means? We make Him look good to the world, to the watching world. You understand the world is watching you? And they know you're a Christian, and they want to see what Christians are like. They want to look at your life and they want to say, okay, so how does a Christian live? How does a Christian talk? What happens when something bad happens to a Christian? What happens when they're cut off in traffic? Oops, that one hurt. What happens when things don't go their way? And the world is watching Christians. And you know what? God wants us to glorify Him. He wants us to make Him look good with the way we behave in this world. And when we sin, especially when that sin is public, it shames the name of the Lord We don't glorify God, we do quite the opposite. We just honor Him. It shames the name of God. That's why When we hear of Christian leaders or high profile believers failing the Lord, we cringe. It hurts us because we know it's it It hurts the testimony of God. It changed the name of God. And this is what the worst thing was about sin. David said, here, against thee and thee only have I sinned. And done this evil. I mean the enemies of David, when they heard about this, they were rejoicing. They were using this against him and against God. And friend, that's the worst thing about sin. We don't want to dishonor God in Sinning against him. So how does covered sin cost us? Well, it dirties the soul, it dominates the mind, it depresses the heart, it diseases the body, it defiles the spirit. It destroys the testimony. It dishonors the Lord. It's just not worth it to cover sins. It's not worth it. It does too much damage. So let me look at the second thing with you. Number two, notice not only the cost of covered sin, but number two, the cleansing of confessed sin. And really, this is what this psalm is about This is what David wants us to do. Look again in verse number 7. Purge me with hiss hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Notice he doesn't say white as snow. He says whiter than snow. Did you know scientists discovered that in the middle of every snowflake is a speck of dust? A snowflake, like us, has a dirty heart, you might say. David didn't say, wash me white as snow, but whiter. Lord, make me whiter than snow. And again, this is what this whole psalm is about. If we are to be cleansed and washed whiter than snow, which is what God wants us to live like. Sin has to be exposed. We have to bring it to light. Right? We can't keep it covered. And and we have to bring it to the light of God. We have to bring it to the Lord. Someone said sin like fungus grows in the dark. But when it's exposed to ultraviolet light, it's killed. But the problem is that we as it's human nature to cover sins. That's what our that's what we wanna do. We want to cover it up, we want to forget about it, we want to push it back But if you do that, it's going to cost you. And we don't want to really turn ourselves in. That's why you say, well, how do we how do we know what our sins are? If our heart won't expose us, And by the way, that's what our heart will do. Our hearts are so deceitful, it'll help us cover that sin up. In fact, your heart will tell you, you know, you're alright. You're fine. No problem here. Relax, you're being too judgmental against yourself. You know, what does the Bible say? The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. You know, I told you this before. The word deceitful there is the Hebrew word Jacob. The heart is Jacob. What did Jacob do to his father? Lied to his father. And that's what your heart will do to you. Your heart will say to you, you know what? You're really good. You are the man. Mirror, mirror on the wall. Who's the best Christian of them all? You are, and your heart is lying to you. Because your heart's not going to turn you in. You say, well, if my heart doesn't turn me in, how am I going to find sin in my life? The Word of God. That's why you have to read God's Word constantly. Because remember I told you, this is the only book that when you read it, it'll read you back It'll tell you your condition. Hebrews 4. 12, the word of God is living, quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. And it discerns the thoughts and the intents of our heart. We know this. I'm not telling you anything you don't know because how many of you, when you've read the Bible, you just thought, wow, that one jumped off the page? And that one really convicted me. I know a lot of times when I'm done preaching, people come by and say, Preacher, that sermon really convicted me. And I'm I'm glad that it did. And I hope the Lord uses it. But just know this. I got convicted before you did. I got convicted into study. You know, a lot of times when I'm studying, I have to stop studying. I have to get on my knees and I have to get my own heart right Because that's what God's Word does. That's why we have to be in God's Word. And on Sunday, one time or twice, or even three times a week, is not enough. You have to be in it yourself. And so God's word will sh it will point out to us the acts of sin that we do, the thoughts of sin that we commit with our mind. The motives of sin that we commit with our heart, God's word will bring that all to light. But you know another thing that helps is the Spirit of God The Holy Spirit of God. Write down Psalm 139, verse 23. Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. You see, the Holy Spirit of God will shine the spotlight of God's holiness into your heart. And he will remind you. You need to get this right. Now be careful. I'm not talking about satanic accusation. You know what the devil does? He accuses us of sins that have already been cleansed and covered by the blood. The Holy Spirit will convict us of sins that have not yet been dealt with. God doesn't want to put you on a guilt trip. He wants to cleanse you from sin. I sometimes I remember one person said to me, I'm really struggling with this sin. I said, Well, did you confess it to God? And they said, Well, I confessed it a thousand times. I said, look, just confess it once and then praise God a thousand times that He has cleansed you. And so So sin has to be exposed, and then we express it. This is what the word confess means in scripture. Used in the New Testament is from two words to say the same thing. Homo leggeo, to the same legeo, to speak the same thing when we confess our sins. We're saying to God exactly what God says about our sins, and we bring them to God individually, wholesale, uh uh or re uh detailed, I should say. I I was gonna say we sin wholesale and are we sin retail and confess wholesale. That's get that right there. None of you are with me on that, are you Totally botched that. Cut that out of the data. Just kidding. God can f forgive me for all my sins. No, I think we need to go through it one by one. Because when the Holy Spirit convicts us of sin, he does it specifically. He does it individually. And we take those sins and we confess them before the Lord. We name it, and then we nail it to the cross and we confess that sin before God. We express it and then we expel it. We get the cleansing of the Lord. And this is what David felt. David felt that cleansing. He said in Psalm 32, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. It's a wonderful feeling to know that your sins have been cleansed. That they've been forgiven. And I want to tell you, God delights in forgiving sin. Isn't it wonderful to have a God who delights in forgiving? And who wants to cleanse us. And this is what God wants to do for all of us to cleanse us from that sin in our life. So let's bow our heads in prayer tonight. And I know we had a little prayer time a minute ago, but I want to take another minute and I want you before the Lord tonight. To just ask, to pray the prayer of the psalmist from Psalm 139, search me, O God, and know my heart. See if there be any wicked way in me. Lead me in the way everlasting. Just ask God, Lord, is there something there? I don't want to cover it. I want to uncover it before you You could do this privately right there in your heart as you're praying. Just say, Lord, uncover this. And I bring it to you and I name it. I confess it. I forsake it. I ask you to cleanse me. Like David, make whiter than snow. Whiter than snow, Lord Father, help us to practice this necessary spiritual discipline in our life. To never cover sin, to realize the damaging effect that it has in us. To realize that you are a God who's merciful, ready to forgive May we judge ourselves. May we confess our sins that we might have cleansing. Thank you, Lord, that you are faithful and just. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen