The book of Matthew, chapter 3. And uh our topic this morning, as you can see on the screen, is going to be on the issue of repentance. I want to talk about a theology of repentance. And we're doing something a little different here this morning. You know, normally I bring in a big laptop, you see it up here, and I kind of uh control the slides with the laptop and we've been having like little issues with that. So we're gonna totally bypass that and now I'm controlling the uh turnover of slides with my iPhone up here. Can you believe that that. You know, technology can be a blessing. It can also be a curse. Lately it's been more of a curse to us here. But we're gonna try this and see how it works. If it doesn't you'll just have to I'll just put all that away and you'll just have to listen the old fashioned way. Um wonder how the early church made it without all this stuff. Right. So we're going to talk about repentance. This whole issue of repentance. portion of uh Labrador, Canada. And uh for at one point it was kind of a completely isolated town there And there was a road cut that went straight into the town. So they basically had one road leading in and one road leading out. Um and so it was just one single lane ro road there going in and going out. If someone traveled that road for six to eight hours The only way they could get out is by just making a direct U-turn and going straight back out by that same road right there. And so that's kind of the illustration of the whole idea of repentance. Repentance is a road that you make a U-turn on. If we could just summarize the whole definition of repentance, that would be the idea. And it's a topic that we don't really hear Preached much, I find, in the last days. That's why I call this uh topic the missing word, because it seems to be a missing word in theology. It seems to be a missing word in the church. And uh in fact, there was a uh there was a uh a book that was written by Dr. H. A. Ironside in 1937. And uh It was a book was called Accept You Repent. And in the book, he he makes this quote. He talks about this doctrine of repentance. He said it's the missing note. in many otherwise orthodox and fundamentally sound circles today. Now that was all the way back in 1937. If it was missing back then, I would like to propose that it's missing today as well. We just don't hear a lot of preaching about um repentance. And uh, you know, also it's very surprising to find that, you know, there is a large seminary. In the U. S. , that it's a the whole entire organization teaches that repentance has no part in the gospel It has no part in the doctrine of justification of faith. In fact, they say that the idea of repentance kind of undermines this whole doctrine of justification by faith. Now, I think I find that to be very ironic, and the reason for that is because if you read through the New Testament, you're going to find in the Gospels this was a message that was re that was emphasized, that was over and over again emphasized in the ministry of many men. For example, look in Matthew chapter 3 and look at verse number 1 It says, In those days came John the Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea and saying, What? Repent ye for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And then drop down to verse number eight. Notice what he says there. Bring forth therefore fruits, meet for repentance. And he was speaking there to the people that were coming to him to hear him in the wilderness when John the Baptist was called. uh to preach, he preached in the wilderness because he basically was rejecting the religious institutions that were in the city of Jerusalem, all the ritualism And uh he preached in the wilderness and people came to hear him, and he was speaking specifically to the Pharisees there, who thought that they, since they were children of Abraham, they had no need for repentance and and John the Baptist says you do need to repent and not only just say that you repent, you need to show fruits of repentance. And also look in Matthew chapter four, look at verse number 17. Notice what it says there. This is the ministry of the Lord Jesus Himself. And it says, and from that time Jesus began to what? Preach and say What? Repent. Now this is the first, this is the beginning of the public ministry of Jesus. And this would one could argue the first sermon that Jesus preached publicly as he began his public ministry is here. In Matthew chapter 4, and the very first word in that first sermon is the word what? Repent. Evidently the Lord Jesus felt like that was an important thing. Because in his first sermon, this is the very first word that Jesus gave, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In fact, again, look at Matthew chapter 9, look at verse number 13. Just go there. Matthew chapter 9, look down at verse number 13 But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I'm not come to call the righteous, but sinners to what? Repentance. And so Jesus really ended his earthly ministry by emphasizing repentance. So we could say that he began his ministry preaching repentance. He ended his ministry preaching repentance. Look in Luke. Luke chapter 24. Would you turn over there to Luke chapter 24 and look down at verse number 44? And Jesus, this is Sunday evening, Jesus had appeared, he had resurrected, and it says that he went through the scriptures with them, opening their understanding, and actually look down to verse number 47. Well we'll back up to verse forty six. And he said unto them, thus it is written, and thus it behoove Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead the third day. And look at verse number forty-seven. And that repentance And remission of sins should be re should be appreached. And so he's referring to the spreading of the gospel message starting in Jerusalem. And what is Jesus telling his disciples right there? When you begin your ministry, you need to begin preaching the gospel, and he kind of summarizes it in verse 47 when he says repentance must be preached. in his name among all nations, verse 47, beginning at Jerusalem. So Jesus is saying, here is the beginning of the gospel ministry. It needs to begin right here. in Jerusalem and needs to spread. So begin preaching the message of the gospel. And what's the word that he uses? Repentance. You can't take repentance out of the preaching of the message of the gospel. And when Jesus sent out his disciples, he told them to preach Repentance. You don't have to look there, but write down Mark chapter 6, verse 12. And they went out and preached that men should repent. They should repent. You remember that story? I would say this, another thing to point out, just going through a few points here. So we see that John the Baptist came preaching repentance. Jesus began his ministry. preaching repentance. Jesus sent out his disciples and told them to preach repentance, right? And another thing I would add is that justification is equal to repentance in Scripture. In Luke chapter 15, verse 7, when um that's the story of the uh the the lost coin that was found, and the prodigal son that returned. It ended that story by saying this I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that what? Repent, one sinner that repents, more than over the 90 and 9 persons which need no repentance. And so a person who is saved, a person who is justified, is someone who is said to have repented. And so again, what I want to emphasize there is that this idea of repentance is equal to the understanding of justification. Now again, what I'm trying to do is to is to show the error of that one idea. taught by a certain seminary in the U. S. that says that repentance is n has no part to play in this idea of justification. I would say that that is absolutely contrary to what Scripture says They are synonymous. They are equal. A person who is saved is said to repent. And so the whole theme of Paul's letter in Romans chapter, in Romans, I should say, is repentance and um, or excuse me, is the doctrine of justification, but he uses the word Repentance. Look in Romans real quick. Let me show you one other passage here. Look in Romans chapter 2. And look down at verse number 4 Again, the whole idea of of the book of Romans is justification, but he uses the word repent, or despises out verse four, chapter two, despises out the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. So again, Paul in his letter is equating justification with repentance. And Peter does the same thing. In 2 Peter 3, verse 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness. but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He wants everyone to come to this place of repentance. And that simply means God wants everyone to be So we it summarized by saying the word repent or repentance is used all throughout Paul's writings. It's used in Romans, it's used in Corinthians. He says it to Timothy. It's used by Peter. It's used by the writer of Hebrews. It occurs ten times in the book of Revelation, written by John. In all the New Testament, it appears more than 50 times. More than 50 times in the New Testament. And so it's a very, very uh serious thing. It is a doctrine that we uh must understand. And so I want to talk to you about this whole understanding of repentance here today. And I want to talk to you first of all about the definition of repentance and then we'll talk about the development of repentance. And then the description of it. How does the New Testament describe a person who has truly repented over their sins? So first of all, let's talk about what uh what repentance is, but we'll talk about what it is by first pointing out what it's not. Okay? Sometimes the best way to understand what something is is by showing what it isn't Alright? This is called the way of negation. Let's let's say a few things that it's not. And one thing that it's not, it's not just getting caught. Okay? It's not just getting caught. That's not real repentance. You know, I remember one time I did something really bad in my uh my uh uh you know I no one knew about it And uh through a process of elimination it started to get, you know, closer and closer about who did this. You know, you have those meetings when you're kids where your parents say, Okay, you just tell us who did it. You know, we're not gonna be mad, we just want to know who did it, and nobody says anything And you're afraid that your brothers are going to ration you out. That was kind of one of those situations growing up. And uh Finally, I could overhear my parents saying, you know, or they narrowed it down and they knew that I was the culprit that I had done this deed. So I was in my room and I could just hear my dad coming upstairs, you know, boom, boom, boom, coming up the steps. I saw the door handle open and when the door opened I jumped off my bed and I said, Dad, there's something I'd like to confess to you Do you think that's genuine repentance? No, that's just you realize that you got caught. That's all that is. You you realize that you you were fine it was narrowed down to you. And then we see this story in the book of Joshua. Remember the book of Joshua, chapter seven, the story of Achan? God said to the Israelites, When you go to Jericho, don't take the accursed thing You know, and and of course Achan did. He took a wedge of gold and a Babylonian garment, he took it back to his tent, hid it in his tent, and then they lost the next battle And Joshua cries out, Lord, why? And God said to Joshua, get off your face. Israel has sinned. And through a process of elimination, They begin to narrow it down. They start casting lots. You know, these stones kind of throw them on the ground. Is it this tribe? Throw it on the ground, no. And then they go through the quote. Oh, they narrow it down to one tribe. What about this clan? What about this family? And so they're narrowing it down, they're coming close, until finally they narrow it down to the household of Achan. And and Achan is found. And based on the fact that he was already found, he makes a confession. Now you know in that story that he suffered punishment, he and his family. Well, some people wonder why is that? Well, because that wasn't true repentance. That was confession after you got caught, and that's not what real repentance is about. Another thing it's not is it's not changing to please others to get them off your back. You know, I'm going to do this just so that everyone will leave me alone. You know. That's not what real repentance is about. You might remember in 1 Samuel chapter 15, the story of uh Saul and Samuel. When Saul transgressed the commandment of the Lord and Samuel told him about it And basically Saul said, look, yeah, I'm guilty, I did this, but I tell you what, just come and make this sacrifice with me. And so I just get all these people off my back. All Saul was concerned about was making a public um saving face publicly and kind of making a public political statement, there wasn't any true, genuine sorrow in his heart He just wanted people off his back. That's not true repentance. It's not flirting on the edge of sin, you know. Um just You know, you did something, oh I'm sorry, and then you got you do it again and you just kinda go through this cycle. You're kind of flirting with sin. It's it's not making cosmetic changes, that is to say, you know, surface changes Where it's just outward. It doesn't, you know, there's no true uh desire to turn away from sin in the heart. Those are all things that repentance is not So what is it? What is generally repentance? Let me just give you a few quotes here about repentance. This is Charles Spurgeon, the great Prince of Preachers, and he said repentance is a discovery of the evil of sin, a mourning that we have committed it, a resolution to forsake it It is, in fact, a change of mind of a very deep and practical character, which makes the man love w that which makes the man love what he once hated and hate what he once uh once he loved. And so that's a g I thought that was a good definition. Let me give you another uh theologian, J. I. Packer And J. I. Packer talked about repentance, and he said this: repentance means turning from as much as you know of your sin to give as much as you know of yourself. To as much as you know of your God, and as our knowledge grows at these three points, so our practice of repentance. has to be enlarged. I like that the way he termed that. John Piper said, repentance means experiencing a change of mind. That now sees God as true and beautiful and worthy of all our praise and all of our obedience. And then one more from Oswald Chambers. Repentance always brings a person to the point of saying, I have sinned. The surest sign that God is at work in his life is when he says that and means it. The entrance into the kingdom of God is through the sharp, sudden pains of repentance, colliding with man's respectable quote-unquote goodness. Now, I want to show you that in the scripture, there's basically three elements to true repentance. There's first of all a what I want to call a intellectual element. Repentance, where does it begin? It begins in the mind. In fact, what you see here is that the word, the Greek word for repentance is a combination of two words, meta, which is after, noia, which is to understand. So literally, we could say it means an afterthought Or we could say it means a change of mind. It's a change in our thinking. So repentance starts there. It starts in the mind. And by the way, how many of you know that that's where the real battle is for all of us, right? In our Christian walk, it begins in the mind. You become what you think about. That's why Paul said, cast down every imagination, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God And bring into captivity every thought of the obedience of Christ because the warfare is right there in the mind. So repentance begins there in the mind. It begins with a change of thinking. A change of thinking. Whenever I'm talking to someone about something that they're battling with, a sin that they're battling with, and I see that they begin to see How wrong it is. And that idea gets into their mind. That's where I start to rejoice because that's where repentance begins. It begins right there in the mind with a change of attitude towards that sin. The sin that they thought was not a sin, now they begin to see, wait a minute, it is a sin. Their attitude towards the sin changes. Remember, it's like that quote says, the thing that we once loved, now we start to hate it. There's that change of attitude towards sin. It's a change of attitude towards God, a change of attitude towards the Bible, towards righteousness. You remember the story of the prodigal son? It so well illustrates this whole idea because the Bible says in Luke chapter 15, verse 17, that he came to himself. Before he came to God, you know what? First he came to himself. And it was like this idea suddenly dawned on him. What am I doing here in the pig pen? What am I doing here in the mud? And so it it starts there. It starts in the mine. And so we see this in the publican that went to the temple when he prayed. He said, God, be merciful to me, not a sinner, but the sinner. He saw himself as a great sinner before God. There has to be an understanding about sin. You see yourself as a sinner. You see Jesus as the Savior. And so there is this mental understanding. But then it goes deeper than that. It goes down to the emotions, to the heart. There's an emotional element. To repentance. It begins in the mind, but it doesn't just end there. The change of mind towards sin in Christ affects the emotions. It affects the emotions, you see. And let me quote Thomas Watson, by the way, I'm going to quote him a lot here, but let me quote it uh him on this one where it says, the eye is made both for seeing and weeping. Sin must first be seen before it can be wept for. So we see the sin, our attitude, our the attitude of our mind begins to change towards that thing, and then it affects our emotions. We begin to feel the sorrow over that thing. We begin to hate that thing. The psalmist said in Psalm 38:18, I will be sorry for my sin. And so Jesus, you remember, you know, we're talking about this emotional element in um in repentance. Look look in Luke real quick. Let me show you a verse in Luke. Look in the book of Luke. Look in Luke chapter 10. And look down at verse number 13. Luke chapter 10, look down at verse 13. Which says this, now Jesus here is beginning to pronounce woe upon these Jewish cities. That uh had heard him preach. Can you imagine hearing Jesus preach? I would like to hear that. Jesus had gone through these little Jewish towns and villages all nestled around the Sea of Galilee. He was preaching in Galilee, and you know what? There was very few of them that really repented. You know, you would think if you read through the Gospels that at the preaching of Jesus there would be multitudes and multitudes that came to Christ. Well, that's just simply not reality. The reality is there was a remnant There was a small group that believed on Jesus. Now there was great crowds that came to hear him um or I should say see him do these miracles and they wanted, you know, fish in loaves because he could multiply the fishes and the loaves. But when Jesus began to preach, people walked away. And they weren't hearing him. So look in Luke chapter 10, look in verse 13. Woe unto thee, Corizon. Woe unto thee, Bessaiada. For if the mighty works which have been done entire inside and which um which had been done in you, had been done in Tyranson, which had been done in you, they had a great while ago repented. Sitting in sackcloth and ashes. In other words, what is Jesus saying there? They would have repented a long time ago. If if what you saw and heard had been done in Tyran Sidon, they would have repented. And notice the part where he says, and sackcloth and ashes. Why does he mention that? Now remember, Jesus was describing here true repentance. And according to Jesus, what did true repentance involve? Sackcloth and ashes. Now we'll say, well, what is that? Well you wore sackcloth and you put ashes on your head when you were in great sorrow Great morning. They would rip their clothes. They would put on sackcloth. They would put ashes on their head. This was an anguish of soul that a person was going through when they went through this. And here Jesus is describing what true repentance looks like. And part of what it looks like is a deep sorrow. The kind of sorrow that a person may experience at the death of a loved one, to where you would put on clothes of mourning. And where sacklaws is. This is what Jesus is calling true repentance. This is what they would have done. They would have repented over their sin. He's describing the emotional element of repentance, where there is this sorrow. The sorrow that a person has for sin, it shouldn't be a superficial sorrow, but it should be a holy agony where there's a real brokenness in the heart of a person because of their sin. And so that's the emotional element of it. But then there's also what we could call the volitional element. It also involves the will. It begins in the mind with a change of attitude. It goes down to the heart where there's an emotional response, a deep sorrow over sin, an agony over the sin committed. But then it moves to the will and it involves the forsaking of sin, the turning to Christ. You know, you see that road there with kind of a U-turn there. That's exactly what it is. It's a turning away from that sin. It's a forsaking of that sin. Don't say that you've repented if you're sorry for a little while and then you go right back into it. It is a wholesale forsaking. It's a redirecting of the will. And so it's a choice. It's this commitment. That I'm going to forsake this thing, or I'm going to forsake this unrighteousness, and I am going to pursue Christ. I'm going to pursue righteousness in my life. Now, all of these elements are involved in true repentance, what the Bible calls true repentance. Now here's where um the Puritans can help us. Now I know that some of you know that I like to read the Puritans. a lot. Now they always get a bad rap because it's like one person said, they defined a Puritan as a guy sitting around worried if someone somewhere is having a good time. And that's not what a Puritan is Uh they get a bad rap, and I don't agree with everything that they teach, but in the there was a hit part of the of the church history where they were spiritual giants and they thought very deeply about spiritual issues. And uh And we would benefit by reading some of their works and helping us to think through some of these issues that we deal with today. I find a lot of great spiritual profit in reading some of their writings. I I think a lot of books today that are put out today, a lot of them are just superficial, to be honest with you. Not all of them, but a lot of them So I I like to read the Puritans. And uh this is where um the Puritans can help us when we're talking about repentance as a complete turning of your whole being. to an opposite direction. That kind of summarizes it. But I I like to refer to a book written by Thomas Watson. He was a Puritan. of not so well known as some of the other Puritan names, but a very, very great writer. He wrote a whole book on this whole idea of repentance. And he kind of tells us what it what it is. And so he helps us here, both in the definition of repentance and also in the practice of it. He can help us greatly in this. And so um this is how he defines repentance. He says this repentance is a grace of God's Spirit whereby a sinner is inwardly humbled and visibly reformed. Yet as he changes his behavior. In other words, in this definition, we're seeing all of the elements that we had talked about, the mental part, the emotional part, the volitional part, when he uses the word reform there He's talking about they're willing to completely turn away from that sin. That's the volitional element of repentance. And so what he does here in this book is basically he describes With uh six marks of true repentance. And according to him, if you leave any one of these marks out, um You know, your repentance loses its virtue, according to Watson. So he gives us these six marks of repentance. And I want to go over what he wrote here with you kind of in a summary way in the book. Now number one, he says the first mark is just the sight of sin, he says, according to Thomas Watson. It's as we had said before You have to see it first, right? And this is what he says. Simply put, watch them believe you must first see your sin before you can repent of it. A man first must recognize and consider what his sin is, and know the plague of his heart, he says, before he can be duly humbled for it. And this is where the quote I gave, the eye is made both for seeing and for weeping. Sin first must be seen before it can be wept for. Again, that's Thomas Watson there. And so it's the sight of sin. You have to see it. And secondly, he says that it there's another mark of it, and that's the sorrow. that we we talked about sorrow. Watson believed that true repentance must involve this sorrow, not merely for the consequence of our sin. But for sinning against God and the free grace he has given us in Jesus. And that's an important uh thing to emphasize there. You're not sorry just for the consequences Of the sin. But for the idea that you sinned against a gracious, loving God, a God that has been so good to you. So there's sorrow for sin. He he says, He that can believe without doubting, suspect his faith, and he that can repent without sorrowing, suspect his repentance. I like that. He says, you know You know, uh if you when you believe and come to know the Lord Jesus, we're all going to wrestle with some doubts, right? That's the essence of faith that we sometimes wrestle with doubt. In fact, that's sometimes how I know a person truly is believing is because they at times wrestle with doubt. It's like the one lady that came to D. L. Moody and said, Mr. Moody, I've never I've been saved for thirty years and I've never once doubted my salvation And D. L. Moody says, ma'am, I doubt that you're saved. Because doubting is kind of the essence of faith. We go through those periods of doubt. And this is what Thomas Watson recognized, and he also paralleled that by saying If a person can say they've repented without sorrowing, I doubt that they've really repented. Because there's going to be that sorrow in it. And as I said before, it's not superficial. It's a holy agony. It is called in Scripture a breaking of the heart. The sacrifices of God are a broken and contrite heart, and a rending of the heart, where it says, and you'll rent your heart. The expressions of smiting of the thigh. beating on the breast, putting on of sackcloth, plucking off the hair, all these but outward signs are but outward signs of inward sorrow, so says Watson. All these things that we read of in Scripture are these outward manifestations. of a true inward brokenness, agony over sin, a sorrow for sin in the life. And he also goes on to say, it is a sorrow for the offense rather than for the punishment. God's law has been infringed, his love affused. And uh had a little technical thing up here. Alright, don't fail me now. Um he says God's law has been infringed and his and his love abuse. This melts the soul in tears. He says. So it's this now he says about this sorrow that several things about it. A true godly sorrow is inward in two ways. It's a sorrow of the heart He says. And then number two, he says, it's a sorrow for heart sins. He writes, the first outbreakings and risings of sin The true mourner grieves for the root of bitterness, even though it never blossoms into an act. A wicked man may be troubled for a scandalous sins. A real convert laments heart sins In other words, what'll happen is as you're in this process of sanctification and walking with the Lord, that you're gonna, when that when you s first sense the outbreaking of that sin inwardly. That's when the repentance should should should should begin. At that initial point, at the first rising of sin. He also says that godly sorrow is sincere. You know, again, hi hypocrites grieve Only for the bitter consequences of sin. Godly sorrow, however, is chiefly for the trespass against God. So that even if there was no conscience to smite, no devil to accuse, no hell to punish, yet the soul would still be grieved because of the prejudice done to God. And so it's primarily, again, this idea of sinning against God. Godly sorrow, he says, is trusting. It is intermixed with faith. Spiritual sorrow will sink the heart if the pulley of faith does not raise it. He says, as our sin is ever before us, so God's promise must be ever before us. As we much feel our stings, so we must look up to Christ, our brazen serpent. He says. And then he says the third element is, so there is, first of all, you see the sin. Secondly, he says another element is necessary, the sorrow over sin. And then thirdly, the confession. There has to be the confession. Watch them believe. True repentance must come with confession, but not just any confession. Confession that is voluntary, specific, and sincere. Now, he goes on talking about this confession, certain qualifications must be voluntary. It's freely from us. It must be with compunction. The heart must deeply resent it. A natural man's confessions run through him as water through a pipe. They do not all affect him, but true confession leaves high or excuse leaves heart wounding impressions. If it is one thing to confess sin and another thing to fe feel sin, he says, it's one thing to confess, another thing to feel that sin. And then he says, confession must be sincere. Our hearts must go along with our confession. He is convinced of the sin. He confesses and abhors the sin he's convinced of. And then he also says in true confession a man particularizes sin. And what does he mean by that? Well, very simply, We don't confess our sins in general. You know, you've heard me say this before. We don't want to sin retail and confess wholesale, you know, before we go to bed at night. God forgive me for all my sins today, just before you go to sleep. No, when you confess those sins, you confess them specifically, particularly. God, forgive me for this, this thought, this act. Forgive me for this attitude. And so it's it should be particular, he says. And then also we must confess our sins with resolution not to do them again, according to Watson, just as we said before And then number four, he says this, true confession involves shame for sin. And I say here, this is probably the most controversial of all six. Since shame has become such a negative word in our modern lexicon, and you know, it's like I'm we were talking about the conscience, people don't know how to be ashamed for things anymore. And shame is something that we don't really feel. But in Watson's words, blushing is the color of virtue, he says. When we learn to be ashamed of sin. And so on. And he'll quote some scriptures about that in Ezekiel, that they may be ashamed of their sin. And then also when the heart has been made black with sin, grace makes the face red with blushing, he says I'm ashamed and blush to lift up my face. And so there is the shame for sin. And also he says that repentance causes a holy bashfulness. He writes this, if Christ's blood were not the Christ's blood were not at the sinner's heart, there would not so much blood come in the face. And so, and then number five, he says, hatred. Then there's hatred. According to Watson, this fifth ingredient of true repentance is you begin to hate it, you begin to loathe that sin. He says, first there is a hatred or loathing of abominations. Ye shall loathe yourselves for your iniquities. And so And so it kind of is a spiritual sickness, he goes on the right, but just for the sake of time, let me move on here. Um so this hatred for sin And he writes this: Christ is never loved till sin be loathed. And then finally he says it's a turning from sin, as the last ingredient to this, a turning from sin. So this is this is watching, and again, I want to kind of fast forward here. Would you know when would you know when you have uh would you know when you have been humbled enough for your sin? When you are willing to let go of your sin. And so this is how you know, he says, that your repentance is real. When you're ready and willing to let it go. That's Thomas Watson. That's a great book. And I just kind of gave you a summary of his whole idea of this understanding of repentance. So along with that, take your Bibles, turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 7. And I want you to see what the Apostle Paul here says about this, 2 Corinthians chapter 7, and look down at verse number 9. 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse number 9. And this kind of goes along with what we're talking about, the these manifestations, these qualities of true repentance in a person. And Paul writes in this in 2 Corinthians 7 verse 9, Now I rejoice not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. For ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that you might receive damage by us in nothing. And so here in this passage, here the Apostle Paul is writing to the Corinthians. And uh they had become about a particular issue, and he receives a report. By the way, he had addressed this in another letter, the whole issue. About what they had done, their sins. Paul confronted them in another letter. And then Titus gives them the report that when the people received this severe letter from Paul that they began to re- they repented over their sin. And so here Paul is writing and he's commending them for the fact that they have truly repented. Over their sins. And what he gives us here is what, again, what real repentance looks like. He says again in verse number nine: for you were made sorry after a godly manner. So he's talking here about a godly sorrow, a godly repentance. And so what does that look like? Well, first of all, it produces a repentance without regret. A repentance without regret. He says this. Look in verse number 10, chapter 7. For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. So what does that mean? It's a repentance that doesn't repent. You see, true repentance, when you initially do it, you don't repent after that repentance. So what does that mean? Well here I am. I'm going towards the world. I'm walking away from Christ, but I hear the gospel, and now I turn, and now I'm walking towards Christ. But something happens to where I repent of that repentance again, and I turn right back around and I start walking back into the world. That is a repentance that repented. True repentance is, as Paul says here in verse 10, is not to be repented of. You see, it's a repentance that never changes. You see, the idea is once you turn away from sin, once you turn away from the world and you turn towards Christ, you never turn back. That's the quality of true repentance. I turned away from sin. I'm walking towards Christ and I never ever think twice about it. I don't turn back into to the world again because that is insincere repentance. And that's not real repentance, you see. You see, that's the um there are people that are like that. They they turn away from the world, they turn away from sin, and they walk that road for a while, and it looks like from all outward appearances that true repentance has taken place. But after a while they turn back into the world and back into sin. Let me give you one passage. Look in 2 Peter. Take your Bibles. Turn to 2 Peter 2. Show you this. Peter refers to this. Look in 2 Peter 2. Look down at verse number 20. And here Peter is talking about those who pretended to know the Lord, but actually weren't genuinely saved. 2 Peter 2, look at verse number 20. For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therewith and overcome. The latter end is worse with them than the beginning. You see what he's saying? Initially, a person through the knowledge of the Lord, you know, it looks as if they have escaped the pollution of the world through that knowledge And they have made an initial repentance towards Christ, but something happened and they turned back. And notice what he says at the latter end. Is worse with them than the beginning. Insincere repentance brings greater judgment. When a person is not sincere They're worse in the end than in the beginning. And look what he gets what he says to them in verse numbers twenty-one. For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness Then after they had known it to turn from the Holy Commandment delivered unto them. Would have been better for you never to heard to begin with Because if it's an insincere repentance, if it's just superficial, and you turn back into the pollution of that sin, back into the pollution of the world, it's going to be much worse for you. Be better that you've never heard. Verse 22. Look at verse 22. But it happened unto them according to the true proverb. The dog is turned again to his own vomit. And the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. These are two disgusting thoughts, are they not? What's it like? Peter compares it to a dog. Um I always I always hesitate when I go to this verse. Dog throws up, vomits. This is disgusting. Walks away and then thinks, you know what? There's a warm meal there. Turns back around, returns to his vomit. I'm sorry it's disgusting. But Peter means for it to be, because he's comparing what it's like to initially repent. You know, when you repent of sin, you kind of get sick of sin, and there's a sense in which you vomit that sin out and you walk away from it, but an instancy of repentance turns back into it. And it's disgusting to turn back into that when initially you made supposedly that repentance. And then he he compares it to the to the to the pig and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. So here's a pig, you know, you clean the pig up, give the pig a big bath, may even put a little perfume on the pig. And you what's he do? First chance he gets, runs right back into the mud. You know. So the dog was cleaned out, and the pig was cleaned up. But the dog was still a dog. And the pig was still a pig. And uh what did not happen was their nature was not changed. It was not true, genuine repentance. And the latter end, Peter says, is worse than the first. You see, true repentance, says Paul, is a once for all decision. I make that decision. I don't repent of my repentance. I just continue on this way of righteousness of serving the Lord And that's one element of it. Now we're out of time here, so we're going to pick up on this next week. There are several more things here about this, but I think it's so important that we get an understanding of what the Bible has to say about genuine repentance. Let's bow for prayer. Let's all stand together and we'll bow for prayer and we'll have our next service in a few minutes. So, Father, thank you for your word. May you continue to instruct us, lead us, and guide us, give us knowledge and understanding. So that we can be the servant you've called us to be, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen