Would you take God's word this morning? Please turn to Psalm 107. You don't have to stand this morning. We're going to get right into the Psalm. We've been going through Ephesians on Sunday morning. I'm going to set that series aside. Today I'm going to preach a sermon on a psalm of Thanksgiving. And then for the month of December, I'm going to be doing a series of Christmas sermons called Christmas in the Gospels. And we'll look at the Christmas story from each of the gospels. But this morning, Psalm 107. Psalm 107, verse 1, Oh thanks, oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. There's a word that we hear a lot in the media. It's called fake news. Satan is the originator of fake news, especially fake news about God. Did you know that from day one, Satan has been on a campaign to smear the truth about God's goodness so that people will not follow God? Satan's campaign is to give God bad press. He wants people to look at God negatively. Think about this from the very beginning when he tempted Eve in the garden. His main ploy was to get Eve to doubt the goodness of God. If he can get you to doubt the goodness of God, that opens up sin. It opens up temptation. And Satan told her, for God knows in the day that you eat, your eyes will be open, and you'll be like God, knowing good and evil. The slander was, God is trying to keep you from a good thing. And the extension of the thought is God's not really good. He says he's good, but he's not good. And the devil has always used this falsehood in different forms. to keep people from following the Lord. And that's why this psalm is so refreshing. It tells the story accurately. Verse 1, the psalmist is exclaiming the goodness of God. And this psalm reminds us that it's our duty to tell the world how good God is. Look at verse number two. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. While Satan is out there on a campaign to give God bad press, we must tell the world the truth. First Peter 2. 9 says that God has made us to be a people for his possessions, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Or as the Westminster shorter catechism begins, what is the chief end of man? Answer to The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. What does it mean to glorify God? Well, it simply means that we we make God look good. It means that we we represent God the way He is. We rightly represent Him to the world. We show the world that God is good, and we show them that by how we respond to His goodness. We declare the goodness of God. We give thanks. for the goodness of our Lord. And so our job as believers is to give good press to a good God, not by spinning or bending the truth, but by Conveying the real truth about God. And the way we convey that truth is by our words, it's by our demeanor. It's how we respond to the goodness of God. And that is the message of Psalm 107. This psalm is a exhortation to praise God for his unfailing goodness. And this psalm is a psalm of thanksgiving because it shows and recognizes how God has delivered us. How he has saved us. And think about the structure of this psalm. It's a long psalm. It's 44 verses. Relax, I'm not going to go through every verse here this morning. But I do want to kind of give a a bird's eye view of it. And really what this the structure of the psalm is, he's going to give four scenarios Where the people were in trouble and they prayed to God and God in his mercy he answered. And then the psalmist says that we should praise God for this. And so there is Four scenarios with a cycle of problem and then prayer and then provision and it should result in praise So in each situation they had a problem and the problem was overwhelming and they couldn't deal with it on their own. And so they pray, ask God for his help, and God in his mercy sends his provision. And then in response to that The psalmist exhorts us that we should praise the Lord. And really the psalmist structured like a sermon. There's the invitation to praise God, and then there's the illustrations of Providence, God's providence. The invitation to praise God is in the first three verses. The illustrations of providence are in verses four down to verse 32. And then lastly, what the psalmist does is he kind of gives a summary of how God will take the self-sufficient and humble them. The reason some people don't experience the goodness of God in their life is because of their pride. They think that they can do it on their own. They got it all figured out. And what God has to do is humble them and make them realize that you really don't have it all figured out. And then God in response responds. And so there's a cycle of plenty, and then he brings on the poverty, and then back to plenty again, and back to poverty. And the whole point is so that the humble will recognize the goodness of the Lord. And then like any good sermon, he drives the point home in the last verse by saying, you know, he who whoever is wise, you're going to see this, you're going to observe this. You're going to understand this. All right? So let me just give you four truths here from this psalm that we can learn about the goodness of God, things that we can apply to our life. And here's number one, very simple, declare God's goodness. Declare his goodness. We see this in verse 1. Oh, give thanks on the Lord, for he is good. Beloved Scripture affirms that God is good. Psalm 100 verse 5, the Lord is good. David said in Psalm 34, verse 8, O taste and see that the Lord is good. It's essential that you derive your understanding of the goodness of God from Scripture. When the Bible says God is good, what does it mean? What means that he deals well with his creatures. He deals bountifully with his creatures. A W Tozer in his book The Knowledge of the Holy put it like this He said the goodness of God is that which disposes him to be kind, cordial, benevolent, and full of good will towards men. Wayne Grudham in his theology wrote this: The goodness of God means that God is the final standard of good, and that all that God is and does is worthy of approval. In other words, God doesn't do something because it's good. Something is good because God does it. God is the standard of what is good. All that He does is good and right. Now, from a human level, it might not seem that way to us, especially when we're suffering. There may be some people here in this last year, you've gone through a lot of trials. But remember this, that even in the midst of your trials, God is using these trials to work things together for your good. The psalmist wrote in Psalm 119, verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I keep your word. And in the very next verse, verse 68, he says this, you are good and do good. God, I wasn't really close to you, but then you gave me this affliction, and then it taught me your word, and it drew me close to you. And in the end, he says, God, you were good in doing that to me. A few verses later in verse 71 he says this, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. Even in our afflictions, we must submit to God and affirm his goodness by faith. You may not be able to see it now, but that trial that you're in, God's doing it for your good. And you have to affirm that by faith. But we not only just recognize God's goodness, but we we give thanks to the Lord. Look again in verse 2. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Now, beloved, if the redeemed don't say so, who will? This world is not thankful. Romans 1 Is the greatest indictment against mankind when it says, Neither were they thankful. People know God. They know there is a God. You say, I'm an atheist. No, you're not an atheist. You're just someone who lies about what he knows to be true. Because God has placed the knowledge of himself in everyone. And people suppress that knowledge. They push it away. They don't want to acknowledge God. They don't want to give thanks to God. What an indictment. They're not thankful. God's people should be thankful above all others. Why? Because He redeemed us And the psalmist is going to talk about that. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. The redeemed here is referring to those who have been delivered. Or who have been rescued from danger. Notice it talks about the hand of the enemy, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. This refers to any adversity, danger, or trouble. God has rescued us And by the way, if you're here and you're saved and you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, He has rescued you from the greatest danger that there is. And what danger is that? That's the danger of judgment and hell. We should give thanks to God for saving us from the awful consequences of our sin. If God gave us what we deserved, we'd all be in hell. So we should give thanks to God. And really the context of this psalm is praising God in the congregation, publicly giving God thanks. We'll have a service tonight. And people who that'll come, hopefully you'll be here, will get up and they'll give thanks to God for his goodness. That's biblical. Look in verse number twenty-two of Psalm 107, because this is meant to be done congregationally, and let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving and declare his works with Rejoicing. You know, we as priests of God, not like Old Testament priests where you brought your animal to the altar, we don't do that anymore. We do, however, bring our sacrifice. What is it? Is our praise It is our thanksgiving to God. Look at verse 32. Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. Giving thanks to God's goodness should be a regular part of our worship. That's why we sing. We're giving thanks to God. In 1 Corinthians 14, Paul, when he was teaching about tongues, and he made this point, he says, Look, if someone doesn't understand what you're saying, how can they say amen to your giving of thanks? Now the whole point here is that the giving of thanks, that was a regular part of the worship service in the early church. Every service was a giving of thanks. And so that's what we should be doing. We should be constantly giving thanks to the Lord. It should be normal. It should be characteristic of us. God is building his church and he's bringing people from all over. Why? Because he wants to assemble an army of people all together, diverse people from diverse backgrounds. He wants to save them and bring them all together. Why? So that we can all form one united voice of giving praise and thanks to God for who he is. That's his purpose. And so we declare God's goodness. But here's number two. Meditate on God's hand of providence. We see this again in verses 4 down to verse 32. And we'll just kind of look at this quickly, but there are four portraits of the thankful redeemed here, four scenarios where God delivered his people from danger. And what the psalmist is doing is he's looking back on the providence of God. And he's remembering what God did, and he's giving thanks. What is the providence of God? Sovereignty and providence go hand in hand. Sovereignty means that God created it all, he owns it all, and he controls it all. The psalmist said in Psalm 115, verse 3, God is in the heaven, he does all that he pleases, he does whatever he wants. That's called being God. He has sovereign control over everything. We have a big God, beloved. Bigger than the universe. And he's in complete control. He not only controls the movement of the galaxies and the and the stars, he's also in control of your life. So that means that when we look around and we get the strong sense that the world and our lives are out of control, we're wrong. Things aren't out of control. God is in control. God is moving absolutely according to his purpose and plan. He's accomplishing his will. That's providence. Sovereignty plans your life. Providence fulfills that plan. That's the providence of God. His he has a plan and he has the power to execute that plan and he arranges it all even down to the very details. And so Job says it like this in Job 24, 14. He performs what is appointed for me. And that's the providence of God. And the Bible's clear. What we need to do is to look back and recognize his hand of providence. A lot of times we can't look forward and see what God's going to do, but we can certainly look back and see what God has done. That's called recognizing his hand of providence. And then we could say, Oh, I get it now, Lord. I see now what you have done. I couldn't figure it out when I was looking forward. I couldn't even figure it out when I was in the midst of it. But now I can look back and see what you have done. And I can give you thanks for that. In fact, the Bible says that is our spiritual duty. In the book, The Mystery of Providence, John Flavil wrote this. He says that a bad heart and a slippery memory deprives men of the comfort of many mercies and defrauds God the glory due to them. Basically what he was saying is that, look, it's our duty to look back and remember the mercies of God. But it's really a bad heart and a slippery memory that deprives us of these comforts. In other words, when we look back and we see what God has done, it actually blesses us, it comforts our soul, and it gives God glory. But the thing about sinful men is we forget to do that. Or we don't recognize God or we don't give thanks to God. And so It's condemned as a sin. John Flavel said, look, when you don't look back and see what God has done, you don't recognize it or you ignore it. If you don't give God praise, if you don't recognize it, see it, and give God praise, that is a sin, John Fable says. And I agree. We should recognize his providence and give thanks. Now, this is exactly what the psalmist is doing in Psalm 107. He's looking back and he gives again four scenarios. Where he saw the providential hand of God come through, and then he asked God's people to give him praise. So let's look at these. Here's the first one, lost in a desert. Look at verse four. They wandered in a wilderness in a solitary place. They found no city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble And he delivered them out of their distresses. He led them forth by the right way, that they might go into a city of habitation. So here Someone is wandering aimlessly in confusion, they have no place to call home, they're hungry, they're homeless, they're hurting Finally, with no place to turn, at the end of all their resources, verse 6, they turn to God. They cry out to him. And what does God do? Verse 7? He leads them in the right way. And now they look back and they see that and they they can praise God. They can thank God. Can you relate to this first scenario? Maybe you could not find your right place. Maybe you couldn't find your right home. Maybe you were looking for your niche in life, and you just seemed to be so lost and so aimless and you couldn't really find your way And uh you cried out to God. Maybe it was for a job, maybe it was for a home, maybe it was for a spouse, a mate, or whatever. You you cried out to God, and you know what? God came through for you, didn't he? And what should our response be? Look in verse 8. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, for his wonderful works to the children of men. Look at the next scenario. I call this locked in a dungeon. From verses 10 down to verse 16. Here's a person in a situation where he's rebelled against God's word, and now he's in captivity. He's in darkness. He's in misery. Look at verse ten. Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron, because they rebelled against the words of the Lord. Here's someone that because of their own iniquities, they rebelled against God's word in their stubborn rebellion, they resisted, and because of that they're paying the price now. And God had to chastise them. Look in verse 12. Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down. There was none to help. They God is chastising them. It was because of their disobedience. You know, they didn't follow the word of God. I meet many who claim to be Christians and live this way. They they do how whatever they want, they live however they want. They don't obey God's word. They claim to be a child of God, but they're living like they're not. They live according to their own desires and feelings They say, oh, this is my life, this is my body, I can do whatever I want with it. They forget that they were bought with the price. They forget that they are the temple of the Holy Spirit. Their body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. When you talk to them about God's standards, God's word, they tell, oh, that's legalism. I can live however I want. They've turned away from the grace of God. You know what God does in response? He chastises them. He brings them down. God graciously sends hardship to such people so that they stumble. And all the earthly things that they have relied on, they can't rely on them anymore. In verse 12, notice again, he brought them them down. He brought down their heart with labor. They shrugged off God's commands, and God said, Okay, I'll have to bring you down. And when they're down, you know what? They come to their senses. Look at verse 13. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. And you know what God did? And He saved them out of their distresses. They repented, they cried out to God. When you come to the end of yourself, when you cry out to God, thank God God doesn't say, oh, it's too bad, you're in this mess, you deserve it. That's what I would say. I would say, you know what? You made your bed, now you lay in it. But you know what? Thank God He is merciful. And God says, I'll take care of this for you. I'll help you. And verse 14, and he brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death. And break their bands in thunder. How good God is. They were a desurer. Their sin and rebellion brought them to the point of death. They were shackled by sin. They were under some addiction, some bondage, they something they couldn't break. They were imprisoned in this sin, and God, He breaks those shackles And he brings them out of that prison. And then what should the response be? Look at verse 15. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. for his wonderful works to the children of men. God stepped in. God saved them out of their distresses. Charles Wesley put it this way in his hand And his Him. He breaks the power of canceled sin. He sets the prisoner free. And our response should be, thank you, Lord. for your goodness. Notice the next scenario I call this languishing with a disease. Look at verse 17. Again we see this Fools, because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted, their soul forth all manner of meat, and they draw near unto the gates of death. Again, here's a person who is suffering sickness for their own sin. Sickness is not always because of sin, but sometimes it could be. The man described here is clearly physically sick due to his own sin. And that's why he's called a fool in verse 17, fools. This is not referring to someone who is mentally deficient, but morally deficient. They rebelled against God's word. They went off into sin. Because of that, it's affected their body. They're now sick. Languishing with this disease, verse 18, reads like a description of a drug addict or an alcoholic who has wasted his mind and body, their soul abhorreth all manner of me, they draw near unto the gates of death. They're suffering a fatal, deadly disease. They're wasting away. You know, sin brings its own punishment. And so here's another person because of his own decisions. He's in this situation where he's close to death, and you know what? He cries out to the Lord. Look at verse 19. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. And he saved them out of their distresses. I love this. Look at verse 20. He sent his word and healed them. God has the power to do that, beloved. God has the power to send his word and bring healing. And he does do that. And delivered them from their destruction. What should our response be? Look in verse twenty-one. Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. For his wonderful works to the children of men. And then here's the last one. I call this laboring in the D Look at verse twenty three. They that go down to the sea in ships that do business in great waters, these see the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep For he commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the ways thereof. They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths. Their soul is melted because of trouble. They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man and at their wit's end. And then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble. And here, this final group represents people who are overwhelmed by their circumstances. You may be like that here this morning. You're in a circumstance, you're just You're just overwhelmed by it. It's like you're in this storm and and it's out of your control and you're reeling around from this storm. You don't know which way is up. You're just overwhelmed. Derek Kidner in his commentary writes this. He says that this group does not speak so much of, quote, our guilt, but of our littleness. The hurricane shakes us into seeing that in a world of gigantic forces, we live by permission, not by good management. These sailors are overwhelmed. There are circumstances beyond their control. God sometimes will send storms into our life. You may be in that storm They're at their wit's end, verse 27. Literally all their wisdom was swallowed up. All the wisdom that these sailors knew on how to navigate the seas it was all gone. I mean this storm was so big nothing worked. And that represents a person who is very self-sufficient, you know, normally in difficult circumstances, you know how to figure it all out. But not now. All your answers have come to nothing. You're just in a bad storm, and there's nothing that you can do except Look up. Turn to God. All of man's answers have failed. Vain is the help of man. All you can do is cast yourself upon the Lord and ask him to sustain you. And look at the goodness of God. Look at verse 28. And they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. He makes the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. Then are they glad because they be quiet. So he bringeth them unto their desired haven. Only God can still the storms in your life. And it may be that God has done that for you. This re where it says, I love it where it says, you know, they're quieted. Reminds me of the story in the New Testament where Jesus said, Peace be still. And the storm went away immediately. And verse 30, they're glad. God brings them to their desired haven. Did you know that when the pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock after a long, dangerous journey, that William Bradford, the governor, gathered them all together and he read to them this psalm and specifically these verses I just read? He brought us to our desired haven. And then what's the response? What should we do? Verse 31: Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. For his wonderful works to the children of men. So we are to declare the goodness of God. Number two, we are to meditate on God's hand of providence. Look back in your life. You probably fall into one of these four scenarios. Have you been praising God because of the way He delivered you and brought you out of that problem? Number three, don't take God's blessings for granted. And we don't have time to look at this in great detail. But from verses 33 down to verse 42, again there are four illustrations. In order to drive this point home, what God does is he takes those that are Self-sufficient and they are they have all kind of plenty and God brings it to poverty. Why? So that will cause them to really look to God. Look at look at look real quickly in verse thirty three. He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the w water springs into a dry ground, a fruitful land into barrenness for the wickedness of them that dwell therein He turned the wilderness into a standing water and dry ground into water springs. And and what God is doing here is he's turning poverty into plenty, and then he turns plenty back or turns uh plenty into poverty for excuse me You have plenty, he turns it into poverty. Why? Because of your wickedness, because of your self-sufficiency, because of your pride. And you don't acknowledge God. And so God says, okay, you don't acknowledge me, I'll take away all I've given you. And you know what? All of a sudden your resources are dried up. And then when you humble yourself, And realize it was God after all who gave you all this. He'll turn your poverty back into plenty. He'll reverse it. What's the whole point here? Well, the point is, is that people who are self-sufficient and are proud do not experience the goodness of God You have to be humble. You have to recognize that God has to humble us in order to help us. He has to bring us to the end of ourselves in order that we might experience His love and favor. That's the whole point. He has to humble us so that we can experience blessings in full. A man was a sole survivor of a shipwreck. And he was able to make a raft out of the ship's wreckage, the cargo, and he drifted to a desert island. And then he constructed a makeshift shelter and he lived on what little food he had that he was able to salvage from the wreckage. And and time after time, in vain he tried to attract a ship that was passing by, and it just seemed like he could never do it. Finally he again he saw a ship approaching more closely this time. And so he he hurried up and he he made a fire, a big bomb fire. But to his dismay, the ship passed by and became kind of a fading light. And to make matters worse, the fire that he built caught his shelter on fire. He turned around to see this shelter just exploding with fire. And all that he had was burned up. This man watched helplessly as all his provisions turned to ashes. All was lost, he thought. He couldn't see how he could live much longer, but then he noticed that the ship turned around and started coming back. And he was seen by the crew, he was rescued, and once on board, he went to the captain to give his thanks. And he asked them, what caused you to turn around? and and and come and get me. He said, well when we saw that you you set your shelter on fire and it created a big fire, we saw that. You know. The very thing that seemed to seal his doom was the means of his delivery. A lot of people view their problems like that, man. They see no point in the purpose of them, but The problems that you have are the very things that drive you in despair to Almighty God. They are the source of your delivery when you call upon God. Sometimes people blame God and grow bitter because He allows trials to come into their life, and yet it is often those very trials that God has designed for that f as a means for that person's growth and salvation. And so God has to bring us to our end so that we will acknowledge that He is the giver, He is the author of life. And that we can't do this without him. We can't do it without him. We need his blessings. And we should not take them for granted. But here's the fourth thing quickly, and I'm done. Each day take a moment to observe the goodness of God. Look at verse 43, the last verse of this psalm, verse 43. Whoso is wise and will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of the Lord. Are you wise? In closing, the psalmist calls upon us to recognize this. To ponder, to observe these things. Don't forget these things. God's common grace is all around. He gives us all the blessings of life. Don't overlook that Common grace is just God just giving us daily blessings. I mean, you're breathing as air right now He got you up this morning. This afternoon you'll you'll sit down to a fine meal. You'll you'll have a place to stay. It's God's common grace. It's evident everywhere. Why is it that we don't live on a parched desert earth because after Adam sinned, God cursed the earth? Why is it the earth the earth doesn't remain one big parched desert? Well, because of the goodness of God. If God God could rightly allow that, and if that were the case, all of us would die. But no, what does God do? He makes the sun rise on the good and the evil. He pours out rain on the just and the unjust. He takes this earth and he and this earth is constantly yielding to us all of its bounty, all of its blessings, so that we can live a satisfied life here. A good life here? Those are all the common blessings of God that He gives to all, and we need to recognize that. All these things come from God. And we need to thank God. For his goodness and for his love. And that again is what the psalmist is saying over and over again. Recognize it. Recognize his hand of providence. Recognize his goodness. Don't take it for granted. Oh, that men would praise the Lord and give thanks for his goodness. So I would just ask you to this week take some time to look back, recognize God's providence. Again, verse 43, whoso is wise. And will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of the Lord. If you'll take time just to look back, look at Hit God's hand of providence in your life, what He's brought you through, how He has been good to you, then you will understand the loving kindness of God to you. And you can from your heart genuinely give God praise. Father, we do with all our heart give you thanks for blessings seen, things that we do see, we recognize. And blessings unseen. Lord, you've done things for us that we we don't even know about. You've gone before us. You've prepared the way for us. You're doing things in our life right now, we don't we don't understand it, we don't see it, but you do, you know. You look way down the road, and your actions today are based on what you see tomorrow. And they're good. Your actions are good. It might at times from our perspective seem unkind, but Lord, we know that you're too kind to do anything cruel. And you're too wise, Lord, to explain all of it to us. We wouldn't get it. But in faith, we can say, God, you are good. Even in the midst of my trials, you have a good purpose. And so, Lord, with all our heart, we give you thanks and we give you praise for who you are, for what you've done in our life. Lord, thank you for redeeming us from our sins, our the eternal judgment of hell that we deserve because of our sins. Thank you for sending Jesus Christ. to be our Savior, to bear our sins on the cross, to die for the sins of the world, to pay that sin debt so that salvation can be received by faith for anyone that puts their faith in Christ. Thank you for this unspeakable gift, the gift of eternal life through Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, if you're here and you've never received that gift, I would encourage you to do it today, right now, right where you are. Reach out in faith. So it takes is faith. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will not cast out. Friend, do you want to be forgiven for your sins? Do you want eternal life to live in heaven forever? To escape the judgment of hell? You reach out in faith to Christ. He's the only way. He's the only salvation. Say, Lord Jesus, forgive me, save me. I want to be your child. And the Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And friend, he wants to save you right now, right where you are. He wants to save you. If you haven't put your faith in Christ, I plead with you, do it now. And if you prayed that prayer and you've done that, let us know. We want to help you. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk. Father, again, thank you for your word. Thank you for all that you've done. May we be wise like the psalmist exhorted and recognize the loving kindness of God. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.