Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy, chapter one. And as Aaron said, we begin a new series in First Timothy tonight. Aaron said we're going to have a super service. I was wondering if he was alluding to something else that's going on tonight. Is there something else going on tonight with the name Super in it? I'm not really sure. I'm glad that you're here and you're recording whatever at your TV at home. 1 Timothy chapter 1, and uh look at verse number 1. We're gonna look at verse 1 and 2. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Savior. And Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope, unto Timothy, my own son in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father, and Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, we have heard sometimes, perhaps in the news of stories regarding disputes over the identity of children Did you know that in the 1920s there was a rash of anxiety in the United States over babies allegedly being swapped in hospital maternity wards? And during that time judges were put in a Solomon-like position of trying to determine who the real parents were of children that were born in hospitals. And they were desperate for some kind of objective test that could solve the paternity suits once and for all. Researchers back then really couldn't help a lot. They they tried things like ridges in the roof of the mouth containing patterns that were passed on from Father to child. Also other kind of things like uh a f list of physical traits, uh size of nose, ear shape, hair texture, and so on and so on. All that kind of pseudoscience that really didn't help them much But nowadays, because of advanced technology, whenever there's a question of a child's paternity, a simple test can be administered. We know that now, right? A simple DNA test You can take a test, it's very easily given, easily administered, and you can be informed who your legitimate child is with this with 99. 999% accuracy. Now that's pretty good. 99% accuracy you can know who your true child is. Now I think about that when I think about the introduction that Paul gave here. in 1 Timothy. I want you to notice what he called Timothy in verse 2, unto Timothy my own son in the faith. For the Apostle Paul, spiritually speaking, he had no question in his mind about Timothy. Timothy was his own son in the faith. The word for own here is a Greek word that simply means illegitimate Or we could say genuine or real or true. Spiritually speaking, Timothy was Paul's legitimate, true, genuine son in the faith. Now I think that this was encouraging when Timothy first read this letter to see Paul introduce it that way, because did you know that Timothy's father was Greek while his mother was Jewish, and according to Orthodox Jews, Timothy's birth would have been considered illegitimate. So when Timothy wrote uh read these words that, Timothy, you are my legitimate spiritual son. In the faith. Now in the faith there is a reference to faith as uh faith in Jesus Christ, faith as Christ as your Savior, trusting fully in the Lord Jesus Christ. It was through the ministry of the Apostle Paul that Timothy came to know Jesus Christ as his Savior. And Paul then continued to nurture Timothy and mentor him in the ministry as we're going to see. And so this is a special expression that Paul gives to Timothy. We really only see it in one other place in the New Testament is given to Titus as well. as Timothy. And what Paul's basically saying, Timothy, I've seen your life, I've seen your calling, I've looked at your spiritual walk, and you have the si same spiritual DNA as me. You are my legitimate son in the faith. And Paul was grateful to have someone like Timothy, because at that time the church was under attack. There was a lot of false teaching going on, and he needed young men that could uh guard the truth. In fact, this is the major theme we could say of 1 Timothy, that of guarding the truth. And by the way, it's still a great need today that we guard the truth of God's Word, that we guard the purity of the gospel. And so you'll see Paul use words like sound doctrine. He'll emphasize how important sound doctrine is. He'll give warnings about false teachers, those that stray away from the purity of the gospel. And so a kind of a brief outline of 1 Timothy could be this. Sound doctrine and the gospel message, that's chapter 1. Sound doctrine and a godly membership, that's chapter 2. Sound doctrine and a godly ministry. That's chapters three through six. But now Paul knew that he could depend upon Timothy to be someone who would guard the truth because he was his his genuine son in the faith, his genuine child in the faith. And by the way, that same charge is is also our responsibility. Did you know that if you are a child of God, part of your responsibility as a believer is to guard the truth. Not only share the pure gospel, but guard the truth, guard the gospel. And only those who are truly God's child can guard the truth So with that in mind, I want to give you just three identifying marks of a genuine child in the faith. You need to ask yourself that question, am I a legitimate genuine child in the faith. Well a genuine child in the faith, first of all, has a true spiritual parent. Just write that down, a true spiritual parent. How did Paul come to be a true child? Well, he learned the gospel from a true servant of Christ. He learned it from the Apostle Paul. So let's look at Paul. And notice first of all what I want to call Paul the special apostle. Notice how he introduces himself that Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Now thank God that God uses men to communicate the gospel. We're here tonight because someone shared the gospel with us. Because someone showed us the Word of God. The Bible says, how can they call on him whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in him whom they've not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher? And Paul was one such man. Now we know the story of Paul's conversion. He was on the road to Damascus. He was going to hunt Christians. He was going to throw Christians in jail. He hated Christ. He hated Christianity. But on that road he met up with the risen Christ. And the Bible says of this, this is what Jesus said. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings. and the children of Israel, for I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And Saul the persecutor became Paul, the apostle of Jesus Christ. Now what is an apostle? Sometimes you might drive down the road and see a sign that says Apostle So-and-So. Are there still apostles around? Have you ever asked yourself that question? And I would say this that the New Testament information on the qualities or the qualifications of an apostle and the identity of the apostles in the New Testament pretty much conclude that that office was limited to just that time That there are no apostles, capital A, today. Let me just tell you this that in the Bible the word apostle was used in two senses. First of all, it was used in a broad sense. There are three times In the New Testament, where the word apostle is used, kind of in a broad sense, because the word apostle actually means a messenger And again, there are three verses in the New Testament that use it in that sense as a simple messenger. For example, 2 Corinthians 8, verse 23 says where Paul refers to those that will accompany him to Jerusalem as, and again the Greek word is apostolos, which is simply messenger. or the plural apostoloi. Here are messengers. Paul says, all of you churches, you remember me talking about the love offering on Sunday morning. You know, Paul's taking up a big love offering for the church in Jerusalem. And what Paul wanted was every church had to send a messenger. Part of that was just for accountability. And all these messengers from each of the churches would go to Jerusalem and they would present this offering to the church. And so each church would send a an apostle small a, a messenger. If we said as a church, we're going to send John Gorham over to a certain country, and he's going to represent us He's going to do some things for us. He is going to be our messenger to this church. We could call Reverend Gorham Apostle John Gorham. But that with apostle with a small A now, in the sense that it's just a messenger, and did you know that there's a sense in which uh that's uh a person today sometimes is considered that. Today some people use the word in that broad sense. For example, I've heard people refer to William Carey the great missionary church printer as an an apostle small a to India. And so it can be used in a broad sense, and again it was used that way in Philippians chapter two, verse twenty-five. Paul calls Epaphroditus Your messenger, talking to the church at Philippi. He's your messenger. You sent them to me with this wonderful love offering, and he is your apostle, your messenger. So it's used in a broad sense, but also the word apostle is used in a narrow sense, and this this uh is m is used much more frequently in the New Testament. This Narrow sense where it refers to a special office, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Now that's how Paul is using the word here in verse number one. And in this narrow sense of the term, there are no more apostles today, capital A. Because in order for you to be an apostle like Paul was, again, there were certain qualifications that you must have. And one of those qualifications was you must See the risen Christ with your own eyes. That was one of the uh qualifications. You had to be an eyewitness of the Lord Jesus, and another qualification is You had to be specifically commissioned by Jesus Christ as his apostle. Now that happened to Paul on the road to Damascus, where he saw the risen Christ. He wasn't one of the twelve, but he was later on Brought into this ministry by the Lord Jesus on the road to Damascus. And Paul would later write this in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 7. After that, talking about the risen Christ, he was seen of James. than of all the apostles, verse 8, and last of all he was seen of me also as one born out of due time, for I am the least of the apostles, that I am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church. Paul said, you know, God made me an apostle. I saw the risen Christ. I was the one born out of due time. That is, I was not one of the original twelve. Excuse me, I came along later. And this stool over here is pretty handy because I put water on it. It was meant for me to sit on, but Uh it's a good place to put water. And I think we're gonna keep on doing that. I kinda like it right there like that. But anyway And so Paul considered himself one who was later added on as an apostle. And notice what he said in verse 10, but by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me. Paul understood that it was all grace in his life that brought him into this ministry. God saved him and set him apart. And so here we see Paul, the special apostle. But here's another thought, Paul the spiritual father. Look what he says in verse 2, unto Timothy, my own son, in the faith. And again, this implies that, again, Paul was Timothy's spiritual father. Many times in the New Testament, Paul describes himself that way. For example, to the Corinthians, Paul wrote this in 1 Corinthians 4 15, for though you have 10,000 instructors in Christ, Yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Paul said to the Corinthians, look, you might have a lot of people come in and teach you stuff, but you only have one spiritual father, and that's me. Because it was through me that you learned the gospel, and by the Holy Spirit you were begotten in Christ. I'm your spiritual Father. Therefore, he says in verse 16, wherefore I beseech you, be followers of me. Paul's saying, if I'm your spiritual father and you're my spiritual children, then what you should do is follow my example. Be a follower of me. Watch me. Watch my life. And then he goes on to say this in verse 17 about Timothy for this cause. He says, I have sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways, which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. Paul said, you know, if you uh look at Timothy. He's my true son in the faith. If you want to see what my ways are like, look at Timothy, because Timothy has learned from me. He's learned my ways, and he will bring you into remembrance of the things that I teach. Paul also said to the Philippians in Philippians 2. 22, but you know the proof of him talking about Timothy, that as a son with a father, he has served with me in the gospel. And so Paul said, I'm Timothy's spiritual father. Timothy, you are my legitimate son. Now, how did all of that happen? How did it happen in Timothy's life? Let me kind of piece it together for you. Timothy was a teenager living at home in a place called Lystra. And uh it was right now south central Turkey. But he had a Jewish mother, he had a Greek father, and his mother and his grandmother actually taught him the scriptures. Paul says that in 2 Timothy 3. 15, from a child you've learned the holy scriptures. But he didn't know that Jesus was the Messiah until a man came into his town preaching that one day, and of course that man was named the Apostle Paul. And this whole story is in Acts chapter 14, if you ever want to read it. When Paul came into the city, he healed a man who was lame from his birth, and then he preached the gospel. But then the fickle crowd that was there in that city, they they stoned him, this mob. They they they dragged him out of the city. They thought him to be dead because of the stoning. But then amazingly he got up and he went back into the city the next day and then later he returns to that city And he preached courageously the gospel of Jesus Christ. And part of what he said was in Acts 14, 22, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. I don't know about you, but that would get my attention. If here's a guy that a guy that was stoned, left for dead, and yet he he gets up and he comes back and he preaches the gospel, that person's got my attention. Timothy was there to hear that, and he was one of the ones that was converted to Jesus Christ under Paul. And Paul would later write in 2 Timothy 3 He said, Timothy, you have known my doctrine, my manner of life, my purpose, my faith, my long suffering, persecutions, afflictions which came to me at Antioch, Iconium, and at Lystra, what persecutions I endured, but Add them all the Lord delivered me. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. What a great lesson that must have been to Timothy. to see Paul endure that kind of persecution. Now in the years that followed, Timothy grew in the Lord, and he was very highly regarded. in his city. And later Paul comes back again to that same town. And this is recorded in Acts chapter 16, verse number 1. Where it says, Then came he to Derby and Lystra, and behold a certain disciple there named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewish and believed, his father was a Greek, which was well reported of them by the brethren. And then Paul hears about this good report, and Paul invites Timothy then to join him in his itinerant ministry traveling around. You say, man, wouldn't you like to travel with Paul? I'm not so sure of that, beloved. Because Paul went into a lot of dangerous things. It was a lot of difficulty there. And so for the next 18 years, Timothy was right there by Paul serving him as a son would serve his father. And uh also notice the book of Acts ends with Paul in prison in Rome. There's good belief, good reason to believe that he was released from that prison in 62 A. D. And by the way, it was while he was in that Roman prison that he wrote the epistles of Ephesians and Colossians and Philippians and Philemon But while he was there in Rome, the Bible tells us that Timothy was there with him. And when Paul was released from prison, he and Timothy went to Ephesus. And Paul left Timothy at that city of Ephesus because he had to go on into Macedonia to take care of some affairs and then come back. But he left Timothy there to take care of things in that church. It was a very challenging thing, a very challenging church. And Sometime after Paul left Timothy there, he writes this first letter back to Timothy. Why did he do that? Well, because Timothy needed encouragement. Because things there were very, very challenging. And so he writes to him, giving him instructions on things in the church, on guarding the truth, on how to behave in the church of God. In fact, look at First Timothy chapter three, look down at verse fifteen. But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God Which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Timothy, here is how I want you to run the affairs. Here's how I want you to behave in the house of God. Now, serving Christ with Paul, again, it was challenging. And I think that Timothy, being left there in Ephesus, he kind of felt like he was over his head. Timothy, we have every reason to believe by studying these epistles that he was a timid and shy personality. He didn't like conflict, and yet he he found himself in the midst of controversy. He was kind of inclined to back off Rather than to confront, Paul was more the kind of person that would confront a situation. Timothy was a little bit more timid and shy. And I imagine many times he felt like quitting. And this was one of those times. You know, a lot of times when we read about the churches in the Bible, we have a tendency to think, oh, they must have been wonderful churches, spiritual churches. I don't know about you, but when I read about these churches, I see churches that had a lot of trouble. A lot of problems. The city of Ephesus was a pagan city. It was filled with sexual immorality. It was filled with idolatry. And there was false teaching that was seeping in to that church at Ephesus. And Paul's task for Timothy was very clear. Look in chapter 1, look at verse 3. Notice what Paul says. I abide, I besought thee rather to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Neither give he to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than godly edify, which is in faith so do. Timothy, I left you there at Ephesus, that you can literally command. Certain men, not to teach any strange doctrines, to pay attention to these myths and these things that they're teaching there. Now, on the surface, this might sound like a very simple thing, but it was not. Because, you know, people, I don't know if you ever notice this, but people when they're taught some strange doctrine, they have the tendency to really get emotionally attached to some of these weird things that people sometimes teach. And when you confront people about this being erroneous, it's not right, well, people take it personally. And here's here's Timothy, here's this timid, shy, peace-loving ordinary man who finds himself in a church. Where there are some men probably older than him teaching some strange things, and it was Timothy's job to confront them and to guard the truth. No doubt there were people in the church who like these men who thought that their teaching was their teaching was helpful and good, and they're thinking, how dare this young man come along and try to correct these things that we think have been very helpful to us. But the message, the overall message to Timothy was simply this. Timothy, guard the truth. Guard the truth. In fact, look in chapter 1, look at verse number 18. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy. according to the prophecies that went on before thee, that thou mightest by them war a good mightest war a good warfare. I am charging you, I am committing actually unto you. I'm actually depositing unto you, Timothy, this this this this very charge, this command that you guard. Now Paul starts out talking about that. And look in chapter 6, look in verse 20. He kind of ends the letter. With the same charge. Look in chapter 6, look in verse 20. Oh Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. Avoid profane and vain babblings and oppositions of science falsely so-called, which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Again, he repeats the command. Again, this is the overall command of the book. Guard the truth. Watch over the truth. Now, under that there are kind of what I could call really some sub-themes. Like for example, we see certain things repeated, the theme of sound doctrine or teaching. Follow with me. Look in chapter one, look in verse number ten. How it ends in uh where it says, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine. Look in chapter 3, look in verse number 2, where it says, A bishop then must be blameless A husband of one wife, vigilant, sober of good behavior, given the hospitality at the doctic, skilled in teaching, you have to be able to teach sound doctrine. Look in chapter 4, look at verse number 6 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast ordained. And so has attained rather. So again, this is the theme of good doctrine. And we see it again in chapter 5, verse 17. Just look there, where he says, um, let the elders That rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and in doctrine. So we see this repeated all throughout. What is needed is sound doctrine, healthy doctrine. The word literally sound is where we get the word hygiene, healthy doctrine, healthy teaching of the Word of God. He also warns them to uh against turning aside to false teaching. We could see that also traced throughout. But let me just show you one more thing. There's also another theme that we see in 1 Timothy, and that is the word uh the expression the faith Keeping the faith. Again, we see it in verse 19 of chapter 1. Holding, we could say the faith literally. Chapter 3, verse number 9, holding the mystery of The faith. Chapter 3, verse 13, again, where it says, For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchased to themselves a good degree and great boldness in the faith. We see it again in chapter 4, verse 1. Now the Spirit speaketh expressively in the latter times that some shall depart from the faith. Now again, I can go all the way through. This is used over and over again so you get the idea of what Paul's saying to Timothy, guard the truth. Make sure that there's sound doctrine being taught there. Hold on to the faith, which is talking about the whole body of Christian theology, sound theology, sound teaching. This is important That we do that in the church. Thank God for spiritual fathers that teach us that. And that's what Paul was teaching Timothy. Thank God for people like that that we learn from. For the people that taught that. I I can't help but think of Pastor Johnson. Many of us here, we've had him for a spiritual father. who showed us the gospel of Jesus Christ, faithfully preached the Word of God for many years. And I remember having the privilege of being around him like some of our other staff men, learning things from Pastor Johnson. about the faith, about how to live the faith, how to teach the faith, how to hold on to those things that are very true and necessary and needful. And there are times I find myself remembering. Sometimes I'm sitting and I'm wondering. People ask me about a certain thing, and all of a sudden I have this question in my mind, what would Pastor Johnson do in a situation like this? Or what would Pastor Johnson say? What did he teach me to do in a situation like this? Because he was a good spiritual father who taught us the sound word of God. I remember one specific occasion here. Um this was years ago. Years ago. We all went to a funeral service together and uh after the funeral service was over, we were all in the vehicle, we were all going somewhere after that, and Pastor Johnson Said, you know, that was a good sermon, but it missed something. What did it miss? And it was kind of a test for all the guys that were in the car, you know. And none of the other guys got it right. I got it right I want to brag on me here for a minute. I knew exactly where he was going. Actually they probably thought about it, but I spoke first. And I said, I'll tell you what was missing, the guy didn't really give the gospel clearly. And Pastor John said that's right. He said, every time there's a funeral service, you make sure you give the clear gospel message. And you invite people to Jesus Christ. I know exactly where he's going. That's a great lesson. And here we have Paul teaching Timothy these same lessons. Timothy, guard the truth. Timothy, make sure you preach sound doctrine. Make sure you hold on to the faith. And so a true child in the faith has a true spiritual parent. But here's the second thing I want you to see. A true child of the faith has a true Savior. Look again in verse number one. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God, our Savior. Now that's an unusual phrase in this verse, God our Savior. This description occurs six times in the pastoral epistles and really nowhere else in Paul's writings. In fact, the word savior is only really used 24 times in the whole New Testament. A lot of those times it's by the Apostle Paul. But did you know that in the Old Testament, God, the Father, was designated as a Savior? There are a lot of verses I can show you about this, but there's one verse in particular, Zephaniah 3. 17. The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty. He will save, he will rejoice over thee, he will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with singing. Here is a picture of God, our Savior, in Isaiah 63, verse 1. It says that God is mighty to save. Now, this title in the New Testament is now applied to Jesus Christ. Jesus is designated as. . the Savior, which shows that Jesus is God. In fact, his whole name means Yahweh saves. Jesus is God. Jesus is Now let me tell you that I think the reason why Paul emphasizes this in the very beginning of this letter. Because when he wrote this letter to Timothy, do you know the Roman emperor that was on the throne at that time? It was a man by the name of Nero. We've heard that name. Nero was a vicious, cruel tyrant, the worst emperor, Roman Emperor ever to sit upon the throne. But did you know that Nero had assumed the title Savior of the world? That's what he called himself. In fact the coins that were printed up that were minted in his day had a picture of him on that coin and it had written on the coin our Savior and benefactor of the world. Nero pictured himself as a Savior. I think Paul is purposely countering that by saying, no, Nero, you're not the Savior. There's only one Savior. God is the only one that saves. Jesus Christ is the only Savior. And this is a truth that constantly needs to be reaffirmed. Because what Nero boasted about himself is what the proud human heart basically says about itself. You know, there are people out there that feel like they can save themselves somehow. That somehow they can do enough works or they can try to find themselves acceptable to God because of the way they serve God that they become their own Savior. And they may not even they may be have a blind spot about that. They may not even really see that, but what they're trying to do in serving is to find themselves acceptable with God so that they will be saved. But the message of the cross of Jesus Christ says this, we're nothing but sinners. And we cannot save ourselves. The cross humbles human pride by saying, no flesh shall boast in God. And we need to remember that message. We need to remember that. You know, I fear that there may be some who serve God in an attempt to earn his favor. Because they may think that somehow they are winning their their salvation by that. I think Paul was there. Paul understood that. He was zealous in religion. He kept putting the law out there, outwardly obeying the law, advancing, he said, beyond many of his contemporaries. But finally, when Paul saw Jesus Christ, he understood what a sinner he was And that all the works that he had done to find favor with God were nothing but waste. It was it was garbage, Paul said That he might know Jesus Christ. There's only one way to salvation, and it's by coming to the cross and humbling ourselves and realizing that there's no salvation in any other but in Jesus Christ and what he did And putting our full faith in Christ. Look what Paul wrote in 1 Timothy 1. Look at verse 11. He says, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, Which is committed to my trust, and I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry, who was before a blasphemer, a persecutor, and injurus. But I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus Paul understood that it was all God, it was all his grace. A true Child in the faith has a true spiritual parent, a true Savior, and one final thing that we see here in this introduction, a true understanding of the gospel. A true understanding of the gospel. Because look what he says again in verse 2. And to Timothy, my own son in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father. And Jesus Christ our Lord. And I would submit to you, beloved, that in those three words is the whole sum of the gospel right there, grace and mercy and peace. Now Paul's giving a typical first century greeting. That was part of the protocol of a first century letter. filled with uh a greeting, but in this greeting he gives profound theological words. You know that all of our salvation is based on grace. It's all the grace of God. It's all of him. And that's the grace that saves us. Salvation is 100% the work of God because we are unable to do anything. It is God. The Bible says in Ephesians, but God who is rich in mercy, for his great love, wherewith he loved us, even while we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together God through his grace, and you know what grace it is, God's undeserved favor. God favoring us, loving us, giving us life. But then not only the gospel message of grace, it's a message of mercy. Again in verse 2, grace and mercy. He says, Grace, mercy here. Someone has rightly said that grace is God giving us what we do not deserve. Mercy Grace is giving to us what we do not deserve. Mercy is God not giving us what we do deserve. God's grace is giving to us what we do not deserve. And mercy is God not giving to us what we do deserve. Did I get that right? Go home and think about that. You understand the point. If I got what I deserved, I would be in hell right now. You know, I don't want judgment. I don't want justice. I want mercy from God. And I'm so grateful that God is a God of mercy, that He hasn't given me what I deserved, and all that mercy is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because all the wrath that should have fallen upon me fell on Christ And now God offers mercy. Again, Paul says that in verse 16 of chapter 1. Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy I obtain mercy, Paul said, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth a long suffer a long suffering for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him Paul said, God's mercy to me is a pattern for others who would come along and believe that they have also been given the mercy of God. The gospel is all about God's grace to us. It's all about God's mercy to us, and it's all about a message of peace, he says here. Grace, mercy, and peace. And God's peace, there's really two kinds of peace. There's peace with God. Before we were saved, we were enemies, we were alienated against God, but because of the cross of Christ, we are brought into peace, Colossians 1. 20, and having made peace through the blood of his cross. And once we're saved, then there's the peace of God that God gives His children. God gives us a peace that will help us through any circumstance. of life. Peace with God is the root of the gospel. The peace of God is the fruit of the gospel. And this is the peace that God gives us for difficulty, for trials, for suffering, a peace that passes understanding. And so Timothy understood all this, and in in distilled in these two verses, in this very greeting, is really a message of the gospel. And Timothy was Paul's true child in the faith because he was Paul was his true spiritual parent. Timothy had a true Savior, Jesus Christ, and he had a true understanding of the gospel. And so because of that, Paul could trust him to guard the truth And the question to you tonight is, are you a true child in the faith? Do you know Jesus Christ? If you're not, don't rest until you know That your soul is safe, that you are a true child of God. Before John Wesley came to Christ He was a better Christian than most believers as far as outward behavior was concerned. He graduated from Oxford University, and during his days at Oxford, he helped to establish a club called the Holy Club. And the students in the club went to church, they studied their Bibles, they fasted, they prayed, and they went into prisons and workhouses to do evangelism. They provided food and clothing, education to the poor children of the city. John Wesley did all of this. He attended Sunday services. He attended the midweek service. He lived an exemplary moral life. In fact, he even spent years as a missionary to the American Indians in what was then the British colony of Georgia. And yet, upon returning to England, he confessed this. He wrote this in his journal. I who went to America to convert others was never converted myself. He said, you know, I went to America to save the Indians, but who will save me? It's how he felt. And later, when he was thinking about that time in his life before he was saved, he said, I had then the faith of a servant, but I wasn't a true son. I wasn't a true son. And it was not until John Wesley went to a place called the Elder all Elders Gate. a chapel that was there. I've been to that very place there in London. And it was one evening that he was invited there with a group of friends to a Bible study. And in that Bible study, there was a the Bible study leader got up and he was reading out of Martin Luther's commentary on Romans about what it was to be justified. what it was like to be a true child of God. And while he is reading about putting your faith, nothing but faith in Christ Alone for salvation. John Wesley said, I felt my heart strangely warmed. And he wrote, I felt that I did trust in Christ. And Christ alone at that moment for my salvation and assurance was given to me that He had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin and death. And John Wesley said from that point on he no longer served God as a servant trying to earn God's favor, but he served God as a son Who was grateful for the salvation that God had given him? He truly knew Jesus Christ as his Savior, and he said, At that moment I had entered the heavenlies. And so a true believer is someone like John Wesley, who gains a true understanding of the gospel and puts his full faith in the true Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Can we bow for prayer tonight? Let's bow for prayer together. As we embark on the study of 1 Timothy here tonight, I would ask you just to examine your own heart. And ask, am I a true son in the faith, a true child in the faith? Am I putting all of my faith and hope in Christ and the gospel of Christ? Not by works, but by the Works of Jesus Christ for me by what he did for me at the cross. And if you know that you're a child of God, are you ready to be a guardian of the truth? to share the truth with others. That's what God calls us to. Father, I pray that tonight you'll bless this message to every heart. And that, Lord, there would be a true understanding of Christ and salvation. And that, Lord, like Timothy, we would be assured of that and we would be ready to guard the truth. Just as Paul charged Timothy, we understand that this charge goes to us as well. As your children, Lord, we live in a world that is attacks the truth of the gospel that is against many many of the things that we teach here in the Word of God. And I pray, Father, that you'll give us strength. And you'll give us steadfastness to be faithful to your truth in these days. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.