Would you take God's word tonight and I invite you to open please to the book of First Timothy? You know we begin uh a new series through First Timothy, and I hope and pray that it will be uh a a blessing to you. It'll be instructive and that'll be something that will uh encourage your heart as we learn God's word. First Timothy chapter one and I want you to look at verse number three. I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than godly edify which is in faith, so do. Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, out of a good conscience, and of faith unfained, for which some, having swerved, have turned aside in the vain jangling. Desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. Uh do you know the word eureka? You know what that means? Let me tell you where it comes from if you don't know. Actually it is a Greek word that means I've found it. And this became the slogan for thousands of California miners during the eighteen hundreds. And when they found what they thought was a piece of real, genuine gold, they would cry out, Eureka, I found it. However, many gold prospectors began to understand that not everything that glitters is gold. Not everything they found was actually real gold. There was a fool's gold called iron tyrite And uh they soon had to learn to uh test what they found before they cried out Eureka. When they saw the piece of what they thought was gold, they had certain tests to test to find out if it was real They would take, you know, maybe a maybe a white rock and they would they would uh rub it together. If it was real gold it would leave a yellow streak, if it was iron pyrite it would leave kind of a greenish kind of streak there. And also, uh, gold is actually softer than the human tooth. And so that's why you have guys sometimes you see them bite a coin to see if the gold coin is real or actually they would bite into this uh piece of gold. I can't imagine never trying to do that. But that's the test that they would use to find out whether or not the gold was real. And if it was real, they would then cry out, Eureka, I found it, I have gold. You know, I thought about that when we were talking about this issue here. In First Timothy, the issue is confronting doctrine, whether the go the doctrine is true or false doctrine And we're living in a day when false doctrine is uh just all around us. There's all kind of religious teachers, there's all kind of charismatic personalities who make claims that they genuinely are from God and that they're teaching you a true message from God, but not all that glitters is gold. And not everyone who makes a claim that they're speaking for God or or from the Word of God are actually speaking the true of true Word of God. So we have to be discerning. We have to be careful to make sure that not what we're listening to is not, excuse me, fool's gold. And I believe that one of the things that the church is lacking today is this issue of spiritual discernment. There are a lot of Christians who that are allowing themselves to be influenced by teachers and preachers who say they're from God, but they are not. Now, with that in mind, this is what Paul is talking to his young son in the faith, Timothy, about. He's warning them about, warning him and the church at Ephesus for that matter about false teachers. And he tells Timothy some things to look out for and how to recognize uh these these supposed teachers from God. Now, again, a little background in the first Timothy, when Paul was released from the prison in Rome, we have every reason to believe that Timothy was with him and they together went to Ephesus. Uh this was somewhere around 62 A. D. and Paul moved on to Macedonia but left Timothy at Ephesus uh to keep things in order to make sure that what's being taught there sound doctrine. It wasn't long after Paul left Timothy that he began to experience conflicts. And so Paul in response writes this first letter to Timothy, but what we could call First Timothy, we could also say is a second letter to Ephesus, because really he's writing this letter uh to Timothy, but also there's a sense in which he's writing it to the whole church Because in chapter uh six verse twenty-one, uh it kind of indicates that this epistle is for everyone. Look in chapter six, verse twenty-one, which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Amen. And so it's indicating, like the rest of Paul's epistle, that this letter was for not just Timothy, but it was for the whole church. And so this means that first Timothy can be read and should be read on different le levels. It was of course a personal letter to Timothy, personal communication between uh a spiritual father and his young son in the faith. It's a pastoral letter that can be read to the church, a church that he loves, a church that he has invested a lot of time in. And then it should be read as a general statement of principles for life and ministry for all of us as we find instruction from this letter. And remember I told you that Paul kind of offers a purpose statement for This letter. Look in chapter 3, verse 15, again, just to remind you, but if I tarry long, that thou mightest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of truth. And so Paul's saying, Timothy, here's how I want you to behave in the Lord's house. And then again, let me remind you, the major overall theme, however, of 1 Timothy is guarding the truth. We have to guard the truth. And Paul says this at the beginning of this letter, and he says it at the end, in chapter six, verse twenty. Timothy, guard the truth, watch over the truth, the truth that has been entrusted to you Bo's going to warn Timothy and the church regarding some of these false teachers and false teaching that was creeping into the church So what I want you to see are three important lessons with regard to false teachers. And the first one is simply this. Number one, the description of false teachers. Just write that down. The description. Look at verse number three of chapter one. I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Here's the first thing I want you to see in describing these teachers is their strange doctrine. And verse 3, when it says no other, the word other here is a combination, it's really a compound Greek word, heteros. And Didoskalin. Heteros means something that is different, a different kind, something that is strange. Didoskatin means simply to teach And so putting these words together, it is to teach a strange doctrine. And that's what was happening here in the church. They were teaching something that was different. Something that was not revealed apostolic truth that they had been taught by the Apostle Paul. The teaching of the Apostles was the standard by which all other teaching was judged. And we we read in Paul's other epistles that he condemned those who preached a different Jesus, who preached a different spir uh spirit, or preached a different gospel. Any doctrine which is different from the true Orthodox teaching that Paul gave that church was considered false doctrine. Beloved, there's only one right theology There's only one gospel, and any other gospel is a false gospel, is a strange gospel, and we need to beware of that. Now there's always going to be people out there to try to say, oh, here's something new And we're going to try to improve on the truth. You can't improve on the gospel. And you just mark it down. If it's new, it's not true. And if it's true, it's not new. The truth of God's word is definitely not new. Now, who are these false teachers in the Ephesian church? Paul does not name them. He just says in verse number three, he calls them some. that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Now no doubt Timothy and the people in the church at Ephesus knew who they were. I imagine when this letter was read in the church assembly, there was probably some heads turning. saying I know who he's referring to here by the sum, those that are teaching these strange doctrines. And so we can recognize false teachers by their strange bizarre doctrine. But here's the second thing, their selfish desire. Their selfish desire. Look down at verse number seven. Desiring to be teachers of the law. Understanding neither what they say nor what they affirm. Here's the first thing. They want to teach the law. They want to be teachers of the law. And these teachers were so selfish and egotistical, they simply desired to be heard. There are some people that just want to be heard, not because they have something to say. Uh or they have something actually that they truly uh b is from the Lord to give, but they there's something in them that just needs to be heard. They they have to be in front of people, they have to have preeminence. They weren't really concerned about truly learning the law, the uh or knowing God, the God of the law, or serving people But and uh with love, the whole fulfillment of the law is love, they desired this kind of strange prestige Where they were in front of a crowd and they were listening getting the crowd's attention, having them listen to them. That's kind of like the Pharisees that our Lord Jesus announced in Matthew 23. He says, They do all their deeds to be noticed by men And they love the place of honor at banquets in the chief seats in the synagogues, and respectful greetings in the marketplace, and they love being called by men rabbi rabbi. Now I kind of joke with some of our men here, you know, when they see me, I say, Look, call me Rabbi. You know, call me Rabbi. But I'm just kidding when I say that, guys, all right We kinda have an inside joke here. Uh, you know, these guys they loved to have the titles. They they loved all of that. They loved the praise of men, they loved to be seen of men. And this was the opposite of the proper motive for ministry. You know the Bible warns about being careful to be a teacher in front of other people. You know why? Because those who teach the Word of God are going to receive the greater judgment from God. We know that, right? And that's why, beloved, honestly, I fear God. Because I know that one day I'm going to have to stand before God and give an account of all the things that I have taught. That's why I strive to make sure that I'm teaching according to what the Scripture says. It's a very, very serious, serious role. Martin Lloyd Jones, the great 20th century British preacher, wrote that teaching the word is such an awesome task that godly men shrink from it He says nothing but this overwhelming sense of being called and of compulsion should ever lead anyone to preach. And I think he's exactly right. It's such a serious, serious matter. We don't want to enter into this lightly. It requires humility. It requires compulsion from the call of God. Uh and it requires a constant, constant checking of our own motives to make sure that we're doing this for the right reason. How are these Ephesian false teachers? Um they they didn't care about any of that. They just wanted to be in front of the crowd. They sought leadership roles for the sake of their own satisfaction. They were seeking the prestige of a rabbinic role And they imposed on the congregation a false legalism, a heresy, a salvation by works, and many people suffered for that. Now, we see then their strange doctrine. We see their selfish desire. But here's another thing to consider, their spiritual darkness. Look again in verse number seven, where it says, Desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. These men They uh they pretended to be an expert on the subject, but they didn't understand it. Uh it's hard to Teach on something that you really don't understand. That takes some creativity to try to stand and speak on a subject that you think you're an expert on, but you really have no understanding about that. And let me just say this, dearly beloved The only way a person will ever fully grasp the truth of God's word is by the help of the Holy Spirit. We understand that, right? It takes more than just our own intellectual ability. We have to have the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit. And if a person is not saved, if they don't know Jesus Christ, Then they might be very smart and they might know a lot of facts about a lot of things in the Bible. But there the light of truth is never going to really turn on in their heart. unless they have the Holy Spirit living inside of them teaching them what the scripture really means. You see. And and um and so that's so very important. These men, although they may be smart They just didn't get it. They were still spiritually in the dark. Again, you can have a very high IQ. You can have great powers of the mind to think. You can have skill to research and reason But if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you'll never get it. You'll never understand it. Uh uh just to just to uh elaborate on this just a little bit, go back to First Corinthians. This is worth really looking at chapter 2, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, where Paul speaks about this. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and look at verse number 7. 1 Corinthians 2. 7, but we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Listen to verse 8, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would have not crucified the Lord of glory. And Paul here is talking to the Corinthians who love to uh to boast about human wisdom, human philosophy, and and as a matter of fact, the reason the church of Corinth was in trouble so much is because they depended too much on human wisdom and not enough on the wisdom of God And Paul is comparing human wisdom with the wisdom of God. And what Paul is saying is the wisdom of God is so far superior to human wisdom. And where does the wisdom of God begin? It begins at the cross. When you trust Jesus as your Savior. It wasn't the wisdom of man that got you salvation. No one got saved by a philosopher. Or some kind of uh complex uh f philosophy invented by Greek philosophers or men like that. No one ever got helped by any of that stuff. I I forget who said it, but a flo they said a philosopher is a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that doesn't exist. And the problem is that he finds it And that's what philosophy is like. It's empty. It leaves you nowhere. Paul said, you know, it wasn't the philosopher, it wasn't the wisdom of man that saved you. God's wisdom begins at the cross of Christ, and it's foolishness unto the world. They don't get it. They don't understand how a man crucified 2,000 years ago on a cross can change our life today. Paul said it might be foolishness to the world, but to us it is the power of God. And then Paul said, You know what? God's wisdom is so much superior in the way that it is understood. You're not going to get it unless the Holy Spirit gives it to you. Paul said, Look, we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. What did he mean by that? Only the mature, only those that are really saved can really understand God's wisdom And he says this in verse six of chapter two of First Corinthians, where he talks about this very thing. Look in chapter two, look in verse number six, where he says, How be it we speak the wisdom among them that are perfect I think Paul here is referring to the fact that a lot of uh these philosophies that were running around philosophers running around in in Corinth They all said, look, unless you really are uh initiated, unless you're really mature, you're not going to really grasp what we have to say. It was kind of this elitist, you know, this elitist approach to oh, you know, you're not gonna get it because we're so high up here. And Paul said, No, no. The wisdom of God, you're not going to get it unless you are the perfect. You're the mature. And what he meant by that is those that are saved. You know, you've been initiated into a membership. Again, some of the mystery religions used to brag about that. You can't be a part of us unless you're initiated into our membership. Paul said, look, you don't need all of that. You've been initiated into a membership. You're a member of the body of Christ You are among God's mature, the perfect, the saved, and that's how you understand God's wisdom. He says again in verse 6, We speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world. Nor are the princes of this world that come to naught. I'm not giving you man's philosophy or wisdom, Paul said. That's that worldly stuff. I'm not giving you that I'm giving you the wisdom of God. Look at verse 7. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. What does he mean by that? God's wisdom is contained in a mystery. That's the word mysterion. And he's not talking about something strange or puzzling. But there's a sense in which God's plan of salvation was hidden from the very beginning of the world. It was progressively revealed. And to those that are now believers, you understand God's plan. You understand his whole plan of salvation? It was planned before the the world began. That's what he says in verse 7, which God ordained before the world unto our glory. This plan originated in God's mind before the world ever began. It was all outlined in the Old Testament, and it all came together piece by piece like a puzzle. And you know what? The world doesn't get it. But if you're a child of God, you get it. You understand that you know why? Because God has given you the Holy Spirit. And your eyes have been opened. This was the plan unto our glory, the Bible says. It was concealed from the mighty, looking verse 8, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. And Paul's saying the crucifixion is proof that the the the intellectu intellectual giants, the uh all of these princes of the world, uh all of them, they didn't get it. They couldn't grasp it. Because had they grasped it, they would have never crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. They didn't comprehend who He was. And they didn't comprehend why He came. I mean, think about Pilate, educated in the best schools in Rome. And there was Jesus Christ standing before Pontius Pilate, and what did he say? You know, where is truth or what is truth? And he had the truth right there in front of him, in person, but he did not get it. And so, and then on the cross, Jesus said, Father, what? Forgive them? Because they don't get it. They don't know what they're doing Peter said this on the Pentecostal sermon. He said to those who crucified Jesus, I know through ignorance you did it. You did it through ignorance because you did not understand what God was doing. This wisdom of God is comprehended by the mature, those who are saved. It is contained in a mystery. That God began before the foundations of the world. It is concealed from the mighty, Paul said. But here's another thing. It's not conceived just by your mind. You need more than that. Look at verse 9. But as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither enter into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. And Paul here is quoting from Isaiah sixty four four And this verse I think is frequently misapplied. A lot of times we think about heaven when we talk about that verse, and it's okay, we can say that about heaven, but here Paul is not talking about the wonders of heaven, but rather through the wisdom of God Which we can't really people can't really comprehend on their own. If you just use the normal way of learning The eyes and the ears, we learn things empirically through the five senses, through reason, through logic, and all those other ways, observation, experimentation, and all those things. You can use all those methods to learn, and if that's all you have. You're not going to comprehend the wisdom of God. Because you need something else. You need a sixth sense, we could say. And how is that? Well Look at verse 10 of 2 Corinthians, but God has revealed them unto us by his what? His spirit For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the Spirit of Man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. And what's Paul saying there? Look God's revealed them to us. I don't know about you, but I feel pretty privileged as a child of God that God would take this this uh uh less than average intelligence person that you see in front of you. And uh and that he would actually open my the eyes of my heart So that I could see the beauty of Jesus Christ. What a gift that is. There's people that are a lot more intelligent than me that don't see Jesus. And the only reason I see him, friend, is because God, in his mercy, opened my eyes and I could see. I remember when I was down at Johns Hopkins doing a PhD seminar in Biblical Hebrew. and was reading through the Hebrew text with uh a lot of people that were a lot smarter than me and seemed to be able to comprehend Hebrew quicker than me. And we would read some through some of those great messianic texts in the Old Testament. And by the way, we would have to read in Hebrew, translate in English, and then give our interpretation. That was the that was the all we had to do sitting around this big oak table, you know, reading through the Hebrew. And when it was my turn to always read and then and then translate and then it give an interpretation, I always went straight to Christ. In the passage. And boy, you should have seen the frowns on those faces. Oh, I don't see that. Well, of course you don't. You don't see it. And it's not because I'm smarter than you. And I didn't say this out loud, I was thinking it. I was a lot more polite and kind. Um, you know, but uh they just couldn't see it And here I'm sitting there, and of course they didn't think I belonged there anyway. You know, you're not as smart as we are, and that's true, I wasn't as smart as they were. But I tell you one thing, I could see Jesus And I'm so thankful for that. You're not going to get it unless the Holy Spirit opens your eyes. And that's Paul's whole point here. And verse eleven, what man knoweth the things of man save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God And the illustration I like to give about this is, you know, nobody knows me better than my wife, Carolyn, but even she doesn't know me as well as I know me. The spirit of Jerry Harmon knows me better than anyone And if I could take my spirit out of me and put it in my wife, she would know me even better. She would know the deep things of Jerry Harmon. And I can't take my spirit out of me and put it in her. I don't have that ability But you know what? God can give you his spirit. And you know what? The Spirit of God knows the deep things of God. And when you get saved, God puts inside you his spirit. So that you can know the deep things of God. That's what Paul says in verse 12. Now we have received not the spirit of the world. But the Spirit which is of God that ye might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Isn't that a blessing to know we have this wonderful Holy Spirit, which can open our eyes and can show us the beauty of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now with that in mind, go back to First Timothy because Paul says of these false teachers That who are standing up and wanting to be teachers, that they understand neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. They're handling the word of God, but they don't get it. They don't know it. And friend, you can mark it down. A false teacher can be very persuasive and charismatic and intelligent, but they don't have the Spirit of God. Therefore, they can't comprehend the things of God They can't comprehend salvation in Jesus Christ because again, they just don't have the Spirit of God. That's the description of false teachers But I want you to write down number two the deception of false teachers. The deception. What were these men actually teaching? What were they teaching? Look at verse four, neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions rather than godly edify, which is in faith so do. Now these men were obsessed with fables And genealogies. The word fables here, the Greek word is muthos. It's where we get the word myth, and it means a legendary story or a tale. These guys were into mythology. This might sound a little bit like Gnostic philosophies of ancient Greeks. It could be that. But I think more specifically, these were probably Jewish myths. Paul warned Timothy about Jewish myths. He warned Titus about it as well. In Titus chapter 1, verse 14, he said, not giving heed to Jewish fables, same exact word there, muthos. He said, listen, don't don't pay any attention to these these myths, these Jewish myths. And also keep in mind that these guys wanted to be teachers of the what? Of the law. That makes me think that they're probably Jewish teachers. And they're giving all kind of uh Jewish mythology and genealogies. Now, there are two ancient Jewish texts that can Shed some further light on Paul's meaning. One is entitled The Book of Jubilees. This was written about 125 B. C. Another was written after 70 A. D. It's called the Biblical Antiquities of Philo. And what these books basically do is they retell the old story, or excuse me, the Old Testament, from a Pharisaical point of view that basically includes these extended genealogies. And what they do is they embellish all the stories, they blow these stories up. They go beyond what the scripture says to speculation. And there they speculate about the the lives of some of these saints. They go beyond again what Scripture says. And John Stock described them as these stories where many people disagreed with And and they are rewrites, he said, of these Old Testament histories. And these stories basically emphasize the indestructibility of Israel and the law. And again, they they kind of embellish. And they go beyond the scripture. And so these false teachers in Ephesus seem to have been thinking, I think, along these lines here. They start with the Bible And then they go beyond the scripture and they make up a whole lot of stuff that's not in the Bible. And so their teaching was little more than guesswork. It was really a the product of a lively imagination. And these theories that they speculated on. And again, they were just getting people, the danger of this is that they were leading people not into the word, but they were leading people away from the scripture. away from the Word of God. Now this was no shock to Paul because you might remember in Acts chapter 20 Paul warned them about this in verse 29, for I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in. He was talking to the Ephesian elders. And Paul said, I know that when I leave. There's going to be wolves that will come in, not sparing the flock. Also your own cell shall men of your own cell shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. Paul was very prophetic in that word, because that's exactly what happened in the church at Ephesus after Paul left. Now, by the way, let me just say the church today faces the same danger. There's all kinds of extra biblical texts and things that lure people away. They're so-called holy books. From other religions, you know, Mormons say, well, the Bible's good, but you did you need more than just the Bible, uh, they say. And these other writings, I was speaking this morning in our Sunday school class at 945. We're talking about Christianity, uh, cults and religions, and we were talking about this one issue. How that there are ancient texts that are not the Bible that people want to bring into the scripture and equate them with the Bible, apocryphal writings. I think I told you about uh in 1945 an Arab farmer who was uh trying to look for some um digging soil to fertilize his crops found these leather bound books from the third and fourth century And uh these books contain what people call the the lost gospels. You know, New Testament scholars, the liberal kind, they're not the ones that believe the Bible said, oh, we found more revelation about the Lord Jesus Christ. And they're called the Nag Hamadi Library or they're uh also the Gnostic Gospels because they present a picture of Jesus that is not biblical. And they have all these extra stories about Jesus. And people want to say, oh, we have to incorporate this into the Bible. Oh, no, we don't, because that's not God's word. That is not the scripture. And so uh just to give you an example of what some of these things say. And by the way, some of those from the a group called the Jesus Seminar, this is a heretical group. And basically they don't believe that the Jesus that you read about in your Bible is reliable. You have to have extra information to really know who Jesus is about. And of course when these discoveries were made, the Jesus seminar, they just went crazy over it. Thinking, oh, we need this extra uh knowledge. And in some of these books it claims to contain 120 secret words of the living Jesus. And you need to know these words. Again, that's nothing but Gnosticism. We really know nothing about Jesus from his infancy to his adulthood. Well there's one story in the book of Luke where Luke talks about Jesus twelve years old. You know that story where he's at the temple and the priest there But except for this the scripture is silent regarding the Instant years of Jesus. Jesus doesn't really come on the scene in Scripture until he presents himself to John the Baptist for his baptism. And that's where he be begins officially his public ministry. But there are some that are not content with that. They want to fill in the gap. So you have all these stories that come up. That are not in the Bible, apocryphal stories of Jesus. Just an example of this. I don't want to waste too much of your time on this. But for example, here's a story about a young Jesus that is given. The young Jesus uh a boy bumps into him And after this boy bumps into him, Jesus says to him, here's a quote from the Gospel of Thomas. After that again, he went through the village, and a child ran and dashed against his shoulder And Jesus was provoked and said unto him, Thou shalt not finish thy course. And immediately he fell down and died So this boy bumped into Jesus, Jesus got mad, and struck him dead, and that was it for that boy. Does that sound like Jesus to you? That's a spurious story. That's a blasphemous story about Jesus in his uh teen years, I guess you could say. But there's also other stories in in these books. Another example of this would be in the Gospel of Thomas. A young Jesus raises a boy named Zeno from the dead after Zeno falls off a roof. And then he heals a woodcutter who's chopped off half his foot by accident. Jesus helps him out. And again, all these are all these stories about Jesus. that are not in Scripture. And again, what this does, the danger of it, is it leads you away from the Word of God. Not into the Scripture. And this was the kind of thing that was going on And the church of Ephesus, all these stories, these fables, these myths, and these genealogies. We're leading people away from the truth. And we still have that danger today. Watch out for so-called teaching that leads you out of the Word of God. Not to study the Word of God even more. And what was the result of the teaching of these men? Look in chapter 4. Look at verse 3. Neither give heed to fables endless genealogies with minister questions rather than what godly edifying Which is in faith. What's the result of it? All it does is it raises questions, it raises speculation, it doesn't give answers. These are people that are preoccupied with things that just really have no value and really do not matter at all. uh regarding the faith. Uh look look in 1 Timothy chapter 6 and look down at verse number 3, kind of a parallel verse here. 1 Timothy 6. 3 If any man teach otherwise And consent not to wholesome words, that is, healthy words of sound doctrine, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine, which is according to godliness, verse 4, he is proud, knowing nothing. But dotting about with questions and strife of words, whereabcometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of truth, supposing that gain is godliness from such what Withdraw thyself. Don't have anything to do with that. That's no there's nothing healthy there. We see the description of false teachers. We see the deception of false teachers. But let me give you the final thing here. The distraction of false teachers. And this just moves on to this very point. I'm kind of adding on to this point here. You know, Satan works through distraction. If he can just get you off of what God wants, if he can occupy you in things that really don't matter, then he's done his work. And so these false teachers were distracting these believers in what way? By all these myths What does sound doctrine do? Look again in chapter one, verse four. Neither give heed to fabless and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than what? Godly edifying This is what sound teaching does. It edifies you. It edifies the body of Christ. The word edify here means a building up. This is what should take place in the church. When you come to church, you should be built up in the faith. That's why you should be here for every service. Every believer who's a member should be here for every service because you're here to build others. To build each other up. And Paul makes this a very important point throughout his letters in Romans 14, 19, he said, Let us therefore follow after things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. To the Corinthians, remember they were having a dispute over spiritual guests and speaking in tongues, and Paul said, look, some of these things you're doing in the church, it's not edifying. If a guy stands up and speaks in an unknown tongue, nobody understands what he's doing, who does that edify? Nobody. You don't if you don't understand what's being said, there's no edification taking place. And that's why Paul rebuked some of those ones, a church that was out of control, people standing up, speaking in an unknown tongue. And he says this in 1 Corinthians 14, 26. How is it then, brethren, when you come together, every one of you have the song, have the doctrine, have the tongue, have the revelation, have an interpretation? All this thing happened at the same time. And then Paul said, look, let all things be done unto what? Edifying. If what you do in church doesn't edify your brother, then don't do it. Because you're here to bring edification. And that's what sound doctrine should do. And again, we could spend more time on that, but false doctrine Paul said in 2 Timothy 2. 14, it's like a canker. He calls it gangrene, literally is what he means there. Gangrene is this where you're the your body, the muscles in your body begin to rot. There's a loss of blood, and that tissue begins to die. And what happens is it spreads throughout the whole body. Paul said that's what false doctrine is like. It's like gangrene. It eats away at the body of Christ. Sound doctrine is supposed to produce edification. But here's another thing. Sound doctrine is supposed to produce love. Look at verse 5. Now the end of the commandment is what? Charity out of a pure heart, out of a good conscience, out of faith untame. What's the whole purpose of teaching? And preaching to build you up. And the whole goal of it is to produce love. It's to produce love in the body of Christ. False teaching distracts us from these goals. We're not being edified when this kind of thing is going on, Paul says, and the goal, again, is love. And it's very easy to get off point. To get distracted from what God wants us to do. Love, Paul said from a from a pure heart. Here he says in verse number five. What does he mean? Pure is um catharos, and this is where we get the word uh catharsis. Have you ever heard of a catharsis? which means a purifying, a purging of your emotions when a person goes through a a catharsis. It comes from this Greek word here. And again, it has the idea of a pure heart. What is the goal when you're taught the Word of God, you are to develop love in the body of Christ, a pure love, a clean love. And then faith unthinked, he says in verse number five, or a good conscience, let's talk about that first. What's a good conscience? It's a conscience that's functioning the way it should. And that means that when you're not doing right, your conscience convicts you because you're guilty or you're about to do something you shouldn't do, and your conscience is screaming to you inwardly, don't do that, don't do that. That's a good conscience You say, I've got guilt, good, that means your conscience is working. That's a good conscience. And you know what? Guilt should drive you to your knees to God, where you can get cleansing from God in prayer. That's a good conscience. That's what the Bible should do. It should renew us so that our conscience is sensitive before God, so that our sins are confessed and we deal rightly with things in our life. Out of a good conscience, and notice the last phrase, faith unthinked, and the word here is ah hypocritos, or uh this is where we get the word hypocrite from, but ah is the negative, not a hypocrite. A love that is not a hypocritical love, a pure, sound love. And again, Paul is using these terms to say this is the end of sound biblical teaching. It'll give you a pure heart. It'll give you a good conscience. It'll give you a a love that is a genuine love that is not a hypocritical love. That's what the teaching of God's Word will do. So we have the description of false teachers We have the deception of false teachers. We have the distraction of false teachers. Paul tells us. Now, let me just say this one final word, and we'll be done. Well what's Timothy to do with these guys? What did Paul say do? And he says it right at the very beginning of verse 3 I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine What is Paul saying to do for Timothy to do? You confront them. You charge them. This is an authoritative command. If you hear of someone that is teaching Doctrine that is not orthodox, that is off of Scripture, that is bizarre. You confront them, you call them out on their false teaching. You confront them with the authority of the word of God. That's how you guard the truth. We can't be passive when it comes to the truth of the gospel. And again, this is what Paul is saying to Timothy. Guard the truth, Timothy. And you charge those, you command them that they teach no other doctrine. You confront them. A lot of times people are not willing to do that. But you know what, as believers, we are Sentinels. We are guardians of the truth, of the purity of the gospel. Paul said, uh, I marvel to the Galatians that you're so soon removed unto him that called you from the grace of Christ unto another. gospel, which is not another, but there would be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you. Let him be accursed That's strong language. Let them be a curse. William Scott was one of Vermont's best-known Civil War soldiers. He gained his fame. Ready for this by falling asleep on guard duty. And he earned himself the title, which is he's known by even today, the sleeping sentinel. William Scott enlisted as a private in Company K in the 3rd Vermont Regiment on July 10, 1861. On August 31st, 1861, an officer of the Guard. in making his regular rounds of inspection, found William Scott asleep at his post. William Scott was subsequently court martialed, found guilty, and sentenced to be shot to death On Monday, the ninth of April, 1861. On the morning of September 9th, the regiments of the Virginia Brigade were drawn to uh line up and and a certain group of them would have their rifles ready to fire the rest of the brigade would have to watch And they were ready to do that that hard task of shooting their comrade And right before they were given the command to fire, a pardon came A pardon came. You know who pardoned this man? The pardon came from President Abraham Lincoln. What a scary thing that was. But the rest of the soldiers in that group got the message. You do not fall asleep on duty. However, this was never forgotten because later a poem was written about this man. How'd you like to have a poem written about you falling asleep on duty? And the name of the poem was The Sleeping Sentinel. I don't want to read you the whole thing, it's too long. But I don't want to know I I I don't know about you, but I do not want to be a sleeping sentinel when it comes to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Or when it comes to guarding the truth of God's word, that charge God has given to all of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word. Lord, I pray that we will embrace it with all of our heart. Lord, that we would uh That we would be guardians of the truth. That, Lord, you would give us discernment and hearing the truth and knowing what's true and what's not Father, thank you for the Holy Spirit that you've given us. We know that it is that wonderful work of the Holy Spirit that opens the eyes of our hearts so that we're able to comprehend your word. How we thank you for that. And Lord, I pray that we'll not take that for granted. Thank you, Lord, for what you're doing in hearts and lives. May we, Lord, be a church that stands strong on the purity of the gospel. And Lord, that is committed to getting this gospel out, seeing other people come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen