Proverbs tonight. We'll start out there and then I'm going to turn over to another passage and we'll spend uh the rest of our night there. While you're finding that I was reading about Napoleon on the morning of the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon was describing to his commanding officers his strategy for that day's campaign. And he said, we'll put the infantry here, and we'll put the cavalry here, and we'll put this army over here. And he said, at the end of the day, England will be at the feet of France, and Wellington will be the prisoner of Napoleon But one of the commanders said, yes, but we must not forget that man proposes and God disposes. And Napoleon didn't like that. And so he pulled himself up, wracked in his 5'2 frame, and he said, I want you to know, sir, that Napoleon proposes, and Napoleon disposes. And then Victor Hugo, the novelist, wrote this. He said, From that moment, Waterloo was lost, for God sent rain and hell so that the troops of Napoleon could not maneuver as he planned And on the night of the battle, it was Napoleon who was the prisoner of Wellington, and France was at the feet of England. All that to say that God is a God who hates pride. God hates pride. In fact, the Bible says in James 4, 6, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. The word resist here is a really strong word. It's a military term. It's the idea of setting yourself in a battle against someone. Now I don't know about you, but I would not want to set myself in battle against God. Can you imagine one person wrote it like this, Stephen Douglas was talking about this word resist, and he said, can you imagine lining up against a 300-pound NFL offensive tackle and his whole job all day long is to resist you to hit you, to throw you down, to constantly stand in front of you, to keep you away from your goal, to keep you away from your object. He said, What a way to spend a day. He said, but then can you imagine getting up in the morrow the next morning and getting ready to face your day? And as you approach the line of scrimmage, so to speak You look across and it's not an NFL huge lineman that's opposing you, it's God Himself that's opposing you. That kind of puts it in perspective. I would not want to live a day where God is in opposition to anything that I do. That kind of gives you the idea behind the word resist. God resists the proud, but he gives grace unto the humble. Now what is pride? Let's talk about pride. First of all, what it's not. Let's talk about what it's not, because a lot of times we confuse that. Pride is not self-esteem. There's nothing wrong with having a positive self-image There's nothing wrong about feeling good about yourself in the sense that God esteemes us highly in Christ. Isn't that true? I mean it's hard to feel bad about ourselves when we know that we are accepted in the beloved by God And so we have value in the sense that God loves us and God esteems us highly. Someone said the grace of God exalts a man without inflating him and then humbles a person without humiliating them. And I think that's true. So pride is not self-esteem, and pride is not rejoicing in an honor given. The Bible says we're to give honor to whom honor is due. It's okay to say to someone, I'm proud of you. We don't mean that in a negative way. We mean that in an encouraging way, right? If someone does something well, it's okay to really encourage them and say, I I am proud of you. I'm proud of your accomplishment. In the Bible, Barnabas was called the encourager, the son of consolation that he was constantly going around and encouraging others in the church. We need a lot of barnabases in the church, don't we? People that go around and encourage one another and lift each other up. So it's okay to say I'm proud of you I'm sure you heard of the married couple. They've been married for sixty years and she was hard of hearing and they were on the porch and he was s next to her and they were in a rocking chair and he felt a spark of affection and he looked over and said, I'm proud of you And she said, What? He said, I'm proud of you. And she looked over and said, I'm tired of you too. We need to be proud of each other and not tired of each other, right? So it's not necessarily nothing wrong with encouraging someone. So what is pride? Pride is an attitude of independence of God. It's an attitude that says, I can do what I do on my own. It's really put well in the poem, Invictus. Perhaps you've heard of that poem. The Latin means victorious. written by the agnostic William Ernest Henley and he has this line, I am the master of my faith, I am the captain of my soul. It kind of drips with pride, doesn't it? I am the one that calls the shots. I am the one that's in control. It really relegates God to a place of total unimportance. I am the one who is the captain of my When I read that line, I want to say to him, Captain, your ship is about to sink. Because God resists the proud. It's really taking credit for things that God does. Not that you uh you taking credit for the things that obviously are really of the Lord and not of you. I heard about a small boy on a on a vacation trip with his family and they visited the Grand Canyon and they went on a tr uh a guided tour And they looked over the rail down to the depth of the bottom of the canyon and the tour guide said it's one mile deep down there. And the little boy spit over the rail. And that night he wrote in his journal, his diary, Today I spit a mile. Not quite. But that's the spirit of pride. Taking credit for something really you don't deserve to take credit for. C. S. Lewis called it a spiritual cancer. That's what pride is. What does pride do? Well here's a few thoughts about what it does. Look in Proverbs chapter 6. Look down in verse number 6. These six things does the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. And the top of the list is what? A proud look. That's number one on God's hate list, we could say. God hates a proud look. God hates the sin of pride. Why? Because it's the father of sins. And we could say the first of sins. It caused a split in heaven and the fall of the human race. So pride provokes deity. God hates it. But also another thought, pride proves depravity. Look at another verse in Proverbs. Look in Proverbs chapter 16 and look down at verse number 5. Proverbs 16 and verse number 5 It says, everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. That's a strong statement there, if you ask me. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Nothing shows the wickedness and depravity of man's heart more than pride. Notice where it says proud in heart. It is a heart issue. You ever see an apple that's perfectly round, there's not a hole in it, there's no blemish on it, and then you take a bite out of it and there's a worm inside, you hopefully it's not a half a worm inside when you take a bite of the apple And you wonder, how did the worm get inside that apple? It was perfectly round, there was no hole. And the idea is that there was a an egg that was laid on the apple blossom. And the apple basically grew around it and the worm grew inside of it. And so you may say this, it was bad from the beginning. And that's true of all humanity. Pride is the seed that's planted in the heart, and the heart is bad from the beginning, and pride reveals that It's been there all that time. It proves depravity. But also here's another thought. Pride promotes dissension. Look in Proverbs 13. Look in verse number 10. Just another word of wisdom here from the book of Proverbs Look in chapter 13, look in verse 10. Only by pride cometh contention, but with the well-advised is wisdom. And so pride is the reason for strife in relationships. It's the reason for strife in families. It is the start of every argument. It is the start of every war. Pride is at the root of it. Divides families, divides relationships. divides brethren and even churches. But also another thought, pride promotes dishonor. Look in Proverbs 11 verse 2. Just notice that. When pride cometh then cometh shame But what the lowly is wisdom. And then flip over the Proverbs 1812. Notice what it says there, 1812. Before destruction, the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility. In the Christian life, the way up is down, and the way down is up. But also another thought, pride precedes destruction. Again, look in Proverbs 15:25. Notice what it says there in Proverbs 15:25. The Lord will destroy the house of the proud. But he will establish the border of the widow. And then one more verse. Look in Proverbs 16, verse 18. Notice what it says in that verse there. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. So that's what pride does. It does all those things. It provokes God's anger. It provokes deity. It proves depravity in the heart of man. It promotes dissension and dishonor and precedes destruction according to the Bible. Now with all that in mind I want you to turn to Daniel chapter 4. And I want you to look at a story that really illustrates all these things that we've just looked at in the book of Proverbs. This is a story, perhaps it's you know this well, four parts to this story, and the first part tonight is the king and his declaration. This is an amazing chapter. It's a story about the King Nebuchadnezzar And it's an amazing chapter for several reasons. First of all, this is an official Babylonian document, and it's a proclamation from Nebuchadnezzar, a pagan king. We don't see this anywhere else in Scripture Gleason Archer points out that this is the only chapter in the Bible written under the authority of a Gentile pagan king, and it's written from his point of view. I personally believe that Daniel, the prophet, co-authored this chapter with King Nebuchadnezzar. I think you might say he may have been the Emmanuelsis, he may have been the scribe that wrote down what King Nebuchadnezzar said. Another unique thing about this chapter is there's doxologies at the beginning of it And doxology is at the end of it, so it's kind of sandwiched. The narrative is sandwiched between a word of praise at the beginning and a word of praise at the end. Another thing about this chapter is it opens up in the first person, switches to the third person, then goes back to the first person in this. And really Daniel chapter 4, I think, is a climax of A theological journey that this king Nebuchadnezzar has been on with learning about this God of the Jews, the God of Daniel, the God of the three Hebrew children. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 1. Nebuchadnezzar the king unto all people, nations, languages that dwell in all the earth. Now, who is this to? Everybody, right? Are you one of the all all people, nation, languages? This is meant to be proclaimed by all. This was a Babylonian document, but it wasn't just meant to be read and proclaimed in the Babylon, but everywhere. All over. All over the world. And Look at what it says in verse number two. I thought it good to show the signs and wonders that the high God has wrought towards me. How great are his signs! How mighty are his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation where he says it seems good to me literally it was beautiful for me it was my pleasure in other words he's bubbling he he it's his joy to be able to say what he's going to say here in this chapter this is a word of praise He's going to praise and thank God for his wonders, for the things that God has done in his life. By the way, as children of God, shouldn't we always be ready to do that? And I'm looking forward to the time when we have our Thanksgiving service when we can do that. When we can talk about the good things that God has done. Now, he's at rest. We see the king in his declaration, but notice the king in his dream. Look at verse 4. I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house, flourishing in my palace, translation, everything was really going good for me I was at rest. There were no wars, no kingdoms to fight, no issues. Everything was at peace. He was prospering. The word means flourishing. Growing green, literally, everything was just really doing well. But notice there's a contrast in verse 5. Something disturbs that peace. Verse 5, I saw a dream which made me afraid And the thoughts upon my bed and the visions of my head troubled me. Here he has a dream. He's at rest, he's at peace, all's well. One night he goes to bed, he has a terrible dream, and it disturbs him. You ever have a dream like that where it just uh it was so terrifying? It disturbed your peace. And this was what happened to him So what does he do? Well he does what we see so many times already in the book of Daniel. He calls in the wise men. Look at verse six. Therefore may I decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me that they might make known unto me the interpretation of the dream. Then came in the magicians and the astrologers and childheans and so on, and I told them the dream, and they did not make known unto me the interpretation thereof. What a shock Those guys couldn't make known the interpretation. Maybe it's just me, but every time I read about these guys in the book of Daniel, they can't do anything. I mean it's almost comical. This comical group of guys, what what do they do? Every time there's a dream, they don't know anything. And uh maybe Daniel means for them to be comical. They don't know how to talk about the secrets of God. But then in comes Daniel verse 8. But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my God. And in whom is the Spirit of the Holy Gods, and before him I told the dream, saying, O Beltashazar, master of the magicians, because I know the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and those secret troubles thee. Tell Tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen in the interpretation thereof. And so he introduces Daniel in a very respectful manner. He's a man that in Nebuchadnezzar's view, in his theology or mine, the Spirit of God dwells in him. The Spirit of the Holy God. I think again Nebuchadnezzar is growing and his understanding of God and the the the God specifically of Daniel. And I think Daniel has had a massive influence on this man. And uh in the time that he's been there, it reminds me of the story of Henry Stanley when he found David Livingston in the jungles of Africa. You know that story where he he gives the famous line, Dr. Livingston, I presume And he stays four months with David Livingston. Now, Henry Stanley was an agnostic. He was a skeptic. But after living four months with David Livingston, he became a Christian. And someone asked him later, what you know, did he share the gospel with you? And he said he never spoke to me about the gospel. Well then what made you become a Christian? He said, I just watched him. I watched his life. And that had a deep impact. I think of Daniel when I think of that. Daniel had a deep impact, I think, upon King Nebuchadnezzar. So the king begins to tell Daniel the incidentals of the dream In verse number ten, thus were the visions of my head and my bed. I saw and behold a tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great. The tree grew and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of the earth The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was meat for all the beasts of the field had shadow under it, the fowls of the heaven dwelled in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fed of it. And so here he sees this massive tree It's in the center of the earth. This is not just any tree. This is not just a really big tree, but a universal tree. This tree is so big that every bird in the world can find lodging in the branch It is so big that every animal can be fed from the fruit that comes from this tree. Every animal of the field can find shade under this tree. That's a pretty big tree, don't you think? A huge universal tree. By the way, did you know that the Babylonians back at this time felt that Babylon was the center of the world back than an ancient Mesopotamian map that was discovered around the time when Nebuchadnezzar had that very thing that in the center was Babylon And these small circles around it were all the other cities and places, and Babylon was considered to be the center of the world and their thinking. In fact, there was an inscription found and it reads this from Nebuchadnezzar, the produce of the lands The produce of the mountains, the wealth of the sea, I've received in her, under her everlasting shadows, I gather all men in peace. Vast heaps of grain beyond measure I stored up within her. That's how he doed himself and the kingdom. It was the center of the world. He provided for all. So here's this tree. But then there's another part of the dream, then there's the angel, verse 13. I saw in the visions of my head, upon my bed, behold a watcher, a holy one came down from heaven. And he cried aloud and said, Thus, hew down the tree and cut off its branches, and shake off his leaves, and scatter his fruit, let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from his branches. So what happens here's an angel. It's called a watcher, which is really the idea of literally watching one who is awake, one who's constantly watching. Some of the descriptions of the angels in Revelation are they have eyes that are constantly watching, angels full of eyes And the idea is they're watching the things that happen on earth. And here's this watcher, this angel, and he comes down and there's a message in verse 14. And basically, chew down the tree, cut off his branches, shake off his leaves, scatter his fruit, let the beast get away from under it. The idea is this tree is going to get chopped down, but the stump is going to remain. Verse 15, nevertheless, let's leave the stump. Notice where it says his here. There's a personification given to this tree. This tree represents someone. Notice where it says, of his roots in the earth. Even with a band of iron and brass and so on. And it says, And let it be wet with the dew of heaven, let his portion be with the beast of the grass or the earth. Let his heart be changed from a man's heart and a beast's heart given unto him, and let seven times pass over him. So what's the message? This tree is to be chopped down. This tree obviously represents a man, and this man, his heart will be changed from a man's heart to the heart of an animal to the heart of a beast. That's the idea. He'll act like a beast. His mind will become like that of an animal. By the way, there's a there is a uh illness, a mental illness diagnosed called lycanthropy, that talks about this very thing where people act like different animals. On record, some act like wolves, some act like gerbils, some act like dogs, birds, cats, rabbits, tigers. You can have your pick of which one you would like. All these animals here. And then there was another illustration I read in 1946, R. K. Harrison observed a pa a patient in a mental hospital in in uh a British mental hospital that had a an illness that he said was identical to the book of Daniel where the person would w wander around on the grounds, eat grass, drink water And the doctor said the only thing that was really u abnormal about the physical appearance of this person was that their hair grew very quick and their fingernails very long. Sounds just like this in the book of Daniel. This man, whoever it is, is going to be struck with insanity. And how long, verse 16, let his heart be changed from a man's heart? Let a beast heart be given unto him, and let seven times pass over him. That seven times there that's a measuring uh word there, a certain amount of time I think is referring to years based on Daniel seven, twenty five. For seven years He's going to do this. Why? Why is this going to happen? Why is God going to bring this judgment? Verse 17. This matter is by the decree of the watchers and the demand of the holy or the word of the holy ones. Listen, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men. And give it to whomsoever he will, and setteth it up over the basis of men. That is, so this person will learn this one lesson. that God, who is the most high, is sovereign over the kingdoms of men. And he gives it to whoever he wants to That's the lesson here that this man has to learn. Montgomery calls this one of the immortal sentences of the Hebrew Scripture. God gives these kingdoms of the earth to anyone that he wishes. Archer goes on to say, one criteria that affects God's choice of kings, quote, is the moral condition of the people to be ruled over, end quote, sometimes. And so The king requests an interpretation. Look at verse 18. This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen, now thou, O Balthashazzar, declare the interpretation thereof. For as much as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the interpretation, but thou art able, for the spirit of the holy gods is in thee. So the king says, Daniel, tell me, what's this mean? And Daniel gives the interpretation. But notice in verse 19, he was astonished for one hour. So he's just he's he's astounded because he obviously knows what's going to happen. And basically the tree represents the king. Look in verse 20. He tells them, the tree that thou sawest, which grew and was strong, whose height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all the earth whose leaves were fair, and so on. Look at verse twenty-two. It is thou, O King. Thou art grown and become strong, and thy greatness is grown and reached unto the heaven, and thy dominion to the end of the earth. It's you, O King. God's going to chop you down. God's going to cut you down because of your pride. Now This was interesting to find when I was researching this. Did you know that Nebuchadnezzar, one of the things he loved to do was chop down trees? He loved to do that. In fact, it's well documented that he had a fascination with being a woodcutter. And he boasted while he was in Babylon, or excuse me, in Palestine, that he cut down some of the cedars of Lebanon with his own hands on four different occasions. He took an axe and he cut down the cedars of Lebanon with his own hands. And then there's an inscription that talks about it, and it reads like this. Mighty cedars which grew in the forest of Lebanon, with my clean hands I cut down an assigned for its adornment. That's King Nebuchadnezzar. He loved to cut down trees Now God says, okay, now I'm going to cut you down. You're the tree that's coming down this time. And it's because of your pride. Now a stump will be left, which means that your kingdom will be preserved. This judgment is not final. It's remedial. It's designed to teach you a lesson and to get you to correct your behavior So I'm going to preserve you, but you're going to eat like an animal, you're going to act like an animal, eat grass like an oxen Until you realize that the Most High rules over the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will. Now what does Daniel do? We see the compassion of Daniel. Look at verse 27. Wherefore, O King, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee And break off thy sins by righteousness and thine iniquities by showing mercy to the poor, if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquility. Daniel pleased with King Nebuchadnezzar, listen, repent. Humble yourself. God is a God of mercy, isn't he? And if we humble ourselves, God will relent of what he initially chose to do. God loves humility. And so Daniel says, humble yourself and repent and turn to the Lord. And if you do these things and show these signs of repentance and humility, God surely will withhold this judgment that He has promised to give to you. But that doesn't happen. So notice the third part of the story. We see the king in his declaration, the king in his dream. Notice part three, the king in his demise. Look at verse 28. And all this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar. At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon. And he spake and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power and for the honor of my majesty? Humble soul there, isn't he? I did this, my power, my might, my majesty. This is after a year. That tells you how long-suffering God is. He gives him a year to acknowledge what he's done, but he doesn't. And verse 30, I think, is the most arrogant boast in all of the scripture. He comes out onto the palace porch and he makes he looks out and sees this huge kingdom He sees those massive walls, double, dual walls, inner and outer walls, an intricate wall system, some places 40 feet thick, some places you could ride a chariot on it. He sees these massive ziggurat pyramids dotting the landscape all over that he has built. He sees that massive hanging gardens that has been called one of the wonders of the world. He sees this great kingdom. Herodotus came to this same city a hundred years after Nebuchadnezzar, and he said it was incredibly The grandeur of it just w was stunning to Herodotus who visited a hundred years later and and and when Alexander the Great came into that city. He wanted to make it his capital city immediately. That was several hundred years after this time. It was still beautiful. And you know what he didn't really notice was when he came to the porch to make that boast, according to the layout, with the palace being there and the streets. And researchers have found that there were certain streets around the palace and they had certain names. And right below him was the name of one street. You know what it was called? Bow down, proud one. That's the name of the street. A name of another street was made the arrogant not flourish. And the name of this palace was called the place where proud ones are compelled to submit. Kind of ironic, isn't it? But he's filled with pride, and he walks through and he makes this huge boast and immediately it comes on him. Look in verse 31. And while the word was in the king's mouth There fell a voice from heaven saying, O King Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken. The kingdom is departed from thee. Verse 32, and they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and they shall make thee to eat grass as an oxen, and seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. And the same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar, and he was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, his body was wet with the dew of heaven. till his hairs were grown like eagle feathers and his nails like bird claws. So this happened. And and and this is an incredible thing here. Now by the way, there are some scholars who like to argue, oh, there's no record of this illness. We don't see this in any Babylonian documents. Well, you know what? The ancient kings would never write down things that were humiliating about themselves. And if anybody else wrote it down, their life was in danger. That was just not the way it was back then. However, there have been fragmentary cuneiform texts that talk about some mental disorder that Nebuchadnezzar perhaps had that caused him to leave the the the the rulership for a little while. Josephus refers to an illness which uh Nebuchadnezzar had and that eventually caused him to die And other fragments, but really we don't need all that. We have the best evidence right here of the Word of God. These are Nebuchadnezzar's own words. Why did God do this? God was humbling him. Humility. Humbledom. Let this be a lesson to anyone who takes up a position of authority, that they should humble themselves before God. That they should realize that if you got to where you are, it's only because God allowed it. And you better walk in humility and not in pride. Let every elected official, whoever they are, congressman, senator, president or vice president, or whoever they may be, whoever holds any position of authority, whether it be political or spiritual, you better humble yourself before the Lord. What we need in our country is humility. We need leaders who are humble before God. The Bible tells us If my people, which are called by my name, shall what? Humble themselves. Humble yourself before God. Realize that we need God. It doesn't really matter who's in the White House, it matters who's over the White House, and he is King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and He is the one who is in control. And we better humble ourselves before God. Whoever occupies these seats, whoever wants to be proud and crown themselves king, you better humble yourself before God. You better realize That God is not to be trifled with. We better acknowledge Him. And King Nebuchadnezzar learns this lesson. Look at verse 34. And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up my eyes unto heaven, and my understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him. that lives forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion in his kingdom from generation to generation, and all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven And among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand and say unto him, What doeth thou? And at the same time my reason returned unto me for the glory of my kingdom and my honor and brightness returned unto me And my counselors and my lords sought unto me, and I was established in my kingdom, and an excellent majesty was added unto me. In other words, here's Here he is now and he's giving, I think, one of the greatest doxologies of all of Scripture. I think this may have been a conversion point for King Nebuchadnezzar I think now he honors the Lord. He says this God is the God, He is the King over an everlasting kingdom. He has an eternal kingdom. He's transcendent. All the inhabitants are as nothing. He's sovereign. No one can stay his hand or say, What are you doing? Nebuchadnezzar realizes all this And he's restored. And he lives the rest of his years praising. Look at verse 37. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of Heaven, all whose works are truth, and his way is judgment, and those that walk in pride, he's able to what? He's able to obey. If you walk in pride, God's fully able to humble you. He's able to abase them. In 1717, Louis XIV, the king of France, died. His body lay in a golden coffin in a magnificent cathedral, one of the most magnificent in Europe. And he lay there and it was dimly lit, and there was one small candle at the coffin. That was to be lit, and that candle was to demonstrate his greatness. And when the funeral service started, the Bishop Massalon began the service by reaching down and extinguishing the light of the candle. To the shock of everyone who was there, followed by these words, only God is great. Only God is great. You know what? The humility of Christ on the cross should bring us all into deepest feelings of reverence. When we see the humility of Christ compared to all of these others. And we should be drawn into what Isaac Watts said in his hymn. When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gain I count but loss. And pour contempt on all my pride. Contempt on all my pride. Those who walk in pride, he is able to obey. So we need to humble ourselves before the mighty hand of God. We need to do that as an individual, as a church, as a nation. We need the blessing of God. We need to humble ourselves and acknowledge His greatness, His grace. That has made us what we are. He and he alone. To him alone belongs the glory. So let's bow for prayer tonight. This is a a solemn morning, Lord, as I read this passage of Scripture. And it reminds me of the times in my own life where I've walked in pride. And I failed to acknowledge you. And I failed to pray. I failed to seek your face. Many times, Lord. I've been careless in these things. And yet I read this passage and I see that you're long-suffering, you're gracious And although you are, Lord, it doesn't it shouldn't cause us to continue to walk without seeking you. It should cause us to repent all the more. So Lord, forgive us for the times where we've walked in pride. Forgive us, Word, for not acknowledging you the way we should in our life. Lord, I pray for our country. We We are in desperate need of spiritual revival. My fear is, Lord, there are too many people looking to political answers to spiritual problems. Too many are putting their hopes in elections. When really you're our only hope. You're the only one that can turn our country around. Lord, may we look to you, you and you alone. May we humble ourselves before you because we know you're the answer to you. to our problems. Lord, may we seek you more than we ever have before in our life. Acknowledge you in everything that happens in our life. And may we follow the example of this King here. Who praised you and extolled you and honored you, ready to give you thanksgiving for what you've done. Lord, may that be our heart, always ready to give you the praise and the honor and the glory. Teach us this word. We pray in Jesus' precious mighty name. Amen.