Well, good evening. Good to see you all here tonight. We are going to pick up our study in Psalm 119, and you all pray for me because I have a little bit of jet lag. I'm used to being asleep at this time over in England. So hope not to put you to sleep, however. But look at Psalm 119. It's really good to be back on this side of the Atlantic. We had a wonderful time visiting with Abby and the boys and even my son-in-law Will. And we're glad to be back. Would you look in Psalm 119, look in verse number 97? We're going to pick up where we left off. And tonight I want to talk about a wealth of wisdom from the Word. Psalm 119, verse 97. Oh, how I love thy law, it is my meditation all the day. Through thy commandments thou hast made me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever with me. Now we would live in a world overflowing with information. Knowledge is abundant. Just a few keystrokes, and you can be in touch with the universe of facts and theories and opinions. Artificial intelligence now can predict traffic, write code, and even mimic human conversation. The person you might be talking to on the phone might not be real. You know, we live in a day like that today. Satellites circle the globe, data flows in every direction. Universities offer more degrees than ever. And so we have this world that is so filled with knowledge. And yet It just seems like our ages star for something more rare than knowledge, and that is wisdom. And this is what this section of Psalm 119 teaches us. This stanza of this great psalm is all about wisdom. The psalmist here, he doesn't boast in scholarly degrees, he doesn't talk about worldly success, but what he does give thanks to God for is the fact that God's word has made him wise. It's the Word of God that made him wise. There is a wisdom that does not come from books. It doesn't come from birth. It's a wisdom that comes from God to the believer and it flows through the Word of God. This is the wisdom that you get from Scripture in no other way. It doesn't just inform us, it transforms us. It gives us discernment, it gives us understanding, it gives us direction for every uh area of our life. And we have access to this wonderful wisdom, and that is through God's Word. So tonight I want to talk about that because this is what the psalmist is really focusing on. And I want to just talk about it under two general headings. We're going to talk about the scriptural way to wisdom, and then secondly, we're going to talk about the spiritual wealth of wisdom. So, first of all, the scriptural way. Look at verse number 98. Through thy commandments thou hast made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. Look at the word wiser there. That's the normal word used in the Old Testament for wisdom. It's used about 130 times in the Old Testament. Most of the times it's used in the wisdom literature, the book of Psalms, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes. It's a word that really means skill in living. You see, Greek philosophy emphasized abstract reasoning. But Hebrew wisdom was practical. It didn't really have to do with what you were thinking in your mind. It was really the choices that you made. And this is what the word means here, skill and wisdom. Our skill in living, I should say, and it's rooted in the fear of the Lord. Again, it's not theoretical, it's practical. It's not a matter of acquiring truth in lectures, but of applying truth to life. You don't get this wisdom. It's not measured by degrees, it's measured by your deeds, by the things that you do. And so you see, your life and my life is in a very real way is made up of the choices that we have made. You are right now the sum total of the choices that you have made in your life. We make choices every day. When we get up, we choose, you know, uh what time to get up, what we're going to eat. you know, whether or not to go to work. We make choices every day. Some of these are just daily individual choices. Other choices we made maybe a long time ago, and that was made one time. And it's directed the course of our life. But all the different types of choices that we make, if you add up all those things, that is really the sum of who you are right now. You are what you are right now because of your choices. Now, wisdom is making the right choices. That's simply what wisdom is. In the ancient world, wise men were valued because they supposedly gave you the ability To be skillful in the choices that you made. Now, when Israel came along, by the way, that's why you find so much wisdom literature in the ancient world. Every nation had its own wisdom literature, had its own wise men The Egyptians, the Babylonians and the Persians and so on, they all had their own wise men, they all had their own books about wisdom When Israel came along, they did the same thing, but there was a difference between the wisdom that Israel boasted and that of other nations, because now their wisdom, they said, began with the fear of the Lord. He's the true God. It begins with fearing God. And they had a little twist on their wisdom. Wisdom is not making just the right choice, but wisdom is making the righteous choice. And again, it begins with the fear of the Lord. What is the fear of the Lord? The fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. So if you fear the Lord, you're going to make the right choices before him. You're going to make the righteous choices. Every day we're faced with choices. Do you make the righteous choice? That's what wisdom is. Wisdom is making those choices. Now we have a lot of people today that boast about being wise. A lot of people like to talk about being wise. And you go to the average bookstore, look at how many how-to books there are there. Look at all the books on psychology and all the books on philosophy. The world is filled with the Dr. Phils and the counselors and the psychiatrists and the psychologists. But the question is, do they have real wisdom? Do they have the wisdom that God talks about? You say, well, how do we know that? Well, look at their life. Look at the sum total of their life. Examine their choices. What kind of life do they live? As a matter of fact, let me just give you a philosopher and see if you can guess who this is. He's a very famous philosopher. He was born in May 5, 1818 in Prussia. He descended from a line of Jewish scholars. His father was an eternity. He was baptized as a Lutheran at the age of 15. And for a while he appeared to be committed as a Christian, but he continued in his education, and all the uh appearances of Christianity began to fade away. He received a doctor of philosophy from Jenner University. He settled in London in 1849. There he lived the rest of his life. He wrote poetry, which normally revolved around the theme of the destruction of the world. His poems were filled with savagery, hatred, suicidal pacts, pacts with Satan. In one of his poems, he said that we are apes of a cold God. His favorite phrase was, Everything that exists deserves to perish. And then he also wrote, Religion is only the illusionary sun around which man revolves until he begins to revolve around himself. One Fred said of this man, he does not believe in God, he believes much in himself, and he makes everyone serve him. He had a very unhealthy lifestyle. He drank heavily. He seldom bathed. He was incompetent in handling money. He never got a job. He lived off the loans of family member and friends. He was left with a big inheritance. And that's pretty much what sustained him throughout his whole life. But even with that, all he did was spend. And at one point he had to pawn off all the silver from his house and his clothes. And at one point he had only one set of clothes, down to his last pair of pants. His family wife life was disastrous. His daughter died of an opium overdose. Another child died in a suicide pack He had a maid in the house. He fathered a child through this maid, but convinced someone else to claim to be the father. Can you guess who that is? It's Karl Marx. Millions of people follow his philosophy, call him brilliant. But look at the sum total of his life. Look at the choices that he made. And you can go on. We can go on down the list. Look at all these great quote unquote wise men and philosophers, Socrates, when we were over in Greece. Uh we we visit the jail where he was put in by the people that at one time respected him, but they put him in there because he basically had uh they accused him of corrupting the youth And he died by drinking poison in jail. The very people that supposedly admired him uh took his life. And then there's the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, who is famous for the God is dead philosophy. And this was kind of he kind of advanced this existential nihilistic philosophy. He sought to replace God with the Ubermans, the Superman. And what was he like? At the end of his life, he basically was put in an a sane asylum. His own philosophy, his own empty ideas is what really broke him down. And again, I I don't want to spend our time going through all these men, but there are others. Jean-Paul Sarter, the uh French existentialist, died depressed. uh because of his own ideas. Ernest Hemingway, who was a Nobel Prize winning author, considered the voice of modern existential um Stoicism where he basically had this idea that there's no meaning in life and you know you have to have courage and you have to make your own meaning. You have to live in this this meaningless world and this is what he called the code he hero uh where he you who basically uh you know, work through all the despair, work through all the emptiness, and try to be someone despite all of the emptiness and despair. And basically he he also died um by shooting himself after being depressed. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. That's what the Bible says. All these men who claim to be wise. That pattern reveals a stark reality. Human wisdom without God is insufficient to save the soul Imagine a library, a huge library filled with all these works and all this knowledge, but in the library it's all dark, there's no exit, you can't get out. That's what a lot of these wise men are like. They got all this knowledge stored up, but there's darkness in their soul. There's no light at all. That's the wisdom of man. It's self-made, but it's not real wisdom. It's not true wisdom. Where does true wisdom come from? It comes from God. And God gives it to us in a book through his word. Write down Ezra 7, verse 25. When Artaxerxes was instructing Ezra, Basically to set up a government in Jerusalem, he said this, and thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God that is in thy hand set magistrates and judges which may judge all the people that are beyond the river. In other words, when you go back to Jerusalem and when you set up your government there, make sure you do it according to the wisdom of God that is in your hand What did he have in his hand? Well, Ezra was a scribe. He had God's word in his hand. You want the wisdom of God? You have it in your hand. That is the wisdom of God. And that's where wisdom starts. Wisdom is created with a genuine love for God's word. Look in verse 97. Oh, how I love thy law. This is a prayer of complete devotion. The word love here, deep, deep emotional love In nineteen ninety one, the actress Julie Roberts was asked what objects she valued most. She said, I have a letter from my dad. She said it's the only one I ever uh really received and uh or if I there were other letters I could I didn't couldn't find them, they're all gone. But I go to this letter, I read it constantly, it means so much to me. If I ever lost it, I don't know what it would do. I think it would destroy me if I ever lost that letter. She said, I love this letter. You know what? You have a letter from your Heavenly Father. And it should be the thing that we constantly look to every day. We should prize it, we should love it. And the psalmist here is talking about that kind of a love. And he does this throughout Psalm 119. Look at a few verses. Look in one verse 113. I hate vain thoughts, but thy law do I love. Look in verse 127. Therefore I love thy commandments above gold. Yea, above fine gold. Look at verse 140. Thy word is very pure, therefore thy servant loveth it. Verse 159. Consider how I love thy precepts and quicken me, O Lord, according to thy loving kindness. Verse 165. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. So it's a love for God's word. That is a sure sign of a believer. Someone who loves God's Word. I remember my father's salvation. Before he was saved, he cared nothing about the Bible. But after he got saved, my dad was in the Bible all the time. He couldn't get enough of Scripture. He was constantly in the Word of God. And that made an impression upon me. You see, the unregenerated heart doesn't love God's word, but someone who's been truly regenerated loves the word of God. And so wisdom is created by a with a genuine love for God's Word. But then also we could say wisdom is cultivated as we meditate in God's Word. Look at Again in verse 97, it is my meditation all the day. All the day. I love that. What do you think about all day? What is constantly on your mind all day? You see, when a man is in love with the divine word, it dwells in his innermost heart. He thinks about it all the time. And that's the way it should be for all of us. And he says he meditates. Remember, we talked about this before because the psalmist in this chapter mentions this word meditation several times. And it just means to roll around in your mind, to speak to yourself. It's like Jeremiah said, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. That is, don't stop talking about it. Just keep repeating it over and over again. It means to murmur in pleasure and delight. It means to to muse on it, dwell on it constantly. Meditation is to the soul, what digestion is to the body. What if what if you invited me over your house and I came to your house and you had a really beautiful, lavish dinner set there, and I just I said, wow, this is so beautiful. And this is looks so good. And I take my phone out and I take a picture of it, click-click, put it in my pocket, say, thank you, and I leave Say, well, well that didn't really help you a whole lot, this beautiful spread, and you didn't eat any of it, you didn't partake any of it. A lot of people treat the Bible that way Oh, you say you love God's word, but you never really are nourished by it. You never really meditate in it. We have to dwell on it. We have to digest God's word. But also there's kind of a musical idea with the word meditation. This word's used sometimes to talk about a musical notation. It's like a song. You sing it over and over again. That's the idea here. And also, there's a sense in which meditation, there's a form of prayer that is meditation. You know, a lot of times we don't have to come up with our own prayers because there are prayers written in the Bible I you know a lot of times when I'm reading or having devotions or I'm reading scripture and I see a verse and I say, you know, Lord, that verse is exactly how I feel, and I take that verse and I turn it around and I make it a prayer to God That's a form of meditation. Just bringing it back to the Lord. This is that's why I love reading the Psalms because it just seems like you it ca the psalmist is able to connect with our deepest emotions and what we're going through at different points of time. of our life. And we can just turn that back around and we can just pray that. In fact, you can just take that verse and make it your prayer all the time, all day long. That's a form of meditation. You know, it's like this uh writer of Hebrews said, He has said that we might boldly say. You know, prayer is boldly saying what God has already said. God, you said this, and I'm reminding you what you said, and I'm I'm holding on to this. I'm claiming this. So wisdom is created with a genuine love for God's word. Wisdom is cultivated as we meditate in God's word. Here's another thing. Wisdom is celebrated as we're nourished by God's word. Look down at verse number 103. How sweet are thy words unto my taste. Yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth. And the psalmist compares God's word to honey. This is the sweetest natural substance known in the ancient world. In the ancient world, this was prize, this was a delicacy, this was used in offerings It was a symbolic of delight, the favorite food of people in this time. It's very satisfying Do you remember the story in the Old Testament in 1 Samuel chapter 14 where Saul made a foolish vow after they had a a battle with the Philistines, he made a vow that no one could eat any food? Well that's not a good idea if you're a soldier, especially after a difficult battle and you have to fight again. And Jonathan broke his father's vow by tasting honey You remember the Bible says he put forth the end of his spear, dipped it in a honeycomb, and partook of some of that honey there. And the Bible says when that happened, that his eyes were enlightened I love that story because really it's it's a illustration of what God's word does for us. You know, here's Jonathan, he's weary from battle, he's faint with hunger. He needs strength and he's refreshed just by a little bit of that honey. The Bible says his eyes were enlightened. What the honey did for Jonathan physically, God's word does for us spiritually. It strengthens our soul. It nourishes our soul. Again, the psalmist said, How sweet are thy words to my taste, yes, sweeter than honey to my mouth. The Word of God satisfies the weary soul. It enlightens our eyes. It helps us to see spiritual truth. You know, Saul is kind of a symbol of the flesh. The flesh forbids us from partaking of God's word. But the soul that dares to dip its staff into the scripture finds joy, finds enlightenment, finds strength. And so we need to be nourished constantly by the Word of God. That's the way to wisdom. The scriptural way to wisdom. But I want you to see, here's point number two: the spiritual wealth of wisdom. We get wisdom from God's Word from loving it, from meditating on it, from being nourished by it. But then what are the benefits? What kind of wisdom does it give us? Well the psalmist tells us how much wisdom It gives us, first of all, it gives us wisdom over our enemies. Look at verse 98. Thou through thy commandment hast made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. He's not being pessimistic when he says that. He's being realistic. If you love Jesus and you want to live for him, guess what? You got enemies. And they're always with you. They're always around you. The psalmist was in that situation. Enemies may be clever, but Scripture can make us wiser. Why? Because the Word of God reveals their lies. The Word of God unmasks their deception. The Word of God roots us into God's truth. And by the way, your arch enemy is who? The devil, right? Remember how the Bible describes him in Ezekiel 28. Full of wisdom. When God created Lucifer, he was perfect in beauty, and the Bible says, full of wisdom. But when he sinned, that wisdom became corrupted, and now he uses his beauty and wisdom to deceive and to pull people down. So, he's a formidable foe. The Apostle Paul warns that Satan is transformed into an angel of light. How can you overcome an enemy that is full of wisdom? How are you able to do that? Well, the believer has God's word. Napoleon said, knowing your enemy is half the battle. And the way you overcome Satan is by knowing him, and the way you know him is through what God reveals about him in the Word of God. When you learn about his devices, in 2 Corinthians 2. 11, Paul said, we're not ignorant of his devices. We know how Satan operates, we know what he does, because God's word tells us That's why we have to master scripture in order to overcome the devil. That's a battle that we constantly fight. Remember the story of General Patton? He was known for his brilliance in armored warfare, and he went up against the German um Field Marshal, uh Erwin Rommel, who was called the legendary Desert Fox because he was a master of desert combat combat. And uh Patton went up against him, he was able to defeat him, which very few people were able to do. And it is said at the end of the battle that Patton cried out across the desert to Rommel, Rommel, I read your book. Because he wrote a book on desert warfare. And Patton read that book and figured out all his strategies and was able to overcome them. You see, the way that we were able to overcome Satan is through knowing God's word. God has written down his strategies in a book. And so we're able to overcome our enemies, but also overcome, we have w wisdom over our educators. Look in verse number 99. I have more understanding than all my teachers For thy testimonies are my meditation. We live in a world that boasts of academic credentials, scientific achievement, again, an age of knowledge, but not wisdom. Universities teach evolutionary biology, but they don't teach you how to conquer sin. These tech giants promise progress, but they can't give peace. The world is teaching you how to put your hope in AI and these billion dollar labs where supposedly it was one uh I was reading uh a few weeks ago that one of these billionaires. They're working on these uh on these things that they say is going to basically defeat death. through technology that you can actually take your your your brain somehow and download it into a machine You know, I don't know if this is this is real, I'm not making it up. But it's these billion dollar guys out there that have all this money they don't know what to do with, and they're trying to figure out how to use technology to defeat death. Uh you remember this I told you this before when Ted Williams, a great baseball player, died in 2002, his daughter had his body frozen. His brain and his body were frozen at a lab in uh Arizona. Why did she have that done? Well, because she says she believes that one day science is going to figure out a way to give people life again to raise them from the dead. And she said basically, and this is kind of a quote, she said, you know, some people believe in Jesus faith. I believe in science. Well, okay, if that's the route you want to go. But you don't have any hope there. There's no hope in that. And again, this is not an isolated case. People like Jeff Bezos and Peter Thiel, they all are giving working into these life extension technologies Where it's supposed to again defeat death. In fact, there's one boast, and I'm reading this from an article here, where one man predicted that humans would have would defeat death through technology by the year 2045. So let me see, how many years is that away from me? Um if I just hang on. You know. Yet these people at the same time they mock the Bible. They mock the gospel. They scorn at the doctrine of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And ironically, they say it's too fanciful. And yet they'll believe some of these crazy ideas. The scripture tells us how we can have everlasting life. It tells us how to defeat death. One Sunday, Charles Spurgeon addressed his critics from the pulpit. And he said this. Some have found fault with me, he said, contending that I'm too old-fashioned. I'm always quoting the Bible and do not say enough about science. He said, well, there's a poor widow, and she lost her son, and she's here, and she wants to know if she'll ever see him again. So let's turn to science for the answer. Will she see him again? What does science say? Does death end at all? There was a long pause. He said, I'm waiting for an answer. What does science say? This woman is anxious. Another long pause. Long pause. Nothing to say? Okay, well let's turn to the book. He got his point across The wisdom of God tells us how to defeat death. There's only one way to do that. That's through Jesus Christ. The hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So don't envy the scholars of this world. Don't tremble before the intellects of this world who boast of their technology. If you know God's word, you have understanding, more understanding than all your educators. But then Wisdom over enemies, wisdom over educators, but then we also have wisdom over our elders. Look at verse 100. I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. Now I don't think ancients is the way we should refer to elderly people. But he does here, the psalmist does here, and the word here It it does talk about those who are elderly, but also it's uh has the idea of someone who has not just wisdom from experience, but just in general that's uh uh uh you know a wisdom that is uh uh you know that is that is profound uh for a person of that you know of that time, of that age. Um So it's not merely to those who are elderly, but to those who are esteemed for their experience, their cultural wisdom. Elders like this had a seat at the gate. But here the psalmist is saying: look, wisdom is not gained necessarily by the accumulation of birthdays, but in the pursuit of God. It doesn't matter how old you are, if you're pursuing God and you're in God's word, you can have a wisdom that is beyond your years. There are a lot of elderly people out there that are making a lot of bad decisions. But a teenager who has God's word and fears the Lord and tries to follow God's word has more wisdom than an elderly person that doesn't fear the Lord. That's the whole point here. Remember Daniel in Babylon? Here he is, a young teenager being brought in, and the Bible says that Hem and his three friends, because they feared the Lord and they followed the law of God, they had more wisdom than anyone there in the schools of Babylon. In fact, the Bible says they were ten times wiser. They had ten times more understanding. Than all of the seasoned magicians and astrologers of Babylon, why? Because they feared the Lord and they knew God's word So God's word gives us wisdom over our enemies, over our educators, over our elders, but also over evil. Look at verse one hundred one. I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word. Again, God's Word gives us more than information. It gives us protection. It trains our conscience to recognize patterns of sin that we need to stay away from. The Bible says in Psalm 17, verse 4, By the words of thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer. And when the psalmist says, I have refrained my feet, again, what does this imply? intentional moral restraint. And I want to again speak about this. There's a doctrine of sanctification out there that basically says, you know, all I have to do is just let God do all his work. Here I am, God, you sanctify me. And they exert no effort on their own part. And that's not a biblical idea of sanctification. You have to do your part. You have to exert effort. It takes effort to read, to meditate, to pray, to be in God's house. To study Scripture. And here he says, you know, I have refrained my feet. Feet is implies lifestyle. This is what this is not a one-time refusal of sin, but a pattern governed by God's word. And it is the Word of God that gives us the strength to do that. That gives us the determination, like we see here from the Psalmists, to stay away from sin. And again he says, I've refrained my feet from every evil way. Why? That I might keep your word. You see, you can't do both at the same time. You can't live in sin and keep God's word. Some people think they can do that, but no, they're mutually exclusive. You can't do that. You must refrain your feet from evil way so that you can keep God's It's like Thomas Watson wrote, Sin will keep you from the Bible, or the Bible will keep you from sin. So we get wisdom over our enemies, over educators, over elders, over evil. But then we get wisdom over enticement. Look at verse 102. I have not departed from thy judgment, for thou with them thou hast taught me, for thou hast taught me And so the psalmist has been taught the word of God, and therefore he's able to remain faithful in the face of worldly enticements. I haven't departed. The word depart means to veer off course. To go into apostasy. And he's affirming that he's not been lured away from the path of divine truth. He's determined to stay on that path. And so we're able to get victory over the enticements, over the lure of the world. And it's again that's always there. That's how Satan works. He entices us. What does James say? James 1 14. But every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And lust when it's conceived, brings forth sin, and sin when it's finished brings forth death. That's the devil's LSD, lust, sin, death. And he's trying to pull us off the path. It begins with enticement. And here the psalmist is saying, you know, I'm not departing from your judgments because you taught me it's the word of God that helps me to overcome that enticement. You see, the devil likes to make sin look good, but he hides the hook, we could say. He hides the real impact of sin. I love the story that Dr. Adrian Rogers used to tell. He he passed with a church in Florida and um by his church there was a billboard sign and uh there were there was a brewery there and they put up an advertisement on that billboard sign and it had W in that advertisement it had a man in a tuxedo and a woman in a evening dress and it was very elegant, very beautiful in their drinking, and it had at the bottom the caption the finest product of the brewer's art And he really didn't like that, that they put that up right there by his church. So he hired a guy to put up a billboard and to draw another picture And this picture was of a man laying in an alleyway. It was a filthy, disgusting picture of a man who was drunk laying in the alleyway among the garbage And he had a caption across the bottom, the finished product of the brewer's art. Well, I think everybody got the point. The devil likes to show you the finest product, but he doesn't want you to see the finished product That's where it ends up. And so God's word gives us wisdom over enticement. But then finally, it gives us wisdom over error. Look at verse 104. Through thy precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. There's a lot of false ways in this world. Many false religions, many deceivers, many man-made philosophies, doctrines of demons. And the difficulty is they present a lot of truth, but just a little bit of error in it. So much error out there. So much false teaching going on. You say, how do we deal with all that? Well, God's word gives you the wisdom. You see, the way to deal with it is what the psalmist tells us right here He said, you know, through thy precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. He didn't go out and study every false way. He just said, you know, I get understanding by knowing your word, and when a false way rears his head, I immediately know it, and I hate it. You see, the way to insulate yourself against false doctrine and false teaching is to know God's word so well, to know the truth so well that when false doctrine rises, you know it immediately. You see it, you know it's counterfeit. Um that's the way uh I'm sure you probably heard this, but the but the FBI, they train their agents. There's a certain department in the FBI they of men that they train to recognize counterfeit bills. And there's so much counterfeit money out there, there's no way that they could really recognize counterfeit money if th by studying all the different counterfeits. But what they do is they study the real the real money, real money, the real dollar, the real bills. They study that so well that when a counterfeit bill appears, they know it immediately. And this is what we must do as believers. We must know God's word so well that we see error. And that's the wisdom that God's word gives us over enemies. We have a wisdom over educators, over elders, over evil, over enticement, over error. This is the wealth of wisdom. God's word is the way to wisdom. But let me just press this a little bit deeper as we close tonight. God's Word doesn't merely give us principles, it gives us a person. And that's Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul writes this in 1 Corinthians 1:30. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who is of God, made unto us wisdom and righteousness. And sanctification and redemption. Jesus is the wisdom of God in human flesh. And the Bible doesn't just, again, give us principles, it gives us Christ. That's where wisdom begins. It begins at the cross. That's the wisdom of God right there that confounds the world. And when you receive Jesus, you have the wisdom of God in you. That's one of the reasons we love God's word, is because it tells us about Christ. It tells us about who he is. And so we meditate on scripture. When we do that, we are setting our minds on Christ. Christ. When we walk in wisdom, we're walking in his steps because he is the personification of all wisdom. He is our wisdom. And so Let me just encourage you just to keep your focus on God's Word and keep your focus on cross, on Christ, excuse me. It begins at the cross of Christ. Do you love God's Word? Do you meditate on it? Do you keep your mind focused on Christ? That is the way to Wisdom and friend, and when you do that, you are rich indeed. You possess a wealth of wisdom that this world cannot offer, and they cannot take it away. And so let the words of Psalm 119 here be your daily prayer. Oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all through the day. out for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for your word. What a blessing, Lord. It's I don't think sometimes we we comprehend what we have. And your inspired word, what a blessing it is to us. And because it teaches us all about Christ. And to love your word is to love Christ. And to meditate on your word is to have the mind of Christ and to keep Christ before us. And Lord help us to live that way every day of our life. May we say with the psalmist, it is my meditation all through the day. And we know that from that we will glean a wisdom that the world doesn't understand. They can't get it because they've never been to the cross. Thank you, Lord, for giving us this privilege. Bless us tonight, Lord. Bless your people, Lord, with godly wisdom. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.