Take your Bibles tonight, if you will, open to the book of First Corinthians, chapter eleven. We are going to continue our study through First Corinthians, and we are in chapter eleven. If you remember, we left off The Corinthians were having trouble in the worship service. Things were out of order. Certain things going on that Paul had to take care of. And he's going to deal with yet another issue in the public worship. While you're finding that, I was Interested to find out that one of America's great pastors uh of years past, uh Jonathan Edwards, who is very well known for the sermon Sinners in the Hands of an Angry He was very instrumental in preaching and bringing the Great Awakening, one of the greatest revivals that we've ever had in American history. in Northampton for 22 years faithfully preaching the word, a faithful, good, godly pastor. I was interested to find out that did you know that after twenty-two years of faithful ministry in his church, he was dismissed by the church. Essentially the church just fired him. They said you know we want you to move on. What was the issue that caused this church to vote him out? It was the issue, a dispute concerning the Lord's Supper. And this was the issue. Jonathan Edwards taught that a person, before they were allowed to participate in the Lord's Supper, first had to be a believer. Christian. And the people in the church disagreed with that. They thought that that was too rigid a standard for uh participating in the Lord's Supper. And so basically, because of that issue And because Jonathan Edwards would refuse to compromise on that issue, the church voted and they voted to vote him out as their pastor. What a monstrous mistake that You know, uh the church was known for their contentious spirit. They were a divisive church. And in his farewell message, this is what Edward said. Let me just quote you just an excerpt of He would say this, as you would seek the future prosperity of this society, it is of vast importance that you should avoid contempt. A contentious people will be a miserable people. The contentions which have been among you since I first became your pastor have been one of the greatest burdens I've had to labor under. in the course of my ministry. Not only the contentions you have had with me, but those with which you have had with one another about lands and other concerns And because I knew that contention and heat of spirit, evil speaking, and things of like nature were directly contrary to the spirit of Christianity. And did in a particular manner tend to drive away God's spirit from a people, and to render all means of grace ineffectual, as well as destroy a people's outward comfort and welfare. Let me therefore earnestly exhort you, as you would seek your own future good, to watch against a contentious Spirit. Those were his parting words. Those are wise words. And when I read that, but a little bit of Christian history, I'm reminded of what's going on here at the church At Corinth. In this letter to the Corinthians, Paul is dealing with a contentious people. He's dealing with people that are very divided over many issues. And if you've been with us in this study You have heard some of the issues that Paul's had to deal with. They were divided over certain teachers in the church. They were divided over legal matters. They were divided over issues on marriage and divorce, over singleness. They were divided over whether one should eat meat sacrificed to an idol or not And the last time we looked in chapter 11, they were divided over the issue of women and the head covering in the service, which was a local custom at the time that was really a symbol of submission. And so here Paul's going to deal with another issue that was causing problems in the church, and it was an issue with the Lord's Supper. And Paul's going to write to correct and straighten them out. So I want to talk about three topics tonight in our sermon. First of all, number one, I want to talk about the harmful desecration of the Lord's Supper. That's the first topic or the first point here. that we're going to look at as we look in verses 17 down to verse 24. Now I think that you would agree with me that worship is to be the highest experience for a Christian, isn't it? Isn't that true? When we come to God's house, we look forward to worshiping together with God's people. It should be an experience where we are built up spiritually, where that when we leave the house of God, we are refreshed in our Spirit, that we have met with the Lord and we have sensed his spirit among us. We should be invigorated as a result of worshiping together. And when God comes and meets with us, he meets to convict us. to convert us, to consecrate us, to commune with us, to cleanse us, and to correct us. Simply put, when we leave God's house, we ought to be in better shape than when we came in. Wouldn't you agree with that? I want to leave God's house in better shape than when I walked in. Well this wasn't true for the church at Corinth, because at times when they left the worship, they were in worse shape than when they came in. And this was a problem. So Paul wants to correct them. Look in verse 17 of chapter 11. Now, in this I declare unto you, I praise you not. Paul said, I have no praise to offer you in this matter In which I'm going to deal with you right now. Now, earlier in chapter 11, Paul did praise them. He said, In this, I praise you. Look in verse 2 of chapter 11. Now I praise you, brethren That ye remember me in all things and keep the ordinances as I delivered them to you. And so Paul, in the beginning, he praises them because he says, You know, you have received Paul said, I prayed you in that in many matters you have received What I have passed down to you, that's really the word there, something passed down from God, kind of a military order, a command. And Paul said, under apostolic authority, I have passed it along to you, and you have received it, and I praise you for doing that. It's always a good thing to receive the Word of God when we're in God's house. We deserve praise for that. And really, that's part of our worship, the manner in which we receive the scripture. We receive God's word. But here now in verse 17, Paul says, I praise you not. I don't praise you in this matter. Why? Look at the rest. I praise you not that ye come together not for the better, but for the what? For the worse. When you are in God's house in the public worship, you come together, but you are worse off as a result You're not better. The word for worse here, kaikos, strong word in the Greek, it means evil, moral evil. That is, we could say it like this: you're sinning against God in the worship. God forbid that when we come to worship God we would sin against God in that very worship service. But this is exactly what was happening here with the Quran. And Paul says, I don't praise you in this. Instead of your worship being times of loving fellowship, spiritual enrichment, times of uh refreshing, instead, it's times of selfish indulgence. Shaming others, mocking at the Lord's supper. There's a problem here. So notice we see not only the correction, but notice the contention. Look at verse 18 For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. I like what Paul says, I partly believe it. believe it. He understands Christians weakness and exaggeration. I believe part of what I'm hearing here. Not all of it. You know I partly believe it. I hear there are divisions among you. Now no doubt Paul received this report from the delegation of Christians from Corinth that visited him in Ephesus. This is where Paul was when he wrote this letter, if you remember Remember. These men came from Corinth and they're listening to Paul one problem after another. And that's when Paul takes up the pen and he writes this letter. So no doubt he hears about this And Paul says, I hear that there are divisions among you. And the word for divisions is schemata, where we get the word schism. And literally it means to tear. to cut something asunder. And it's used kind of in a metaphorical sense to refer to divisions and contentions. And if you've been with us in the study, we can see the church seemingly couldn't agree on anything. They were just divided constantly. They were arguing constantly. And Paul hears about these divisions and how it must have really grieved his heart to hear about all of the contentions and the divisions that were taking place in the church. This is a tremendous burden to bear. Especially if you're a pastor, you want there to be peace and unity in the church among the people of God. And so this was a this was a difficult thing. Paul says, I partly believe it There's these divisions among you. And so he says something very interesting in verse 19. Look at verse 19. For there must There must be also heresies among you. That's an interesting thing. Must be. That's the Greek word die, which means it is this necessary. And whenever this word is used in the New Testament, what's interesting to me, whenever I see this word used in the New Testament, this particular Greek word, it often conveys divine necessity. For example, this word is used when Jesus was talking about to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem. What was going to happen in Jerusalem? He would die on the cross. He would be buried. He would rise again. Jesus said to his disciples, I must die. I must of necessity go to Jerusalem. Jerusalem, same exact word. This has to happen. This must happen. In other words, there's a sense in which the these things have to be, but woe to the one who brings them. And this is a Sense in which Paul's using it here. He's saying here that there has to be heresies among you. And verse 19, look at the word heresies there. This is a uh the Greek word is literally that where we get the word heresy, but it we can translate it factions or divisions, and he's saying this has to be That's interesting, Paul. Why must there be heresies or divisions in the church? Notice what he says in the rest of verse 19. That they which are approved may be made manifest Why do these things have to be? Because God uses division and things like this to purify the church. And also to point out those who are approved, and the word they're documented, we talked about this word before, tested and found to be qualified. And what he's saying is simply this: whenever there are these divisions in the church and these heresies in the church, what will happen during these little crisis times is that those who are approved of God for leadership will kind of rise to the surface. They will be made manifest during times like that. You know why? Because people who are true leaders and who really love God, they want peace among the people And they're willing to make sure that that peace is there. And they will show themselves faithful during these times. There's a sense in which the fire of these crises will purify the church And the goal will rise to the top. And so those who were approved, those who are truly approved for leadership in the church will be made manifest. Paul said to the Thessalonians He used the same word. He said in First Thessalonians 2 4, but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel. Paul said, look, uh, we've been approved documents, we've been tested and found qualified to do what we're doing. But if that came through trials, that came through heartache That came through a crisis and so on. And so Paul says there's a sense in which this division that is among you in the church it has to be, and yet woe be to the one who brings it There's a sense in which God will use even this to approve those in the church that are truly His, that are truly approved for leadership. However, there's still the problem. This has to be dealt with. So notice the next thing, the communion. Here's the issue. Look at verse number 20. When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper. Supper. So what was the issue at this point? It was the communion. It was the Lord's Supper. Now let me explain to you what they would do in the early church. They would have what they would call an agape feast. This is what would happen. People would just that were part of the church, they would just bring their food, and everyone would share that food together. This is you say that sounds really familiar, doesn't it? I mean this was early church potluck, right? Only they didn't call it potluck back then, all right? They didn't believe in luck. We should call it potfaith or something Something like that, right? You know, but you know, so they would just bring their food together and the people would have a feast together They would fellowship together. And at the end of this feast, it would climax by them uh coming together and having the Lord's Supper That's the climax of all of this. And they were called agape feasts. But there was a problem that was taking place at the church at Corinth. Now again, let me give you a little background just to see just to show you how this was affecting the church. Did you know that a public feast together, that was not something that was unique for the church People did that in Greco-Roman culture and society all the time. In fact, they had places where they would go to do this. But what they would do with these feasts is that they would divide people on social or societal levels. For example, they would have a big room, and on one room that was a r kind of small, that's where they would put the rich. And then the bigger room were those who were not rich, more the poor, middle class or poor. And the best food was given to the rich, and the leftovers were kind of given to the poor. That's the way they operated in society there. That was Greco-Roman culture. Let me just quote to you from Ben Witherington. It was a normal practice to rank one's guest in terms of social status With those of higher eating status, eating with the hosts in the dining room, others seeking elsewhere, getting poorer food. That was part of Now every once in a while, even in Greco-Roman culture, even the poor, however, were allowed to feast on some of the better food. But that was during some of the The pagan holidays. They would allow the poor to have better food in that time. But what was happening in the church at Corinth was a lot of this thinking, this idea of these pagan feasts and the way they would celebrate them in the Greco-Roman culture. was seeping into the church. This has no business being in the church. Because God's house is a place where all of us are one in Christ. And all of those divid all of those um categories and divisions, societal divisions and and status and all that, that's all thrown out in the church. And we're all the same. We're all one in Christ. Amen. That's what the church is supposed to be. And yet this wasn't happening in the church of Christ. Corinth. So when the people of Corinth came together for the Agape feast, what was happening was the rich in the church, they would take their food and they would hoard it And the poor that would come to these agape feasts, they weren't able to eat some of the better food because the rich were keeping it in their service Place, their little corner over there they had where they had their food, and the poor had whatever was left over on their side. This is not the way the churches are operate. And this is why Paul says, I don't praise you in this This is this is you call this an agape meal? This is supposed to express love and unity, and here you are the the rich and you're feasting and you're gorging yourself and some of them were eating Getting drunk, drinking wine. They were treating it just like another pagan feast, a Greco-Roman pagan feast, instead of treating it the way it should be treated in the church and a gospel. And this was going on. And I would also say this is probably, you know, the poorer people in the city of Koran, they probably didn't get to eat meat that much because it hoarding their food, eating it. I could just imagine some of the rich saying, you know what, they don't believe in eating meat sacrificed to idols anyway, so they don't need our meat. I can imagine them doing that. So there was this division. And then they would pretend To climax this agape feast, quote unquote, with the Lord's Supper. This was really offensive. To pretend that you're gonna worship in one of the greatest uh worship times in the church, this ordinance of the Lord's Supper, which really signifies love and unity and all of us come Coming together, being level at the cross, and loving one another, this great ordinance given by our Lord. You're gonna actually pretend to take the Lord's Supper after acting that way That way at this feast. And so Paul is upset about this. That's why he says, look again in verse 20. When you come together, therefore, into one place, this is not the eating of the Lord's Supper Paul said, you think you're eating the Lord's Supper. You might call it that, but this isn't the Lord's Supper. This is not what's happening here. In essence, he was saying you've turned the Lord's Supper into your own social function. A Greco-Roman feast where you divide people in along societal lines. Paul said you might be breaking bread And you might be drinking the fruit of the vine, but you're not celebrating the Lord's Supper. You might be going through the motions of it, but that's not what's happening here. This is not really the Lord's Supper, the way you're acting. Look at verse number 21. For in eating, everyone taketh before other his own supper And one is hungry and another is drunken. You see what he's saying there? One taketh before the other. That is, one, the rich were going before the poor And they were gorging and they were drinking, some getting drunk, and the poor were left with nothing. And Paul rebukes them. Look in verse number 22. What? Have you not houses to drink in? Look, if you're just going to have a feast, why don't you just go home? Go to your house If this is all this is to you, is just coming and feeding yourself, engorging yourself, and shaming others. Just go home. Don't you have a house where you can dine in? That's what he's saying there in verse 22. Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not. What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. You pretend to come to God's house and shame others. There's not this extension of love and unity, and you're acting like this, and then you're pretending to take the Lord's supper. This was a terrible sin. You can't call this the Lord's Supper, Paul is saying here. This is very selfish. What's going on? How do we apply this to us today? Listen, when we come to God's house, we should seek to edify others. We should be seeking to bless others. We should be putting others ahead of us. That's the spirit of the people of God. And that's why Paul just asked this string of rhetorical questions in verse 22. They're all designed to get them back To think about the selfish way in which they were behaving. That's not the way the people of God are supposed to act. You're not acting like true believers. In fact, you know what they were acting like? They were acting like False believers. They were acting like apostates. Remember when we when we studied the book of Jude? Jude said this in verse twelve. These talking about apostates False believers. These are hidden reefs at your love feast. What's a hidden reef? A hidden rock is a rock just below the surface that if you're in a boat, you can't see that rock But that rock is dangerous because you can't see it and the boat will hit that rock and it'll just make a shipwreck of the vessel. They are hidden rocks. And Paul said, These people who do this, they're hidden rocks in your agape feast. They are tearing apart the ship, the fellowship of the people of God that ought to be in the church. You're not acting like true believers. You're acting like apostates in the church. When you act this way. So we see the harmful desecration of the Lord's Supper. But I want you to see a second topic that we'll talk about, and that is the historical description of the Lord's Supper. suffer. So now Paul he states the problem. This is what's going on. How does he deal with it? You know what Paul does? He Takes the Corinthians all the way back to the beginning when Jesus first instituted this beautiful, beautiful ordinance. Of communion of the Lord's Supper. And Paul reminds them of when this happened. When did Jesus institute the Lord's Supper? It was on the night that he was betrayed. That very night. At the Passover meal, when the Lord was betrayed, that's when he gave this ordinance. So what Paul's going to do now is he's going to take them through a history of how this Lord's Supper began from the beginning Surely this will shake them up into reality about how sacred this time of worship is. So look in verse 23. For I received of the Lord So notice the pattern he's going to talk about here. He says, first of all, I want you to know I received this from the Lord and I'm giving it to you. Paul was faithful to teach the church this ordinance that was taught to him by who? The Lord himself. Now, where did Paul get this? He didn't get this from reading any of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, or Luke Or John that speaks about the Lord's Supper. Most scholars agree that 1 Corinthians was written before any of the Gospels. So really what we're seeing here is this understanding of the Lord's Supper. Written before any of the gospels. This is the first account, the first biblical record of the institution of the Lord's Supper. And it includes direct quotes from Jesus. So what Paul Paul is saying is, look, I want you to know that I got this directly from the Lord. You have to remember Paul was God's apostle, and the Lord Jesus spoke to Paul directly And many times Paul will refer to this, and Paul here is going to say, What I'm going to give you now, I didn't get this from anyone except directly from the Lord Himself. He gave this to me, and now I'm going to give this to you. And verse 23, I received of the Lord that which I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus The same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take heed, this is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of So here Paul gives the historical setting. That very night when Jesus was arrested and betrayed, there at the upper room The Lord Jesus instituted this. Now, what were they doing in the upper room? They were at the feast of what? The Passover. They were enjoying the Passover meal, right? So remember this: that the Lord's Supper kind of evolved out of the Passover. You say, what's the Passover meal? This was a meal that the Jews would, this feast that the Lord commanded, the Jews would do to remember how the Lord delivered them out of Egypt Remember four hundred years of bondage and the Lord with his great mighty miracles and power delivered them out of Egypt. And you remember the Lord instituted the Passover He said this will be a memorial to you. You will celebrate it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations. This will be a permanent meal where that they would basically take uh uh bitter herbs and they would take a roasted lamb and they would eat it. They would take Take unleavened bread and they would break it. At this meal, Jesus is celebrating this Passover meal in the upper room, and out of this Passover meal, Jesus institutes a new ordinance. This is the Lord's Supper. And so what he's doing is he's transforming this Passover meal that celebrates the Lord's deliverance. For the Jewish people out of Egypt, into a meal that celebrates an incredibly greater deliverance for everyone that trusts in Jesus. That's the deliverance from sin, the deliverance from eternal punishment. So there's a sense in which the Passover, by the way, the Passover pointed forward to God's future deliverance, the Lamb of God. Now, as just like that Passover meal pointed forward to the cross, now this Lord's Supper will point backwards to the cross. cross and it's all about remembering how the Lord delivers us. So notice the pictures in verse 23. He talks about the bread in which he took bread And you remember that Jesus said when he gave thanks, he said, take me, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me, the bread. Represents the body. And in the Jewish mind, the body represented the whole person, not just the physical body. And so this was the whole of Jesus. And Jesus says, This bread represents my body, which will be given for you, and it would be Uh on the cross broken in the sense not that his legs were broken because you remember that the Bible prophesied that not one bone of his would be broken. And when the soldiers came by to the cross they saw that Jesus was already dead. So the Bible says they didn't break his Why would soldiers do that? Because when if you were being crucified you would have to push up with your legs to breathe. But when they came by, they saw that Jesus had already died. None of his bones were broken, and fulfilled the same thing. So what does it mean when it says his body was broken? Well, his flesh was broken. The wounds that were on the cross The nail uh prince in his hands and in his feet, where his blood was shed. All of that, Jesus said, this bread, this is my Body. Now when Jesus said this is my body, and I think I told you this before when we talked about the Lord's Supper in chapter 10, there's been a lot of controversy, unnecessary if you ask me throughout the history of the church of interpreting what Jesus means when he said, This is my body. Jesus was using a symbol to point to him. There are some who tried to make this literal and say that the bread actually becomes the body, like Catholic theology, that when the priest blesses the bread, it becomes the body of Christ, and the grape juice actually becomes the blood of Christ. There's nothing in scripture about that whatsoever. That's a false teaching. By the way, that same theology teaches that the Lord's Supper is necessary for you to be saved. That's adding works to salvation. Again, which is a Damnable error wrong. We're saved by grace through faith plus nothing else. By grace through faith. Then there are others that come along and say, Well, somehow Christ is mystically present in the bread and in the grape juices. Jesus was saying, this is a symbol. This bread is a symbol of my body. And the cup, the cup would be a symbol of his blood that would be shed on the cross. Now during the Passover mayor there were normally four cups that were passed around, and in between there was him singing, The third cup is the cup that Jesus said, This will be the communion cup This was a cup that was used according to Luke chapter twenty-two verse number twenty when he gave thanks the Greek word there is Eucharisto where they get the word Eucharist. That's why some People call the Lord's Supper the Eucharist, based on that one Greek word there, when Jesus gave thanks, Eucharisto, he gave thanks over the bread and the cup. But these are elements that are pictures. They point to the cross. They point to Christ. And we are to remember the cross when we Celebrate the Lord's Supper when we worship together. One time the great preacher W. A. Criswell, who was pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, was invited to one of his members' palatial homes And when he walked in, there was a beautiful study, walnut paneling on the wall, and a beautiful picture of a woman. And the man said to Dr. Chris Well, this is My mother. And I never got to meet her. She died giving me life. She died at childbirth. And with tears in his eyes, he said, One of these days I'm going to get to see Her. And W. A. Criswell said, he later wrote, he said, I could have explained, this is your mother? This is nothing but a piece of paper and covered on cardboard With some paint on it. That's not your mother. But he understood what he meant by that. That this picture was a representation of his mother. And Chriswell went on to say, that's exactly so with our Lord Jesus at this Passover meal when he said, This bread is my body. This is a picture. This is a picture of what I'm going to do for you. This cup, this is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. These are symbols that are visual symbols that we should should cause us to think about the cross. And notice the proclamation. Look at verse 26, what he says. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, this cup, ye do show the Lord's death. Till he come. I love that word. It says, you show the Lord's death. The word for show here is a word that means to proclaim. Did you know that every time we come together and we celebrate the Lord's Supper and our tradition here at Grace is once a month we do that and it's a wonderful tradition that we have I think it's wonderful that we do it once a month. But do you know that every time that we come together and we do this, we are proclaiming the cross. We're proclaiming Christ, we're proclaiming his death. It's in visual form. When we do this, it preaches a sermon about the cross whenever we take the Lord's Supper. A very eloquent sermon, more eloquent than I could ever preach. Or anyone else for that matter. It's as if Christ is crucified right before us. There's an interesting verse in Galatians where Paul said, Oh foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes That Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Or he was crucified among you. Now wait a minute. Jesus wasn't crucified in Galatians. How was he crucified right in front of them? Because Paul preached the cross so vividly that it was as if Jesus was crucified right there in front of them. front of their eyes, right there before them. And did you know that when we we come together for the Lord's Supper, it's as if we are all going back to the cross. And there's a sense in which Christ is right there before before us, crucified on the cross for us. We see his death. We remember his death right there on the cross. And you know what we're doing when we celebrate the Lord's Supper? We are glorying in the cross of Christ. We are where Paul said, God forbid that I should glory except in the cross. Paul said, I don't want to glory in anything except the cross of Christ. I don't want to glory in anything. In fact, I have nothing to glory about except the cross of Christ. Christ and what Christ has done for me by his grace. And so when we come together at the Lord's Supper, we are glorying, we are boasting in the cross We are kneeling at the cross as it were. We're seeing Jesus crucified right before our very eyes, the eyes of faith. We go back to what He did for Now let me give you the third topic. We talked about number one the harmful desecration of the Lord's Supper. Secondly, the historical description of the Lord's Supper. Paul takes them back and says, let me tell you how this ordinance began. This should really do something in your heart to know this. But here's the third thing: the helpful directions for the Lord Suffer. Now, based on all this, look what Paul says in verse 28. Actually, we'll back up to verse 27. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily Shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. So let a man examine himself. So let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. This is how serious this is. That when a person does this unworthily, they really are taking some dangerous steps here if you're not doing this in the right Way. Unworthily. What does that mean? Frankly, I'm I don't ever feel worthy. And as sinners, we're not worthy. Jesus is only really the only worthy one When he says unworthily, what does he mean? He means that if you come to this time of worship and you're not giving proper consideration During that time. Notice where he says, not discerning the Lord's body. Look at the end of verse 29. What does it mean to be unworthy? Not discerning the Lord's body. The Lord's Supper is a meaningful symbol. Discern means to see. We are to see Christ. We are to focus on Christ. We are to focus on the cross. Thinking about Jesus. The Corinthians were having a party. Some of them were drunk. They weren't focused on Focusing on Christ. They weren't focusing on the kingdom of God. And they were dishonoring these meaningful symbols. I think to trample on our country's flag is to dishonor a it's not just dishonoring a piece of cloth, you are dishonoring all that that represents To come unworthily to the communion does not simply dishonor the ceremony, it dishonors the one who it represents. If you don't come in a worthy way, you're dishonoring the Lord Jesus. That's what he's saying there. We become guilty of dishonoring his body, his blood. Remember when the writer of Hebrews said, Look, don't despise the blood. of Christ. Don't treat it as an unworthy thing. There's a sense in which the Corinthians were doing that very thing. And so therefore, look in verse 30. For this cause many are weak And sickly among you and many sleep. This is how serious this was. God was so serious about this that some were coming in such a haphazard, careless manner with a wrong attitude, wrong spirit. They weren't worshiping God. They were doing anything but that. And because of that, God was chastising them. And some of them, uh the Bible says were sick. And some of them sleep. What does that mean? They died. Remember this morning we were talking about a sin unto death in 1 John chapter 5. There is a sin unto death. Well, here's an illustration of that very Thing. Some died. Many sleep. That's a very serious thing. If you're not giving due, proper consideration Consideration when you come to this meaningful, beautiful ordinance, then you are coming in a manner that is unworthy. And if you do that, you may suffer God's chastisement. That's what he's saying. Proper consideration, but here's another thing: personal examination. Look at verse 28. But let a man examine himself, so that it let him eat that bread and drink that cup. Look at verse 31. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastised of the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat Terry one for another. That is Paul saying, look, here's another thing that you should happen. You should personally examine yourself when you come to the Lord's Uh supper table. Personal examination. Let a man examine himself. By the way, that's present imperative active, which means continually, it's a command. You are to continually examine yourself. When you come to this sacred, this wonderful ordinance here in the church. We're to confess and forsake sin. What was the specific sin? ends of the church of Corinth, they had many, but the device of spirit was really the big thing, the selfishness, the carnality. They had to confess that and get it right. And when we come to the Lord's Supper table, we should be praying like the psalmist, Search me, O God, and know my heart and see if there's any wicked way in me, and we should come with a repentant heart. What does Paul mean when he says if we judge ourselves, we should not be judged? You see, friend, I don't want God to judge me for my sins, so I judge my own sins You say, how do you do that? By confession. When I see, when the Holy Spirit points out sin in my life, I immediately confess it. 1 John 1:9, Lord, please forgive me. I confess this sin, I forsake it I hate it. I agree with you about it. Lord, help me to live above this, to overcome this by your grace. I confess it immediately. You see, what is that? I'm judging myself. And God says, if you judge yourself, then God doesn't need to judge you. You know, when I was the school administrator here, every once in a while a teacher would bring a unruly student to me. Sometimes these little elementary kids would be brought in. And that it was very intimidating for them to come in and see mean Mr. Harmon. You know, and sometimes they would come through the door crying, tears already flowing, before I even said anything to them. You say, what would you do to a child like that? I would say, go and sin no more. And they would leave. Sometimes the secretary would say, Well, that wasn't long. I say, look, I don't need to judge a child that's already judging themselves If they're already judging themselves, I don't need to render judgment on them. That's what the Lord is saying here. If you judge your sins, God doesn't need to do it And he won't need to chastise you. And so we need to examine ourselves and confess our sins. But let me just emphasize this one thing before we close. This is an examination of ourselves. Notice it doesn't say examine your brother. No, you examine yourself. See why do you bring that up? Because you know, the first church that I pastored, uh, they were some in a church that believed the the uh the former pastor of that church Believed and taught the church that only church members can take the Lord's Supper. And I came along and I believed that if you're a believer or you know the Lord Jesus Christ and you're walking in fellowship, you're free to worship with others. In this ordinance. I don't see anything in scripture that forbids someone that's not a member of our church to worship with this. And the former pastor thought I was making a serious error And so he came to my office and he brought some backup with him. He brought a seminary president with him to help straighten me out on this issue. And so I'm a I'm open. You can straighten me out. I I mean I'm not right on everything. I I think I'm right on everything, but surely I'm open to make sure that I'm doing according to what the scripture says I want to that the issue is not me being right, the issue is making sure that I'm doing what Scripture says. So I'm open to listen. And so he says to me, if a person visited your church and during a business meeting, would you let them vote in the business meeting? business meeting and I said, No, I wouldn't. They said he said, Well then why would you let them take the Lord's Supper? And I said, Well to me that's a apples and oranges comparison So let me ask you a question. If a visitor came to your church and they wanted to sing the hymn, would you let them sing? Yes. If they came to church and they wanted to pray with you, would you let them pray? Yes. If they came to church and they wanted to give offering in the offering plate, would you let them give the money? Yes. You wouldn't give the money back to them, would you? No. Well then why would we say you can't worship When we come to God's house and we sing, we worship. When we come to God's house and we listen to the to the Word of God and submit to it, we worship. When we come to God's house and we give, that is an act of worship. It's all worship. It's not business. It's worship. And so the point is this, and then he said this, well, how do you know how they're living if they're not your church members? And I say, You mean to tell me you knew everything about all your church members? I don't know everything about all the church members. You see, here Here's the point. God didn't call me to examine all of you. In the Lord's Supper, God said, Examine yourself. I have enough trouble just keeping up with myself. examining myself. And so this is something where you, when you're here and you're participating in this ordinance, you yourself have to examine your own heart before the Lord because this is something that you're going to To have the answer to for God. This is Paul's point here. Let a man examine himself, not others. Examine yourself and judge your own sins. And by the way, this is a good thing because what does it do? It c it It it forces us to take spiritual inventory in our own spiritual walk. And God wants that. So that we come to God's house in a worthy manner. And let me tell you something. When we worship the Lord in a Good way with this, it ref it does refresh us. It does invigorate us. We do sense the presence of the Lord. We do come to the cross. And we do glory in the cross. I read a quote this week that really thrilled me. It was by Spurgeon, who said, You don't have a problem that can't be settled at the foot of the cross. Very true. You can bring it all to the cross. You can come to the cross, and at the cross, our Lord Jesus can heal you. He can bless you. He can give you what you need. at the cross, that's what we do. Let's bow for prayer together tonight.