Would you take your Bibles this morning? I invite you to open to Hebrews chapter thirteen. We've been dealing with Hebrews and we come to the last chapter of this wonderful letter of Hebrews. And this morning I want to talk about acceptable sacrifices from Hebrews chapter 13, verses 1 to 6. And while you're finding that, let me just tell you that the Bible uses many metaphors to speak of the Christian life. You understand that? What is a Christian's life like? And so the Bible will give us metaphors to describe what it's like. We're soldiers in a war. You understand that? We're in a war. There's spiritual warfare going on. You're called to be a soldier But also we are another illustration, we're stones in a temple. The foundation is the Lord, and we're being built up in a spiritual temple. The Bible uses that analogy. We saw in the book of Hebrews where the writer in chapter twelve used several analogies to speak of the Christian life. We're all runners running this race. It's not a short dash, it's a marathon. So we have to lay aside the weight and the sin that thus so easily beset us. We're also we're children in a family, and God is our father, and sometimes he has to chastise us, sometimes he's got to spank us, but the goal there is maturity, that we grow up. And then we're also citizens in a kingdom. We're all headed to Mount Zion. We saw this in Hebrews chapter 12. There are two mountains. There's Mount Sinai and Mount Zion. You don't want to go to Mount Sinai because that's a fearful mountain. And we'll have God's law and God's judgment, and you can't approach God there. But if you go to Mount Zion, God invites you there It's a place of God's forgiveness and God's peace. So we're citizens in a kingdom. We're headed to that kingdom called heaven. These are just some of the metaphors that are used in Hebrews. Now there's another metaphor that's used. I have to admit that I didn't see this at first. I'm glad that God opens my eyes to see things that I miss sometimes studying Scripture. But in Hebrews, actually, our passage today really begins in chapter 12, verse 28. You know, the original text of scripture did not have chapter breaks. And so the chapter breaks were later added on. And to me, honestly, when I'm studying scripture, I I feel like sometimes those chapter breaks may not be in the right spot. But they didn't ask me when they did it, so But I think this is one case of that in chapter 12, verse 28. Look what it says in verse 28. Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved. Let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with fear, with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire, and then it should continue really. Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers and then so on. The wherefore is kind of a transitional word, so he's going to help us to apply what he just said. But the thing I want to call your attention to is in verse 28 is the word serve, where it says that we may serve God acceptably. Now the Greek word here is litruo, is where we get our word liturgy from, and it's really a priestly word, we could say, a word that was used to speak of a priest. And what he did when he worshipped God at the altar, what would he do? Well he would present a sacrifice Now, in the Old Testament Old Covenant system, only certain people could be priests. You had to qualify. You had to be from a certain tribe, and there were other things that you had to, expectations you had to meet up with. But that's not the case under the New Covenant. Under the new covenant, every person who is saved and knows the Lord Jesus Christ, you are a priest of God. Did you know that? How many of you are saved this morning? Say amen. Well, then you're a priest of God. You're one of God's priests. And in the Old Testament, when a priest brought a sacrifice to the altar, Sometimes God would show his acceptance of that sacrifice by a fire that would just fall down and consume the sacrifice. That would be an awesome thing, would it not? In fact, the Bible talks about this in Leviticus 9, 24. And there came a fire out from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering. Which when the people saw, they shouted and they fell on their faces. I bet they did. Here's a sacrifice brought to the altar. God is so pleased with that sacrifice that the fire falls. And God's people shout and fall on their faces. And this is several places in the scripture in the Old Testament where we read that God does this. But then there's the other side of it. If a person brought a sacrifice to the altar and God did not accept the sacrifice, in fact the sacrifice was not pleasing at all to God, Then the fire sometimes would fall, but it wouldn't fall upon the sacrifice. It would fall upon the worshiper. And they would burn up. We read of that happening also in the Old Testament, where in Leviticus chapter 10, where Nadab and Abihu, they were sons of Aaron, and they brought strange fire to the altar. And that was not according to the way God had prescribed his worship to be done. And the Bible says in verse 2, and there went out a fire from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. It's a fearful thing to worship God. That's why we want to make sure that whenever we come and we worship God, that we do it in a way that is acceptable. And that's why the writer of Hebrews says that we may serve God, or we could say like this, may we bring our sacrifices of worship to God in an acceptable way, with reverence and godly fear. Because definitely in the Old Testament, when the priest brought a sacrifice to the altar, you could rest assured that there was a reverence there. And that there was a fear there. And the hope was that this sacrifice was acceptable to God. And if it was, the fire of God would fall on the sacrifice, and if it wasn't, it would fall on the person. And so we want our worship to be acceptable in God's sight. Amen? Well, this begs the question: how do I know what are acceptable sacrifices? In the Old Testament, they would bring an animal to the altar. We don't do that in the New Testament, not in the New Covenant. Why? Because all of those Old Testament sacrifices, the animals, all pointed to Jesus Christ. They were the shadow. He was the fulfillment. He was the substance. And Jesus died on the cross. That was the once-for-all sacrifice that paid for the sins of the world, that paid for your sin and my sin. So now in the New Testament, we don't offer animal sacrifices to God, but yet we're still priests and we still worship. The question is, what sacrifices do we bring in this New Covenant, in the New Testament? And the answer is, we don't bring animals to sacrifice, we bring, as an act of worship to God, our attitudes. And our actions. That's what's acceptable to God. In fact, look in chapter 13, look down at verse number 15, because the writer reminds us: by him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of what? Praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. You see, in this side of the cross, on this side of the cross, in this new covenant, we bring our attitudes, we bring our actions to God because all of that is uh a sacrifice that we bring to the Lord, and it's either acceptable in God's sight or it's not. This morning when we sang, do you know that that is a a sacrifice that we bring to the Lord? I hope that your praise was sincere. I hope that you meant what you sing. I hope that your heart was in tune. I hope that you didn't let your mind gather woe or was distracted because that's your offering. that you're bringing to the Lord when you offer praise to the Lord. And when you offer thanksgiving to God, all of these are attitudes and actions that we bring to the Lord in sacrifice and worship. Now, so therefore in chapter 13, what the writer is going to do is he's going to name for us some attitudes, some actions that are acceptable to God as we worship. If you're taking notes, I just want to show you four quickly here in the time that we have. But number one, there's the sacrifice of compassion. Look at verse number one of chapter 13. Let brotherly love continue. This is something that is acceptable to God when he sees love among God's people. The word for love here, phileo And Adolphos is brotherly love. That's the Greek word. Love, of course, is Phileo. Adolphos means from the same woman. Literally, it's a family love, a brotherly love. And what he's saying basically is the love that we have among God's people is reflected in the family love that we have. Family love really is a uh uh what shows the type of love that we have in the church of God. That we're all one big family together. You understand that And we're to have that family love. The love that characterizes the believer is that family type of love. I was in England a few uh Weeks back, actually in January, I walked through a church graveyard, I saw a gravestone that really touched my heart. It was a gravestone of an 18-year-old Royal Air Force serviceman who died during World War II. And the parents put a tribute on his gravestone and this is what it read. It read, to the world he was only a part, to us he was all the world And that really touched my heart. And that beautifully sums up family love. This is the kind of love that characterizes God's people. Christian love. And we're to manifest it to all people. In fact, notice what he says, first of all, to those that are strangers, and verse number two, be not forgetful to entertain strangers. For thereby some have entertained angels unaware. Now this commandment stems from the fact that in the first century there were many Christians that would travel taking the gospel on those Roman roads, and the ends were notoriously dangerous. They were really the tar uh people who stayed there were targets for thieves and for prostitutes, and so Christians would not stay in those inns. They would depend upon the hospitality of other believers While they were on the road. So if you're a Christian, you would take in the stranger, you would take in those that were in need. Now, of course, this could be abused And so you had to exercise some discernment with that. In fact, the early church came up with a document called the Didacti, which gave some rules about this. And one of the rules was talking about those that you receive Let him not stay more than a day, or if need, a second as well, but if he stays three days, he's a false prophet. That's pretty strong, ain't it? I want to remind missionaries sometimes to stay in our house about that one thing If you stay more than three days, you're a false prophet. You've got to get out after two. It reminds us that we are to show love to others, but we need also need to be discerning. And the Bible says, you know Don't forget to entertain strangers because look what it says, for thereby some have entertained angels unaware. And the author's point is not that we should be hospitable to strangers in hopes of meeting an angel. I'm gonna take care of the stranger. Hopefully it's an angel. And God will bless me. That's not really what he means here. Rather, he's saying that we often do not know how important, how far-reaching one simple act of helpfulness can be. And he's referring really to the story in the Old Testament when Abraham took in three strangers and two of them happened to be angels. And one of them happened to be the Lord Himself. And by the way, when you're good to strangers and you're hospitable and you're helpful, what did Jesus say? As much as you have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. So we show love to strangers, also to those that are suffering, verse 3. Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body, which remember our believers that are suffering. Some in prisons and share the gospel with them. We heard a wonderful testimony from Will this morning where the Lord was been working in Will's heart, but yet while he was there in that jail, he was able to meet up with other believers and They shared the word of God. The Bible says we're to remember Christians who suffer. And when he says it could be you, really in verse 3, it's being yourselves also in the body. We here in America, we don't really suffer for our faith the way believers in other countries do. We're not persecuted. We didn't risk our life to come and worship here in grace, but I want to tell you in other countries they do. And we have many brothers and sisters that are suffering. Scripture says we're to remember them. There are groups like Voice of the Martyrs and the Gospel for Asia, and they publish stories of persecu persecuted saints. We should pray for them at the very least. And maybe if the Lord leads, even support some of them. But this compassion, this is an acceptable sacrifice to God. So we show compassion. But here's another sacrifice, the sacrifice of chastity. Look in verse 4. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. Scripture says marriage is honorable. You know why it's honorable? Because it was invented by God. It was an institution that God created. In our society today, marriage is not honorable. People ridicule it. People question the validity of it. We even have governments that want to redefine what marriage is. They don't get the right to do that because they didn't invent it. Scripture tells us what God's design is of marriage, and it's in God's sight between a man and a woman, holy and honorable. And he mentions the bed undefiled. He's referring to the physical intimacy of marriage. It's holy, sanctified inside the bounds of marriage. Outside the bounds of marriage, it brings judgment. There are 20 different sexually transmitted diseases I read about in a statistic, and these are horrible diseases. And there's more statistics. I don't want to bore you with it, but just this, one in five people in the U. S. have a STD. The cost to treat this each year is about $8 billion. I believe this is part of God's punishment and judgment. Because this is chastity, purity. is acceptable to God. You say, well, what if I've already messed up? Well I've got good news for you, my friend. We have a merciful God who can cleanse you as white as snow. Remember, that's what David prayed after his sin with Bathsheba in Psalm 51. He prayed, Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. And later on he prayed, Purge me and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Create in me a clean heart. And God in his grace and in his power is able to do that. If you'll come. The sacrifice of chastity is acceptable. But then there's the sacrifice of contentment. Look in verse 5. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content of such things as you have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The word conversation in verse five is an old English word that simply means lifestyle The ESV says, keep your life free from the love of money. So first of all, he zeroes in on covetousness. It's from a word that means actually literally love of money. And covetousness is simply the desire for more It's when what you have is not enough and you desire more and whatever you get, that's still not enough. It's just this inward, this restlessness that always is wanting more and more. And what it does is it doesn't keep make you thankful for what God has already given you. What he's given you just doesn't seem to be enough. You constantly need more. And that is not acceptable to God. What is acceptable is contentment. Contentment. He says in verse 5, and be content. This is imperative. This is God saying, be content with the things that I've already given you, that I've already entrusted to you. What is contentment? One Puritan, Jeremiah Burroughs. called it that sweet inward great uh quiet gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise And fatherly disposable in every condition. It's just being content and thankful for what God has given you. And the Bible says godliness with this contentment This spirit of satisfaction and gratefulness, what the Lord has given you, that's great gain, the Bible says. Great gain. And so this is acceptable to God. By the way, we live in a world that is designed to make us malcontented or discontented. In fact, all of the commercials you see on TV are designed to tell you that you're not going to be happy unless you have this product. So this goes against the grain of the world. It first of all goes against our nature and it goes against the materialistic spirit of the world. But the Bible teaches us that God has not created our heart to be satisfied with material things. He put eternity in our heart. And we're only going to be satisfied when we become satisfied, first of all, in our relationship to Almighty God. And Paul said you have to learn contentment. It has to be cultivated. Cultivation is the next idea here. Paul said, I've learned to be content in whatever state I'm in. Again, you have to learn it because it doesn't come natural. And how do we learn it? We learn it through going through difficulty. Paul said, I know how to be abase, I know how to do without a lot. I know how to abound, I know how to act when I have a lot. I don't put my hope in those things. And then he said this, I can do all things through Christ. We love to quote that verse, but do you understand that that verse is quoted in the context of learning to be content? The next time you're at the store and you think, I gotta have that. Just quote that verse, I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. And in that context, it means you don't need it. Don't buy it. You can resist the temptation of getting that one thing. If you're trying to find your contentment in things. And so this is acceptable that we learn to be content. before God. Let me give you the last sacrifice. There's the sacrifice of compassion and chastity and contentment. These are all well pleasing sacrifices to the Lord. But then there's the sacrifice of courage, because look what he says in verse 5. At the end he says, For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what men shall do. unto me. This is what I call the sacrifice of courage. This is the faith that God will always take care of you. He will always be with you. Now this meant a lot to the group that the writer was writing to because they had gone through persecution. And many of them had had their things taken from them. But notice the content of this promise. I think this is the most encouraging verse in all of the Bible. Where God says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Psychologists tell us that one of the things that people struggle with most is the feeling of being alone. But God is assuring us that He will always be with us. He will not leave us alone. Scholars tell us that this sentence actually has five negatives in it. Now we say in English a double negative is not proper English, but in Greek it is good. In fact, five negatives So actually, we could say it like this. I will never, no, not ever, no, never leave nor forsake you. Isn't that pretty strong? That's literally how it reads. I will never no not ever no never leave you nor forsake you One time a young Greek seminary student or studying Greek was trying to for explain this to a wonderful old saint of God, a dear lady that had walked with the Lord for many years, and he was trying to impress her with his Greek and he was telling her that in the Greek this is five negatives. God says it five times. He thought that she would be impressed with that Instead, she looked at him and said, God might have to say five time to you, Greek fellers, but once is enough for me. Once is enough. And l and the word leave here literally means I will not abandon you. I will not give up on you. I will not leave you helpless. I'm speaking to some women today, perhaps maybe your husband has walked out, or vice versa, wife walked out on a husband, or maybe to some children that might feel forsaken. Or maybe some believer in some way where you feel alone, God promises that he's there for you. He will not leave you And when you're discouraged, his presence will see you through. And when you're lonely, his presence will come and cheer you. And when you're worried, his presence will calm you. And when you're tempted, his presence will help you out. But notice I love this in verse 5 where it says, For he has said. For he has said. I want to focus on that. A promise is no better than the one who gives it. Who's the one talking here? God. For he himself has said, God says this, the omnipotent, omnipresent, omniscient God says, I will never leave you. And so then notice that's where we get the courage from, the courage of this promise. Look at verse 6, so that we may boldly say, since God says this, we can boldly say it. You know what? That's faith. Faith is boldly saying what God has already said. That's where we get our boldness from. That's where we get our courage from. We boldly say what God has already said. And so the writer here is saying, you can be bold, you can know that God will be your protector. Isaiah 43 says, when you pass through the waters, that God would go with you. When you go through the rivers, he would go with you. They will not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, they shall not burn you. The flame shall not consume you. Why? Because that God is with you. One time there was a man by the name of Alexander McLaren. Alexander McLaren was a great Scottish Bible expositor. And in one of his sermons, he told about an event that took place in his life when he was 16 years old. He worked on a farm in Glasgow, or just outside of Glasgow, about five or six miles outside of the city. And when he was sixteen uh he w he got a job in the city of Glasgow, Scotland. And being he didn't have a horse, he didn't have a vehicle, he would have to walk to work and he didn't want to have to walk five or six miles You know, each day, if you go back and forth, that's a long walk. So he decided that he would stay in the city for a week and then come back. Now his father And he were close and he said to his son, son, now on Friday when you're done work, I want you to walk back to the farm because your mother and I are going to miss you. Now, Alexander knew that between his farm and the city was a deep dark cavern, a valley, that had a reputation because many people were robbed in that chasm. And it was a very dangerous prospect. So he said to his father, he said, Dad, you know what? Friday it's going to kind of be late. Why don't I just sleep over Friday? And then Saturday morning I'll walk on Saturday morning back to the farm. And the father said, No, I want to see you Friday night. And Alexander knew he was going to have to walk through that dark valley by himself, but he said, Yes, sir, I'll do that. So sure enough, Friday came after work. He started on the journey. He got to the very edge of that cavern. It was dark. He went ahead and mustered some courage and began to walk down through that valley. And at first he just began to whistle, you know, try to occupy his mind. And then he had a pretend conversation with someone. In case there was any robbers around, they would think it was two people instead of one. He had this pretend conversation. But while he was in that valley, he could hear someone walking towards him. And he was filled with terror. But when that shadow got closer, he saw that it was his father. And he said, Alexander, I thought that I would meet you halfway and we could walk home together. And Alexander McLaren said, You have no idea the difference that that made for me on this journey. That in that valley there my loving father was right there. presence was there. And there was no more fear because he was there with me. Dear friend, I want to tell you it doesn't matter what takes place in your life in this year. Whatever valley you go through, I promise you this: your Heavenly Father will meet you there. He will not leave you alone. He will not forsake you. And therefore, the writer says, we can boldly say, the Lord is my helper. The Lord is my helper. I don't know about you, but I need God's help. And the good news is he is my helper. I will not fear what man can do unto me. And so this is the sacrifice. You know where we get courage from? We get it from this idea of knowing. that the Lord is with us. And when we have courage, because we trust in our Heavenly Father, that's a pleasing sacrifice to Almighty God. So when we worship the Lord, let's make sure that we bring acceptable sacrifices to the Lord. So this is a warning to all of us to make sure that we worship in an acceptable way. And let me just close by saying this: remember the one sacrifice, the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ on the cross? When God's wrath fell on Jesus, you know why? To pay for your sins and my sins. And if you haven't trusted Jesus, friend, I want to encourage you to do that right today. Do it now. Because that's acceptable to God. You know what's acceptable to God? When you look at the cross and you see the sacrifice of Christ And you come to the cross and find salvation in Christ, that is pleasing and acceptable to God. If you haven't done that, place your faith in Christ. Before it's eternally too late. Let's bow for prayer together today. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just don't want anyone to leave here without knowing. That your faith is in the finished work of Christ. And if you can say that and know it, then would you just take a moment in quietness and prayer, just thank the Lord for his salvation. That he's opened your eyes to see Christ, that your faith is in his finished work. Rejoice in that And if you can't say that with absolute assurance, I want to challenge you right now to obey the call of the gospel. It's more than an invitation, it's a command. God is commanding you to repent, to turn to Him To accept the sacrifice of his son. Would you pray? Would you reach out and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner? Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me Make me your child. And friend, he will. Because he loves you, he wants to be your savior. If you're a child of God, examine your heart and make sure that when you worship God, it's acceptable. And it's not just on Sunday, it's every day of our life. How we live. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Let's all stand together and we ask our ministers to come. We're going to have a moment of invitation if God has spoken If you do need to use this altar, friend, it's it's here. We're here to help you, to pray with you. Anything we can do, we'll just have a brief invitation, but let the Lord speak to your heart today. Let's sing together just as I am without one, please. Just How do you tell that and eight? See that second stance though. Let's sing one more stanza together. Just a little bit. Uh goodness. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for the promises of your word. May we take these to heart. And Lord may boldly saying what you've already said stir within us courage Grace for whatever valley we may be in. Thank you, Lord, that we know that your presence is with each and every one of us. Thank you, Lord, for what you're doing in hearts and lives. We pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen