It's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Romans, chapter 8, as we continue in our study through Romans. And tonight I want to deal with verses uh 13, actually 15, down to verse 17. And uh tonight I want to just talk about this idea of adoption that we see here that's given to us in the scripture. Romans chapter 8, verse number. Let's start actually verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage, again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. Now this is a wonderful passage that we're going to look at tonight that deals with this whole concept of adoption and what does it mean for the believer to be adopted into the family of God. Let me give you a story. There was a man by the name of Michael Orr. How many of you know that name? That should sound familiar to you football fans. Michael Orr was born in Memphis, Tennessee. His dad was murdered. His mom was a cocaine addict. He didn't have a permanent address until he was 16, and he went to 11 schools in nine years. At the age of 16, he had a measured IQ of AD. Michael was staying with a friend whose son was going to a Christian school called Briarcrest. Christian in Memphis, and the friend decided that he should go as well. And so while at that school, Lee Ann and Sean Tuey saw him And due to the fact that their daughter went there, they were able to meet him. They also saw him again on a Thanksgiving break. He was walking to the gym, even though he wasn't on the team. He just wanted to stay warm Well the Tuies decided that they were going to bring him into their home and they did that. And so Michael Orr uh stayed basically in their house, lived there for his entire high school career. They basically adopted him into their family, and they uh the Tuies owned about 60 Taco Bell franchises. So they were very well off. And one day they went into Michael's room and they found a bunch of food stashed in his room. And uh naturally he was stashing food because uh he was always accustomed not to not know where his next meal was going to come from. So he was always stashing food. And they Pulled them aside and they said, look, any one of these restaurants that we own, all you have to do is just walk in and get whatever you want. You never have to worry about food anymore. But it was a beautiful story of how they they adopted him into the family. And then later on, as some of you already know, Micah was the first-round draft pick for the Baltimore Ravens. By the way, the principal of that school went to the church that I pastored down in Memphis. So I kind of knew that that story just a little bit close and personal. And Michael Orr signed his hat and gave it to me. That makes me feel very very special that I have a signed hat from Michael Orr. But it's just a beautiful story. And and some of you know that that story was turned into a movie called Blindside where it just tells about that whole story of adoption. But when I read that and think about that, I think about that's what God does for us. He chooses us to be in his family. That's the thing about adoption. You choose someone, you reach out in love, and you choose them to be in your family. Our Father has chosen us in him. He's brought us into the family. He gives us his great provision for us. There's nothing that we lack now that we're we're in the family of God, that we are his adopted And so the Apostle Paul is going to talk about this. This, again, is one of the most beautiful passages in the New Testament that describes the believers' adoption and our relationship to the Father. Now, the New Testament uses some beautiful metaphors. I think of two writers in the New Testament that like to use illustrations. One of them is James. If you read the book of James, you'll know that James is a master of metaphors But also the Apostle Paul has some illustrations and metaphors that teach spiritual truth that are really unique to him. And I think this idea of adoption is something that Paul uh originated and he uses uh to speak about the believer uh his position in Christ. Paul used many metaphors we know that throughout the reading of his epistles. He used f metaphors from the athletic realm uh from the military world, from the farming world, from the world of slavery. But here to communicate the spirit's work In our life as the children of God, he's going to use this metaphor of adoption. Now let me just talk to you first of all about the meaning of adoption. What does adoption mean? Let me give you the definition from the Westminster Catechism. It says this. What is adoption? Adoption is the act of God's free grace. whereby we are received into the number and have a right to all the privileges of the sons of God. Just like in earthly adoption, it is the act of bringing into the family someone who wasn't naturally born into the family. But you're legally making them in your child, you're bringing them into the family, making them like your son. In fact, the word, the Greek word translate uh translated adoption is used the one that's used here is used five times in the New Testament and uh according to Vine's lexicon it means the place and condition of a son given to whom one to whom it does not naturally belong. A place given to whom it does not naturally belong. That's the the meaning of the word there. Another lexicon says this to formally and legally declare that someone who is not one's own child is henceforth to be treated and cared for as one's own child. including complete rights and inheritance. In fact, the Greek word here is a combination of two words. It's the Greek word for son and the word to place, literally to place a son. Or we could say to place a son legally in your family. Now, there's a debate by New Testament scholars on this reference here. And they are debating is about which custom that Paul might be referring to when he's using this illustration of adoption. Is Paul referring to the Roman custom or is he referring to the Old Testament concept of adoption? Now keep in mind Paul's writing to the Romans. No doubt the Romans knew very well this custom of adoption because they had this all laid out in their laws. I think that Paul may be using a little bit from each Yeah, I think he's referring to the Roman custom of adoption, but also to some of the things that happened in the Old Testament with reference to adoption. But I think he draws heavily upon the Roman custom. So let me talk to you about the method then of adoption. Here's the Roman custom. In Roman culture, sometimes an adult son might exchange one uh authority or it's the word is potesta authority for another by the way of adoption. There were reasons for this according to one scholar to preserve family name and property, if there were no male successors to the family desire or the desire for a son, or if a slave gains favor, all of these are reasons for adoption. But whatever the reason The Roman custom took place in two steps. First of all, there was what is called mancipatio. That's the first step, mancipatio, and this simply meant it was the release of the one to be adopted from his natural father. It involved three people besides the adoptee. There had to be the natural father there. There had to be the adopting father who was there. And then there was a third witness that was called the intermediary that was there. Now the natural father sold his son, and the adopting father would pay the price for this son. And so this adopting father would be the new potesta, which again means authority, the old potesta, the old father. His authority over the son was considered to be broken. In other words, the natural father no longer had any more authority over his former son. So this was the first stage. The second stage in a Roman custom of adoption was what they called vindicatio. Vindicatio is the adopting father asserting his potesta, his authority. over the adopted son. The adopting father laid claim to the adopted son. He was always before a judge. When he did this or before a magistrate. One person writes, If the intermediary or natural father raised no objection, the judge declared in favor of the claim, and the adopting father became the new Pater Fromelius, the new father. For the adopted son, this was legally a new birth. This was literally a new life. for this son. The old life was behind him. All the old family rights were gone. All the rights of the new family were his. The adopted son was heir to his new father's estate. If there were other sons, natural sons of this new father, he was treated as their equal. The debts of his old life were canceled. No claim could be made against him in the courts with his old debts. They were all gone, all over with. In the eyes of the law, he was no longer the person he had been He was legally and practically a new man and was declared to be a new man. Now that's the Roman custom there. And boy, that sounds an awful lot like salvation, doesn't it? You can just see the connections. No wonder Paul used this metaphor to talk about what it means to be a Christian. So let's talk then again about this metaphor of adoption. Paul is drawing heavily, I think, upon this Roman custom to illustrate the believer's new position in the family of God. There was a time when we were under the old potesta, the old authority. Who was that? That was sin. We saw this in the book of Romans. Paul argued this. Paul said in Romans 3. 9, all of us were under sin. We were all under sin. But God in his mercy made us his child through adoption. He bought us. He redeemed us. And how did he do that? With the precious blood. We see this in Romans 3. 24. Therefore, our old father sin has no more authority over us, no more claim over us. And we see this over and over again. We saw this in Romans 6, right? Look up, go back to Romans 6, look at verse number 6. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. The old potesta, the old authority, is broken, has no more authority in our life. Therefore, we have no more obligation. Or debts to the past. Remember, we saw that last week. We have no debt to the flesh. We are not debtors to the old life in any way. But and a new life has begun. God has done something new in us, and we see this over and over again. that we should walk in newness of life. Remember Paul said that in Romans 6, verse number 4. In Romans 6, 13, he said, Don't yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. So a new life has begun. Our adopted Father, on the other hand, has an absolute claim on our life. God has a total, complete claim on us now. He is our new Father. Now let me talk to you about the mediator. of adoption. Just as in the Roman custom there was an intermediary to witness and confirm the adoption as a complete action, even so we have a witness That confirms the believer's adoption in the family of God. What is this that confirms that we are adopted into the family of God? You know who that witness might be? It's the Holy Spirit of God. That is the work of the Holy Spirit of God. And in Romans chapter 8, you remember that what Paul's been teaching us here in this chapter is the work of the Spirit in the life of the believer. This is one of the great chapters in the Bible that teaches us about the Spirit of God's work in us. He does many things for us. But one of those things we're going to see is he confirms our adoption. He assures us that we are the children of God. Not talk to some adopted or some parents who have adopted a child. And one of the things that the parent has to convince that child of is that they are really literally in their family. That they're never going to l uh they're never going to disown that child. That that child now is an heir and is literally legally in that family and they are accepted and then they are secure because a lot of adopted children they have this insecurity about them that perhaps all these wonderful things that are now taking place in my life, uh perhaps it could I could lose it one day. It could all go away. And you know what? I've heard from parents who adopt children. They constantly need to be reminded that you are my child. And that will never change. You are secure here. You are loved. It is that constant reminder that you are my child. Now, friend, I think that's true for the believer also. Don't raise your hand, but how many of you have sometimes wrestled over the security of your salvation? And you wonder, you say, Amen, all these blessings I have, all of the joy that I have being in Christ. I is there anything I can do to lose this And you know what the work of the Holy Spirit is? The work of the Holy Spirit is to constantly remind you that you are the child of God. You belong to God. Now we've been looking at many things that the Spirit of God does in us. That's what Romans 8 is about. And the major overall picture is this. He affirms to us our status, which is this. Look in Romans chapter 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no what No condemnation. Look in Romans chapter 8 and look down at verse number 34. Who is he that what condemneth? Who can condemn you? It is Christ that died, yea, that is rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. So the chapter of Romans opens by affirming your status as not being condemned, and it closes by again reaffirming who can condemn you. Who is he that can rise up in condemnation against you? And of course, that's a rhetorical question, and the answer is no one. No one. You understand that Christ is in heaven praying for you, and you understand what his prayer is for you? We get a glimpse of it in John 17. Father, I want them to be where I am You know why I know I'm going to heaven? Because Jesus is praying, Lord, I want Jerry where I am. And you know what? God the Father always honors Jesus' prayers And he's praying the same thing for you. Father, I want those that you have given me, I want them to see my glory That's one of the prayers of Jesus. Where will Jesus' glory be manifested? In heaven. That's why I know that I'm going to heaven, that my status before God is I'm under no condemnation. None. Romans 8 starts out emphasizing that. It ends emphasizing that And in the between, it is the ministry of the Holy Spirit to constantly confirm to you that you are not condemned. That your status before God is that you are accepted by God. You are his child. He constantly is affirming this no-condemnation status. And he does it by freeing us from sin and death. We saw that in verses 2 and 3. By helping us to fulfill the law, verse four, we saw that. By changing our very nature, verse five through eleven, by empowering us for victory through the Holy Spirit, we saw that in verse twelve and 13. And now what we see here in these other verses is that he also again confirms our no condemnation status. By reminding us over and over again that you are adopted into the family of God and you'll never lose that. You are secure in Christ. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He's constantly reminding us of that. So let me give you three factors in how he does this. How does the Holy Spirit confirm our adoption as children of God? Here's the first thing. Write this, the believer's spiritual instruction. Look at verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the what? Sons of God. And what he does, what the Spirit of God does, and by the way, this is the first time the concept of sons of God is used in Romans regarding salvation. You know, there's that old liberal argument that has this concept of the universal fatherhood of God and the universal brotherhood of man. And they like to say we're all children of God. God is the father of us all. And I know that that is a very warm and fuzzy notion. The only problem is it's not biblical, it's not true. You are only a child of God if you come to Christ by faith, if you put your faith in the finished work of Christ. Only those who are have done that are truly children of God, adopted children of God. And when that happens, you know what's going to happen? You're going to experience in your life the leading of the Holy Spirit Once you become a child of God, the Holy Spirit then begins to lead you. Let me quote you what one expositor wrote He said a merely professing Christian just cannot, or does not and cannot be led by the Spirit of God. He may be moral, conscientious, generous, active in his church and other Christian organizations and exhibit many other commendable traits. His life may be outstandingly religious, but because it lives in the power of the flesh, he can never truly be spiritual And he will never have the inner conviction of God's leading and empowering. And what he's saying is this you can have all the your ducks in order religiously and outwardly, but if you don't experience in your life The ministry of the Holy Spirit, the leaning of the Holy Spirit, that means that you're not a child of God. This is part of it When you experience the leading of the Holy Spirit of God, this is part of the Holy Spirit confirming your status that you are Now the big question then is this, how does the Holy Spirit lead us? How does he do it? People have many ideas on this, but they're not Biblical. And when I'm talking about being led by the Spirit or God's leading, I'm not talking about outward leading. Because I'm not talking about providence or providential circumstances or the counsel of others, people. God, by the way, does use these outward means to lead us. He does use providence. He does use the people of God To sometimes guide us and lead us in our life. But I'm not talking about outward leading. I'm talking about an inward leading of the Holy Spirit. Something that is internal, that is subjective. The question is, how does the Holy Spirit of God lead us inwardly? How does he lead us subjectively? Let me give you a few suggestions. First of all, the Spirit sanctifies the mind. It'll start in the mind. He'll sanctify us. Write down Romans 12, 2. Remember the renewing of the mind. Paul said this, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The person who discovers And tests and approves what is God's will and what is good and that it is good and acceptable and pleasing is a person that will be led by God. But the key to this is the renewing of the mind. And again, the question is: how does the Holy Spirit renew the mind? There's only one way that He does that. It is through revealing to us the truth of the Word of God. It is by him opening up our eyes to uh uh to illuminate scripture to us By teaching us the word. The Spirit of God, combined with the Word of God, renews our mind and our thinking is redirected. Listen, let me ask you a question as a Christian. Have you ever been reading along And the Spirit of God just seemed the highlight of earth for you. And then he opened your mind to that. That's the leading of the Spirit of God. That's him renewing your mind. As we study, as we meditate on the Bible, the Spirit of God opens our hearts and our minds so that we understand that. And this is what Paul prayed for the believers many times. Write down Ephesians 1, 15. He said, After I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and love to all the saints. I cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of your the Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. That the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you might know what is the hope of his calling. What is Paul praying for there? He's praying for God to open up their eyes, spiritually speaking, to illuminate their mind, to follow the leading of God. He's praying here for the leading of God in their life. In Ephesians 3, 16, Paul prayed that they would be strengthened with might by God's Spirit to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge. And so the Spirit fills us with the knowledge of his will, but the way he does that is he uses the scripture, the word of God, to do it. The word of God will come alive to us. And the Spirit of God will give us the ability to see and to know and to understand and to have the mind of Christ. Now here's the second thing. And so the Spirit sanctifies the mind, but here's the second way he leads. The Spirit stirs the heart This would be the seat of our emotions, our affections. He stirs up our affections for spiritual things. We learn spiritual truth when the Spirit stirs our heart. To what we know. And so first he opens our mind to see the truth, and then he stirs our heart to want to follow that truth. Write down Luke 24, 32. This is when Jesus was on the road to Emmaus with the disciples, and they said it to one to another, Did not our heart burn within us when he talked with us, by the way, when he opened to us the scripture. You remember in that story how that They could not recognize the risen Christ. They were withheld from really seeing him. And he began to show from the scripture that all those things that happened in Jerusalem needed to happen. And later on they're thinking after he had gone, man, when he was sharing the scripture, did not our heart burn within us? That's the Holy Spirit stirring us up in the heart. That's part of what the Spirit will do when he leads us. The psalmist said it this way in Psalm 104, verse 34: My meditation of him shall be sweet, and I will be glad in the Lord. But here's a third way. So the Spirit sanctifies the mind, the Spirit stirs the heart, but here's the third thing. Then the Spirit strengthens the will. And so you see, just as he sanctifies the mind with truth, then stirs our affections, then he gives us the desire and the will to do it, to follow it. Listen to Ephesians 2. 13. For it is God that worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. God gives us a singleness of purpose, then, to do his will. So let me ask you a question. Has your will ever been redirected in that way? To where God opens your mind to truth, He stirs your heart, then He gives you a strong will, a purpose to follow that And he will work to lead you in that way. God does not force you to be godly against your will. What he does is he changes your will by renewing your mind. He makes you willing. God never goes against your will. He just simply makes you willing. He makes you willing to do his will And that's the leading of the Spirit of God. John Murray said it like this. He said, quote, the activity of the believer is the evidence of the Spirit's activity And the activity of the Spirit is the cause of the believer's activity. He is working in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And friend, that's the leading of the Spirit. And Paul here says, if you've not experienced that, if you have experienced that, you are a child of God. And if you've never experienced the ministry of the Holy Spirit, then you're not one of His. But here's the second thing. There's the believer's spiritual instruction. And then right down, number two, there's the believer's spiritual intimacy. Look at verse number 15 then. For you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear But ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry ab a Father. And so what is he doing here? He teaches us the Holy Spirit takes away the fear of punishment. for our sin. And he replaces that with a spirit of adoption. He gives us this sense that we're God's child. He takes away the fear And what does he replace it with? An assurance and a peace that we really are the child of God. And so here's the first thing, then he removes the fear of punishment. The Bible says in Hebrews 2. 15 that Christ came to deliver those who through the fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Men live under the guilt of sin and the fear of judgment. And those who aren't saved, they kind of have that sense all the time. There's this sense of bondage And they don't have the relief that salvation provides. And so they have this foreboding sense of fear of judgment that is going to come. Uh and they try to forget this. They try to uh evade their fear, or they might even use man-made religion to cover up this fear that they have, this foreboding of judgment to come, but by doing this, those very things, they're they really all they're doing is they're just affirming their fear In the conscience of man, the Bible says the law of God worketh wrath. In his conscience, the law is working wrath. And what Paul is saying here is listen, you didn't become a Christian. To receive this spirit of bondage. What the spirit does is when you get saved, he takes away this fear This fear of coming judgment. He wants to convert to confirm your no-condemnation status. He doesn't want you to have an unhealthy fear of punishment or damnation or losing your salvation. And so what he does is he takes that away. Look again in verse 15, for ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. What in fact what God does is what does he do when you get saved? He sheds the love of God what? Abroad in your heart. It reminds you again that you're loved. 2 Timothy 1. 7 says this God has not given us the spirit of what? Fear. But he's given us the spirit of power. That we had his power working in our life and of love, that we he loves us, and he gives us a sound mind. That's the opposite of a spirit of fear. It is a sense in which perfect love, what does John 1 John say? Perfect love casts out fear. You don't need to be afraid because you have someone who loves you perfectly. That's the sense of that verse. Because he loves you perfectly, there's no fear that is there. It's gone. And what he replaces it with is this sense that you are God's child. Don't be afraid. You know what this reminds me of? Remember the story in the Old Testament of a Mephibosheth? You remember he was Jonathan's son, and Jonathan David made a an agreement together, and Jonathan died in battle, and one day David is sitting on his throne. And he's thinking about Jonathan. And he says, Is there anyone left of the household of Saul that I can show kindness to? And the word is kessed, love, loving kindness too. And one servant says, Yeah, there's a son of Jonathan. His name is Mephibosheth. He lives in a place called Lodibar, and David says, Bring him to me. And you remember in that story that when they bring Mephibosheth before David, Mephibosheth is afraid. What is he afraid of? Well, in that day, a new king, you know what he would do? He would kill off all of the old king's family. He was trying to establish his dynasty. And Mephibosheth was hiding, afraid of David But all of a sudden he's called before David and he throws himself down in front of David and he's afraid. And what he hears from David is this, don't be afraid, Mephiboshe. Fear not. I'm going to restore to you everything that has been taken from you. What an incredible thing that happens there in that story. And he basically he makes Mephibosheth just, and you read that passage, you know what it says? He becomes just like one of the king's sons. He's adopted into the family. And you know what happens in the life of Mephibosheth? The spirit of fear that he had is gone. And what he has now is the spirit of adoption. He realizes that he now is like one of the king's sons. And friend, that's a beautiful Old Testament illustration for what God does for us. We're the Mithiboshef of that story, just like he was crippled by a fall. All of us have been crippled by the fall of sin. And yet God, because of Jesus Christ, brings us into the family, and he removes all of the fear of bondage. And he replaces it with the spirit of adoption. That's what he says in verse 15. This is the next thing. He gives us this spirit of adoption. Look again where it says, But ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry what? Abba, Father. And the word cry here is cryzo, which means to cry loudly with deep emotion. Abba is an Aramaic term. It simply means daddy or papa. And it's used for only one person, that is your father. It's a very personal term that reflects love and intimacy when a child reaches out and says You know, father, have a father. You know, I've been reminded of this. I've had my little grandson around. I know I'm not his father father, but I'm his grandfather. I'm a you know, I have a little bit more authority. No, I'm just kidding And he'll run around the house and of course he's learned that name very well and I'll just hear it all the time. Paul Paul, Paul Paul! And sometimes he doesn't want to say he doesn't want anything. What? What? Nothing. He just wants to say Paul Paul. That's all he wants to know that I'm there. You know, and it's a beautiful thing to hear that that term. But you know what? Come into the family of God, we have this sense in which we can cry out, Abba, Father, Father, in a very intimate, special way. We cry out before the Lord because the Holy Spirit of God. Teaches us to do that. That's part of him again confirming our no-condemnation status, that we are his child, so much so that we can cry out in the most intimate of language with a very tender expression Abba Father. And the Holy Spirit again gives us this sense of intimacy, but also He bears witness that we are the children of God. Look at verse number 16. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And so the Holy Spirit is that witness. He bears witness with our human spirit. That's an internal witness, again, that our adoption is complete. The Spirit says internally, you are now a child of God. You remember in the Roman custom The adoption, the mancipatio, there was the release of the one to be adopted from the natural father. Remember, there involved three people, the natural father, the adopting father, and the third was a witness And this witness was important because if ever there was a doubt by anyone that this had taken place, the witness would step forward And the witness would confirm it. This took place. This person is adopted into this family. Now, this is the Holy Spirit's role, again. He witnesses, he testifies, saying, your adoption is complete before God. Now let me give you the third thing We see the spirit the believer's spiritual instruction. He leads us. We see the believer's spiritual intimacy. But then we see number three, we see the believer's spiritual inheritance. Look at verse 17. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. The Spirit reminds us of our spiritual inheritance. Again, that's a marvelous thought. This is again what the Holy Spirit does. He leads us, he reminds us that we're adopted, so much so that we cry out to have a Father, and then He's constantly reminding us that we have an inheritance waiting for us. We have a spiritual inheritance. You know, I sometimes I read about children who wanted the inheritance from their parents, and sometimes they are uh disappointed because they don't get the inheritance that they thought that they were going to get. I read of uh one of the richest men in the world, Cecil Rhodes. He was an Englishman who migrated to South Africa and uh he had uh amassed a vast fortune there through diamond mining. And he he died when he was 49 years old. And his family waited around to hear of their inheritance that was left to them. And in his will, he left his riches not to his immediate family. Much to their resentment, what he did was he left his riches to endow a famous scholarship in have you ever heard of the Rhodes Scholarship? All the money went to endow that scholarship fund. And so his one of his family members there said, Well there it is. I ha I have a scholarship if I want it. He was very disappointed in that inheritance. You know how different it is with God. Now he owes us nothing, but he possesses everything. And God says to us, you're joiners. I want to tell you something, friend. When you get to heaven and you see what your inheritance is, I promise you you're not going to be disappointed. And this is what Paul's saying. He reminds us that you're an heir of God. You have an inheritance waiting in heaven. Waiting in heaven there for you. You say, what does that consist of? A heavenly home. John 14, Jesus told the disciples, I prepare a place for you. When you get to heaven, you'll have a place Just for you that God has made. It's going to be wonderful. The Bible doesn't tell us everything about it But have you ever been disappointed with anything that God has done for you? You're not going to be disappointed when you see the place that God has for you. A heavenly banquet, the Bible tells us about the joy of the heavenly banquet, a celebration. We're going to have rule with Christ. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 2. 12, if we suffer, we also shall reign with him. And then another thing about this inheritance, likeness to Christ. The Bible says we'll be just like the Lord Jesus Christ. We won't have to deal with sin in our life anymore. But then perhaps the greatest thing about our inheritance is God will be our Portion. Look in verse 17 where it says, heirs of God. In Greek, this is an objective objective, meaning God is our inheritance. God Himself is our reward. God Himself is our treasure. Just to have him. Remember the psalmist said that? Whom have I in heaven but thee? Lord, you're the inheritance that I want. You remember when Joshua conquered the land of Canaan and the tribes were come together and he had divvied up all the land into the tribe of Levi, the Bible says. In Joshua 13, 33, but unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance. But then he said, this, the Lord God of Israel was their inheritance He said to the tribe Levi, You're not getting any land, but you get something better. You have God as your inheritance. You'll serve God. You'll be set apart unto God, and God will be your inheritance. And that's part of our inheritance in heaven. The joy of God, knowing God. And so this is what the Holy Spirit does then. He's constantly reminding us of our status. He leads us. He sanctifies the mind. He stirs our heart. He strengthens our will He removes the spirit of bondage and punishment and fear, and he replaces it with the spirit of adoption, so much so that we can cry out to the Father in very intimate terms. And then he reminds us that we have an inheritance waiting for us in heaven. This is the ministry of the Holy Spirit. This is what he does. And this is how he affirms our security in the Lord Jesus Christ. All these factors are true for the believer. And he's basically saying, look, your adoption is complete. Your adoption is complete. You are a child of God, and you will never, ever lose that. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to ask you this question before we're dismissed. Friend, do you have that assurance that you are God's child? Do you know that? If there's any doubt, I would just encourage you to get that matter settled right away. God doesn't want you wondering and fearing about your eternal standing before him. He wants you to know. And this is the work of the Holy Spirit. Have you experienced that ministry in your heart where he has led you? Where he has taught you to cry out, Abba Father. Where he's reminded you of your of the spiritual inheritance that you have And friend, if there's any doubt about that, would you just take a moment right there, very quietly where you are, and get that matter settled before God. Just pray right there where you are. Just say, Lord, I I want to know you. I want to know for sure that I am your child. Give me this assurance that I'm a child of God, that I've turned from my sin and turned to you. Again, God doesn't want you wrestling over this. He wants you to have this wonderful security that you are the child of God. You're adopted into his family. That's your right to know that. As his child. Father, use these words to strengthen and to bless everyone that's here tonight. And Lord, if there's someone that doesn't know you, Lord, may they call upon you this very moment, this very hour, and be saved. And have the spirit of fear replaced by the spirit of adoption. And whereby we cry, Abba Father. We pray this in Jesus' name, Amen