I invite you this morning to take your Bibles and open to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number one, today, the Gospel of Luke, chapter one. Now I know that we have been speaking in Hebrews 11, but we're going to put that aside during this Christmas season. And uh we're going to prepare our hearts to celebrate Christmas by really celebrating the Advent. The Advent is a season of four Sundays leading up into Christmas Eve. As you know, it's been uh the traditionally celebrated uh by the Christian church through the ages and it's called the Advent. And the ad the word Advent comes from the Latin word uh uh Adveneo which simply means coming And it celebrates the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you may uh already know this, but uh they a lot of people like to celebrate the Advent with what they call an Advent Reef. And it's a reef that has uh four candles around it and one candle in the center, and they all speak about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Advent reef was actually developed in the fifteen hundreds and it's been something that has been celebrated again to mark the coming of Christ. The colors of the candles are purple, speaking of the royalty, the deity of Christ, so the rose color. is a symbol of joy of Christ's coming, and then the white color campbell represents the purity of Jesus, the Savior. And so traditionally in the church, Advent has been marked by four Sundays, and there's a different theme for each of the Sundays. The first Sunday, the theme is hope. The second Sunday, it is peace. The third Sunday, it is joy. And then the fourth Sunday, the celebration theme is love. And which all leads up to Christmas Eve when we celebrate the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And of course the candles are lit and so on. But what I want to do is on these Sundays leading up to Christmas Eve is just touch on those themes that are part of the Advent. And I want to talk today about the hope of Christmas, because Christmas does indeed bring us hope. And the story that is traditionally touched upon about this is a story we're going to look at here in Luke chapter 1, and it is the story of a faithful priest and his wife. And the story picks up, look down in verse number 5 of chapter 1. And there was in the days of Herod the king of the king of Judea a certain priest named Zacharias of the course of Abbaiah, and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. And they had no child because that Elizabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. And it came to pass that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course, according to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. This is really how the Christmas story starts out, with a story of a faithful priest and his wife. So I want you to think first about a faithful priest with me. We are introduced to a priest, a man by the name of Zacharias. He was married to Elizabeth. She was one of the descendants of the priestly line. Her great-great-great-grandfather was Aaron. And the Bible says in verse 6 that they were both righteous, that is to say, they were living a good life And they were blameless with respect to their obedience to God's law. And the Bible says in verse 7 that Elizabeth was barren. Now we know, you've heard me say this before. That for a Jewish wife not to be able to give her husband a child was something that was an unbearable burden for a woman. It was considered And the Bible says that at this part of their life they were both well stricken in years, that is, they were beyond the ability to even have children. So they were perhaps uh reckoned to the reconciled to the fact that neither one of them perhaps would never have a child except God intervenes, as we're going to see in this story So we see a faithful priest, but then think about a fearful priest. Because the Bible says in verse number eight that it came to pass that while he was uh uh that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. Now in Jerusalem about this time There were about 20,000 priests that ministered around the temple. That was more than enough that they needed to minister in the temple. They had so many that what they did was they divided everyone's duties They divided the priesthood into 24 divisions called courses. Everyone had their course. A course was a division that consisted of about 300 priests. And the Bible says that Zachariah's course was the eighth course, the course of Abbiah. Now each course was called upon for duty for about eight days. twice a year. How would you like to have a job like that? Called on twice a year for eight days, you know, to do your your your office. Fifty-six priests were chosen by lot. They would cast lots to choose the priest to do the various duties. In verse 9, the lots were cast, and it fell upon Zacharias. to burn incense on the altar of incense in the Lord's temple. Now, what they would do typically is they would burn incense on this altar of incense twice a day they would do it once nine a. m. in the morning and once at three p. m. uh three p. m. uh in the afternoon and uh and so it was now uh given to Zechariah to do this. They would and this is what he would do. And by the way, it was an honor to be able to burn incense on the uh on the on the altar of incense. In fact one commentator said this the honor of offering incense was the grandest event in all earthly existence for a priest, if you were a priest and you got the privilege of actually going into the temple, into the holy place. And burning incense on the altar of incense, that was just a lifetime privilege. In fact, if you did it once, you could never do it again. It was a once in a lifetime opportunity for a priest. And now it was Zachariah's turn. What a privilege, what a honor. And he would go dressed in a white linen tunic with a flower-shaped cap into the inner part of the temple court. He would take ashes from off or burning coals from off of the brazen altar. He would ascend the steps into the holy place. And he would put those coals on the altar of incense. And then he would take a bowl, and in that bowl was a certain mixture of spices. It was prescribed in the book of Exodus. Certain spices they gave off a beautiful aroma, kind of a perfume scent. And by the way, this was set apart for God. A person couldn't use this for their home or anything else. This was use only in the house of the Lord, which symbolized that uh this is a particular kind of worship that only God was due. And so he would take this bowl and he would it with this mixture and he would put it or pour it onto the golden altar and it gave off a smoke funnel that went up and a beautiful aroma that was there. And this is what he was doing. He was burning incense on the altar of incense. And look what happened. Outside were the temple worshippers, and they would pray. Look at verse 10. And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time. of the incense. And so Luke tells us a multitude had gathered. Now this may have been on a Sabbath or some high day of the Jewish year. It wasn't customary for a multitude to gather, but on this particular occasion, there was a multitude there. So this had to be some special day. But right after he was he burnt the offering on uh the incense on the altar, he would have a time of prayer. And this is where he would pray as a priest for the nation, for the people. And while he was doing that, look what happens in verse 11. And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord. Standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zachariah saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. The word trouble here, Greek word tarasso, literally shaken, terrified. He sees this angel, perhaps a beautiful shining angel with glory. And he has good news for Zechariah, verse 13. And the angel said unto him, Fear not Zacharias. For thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John, and thou shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his Birth. This would it was incredible. This would be a miraculous birth. We've heard of this before in the Old Testament with Abraham and Sarah. Now God was going to do it again with his faithful priest Zechariah And his wife Elizabeth, the angel announces to him that your wife is going to have a child. He'll be a boy. You're going to name him John, and people will rejoice at the birth of this boy. He will be separated unto God. He will have a special use. Now and then the angel quotes from the Old Testament in verses 16 and 17 Notice what it says, and many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God. Verse 17, and he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, Elias, that is to say Elijah, to turn the hearts of their fathers to the children of And the disobedience to the wisdom of the just to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And so here he's quoting from the Old Testament prophecy of Malachi, and these verses speak of the forerunner of the Messiah. Now think about what this means. The angel is saying to Zechariah, You're going to have a son, you're going to name him John, and this is what he's going to do. He will fulfill the prophecy of Malachi, he will be the forerunner. For the Messiah. Now, if the forerunner is going to be born, what does that mean? That the Messiah is coming. The Messiah is coming. What a great, great prophecy. What an incredible moment for Zechariah. Did he rejoice? Did he shout for joy? No, I want you to see the next part of faithless priests. Because look at verse 18. And Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? Now other versions translate this question, how can I know that this is going to be true? How can I know this? So Eugene Peterson kind of gives a paraphrase and he kind of captures the note of doubt And skepticism, he translates it like this. Do you expect me to believe this? That is a paraphrase. But it kind of captures the attitude here, I think, correctly. You how do I know this? How do I know this is going to happen? You expect me to believe this? And what he's doing here is he's um he's asking for some kind of a sign. Whereby shall I know? What kind of sign will you give me that this is actually going to happen? Now I think the angel Gabriel takes offense at this. I think he takes issue with this. Look at verse 19. And the angel answered and said unto him, I am Gabriel. Interpretation, do you know who I am? You understand who I am? You're asking me for a sign? Do you know that I am Gabriel? That stand in the presence of God and am sent to speak unto thee, to show thee these glad tidings? What bigger sign do you need than an angel that came from the presence of God to you? Is there a bigger sign than that? And you still don't believe? You still want some kind of uh sign? And so he doubts God's power, Zachariah. He doubts God's promise. This was serious. And this strikes at the very heart of the gospel message. If God could not bring life from the deadness of a woman's womb, how could he resurrect his son from the grave? And so, as a punishment for his unbelief, he's given a reproof. Look at verse 20, and behold, thou shalt be dumb. And not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. Because he did not believe Zechariah would have to bear the shame of silence. Just imagine this, his wife's finally going to have a son and he can't announce it to anyone Because he is dumb, he's mute. I think with this he can't hear, he can't speak. And so he'll have to bear this. Imagine he could have been the first one to announce the coming of the Messiah. But that privilege will be taken away from him. Not only will he give the announcement about his son's birth, but he won't be able to announce the coming of the Messiah. Now the people outside, they were waiting, look at verse 21, and the people waited for Zacharias And marveled that he tarried so long in the temple. And verse twenty-two, and when he came out he could not speak unto them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he beckoned unto them and remained speechless And it came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministrations were accomplished, he departed to his own house. And so again, he is stuck with the stigma of the shame of not being able to announce the glad tidings that the Lord had given him there. by way of the angel Gabriel there in the temple. He simply did his duty and he went home. And we really don't hear anything more about Zechariah until later. So fast forward and go to verse 57. I want you to see the third part of the fourth part of this, a filled priest, because we again we're going to see that God fills him with the Holy Spirit. And the Bible tells us in verse 67 that his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied. Now what happens here? Because eventually God does open his mouth. God does give him the ability to speak again. What happens? Well, in verses 57 to 59, Elizabeth has a son. The relatives want to call him after a family name. And look in verse 59. It came to pass on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child. And they called him Zacharias after the name of his father. And his mother answered and said, Not so, but he shall be called John. So they're going through this ritual of circumcision with the child And the family's there, and the family says, we're going to name him Zacharias Jr. after his father. And Elizabeth the mother speaks up and she says, no. That's not going to be his name. His name will be John. You can get the sense that she's almost fierce in her response. In other words, they say, oh, he's going to be Zacharias Jr. She said, Oh no, he's not. No, he's not. That's not his name. But they said, look at verse 61. And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. And they would made signs to his father how he would have called him. And they said, you know, look, there's nobody in your family by this name, this name John. They were amazed that they she wasn't willing to give him a family name, but instead wanted to use some name that was not part of the family. So they appealed to the father Zacharias, who is there And they made signs to his father. Again, he's deaf here. And they gave signs, evidently asking, What do you want to call his name? In verse 63, and he asked for a writing tablet. And he wrote saying, His name is John. And they all marveled. So he asked for a tablet. He writes on his iPad Pro that his name is going to be John. John will be his name. And they all marveled, it says. And look at verse 64. And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed. And he spake and praised God, and fear came on all that dwelt around about, and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea. God in honor to Zechariah who had now learned his lesson and in faith Named his son John, who believed God and believed the prophecy God in honor to his faith now, opens the mouth of his faithful servant Zachariah, and he begins to praise God. He begins to glorify God. Now the people there obviously they were taken back by this. They were amazed. And Zechariah, when he opens his mouth, now he hadn't said anything in nine months. Think about that. Not speaking for nine months. And so when he finally does have the opportunity now to speak, he makes up for lost time. Because the quality of what he says in these next verses is overwhelming. The last words we heard him speak were words of skepticism and doubt. Now the words that Zechariah speaks are words of hope. Of hope. Remember, this is the theme of the first advent, that of hope. Now when we speak of hope today, when we use the word hope, we we use it as a wish. When we say, well I I you know sometimes people come and here's the big question people ask me now. Everybody know I'm a Baltimore Ravens fan, right? So people come and they ask me the question, do you think the Ravens are going to make it to the Super Bowl? And my answer is, well, I hope they do. I hope they do. That's my response. Now when I say that, what am I saying? I'm saying I'm I wish. I I have no s you know I have no divine prophecy about this. I'm not a prophet in the true sense of the word, but I certainly wish, I desire this. I don't know it for sure. And that's how we use the word hope today. But I want you to know that in the New Testament, that's not the way they use the word hope. They used it as a guarantee. When they talked about the hope of something, it was a certainty It was a certainty that this was going to happen. And this is the way the word is used in the New Testament. And this is the sentiment that we see in the words of Zechariah. When he begins to speak about the coming not only of his son, the forerunner, but the coming of the Messiah, right on the heels of his son. the forerunner. Notice what he says in verse uh verse sixty-eight Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Now, I want you to notice that he's using past tense verbs here. Notice where it says he has visited and redeemed. That is, it's already happened. It's already done. Now wait a minute there, Zachariah. Your son hasn't been born and the Messiah hasn't yet come. He hasn't visited us yet. Why are you using past tense verbs here? Well, this is what is called a prophetic past tense. Or it is also called a prophetic aorist verb. Which simply is a verb that is used, even though you're speaking about the future, you use past tense verbs. Why would a person do that? They do that because The hope of what they're talking about coming in the future is so certain. It is so sure that it's as if this already happens. It's as if it's already happened. The coming of not only the forerunner, but the coming of the Messiah now is so certain. It's as if it's already happened in verse 68. He has visited us. In verse 78 we see this again, he at the end of verse 78, whereby the day spring on high has Visited us. It's as if it's already happened. You see, the coming of the Messiah gives us hope and again a certainty What does it give us the hope of? Well, let me give you these three things. It gives us, number one, the hope of release from prison. Again, this is according to Zacharias here. Again, in verse 68. Where it says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. Verse 69, he has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. The word redeemed here is the word latrucis, which means to set free by a payment or to release a person from bondage because of a payment. This is what the hope of Christmas is about. Our men just sang about it. It's about salvation. You see, what the world needs more than anything else is to be released from prison. Now people say, well, wait a minute, I'm not in a prison. I do what I want to do. I'm free. I use my own free will. And I they throw they like to throw around the term free will. Well, I believe that you have a free will. The only problem with your free will is it's in bondage. You say in bondage to what? In bondage to your desires. You know, people think that your will is the highest part of your who you are, but there's something even higher than your will, and that's your desire. It was Jonathan Edwards, the great theologian, who said, you never choose against the thing that you desire the most. And there's a sense in which our will is in bondage. You say in bondage to what? In bondage to sin, our sin nature. And bondage to Satan for those who don't know the Lord. Think about this in Ephesians where it says, uh talks about this. that uh that you were in bondage to your desires, to the lust of your flesh. You see I like to imagine it like this. Here's a man who's in a prison cell. Now, inside that prison cell, he can do a whole lot of things. He could do whatever he wants. He could take a nap on the bed, he can exercise, he can read a book. There's a lot of freedom that he has inside that prison cell. However, there's one thing he's not free to do, and you know what it is? To leave the prison cell. He's not free to do that. You see, someone from the outside has to open the prison door in order for him to get out. So he has a free will, but that free will is in bondage. It's inside of the prison. And lost man today has a free will. The only problem is that free will is in bondage to his desires, which is in bondage to his sin nature. In bondage to Satan. And he can't of his own get out of that bondage. Someone from the outside has to come and open the door in order for him to be free of sin, to be free of that prison. And beloved, that's exactly what salvation is. Salvation is Christ coming into the world, and as Zachariah said, to redeem His people, that is to buy them out of the prison, that is to say, to open the prison door. That's exactly what happens at salvation. Christ, when we get saved, he opens that prison door. It was Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the man who was imprisoned by Hitler during World War II. who was writing a letter to his fiancee, and this is what he wrote, something very interesting in light of what we're talking about. He said a prison cell, because he was in a prison, a prison cell in which one waits, hopes Does various unessential things, and is completely dependent on the fact that the door of freedom has to be opened from the outside, is not a bad picture of Advent. He said, that's a perfect picture of Advent. What do you mean the coming of Christ? Because Christ came to open the prison door For us to redeem us out of sin. To redeem us out of prison. I love The way Charles Wesley put it in the song that we sing, long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin in nature's night. Thine eye diffused a quickening ray. There's the grace of God. Thine eye diffused a quickening ray. I woke. The dungeon flamed with light My chains fell off. My heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. You see that beautiful picture of salvation? We were in the prison of sin. We were dead. There was nothing we could do. God just diffused a quickening ray, a life-giving ray. I came to life. The chains fell off. The prison door opened. I rose. I went forth. I followed Christ. That's exactly why Jesus came. He came to redeem us, to get us out of the prison. But then he says this not only the hope of release from prison. But the hope of fulfillment of God's promise. Look what Zechariah says in verse 70, and as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies. And from the hand of all that hate us. Look at verse 73, to the earth which he swore unto our father Abraham. You know what Zacharias is saying there? He's saying that God is finally fulfilling the promise or promises That he gave in the Old Testament the Ava promise to Abraham. They were 2,000 years removed from Abraham. They had been waiting for 2,000 years for God to fulfill the promise. That he made to Abraham. By the way, we're still waiting for the promise of Christ's second coming, aren't we? In the first century, they were waiting for the promise of the first coming. Now we are waiting for the second advent, the promise of the second coming. And by this time, many of the people in the land of Israel lost hope. They were thinking God had forsaken them, God had turned his back on them, that this wasn't going to happen. But all of a sudden, here comes the hope of that promise being fulfilled And Zechariah expressed, I think, the feelings of the nation when he said, This is the oath that God made to Abraham. This is what God promised so long ago, and God's going to fulfill that promise. And what does this speak to us today about that God always fulfills his promises, friend? And let me just make it very personal. God hasn't forgotten you. He hasn't forgotten you. There might be some people here today and you've been praying and seeking the Lord and nothing has happened, and you're wondering and you're waiting and saying, Has God forgotten you? He has not forgotten you. God has a timing on everything. And God will take care of you. He will watch over you. Let me give you the story. I remember when my children were small, Annie had just been born. Now my little Annie's going to have a baby of her own. But Annie was just born. Uh due to circumstances, I was out of I didn't have a ministry position. I had no source of income. And when you're kind of in the ministry, you can't just apply for unemployment, you know. I had four hungry redheads. I didn't have any income coming in. I was just praying and I said, Lord, you're the one that's got to take care of us. It was Christmas time. Now I had I had no money for Christmas, zero money. And I just gave it to the Lord. I said, Lord, you you take care of us. And I remember one day at a church where we were worshiping, a guy came up to me after church and said, Hey brother, I have a gift for you. I said, Oh, okay, thank you. He said, Come out in the church parking lot. Took me out in the church parking lot. He went to his vehicle. He opened up the trunk. He pulled out a rifle. A rifle. Beautiful rifle. What I've always wanted Thank you very much. Now he looked like he was parting with the best friend in his life. And I I I just didn't have the heart to say no, brother. I don't want this. Thank you. I wouldn't want to offend them, but I just took the rifle. I said, thank you so very much. I really am grateful for this. I don't think I ever shot a rifle in my life. But I was very grateful for his love and his concern for us. But what am I going to do with a rifle? You know. But there was another brother out there who kind of oversaw what was going on. And later he came to me and he said, brother I would like to buy that rifle from you. I said, really? I said, well, how much would you be willing to pay for this rifle? He said, $800. I said, let me pray about it. Okay, I'm done. Here. Here. Here, take this rifle. He gave me $800. And that's how we had Christmas that year. And that was just a little reminder. from God that God was saying, Jerry, I haven't forgotten you, and I never will. And I want you to know that you are God's child. And God has not forgotten you, and he never will. That's what Zechariah is really telling the whole nation of Israel, and he's telling us today. So what does Christ's coming bring? It brings the hope of release from prison, the hope of the fulfillment of God's promises that God hasn't forsaken us, he never will. And then finally the hope of mercy. Look in verse number 72, to perform the mercy promise to our fathers. To remember his holy covenant. Look at verse 77. To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Look at verse 78. Through the tender mercy. You know what the hope of Christmas is? It's the hope of God's mercy. I tell you, one thing we desperately need today is the mercy of God. Now I know that we live today in an age of rage where everyone is crying out, everyone's angry. You ever notice that? People drive angry, they shop angry. They talk angry. They work angry. Everyone seems to be angry. And the cry of the age today seems to be, give me justice. Give me justice. And my answer to that is, do you really want God to give you justice? I don't want to make light of justice. There's a place for justice. But beloved, the thing that we need more than justice is we need God's mercy. Because if God was to be just to me, if God was to give me my justice, what I deserve, you know what would happen to me? I would die and I would spend eternity in hell forever if God gave what was just to me. But I am so grateful that God gave me mercy. And this is what the coming of Christ tells us: that God is a God of mercy. And Christmas is all about God offering mercy to a world. Let's be honest, a world that is deserving of punishment. A world that has turned their back on God, that has forgotten God. God is still in his love offering mercy. Mercy to those that want it. And it may be that you're here today, and that's what your great need is, friend. If you don't know Christ, if you're still living in the bondage of your sins. What you need more than anything else is the mercy of God. And if you are willing today just to cry out to God in mercy, you know what? He'll give it to you. He is a God of mercy. And so this is what Zechariah represents to us, his whole story, his prophecy. It talks about the hope, the guarantee. of Christmas, the coming of the Messiah, will release us from prison. God will fulfill his promises. God will give us the mercy that we so desperately need today. Let's bow for prayer together. And I just want to ask you, friend, are you a recipient of the mercy of God? If not, would you right there where you are, just ask him for mercy and salvation? He delights in mercy. He is a God of mercy. I think of the parable of the man who went to the temple of the publican who said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. And Jesus said that man went away justified. And friend, if you'll cry out to the Lord, you'll walk away today justified, cleansed from your sin, forgiven. A recipient of God's great mercy. Is there anyone here that says, that's what I need, preacher? Would you pray for me? I'm crying out today for God's mercy in my life. Can I pray for you, friend? Anyone here like that? God bless you, my dear friend. God bless you. Anyone else? I just need God's mercy in my life. I'm asking Him for mercy today. God bless you. God bless you You my dear friend, and you, and you, sir.