If you take your Bibles, open to the book of Matthew, chapter number two, Matthew chapter two, and we're going to be looking at Matthew 2, verses 1 to 12 today. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please? I want to read a few of these verses with you. So we shall we stand as I read the scripture together this morning with you. Verse 1 of Matthew chapter 2. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for your word, which teaches us about our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, Lord, I pray today that you would open our eyes and our hearts to see Christ afresh and anew. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, you may be seated. Now in these weeks leading up to uh Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, we've been celebrating the Advent. The Advent in the church calendar is a time of anticipation, the weeks before uh Christmas Eve. And uh Uh traditionally, uh each Sunday has a different theme to it, and we've gone over that with you. The first Sunday in Advent is is uh hope. The second Sunday is peace. The third Sunday is joy. And the fourth Sunday you celebrate the theme of love. Today we celebrate the theme of joy, and I want to talk about the joy of Christmas. The song that the lady sang was perfect for the sermon today. They sang about the joy that the Lord Jesus Christ gives us. And that's what we want to think about today as we look at this passage here in the book of Matthew. What does the coming of Jesus Christ into this world mean? Well, it not only does it give us hope and peace, but it gives us great joy. And in this account in Matthew chapter 2, when the wise men or the magi go to visit Jesus and they finally find him. The Bible says in verse number 10 of chapter 2 That when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. When they saw the star that led them to the baby Jesus, the Bible says they were filled with exceeding joy. Um and that is what Christmas does for us. It's what happens when we seek Christ. Our hearts are filled with joy. So I want us to look at this passage of scripture here today, and I want us to think about the joy of Christmas as we look at this narrative. And what I want you to see in this narrative are really what I think are three Christ uh Christmas symbols that help us to worship and adore the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want you to, first of all, think about with me the wise men. And I want to ask this question, who were they? Because uh Matthew tells us a little bit something about them. It tells us in verse 1 that sometime after Jesus was born, the Magi show up at the home of Mary and Joseph. Can you imagine what was going through Mary and Joseph's mind whenever I read this passage of scripture? I think, what were they thinking of when they hear this entourage of people just all of a sudden show up and they begin to worship the new their new baby. What what what must have been going through their mind at that time? Well, questions abound with reference to these m uh men. The King James translates this wise men Who were these wise men? How many were there actually? Where did they come from? And why did they travel such a distance to see Jesus. Now I gotta tell you that there's a lot of misconceptions here about these these men as to who they were. In fact, there's a song that we sing, We Three Kings of Orient are, right? We haven't sung that yet this year Maybe we shouldn't sing it, I don't know. Because we're not really sure that these guys were king. There's debate about that. I have my own opinion. I think that there's reason to believe that they were rulers of some sort. But most uh s New Testament scholars When they think about these men, they don't think that they were kings. One man wrote this, he said, Many absurd traditions and guesses respecting these visitors to our Lord's cradle have found their way into popular belief and into Christianity. art. They were said to be kings, three in number, but then he goes on to question that. Well the only real information we have about these men are here in Matthew chapter 2 And this is what we do know about them, they were Gentiles. And there's a sense in which I think what's going on here in chapter 2 Is that Matthew is in a way heaping shame upon the Jewish people in this account. You say, how so? Well, here were these pagan Gentiles that were Traveling a long distance, seeking diligently the Christ child, and yet the Jewish people that were there in Jerusalem who knew of the birth or something special happening around that time. They didn't even care to travel just a few miles down the road to Bethlehem to see what was going on. And so there's a sense in which this is a rebuke to the people that were there in Jerusalem who were filled with religious apathy, we could say. And beloved, if we're not careful, the same thing can happen to us. We can get so accustomed to church and holy things that they it kind of grows old and may that never happen to us. May we always keep the wonder of knowing. of Jesus Christ, the wonder of who Christ is. But let's talk first of all about the identity of these magi Because that's what the word that the Greek word that is used about these men. Look again in verse 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east. Now again the the Greek word here is magoi where we get the word magi And they're called the Magi. Now this word originally referred to men who were interpreter of signs. We could even say astrologers This is a Persian word, so this gives us some indication as to where these men were from. They were from the East, of course, as the Bible says, and in the East there were several great kingdoms there was from Babylon, the Persians that ruled in Babylon in that time. And the word here is normally a associated with wise men And men who had special knowledge, and as I said before, men who were astrologers. Now we know that in Babylon they, and by the way, in a lot of the ancient Near East, they uh they thought a lot about astrology much more than today. That was especially true in Babylon, where you had a group of wise men that were given to looking for signs in the heaven, looking for um special knowledge from the stars. And by the way, we know that many years prior to this, about 600 years earlier, in Babylon, there was a man there that we all know, a man by the name of Daniel. Remember Daniel the prophet? He was there in Babylon. In fact, there were many Jews that were there in Babylon. They were in exile there. So we know that people in Babylon were influenced by the Jews. They were influenced by the Old Testament scripture, especially They were influenced by Daniel, who had a high position in the government of Babylon. In fact, do you know one of the titles given to the prophet Daniel was that he was chief of the magi. He was chief of the magi, which meant that he had a very influential position. And I believe that Daniel no doubt told the people in his day of the prophecies of the coming Messiah. And that this was something that they learned from him. And they knew well when the Messiah was going to come. That's according to the prophecy of Daniel chapter 9. Verses twenty-four to twenty-six. Anyone who studied that prophecy and took it seriously would know the approximate time frame Of when the Messiah was coming, but there was something else. There was a verse in the Old Testament in Numbers 24, 17, where it talks about a star out of Jacob as a sign And I believe that these magi, by the way, this is where we get the word magic from. These were men, again, who were astrologers that were seeking special knowledge, but I think also were influenced by the teachings of Daniel. That they began to gaze in the sky and saw the star, and they then followed that star to the birth of the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. So these were wise men. And the Bible, look what it says in verse 2. Saying, where is he that they were come to Jerusalem saying, where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. Notice, it's not just any star, but whose star is it? It's his star. We have seen his star in the east, and we have come to worship him. So they followed the star. And this star led them to the place where the baby Jesus, the child Jesus lay. A very interesting group of men. Now, how do we know that there were three? Well, actually, we don't know that there were three. And the reason we think that there were three was because of the three gifts that they will give to Jesus the the the the Christ child. Why do we say that they're kings? Well there are several reasons why some people call them kings. One is because the gifts that they gave to Jesus were these were expensive gifts These were gifts that were associated with royalty. You couldn't just go to the local um Target or Walmart and pick these things up. These were expensive gifts. We're talking about gold that was very precious. We're talking about frankincense, a very costly uh spice. And also myrrh. These were costly things. And so these are associated with royalty. But also, there's a prophecy in Isaiah chapter 60. And you might want to turn there if you want to. Look at Isaiah chapter 60 and verse number 6. It gives us a very interesting prophecy in the Old Testament. Isaiah 60, verse number 6. Where it says, the multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Epho, all they from Sheba. Shall come, they shall bring gold and incense, and they shall show forth the praises of the Lord. This is an Old Testament prophecy about kings and rulers coming to see Christ Now some people relegate that to the millennial reign, but I think Matthew is purposely pointing to the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy, which he likes to do a lot, because remember the book of Matthew was written to primarily Jewish people to prove that Jesus Christ really was the Son of David, the King, the Messiah. So we see then the identity of these wise men, but I want you to think about also the insecurity of Herod. Look in verse number three. And when Herod, the king, heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. Why was he troubled? The word for troubled here is a very strong word. He was terrified. Uh uh these this entourage coming and visiting Jerusalem really shook things up there in that city in that day. Why? Well, I think one of the reasons is because when they came, you know, a lot of times we picture our mind, it was just three three kings on three camels that just came into Jerusalem. You need to erase that picture out of your mind. I think that if these these wise men, which by the way, this word is also show associated with rulers in government positions, so I think that these wise men, if they did come from the region of Babylon, they also serve the ruling function in that government. You can rest assured that if they're traveling a long way with such expensive gifts, they're not coming alone. They're coming with a cavalry of soldiers with them. In fact, many scholars believe that they were escorted by Persia's cavalry units. Which were the best in the world, they were skilled at riding horses. This would be a portable little army that was with them And when you add to the fact that during this time in Jerusalem, the army that would have protected Jerusalem was away fighting a war, the Hasmonean War. They were uh they were pretty vulnerable there in Jerusalem. So you can imagine when this entourage came into the city. And they were left pretty much unprotected. The people in the city were wondering what's going on. And especially Herod, he was terrified. But not only just because of this army, because of the question that they asked in verse number two, where is he that is born king of the Jews? That was a title that was reserved for him. All of a sudden you're looking for someone else by that title? Is there another rival to his throne? Where is this king of the Jews that you're talking about? And so he was terrified because of that. He wanted to know about any rival that he had. So we find here uh what we we call the insecurity of Herod. I think he's insecure um because of what's going on, but also we see the indifference of the people. Look at verse number four. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be Now Herod calls together all the experts of Old Testament understanding, and he wants to know where Christ will be born. And uh you know what? They knew exactly what was happening. Because look what they say in verse 5. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. Verse 6, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judea art not the least among the princes of Judah, for out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people in Israel. They knew exactly where the Messiah was going to be born. They knew what was happening. Again, think about this. They didn't have enough concern to go down to Bethlehem and visit themselves. They were absolutely indifferent and apathetic. To the coming of the Messiah, to spiritual things. Now, all the world seemed to be prepared except for, it seemed like, the religious leaders in Jerusalem. One old testament one uh historian, Setonius, said there had spread all over the Orient an old and established belief That it was fated at that time for men coming from Judea to rule the world. Other ancient historians say pretty much the same thing: that there was in the air this idea that a ruler is going to come. It was all over. There was this sense of this anticipation, this expectation, and the the scribes and the Pharisees knew about the prophecy. They knew where the Messiah would be born. And all of a sudden this entourage shows up in Jerusalem asking the very question, where is the king of the Jews? And again, the people weren't even so concerned Enough that they decided to go and see for themselves. They did absolutely nothing. I can't help but think of people today around Christmas time. You know, I'm I'm glad that you're here because I think you're here to worship Christ But all over there are people out there that don't really care anything about the birth of Christ. Their minds are distracted in the other things. They're thinking more about the materialism that comes with Christmas. All the other trimmings that come with Christmas, their interest in all of that. But not many people are truly interested in the real meaning of Christmas, which is Christ. You know, every year I love to on the radio to put on uh you know one of those stations where they play Christmas songs. I pretty much don't even bother doing that anymore. You know why? Because so many of the songs on there are so superficial. You know, grandma got run over by a reindeer. Are you serious? That's what you're going to focus on on Christmas? That sort of superficial nonsense that's out there when there is so much meaning of Christmas, about the coming of Christ. And that's what the people back then, they were just totally, and this this really is the fulfillment of what Paul said in Romans 11, 8. God has given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, ears that they should not hear unto this day. And that was what it was like for the people back then. They had a spirit of slumber on them And when I look out in the world today, I can't help but think that that spirit of slumber is still here with some people. Because the real meaning of Christmas seems to escape them. Even the religious people, especially the religious people who knew of the significance of these events. But notice I want you to notice the fear of Herod. Look at verse 7. Then Herod When he had trivially called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again. that I may come and worship with him. Well that was a lie. Because he did not want to worship the Christ child. In fact he wanted to kill him. Because he was so filled with insecurity. Outwardly, he pretended to have an interest, but inwardly he was afraid of all rivals. In fact Herod spent his whole life getting rid of rivals to his throne. He was so paranoid. Did you know that he killed his own two sons? Because he was afraid that they would take his throne. He killed his wife. He killed his mother-in-law. This man was evil. He was paranoid. In fact, Caesar Augustus one time said about Herod, and he did a play on words in the Greek, because the Greek word for hog is kois. The Greek word for son is hois. They sound almost exactly alike. And he was doing a play on words when he said it would it would be better to be Herod's kois, his hog, than to be his hois, his sons. Because he kills his sons. And he wanted to know where the Christ child would be born because he planned to kill him as well. And so Matthew in this account shows us these wise men coming this long way, seeking Christ. Because even though they were pagan Gentiles, perhaps in some rulership function in their kingdom, they knew of this because I believe of the prophecy of Daniel, and they came a long way And it was all in fulfillment of the prophecy that was given in Isaiah, which said that the Gentiles will seek him. The Gentiles will come to him. And Matthew is pointing to that. Well there's a second feature I want you to see, and that is the star. We see the wise men who they were, but also I want to think about the star. What was it? This is another interesting part of the Christmas story. Because the Bible says that they followed his star, this star, all the way from the east to Bethlehem. And you may have heard me talk about this before, but there's been a lot of Speculation about this star. Some said it was a comet. It was the early church father origin that first suggested that this was probably a comet. There's been another suggestion made that it was a conjunction of planets, and then when planets kind of line up, it gives this really bright effect in the sky. And some uh calculate that there was a conjunction of planets around that time 7 BC but it still wouldn't be the right time that really doesn't make sense. And other others say, well this was a supernova You know, a supernova is basically an exploding star, and it lasts for a period of time. And there were supernovas, they said, back in the year 4 B. C. But again, it doesn't line up as far as the time. And besides that, there's something very special about this star. The Bible calls it his star. So it's very unique. And then it suggests in the passage, if you read, it seems that the star appeared and disappeared and reappeared. Look at verse 9. When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. And I think verse ten also seems to suggest That when they saw the star, they re- they rejoiced. When they saw the star, it says in verse 10, they rejoiced for the exceeding joy, which suggests that the star disappeared at Jerusalem and then reappeared, leading them to Bethlehem. Came to the very place where Jesus resided. Now, I don't know about you, but I don't know of any star that behaves this way. That a star that would lead people, that would disappear and reappear, and then how does a star hover right over a certain house? You know what this sounds like to me? Sounds like to me like the glory, the Shekinah glory in the Old Testament. Remember the glory, the pillar of cloud by day, the pillar of fire by night? that appeared over uh the people, the Israelites, and they followed that cloud. And that cloud would appear over the tabernacle, and everyone in the camp knew that God was there when that Shekinah glory cloud was there. And it would lead the children of Israel and it would appear and it would disappear and then it would reappear. Sounds exactly like this star here. I think that this star here, and by the way, the word for star is the word aster, which can be used to speak of things other than literal stars. It has the idea of something that is shining with blazing light. I think this was the glory of God. It was the glory, and I think that these men that were looking up into the skies for some sign, they saw this glory It was something different from any other star that they had seen. It behaved differently. And they followed this, what in their mind was a star But it was the glory of God that led them all the way from the east, just like in the Old Testament when the glory cloud led the children of Israel through the wilderness. This glory led these wise men all the way to the place where Jesus was. This star or this glory hovered right above the place where the baby Jesus lay. Right above that spot there. I believe again that is the glory of God. By the way, do you know what's going to accompany Jesus when he comes the second time? The Bible says when he comes again, there will be filled with clouds of great glory. The glory of God will accompany his second coming. And I think it was the glory of God that accompanied him in his first coming. If you remember the shepherds in the field keeping watch over their flock by night. They saw the glory of God there. And I think this same glory led these men here to the Lord Jesus. What was the star? I think it was the glory of God. And the Jews knew. That whenever the glory hovered above a place that God had indwelt that place, God had come in the form of a child, in the form of a baby. But let me give you the third thing in this story. We see the wise men who they were and the star and what it was, but also the gifts and what do they mean. Because these gifts, I think, have great significance. Look at verse 11. And when they came to the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. When they had opened their treasuries, they presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Now, verse 11 is the whole point of this passage. They came to the Messiah, they recognized who he was, and they worshiped him. Which tells you what? They believed he was who? He was God. You worship God. And the gifts, I think, also tell us that. I think when they gave them the gift of gold, that was the Medal of Kings. They believed that this baby, Jesus, was king. This was the metal that was associated with royalty, and I don't have time to go through all that, but there are many facts that bear that out. Gold was so very precious. It was the Medal of Kings, and by giving him this gift of gold, they were confessing that you are king. You're king, but also the gift of frankincense. And I think by doing this, they were acknowledging that this child was not just like any child. This child was God. Come, it was the Messiah, just like the Old Testament had prophesied. Did you know that frankincense was used in temple worship? The great scholar and church father origin said, this is a gift to God. In other words, frankincense was reserved Just uniquely for the worship of God in the Old Testament. In fact, Exodus thirty tells us that there was a certain spice that was mixed together where certain spices and frankincense was added in, and it was a unique spice that was poured out upon the altar of incense, which made a smoke that ascended up into heaven, and it was symbolic of the worship of God. And so frankincense was something that particularly spoke of the deity of this child, that he was God. It was a reminder. That of who he was, because it belongs exclusively to God. And then there is the Myrrh. What does the Myrrh speak about? Well, this is a unique gift here, because the gift of myrrh Speaks really of his death. Did you know that myrrh was used in embalming? It was used in embalming a body The Bible says when Jesus died, Nicodemus used 100 pounds of myrrh to prepare the body. That's exactly what they would do back then. They would just um cover the body with this ointment. This spice. And it was used then for embalming. And so what does this speak to us about? That this child had come to die This child was king, this child was God in the flesh, and this baby came for one specific purpose to die, and it was to die for your sins and for my sins. This baby Jesus would suffer and die so that we might have salvation. That's the whole purpose of it. Now, in the few minutes I have left, let me just give you a few quick application things here. Number one, I want you to think about the wise men or example of how one must diligently see Christ. I mean you again remember these guys They came a long distance. They paid a great expense seeking Christ. And this is the way that we are to seek him. They are an example to us of the diligence that we should have As we seek Jesus Christ, we should spare no expense in seeking Christ. And there's a second thing here. Most people have a head knowledge of Christ, not a heart knowledge. I think about this when I think about the religious people back then. They knew everything. They knew all the facts, but they were cold and dead in their heart. And we need to be careful lest that we know all we have a great understanding about all the things of Christmas, but our hearts are cold when it comes to our love for Christ. We need to guard against that. A third thing is those who would truly worship Christ must acknowledge him as their king. You must acknowledge Jesus as King. You know what salvation is? Salvation is calling upon the Lord Jesus Christ, making Him Lord, submitting to His Lordship, understanding that He came to die for you And submitting to him as your Lord and your King. But a fourth thing I see in this passage is this: worship is giving Christ the best you have to offer Because I'm convinced that the gift that they gave to Jesus was the very best that they had to give. I'm afraid that sometimes at Christmas time Christ gets the leftovers. I mean we we spend all of our energy and t money and time on all the other things and Christ, you know, we tip our hat to him and he kind of gets the leftovers. One of my favorite Christmas songs is The Little Drummer Boy. Who was a poor boy and didn't bring anything, but he did say this, I give my best to you. I offer my best. I give I play my best for you. And I think that's the spirit We want to give our best to Christ. And then here's the fifth thing. We're talking about the joy of Christmas. The result of seeking Christ is joy. It may be that you're here today and you don't have real joy in your heart. And you know why that is? Because maybe you have been focusing on the wrong things. I want to tell you something, friend. You know, there's a lot of fun at receiving gifts at Christmas time, but none of those gifts, as precious as they are from loved ones to you, will ever truly fully satisfy the longing that is in your heart. There's only one gift that can do that. That's God's indescribable gift. That's Jesus Christ. And the result of seeking Christ And making him your Lord and Savior, the result of that is joy. And we don't just seek him as salvation. We seek him every day of our life. With all our heart. Listen to what the psalmist said. He expressed this. He said, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. And you know what he's saying there? I put Christ or I put God first in front of me. He is my foremost desire. He's the priority of my life. I'm seeking him constantly. And listen to this. What's the result? Therefore my heart is glad. My glory rejoices. What's the result? He's exceedingly joyful You know why? Because he's got his priorities right. Because he's seeking Christ first and foremost above all things. And I want to tell you something, friend, when you do that, when Christ is first place in your life, when he's the passion of your heart, When you're seeking him each and every day, first and foremost, you can't help but have joy. That's the result And that's the joy of Christmas. And that's why Christ came. Christ came to give us lasting joy. Lasting joy. And friend, do you have that? Not a temporary joy, but a real lasting joy. Let's bow for a prayer together today. Let's bow for a prayer. Can I ask your friend, do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? Can you say with absolute certainty, I know that if I died today, I'd go to heaven because I've made Jesus my Savior. And friend, if you can't say that, may I tell you that this is why he came, he came, that you might have eternal life. He came to give you joy, forgiveness of sins, eternal life. You say, how can I get that? You get that when you acknowledge who he is. When you realize that he is the Savior of the world, come to die for your sins. And when you turn to him in faith, reach out to him in faith. And say, yes, Jesus, yes. I'm making you today my Lord and my Savior. I'm calling upon you today. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you pray that and mean it, he'll save you today. You can become a child of God, new life, forgiveness of sins. This is what Christmas is all about He came to save you from your sins. That's the most important issue right now in your life. Do you know Jesus as your Savior? How many of you say, preacher, would you pray for me? I want to trust Christ today. That's my desire. I'm putting my full faith in Jesus today. Would you pray for me? Can I see your hand? Anyone here? I just want to pray for you if that's your heart's desire. If you haven't done that already, friend. And we're here to help you to make that decision, to trust Christ. Father, thank you again for these beautiful narratives of Scripture that remind us of the coming of Christ. And Lord, may we have the spirit and heart of these wise men who with all diligence sought the Savior and found him, and as a result had great joy. May that be our testimony as well. Thank you, Lord, for all that you've done for us, for coming to pay our sin debt. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.