Would you take your Bibles this morning, and I want you to open to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, chapter two. The Gospel of Luke, chapter two. We're going to continue to prepare our hearts for our Christmas, this is called Advent. Luke chapter two. And would you please stand and honor the scripture? We're going to read a few verses. Luke chapter two. Let's stand for the reading of Scripture, please, this morning. in verse number one of Luke chapter two, and I want to read just a few verses with you in the Gospel of Luke. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed everyone into his own city And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house in the lineage of David. To be taxed with Mary his espouse wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your inspired word that tells us the story of the birth of our Savior. And I pray that you'll help me, your servant, to make a passage clear for those that are here. That we might worship our Savior all the more, and that we might apply these things to our own life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Now we're celebrating the Advent, which we said is four weeks that lead up to Christmas Eve. The church has historically celebrated Advent. It's a time to prepare hearts spiritually for the worship and celebration of Christmas. And we said that the word Advent is from the Latin and Advenio, which simply means coming or arrival. And again, it celebrates the coming, the first coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And traditionally the church has these four weeks leading up into the celebration of the birth of Christ emphasize four different themes. On the first week it is the first Advent Sunday is hope, and the second one is peace. And then the third one is J uh joy, and then the fourth Sunday leading into Christmas. The theme is love. And we were focusing on all of these themes as we lead up into Christmas. And each of these four themes actually answers the question, what does the coming of Christ into the world mean to me? What does it mean to you? What does it mean to us personally? It means hope, it means peace, it means joy, it means love. And today we want to focus on peace. When we think of the coming of Jesus Christ, what does it mean for us? It means peace. And this is the great need of mankind. Peace with God. Did you know that you need to have peace with God? If you don't already have it, is that your standing before God? Can you say that my standing is I am at peace with God? There's been a reconciliation. with God and I and my relate in our relationship I have peace. Now when John the Baptist came on the scene, he said those famous words that we all know now behold the Lamb of God When John cried out those famous words there in John 129, I think he was saying so much in that statement. But among the other things I believe that uh John was pointing to not only the purpose of Jesus coming into the world, but actually the specific place of the birth of Christ. You say, how so? That's what I want you to see in this passage here with Luke. I want you to see four revealing aspects about the birth of Christ. And here's the first one, if you're taking notes, I want to speak about the sovereign providence of his birth. And we saw this in verses one through five that we just read. We see the providential hand in the events of that Christmas story Luke is very careful to record that Joseph and Mary traveled from Nazareth and Galilee to the southern region of Judea. to the city of David, which is Bethlehem. Now think about this. This would be an extremely difficult journey back then, a a journey of three days. And if by that time Mary was already nine months pregnant, this would be a trip of about 90 miles. Now That would be b by walking. Now no doubt that Mary rode a donkey during that whole trip. It was also the cold of winter and Bethlehem is kinda elevated. It's located uh twenty eight hundred feet above sea level. So this would have been a ride through dangerous uh terrain upward into Bethlehem from Galilee of where they were. They were traveling into the hill country there. Why would Joseph do such a thing? Why would he take his wife, who was already nine months pregnant, on a long journey to a p place called Bethlehem? Some of you men know that when your wife is nine months pregnant, she feels every bump in your car, right? When you're driving, I remember when Carol was pregnant with nine months and we'd go over certain bumps and she'd give me these looks. I would say, honey, I don't make the road, I'm just driving the road Trying to miss all the bumps. But can you imagine uh Mary taking that trip? Why would Joseph do that in the dead of winter when they lived in a town called Nazareth? Why would they travel ninety miles south to a little city called Bethlehem? Well we know that the Bible prophesied that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. Micah 5. 2 says, Oh, but thou Bethlehem, Ephrata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel. So we know according to this Old Testament prophecy that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. That is in the South Country. And by the way, that prophecy is very specific. Did you know that there were two Bethlehems in the land of Israel? There was a Bethlehem in the north. Sometimes it's called Bethlehem Zebulon because it was in the territory of Zebulon. That was only five miles away from Nazareth. But then there was a Bethlehem in the south in Judea that was about ninety miles away. Now if this verse has just said just said that he would be born in Bethlehem, many would probably make the logical assumption that it would be the Bethlehem in the north. But the Bible is very specific about where, not the Bethlehem of the North. But the Bethlehem that is in the south, Bethlehem Ephrata, and where it says that though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, that's in the land of Judah, not the land of Galilee. This would be the Bethlehem that was ninety miles, a very small town. And so it would not have been enough just to say that the Messiah will be born in Bethlehem. Uh it would be like saying, and by the way it's amazing, this prophecy was given seven hundred years before the time. It'd be like someone saying seven hundred years before uh the time that the president would be born uh and it would give the place of his birth But if you just said the president would be born in Washington, that wouldn't be enough. Washington State, Washington, D. C. , Washington, Pennsylvania, do you know there are twenty-six towns named Washington in the United States? You would have to be a little more specific about where. And the Bible is this specific. But then the question has to be asked, and by the way, all the prophets knew. Remember when the wise man came, they asked Herod, where was The Christ child be born and he brought in the Old Testament scholars and they all appointed to Bethlehem. Just outside of Jerusalem. Five miles outside of Jerusalem. They all knew exactly where it was in the land of Judea where the Messiah was to be. Again, it's amazing that they knew that 700 years before the time. That's because God is sovereignly in control. The Bible says in Isaiah 46, verse 9, I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. God is in control. But again, we have to ask the question: why would Joseph Take this trip in the dead of winter. And by the way, Matthew points out very specifically he would be born in Bethlehem and Judea. You know why? Because there were many in the time of Jesus that doubted that he was the Messiah. You know why? Because they said they knew that he was from Nazareth. And they would all say Wait a minute, you're saying that this man is the Messiah? He grew up in Nazareth. They assumed that he was born there. And they would say things like this, can any good thing come from Nazareth? And another passage in John 7, verse 41, others said, this is the Christ, but some said, is the Christ to come from Galilee that is in the north? And has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David? It comes from Bethlehem, the village of David? And so there were many And Jesus day that we're saying, Jesus can't be the Messiah because the Messiah doesn't come from Nazareth. He doesn't come from the north. He was to be born in Bethlehem, and we know that this one grew up in Nazareth. So to clarify the record, to show that Jesus indeed did fulfilled prophecy. Luke, that meticulous historian who wrote the gospel of Luke, gives a very detailed account of the birth of Christ showing that he wasn't born in Nazareth. He was born in Bethlehem. But again the question has to be asked, why would Joseph? Why would he in the dead of winter with a wife nine months pregnant, go from Nazareth all the way down to Bethlehem. What would motivate him to do that? And Luke tells us in verse number one It came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be what? Taxed. You see, actually the word here is the idea of a census. Caesar Augustus was taking a census. By the way, this was the Caesar who was the nephew of Julius Caesar, and right after Julius Caesar was murdered, uh he who was the adopted son of Caesar, really his nephew, was set up to be the next Caesar. He was a very uh great man in terms of political genius. He was great in political skill. He was great in military skill. He put a end to all the civil wars. He brought in what historians called the Pax Romana, the Roman peace. He built roads all throughout the empire. He did a lot really to to help the spread of the gospel in his own way. But part of what he did was he Why was that? Well, it was for the purpose of military service. He wanted to find out all the men that were of military age, and also for the purpose of taxes. And one of the laws was that when he took the census, Jewish people had to go back to their hometown, the town of their ancestry. the town of their tribal ancestry, which necessitated that Joseph and Mary had to leave Nazareth And go to Bethlehem. And by the way, the Bible doesn't say it, but it's implied very clearly that there had to be a deadline. Otherwise, why would he leave at this point? There was a deadline. He had to be there by a certain time. Again, this was the decreed from Caesar Augustus. We all know the understanding of deadlines. What's the deadline in April? April the what? 15th. You guys know that pretty well, huh? The deadline for our taxes. I think the people back in Joseph's day knew the deadline of taking this census of being registered And by the way, think about the providential hand of God. If Joseph and Mary had stayed in Nazareth longer, Jesus would have been born in Nazareth. That wouldn't have fulfilled the prophecy. They had to go at the right time. And all this was all God's providential hand, working all these events together. Why else would Joseph and Mary leave? in winter to take this long journey 90 miles south to go back to their hometown there of Bethlehem. Unless there was this deadline, but this was the hand of God because the Bible said that out of this town, Bethlehem Ephrata, this little town, would come forth the Messiah. So think about the sovereign providence of his birth, but then I want you to think about number two, the special, the specific place of his birth. The specific place. Now, we know that he was born in Bethlehem, but specifically where in Bethlehem was he born? And look in verse number 6 of chapter 2. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn. Again, the question we have to ask is where specifically In Bethlehem was Christ born. Now I think that there have been some wrong ideas here about the specific place of the birth of Christ. If you go there to Bethlehem today, I've been to Bethlehem several times, you can go to a place called the Church of the Nativity. There's a church there that was built over a cave. And this is was the cave that was the the supposed place of where the birth of Christ took place. And this then has been the traditional spot that people have observed as the location. In fact, you can go into that church built over this cave, you can go down a long corridor, you can go down some steps, you can actually go into that very spot. They have it marked very clearly there. where supposedly Christ was born. I don't think that that's the original spot. I I hope I don't spoil anybody's Christmas by saying that. I don't think that's the original spot. And by the way, we can thank Emperor Constantine and his mother Helena for the erroneous selection of the spot over a cave. They made that selection all the way back in the 4th century A. D. , and that has been the traditional site of the birth of Christ ever since. But the Bible doesn't say anything about a cave. And for that matter, it doesn't really say anything about a stable. The only clues that we have are given to us here in Luke about the actual birth of Christ. And there are really two things that he points out here. Number one is that There was no room for them in the inn, it tells us in verse number seven, that he was wrapped in swaddling clothes and laid in a manger. Really, those are the two only facts that we can think about. Since there was a manger, many have assumed that it had to be a stable then, because a manger was a feeding trough for animals, so therefore it had to be a stable. So if there was no room for them in an inn, so maybe there was a stable behind the inn. So a lot of people in our Western thinking, we think of a mo a stable behind Motel 6 or something like that. But that's those images are not true. Archaeologist Gary Byers, who is a friend of mine that I've actually been to Bethlehem with, has pointed out that the word that Luke uses here for in is the Greek word cataluma. It's only used two times in the New Testament, once here. The only other time it's used in the Gospel of Luke is in reference to when Jesus went with his disciples to the upper room. It's the same Greek word, cataluma, upper room, or we could say a guest room. In fact, if Luke meant that there were no rooms in a motel, he would have used a different Greek word. The Greek word for a inn or a hotel is Pandokion. Pantochion is the Greek word. And by the way, Luke knew this word very well because in the parable of the Good Samaritan, you remember the story? The man falls among thieves. The Good Samaritan comes along, he picks him up, he takes them to an end And the Greek word that he uses there is pandokion. He doesn't use cataluma. But he was talking about a motel, an inn for travelers, and that's the Greek word for that. He even talks about a Pandokias, which is a innkeeper. We don't see those words here in this account in Luke chapter 2. This leads me to believe that this was not a motel or an inn for travelers. By the way, you have to remember that Bethlehem was a very small town. It wasn't big enough to have a commercial motel for travelers because travelers didn't go through there very often. And so what he was talking about here, I believe, was a guest room, likely house. And you can imagine that with the census taking place and all the Jews having to go back to their their original home, their ancestral home, that by the time Joseph and Mary got back to the family house, it was already filled with family. There was no room there in the Cataluma. There was no room there in the guest house. And so people then assumed that what Joseph and Mary did after that was they went to the stable behind the house, and that's where they had the birth of Jesus. And why again do they assume that? They assume that because of the word manger that is used here. A manger again is a feeding trough for animals. So they think that it was in a barn. But we don't have to assume that, that that was the place where Christ was born, because the Bible gives us the specific location of the birth of Christ. You say, where is it? It's not in the New Testament. You would think that perhaps it would be in the New Testament, but it's not. The same prophet Micah who told us that it would be in Bethlehem. also gave us another prophecy just a few verses before that. He gave us the specific place in Bethlehem. You might want to write this in your margin, Micah 4. 8 And I'm surprised actually that not more preachers refer to this verse when they speak about the birth of Christ. Micah 4. 8. Listen to what it says. And thou, O tower of the flock. The stronghold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion, the kingdom shall come unto the daughter of Zion Jerusalem. Now I think that the when it says the stronghold of the daughter of Zion, he's talking about Bethlehem there. A daughter of Zion, a little town just outside of Zion. The city of Jerusalem would be called the daughter of Zion or the daughter of Jerusalem, and the king and the kingdom will come to you But notice the specific phrase, O thou tower of the flock. That's an important expression there, tower of the flock. The Hebrew is literally Migdal Idar. Migdal Idar, or literally watchtower of the flock. So according to the Old Testament, the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. Listen, at the watchtower of the flock. Jesus would be born at Migdal Idar. Now the first time we see this tower mentioned in Bethlehem. It's mentioned all the way back in Genesis 35, verse number 21, where you remember this was the account where Rachel who is the wife of Jacob is giving birth to his last son, Benjamin. And you remember that story in Genesis? That they were right there around Bethlehem when she went into labor. And the labor was so difficult and she travailed so much that she died in birth, giving birth to Benjamin. Therefore she named him Benomi, son of my sorrow, and later Jacob would change his name to Benjamin, son of my right hand. But the Bible says this, listen to this in Genesis 20 or 3520 and Jacob set up a pillar there upon her grave. By the way, you can go there and see the grave of Rachel there just outside of Bethlehem. And then it says this, that this is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. And listen, and Israel journeyed and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar. There he's referring to that tower. That tower where it was right there in Bethlehem. Now you might ask, what's the deal with this tower? What's a watchtower And why is this important? Did you know in ancient times this was a military tower used for obvious reasons? You can get up in that tower and see a long way off. And so it was used there, put in that valley near Bethlehem to view invading armies, a watchtower. It was for a military purpose. But From David and Solomon's day until the time of Jesus, it became a functioning tower for shepherds to watch over their flocks in that field there. This tower was set up for shepherds to help watch over their flocks. Let me read you what one scholar, Cooper Abrams, wrote. He said this watchtower from ancient times was used by the shepherds for protection from their enemies and wild beasts. It was also the place you were safely brought to give birth to the lambs in this sheltered building The priest would bring in the ewes, which were about to lamb, that is to give birth to a lamb And then he goes on to say these special lambs came from a unique flock that was designated for sacrifice in the temple. in Jerusalem. And by the way, did you know that one of the priest's duties was to verify that the lambs that were born would be worthy? to be used in temple sacrifice. And according to the scholars, it was their job to inspect the lambs when they were born, and when the lambs were born, they would wrap these lambs in swaddling clothes and white linen to clothe them. signifying that they were set apart. And so these shepherds who kept them were men who were specifically trained for this task, this really a priestly task. And by the way, it was said in the Mishnah. What do you say what's the Mishnah? The Mishnah is just a Jewish law book. Aside from the Bible, it was a book that they referred to a lot. And the word Mishnah just needs means repetition. And according to the Mishnah, listen to this, all cattle found in the area surrounding Jerusalem and sheep, as far as the Magdal Magdaled, were deemed to be holy and consecrated And can only be used for the services of the temple or sacrifices in the temple, particularly the Passover sacrifices. And so all that land just around that area of Bethlehem was a special area designated, set apart, to raise lambs that would be used. for sacrifice in the temple that was just a few miles down the road. There was a tower there in that area, and according to Old Testament scholars This tower was used to help Ulams give birth in that very tower. And then they would be inspected and they would be wrapped in swaddling close. Alfred Eldersheim wrote a great book. It took him seven years to put it together. It wrote the book, The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. And this is what he said, that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem was a settled conviction. Listen to what he said now. Equally so was the belief that he was to be revealed from Migdal Idar, the tower of the flock. And then he goes on to reference the Mishnah, which says that these flocks which pastured there were destined for temple sacrifices. And the shepherds who watched over them were not, as he said, ordinary shepherds, end quote. And so I believe that when Joseph and Mary went to their hometown of Bethlehem, And they found that the guest room, the Cataluma, was completely filled, that they went to this special place called this Tower of Idar. And by the way, that place, don't get in your mind. I know we have in our mind, I hope I'm not absolutely destroying your image of Christmas here. We have this idea that they were born in a barn with all kind of different animals, a smelly, dirty barn that Jesus was born near. This tower of the of the of this of the flock, or this Megalidar had to be kept clean for purification purposes by the priests who work who work there and for the lambs that were given birth there. So it wasn't a dirty place. It was at this tower, I believe, when there was no room in the inn is where Mary and Joseph went. In fulfillment of Old Testament scripture, very specifically the prophet Micah who said Bethlehem, but he also said, And thou, O tower of the flock. the Tower of the Flock. In this area where it was located on consecrated ground, where sheep would graze and give birth to special lambs for the sacrifice in Jerusalem. This to me would be the appropriate place for the Lamb of God to be born. Cooper Avens again writes this. Typically Migalidar The Tower of the Flock at Bethlehem is the perfect place for Christ to be born. He was born in the very birthplace of tens of thousands of lambs which have been sacrificed to prefigure him. And I believe that that's true, beloved. In that one stone tower, some people say it was a cave, some people say it was a a stable. I believe it was this spot and this tower And the field there, and by the way, you can go to Bethlehem today. There's a place called Shepherd's Field, and you can actually see the approximate location. We don't know exactly where the tower would have been in Jesus' day. But you can certainly go to that field there. But I want you to see the third thing. Not only the sovereign providence of his birth and the specific place of his birth, but number three, the significant proclamation of his birth, because look what happened in verse number eight. Where it says, And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord. And listen to this in verse number 12. And this shall be a sign unto you. You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. lying in a manger. Now when the glory of God lit up the sky that night, there was a very special announcement given by the angel that came to the shepherds. And notice that in this announcement he gave, he said there's going to be a sign. This shall be the sign that I'm going to give you. Now, by the way, when you use the word sign, which is the word Simeon in the New Testament, sometimes it's translated miracle, but it has the idea of something that you don't see every day. Something that's not normal. And he says, here's the sign. You're going to find this newborn babe. Two things that he mentions in the sign. He'll be Wrapped in swaddling clothes, and he'll be lying in a manger. The idea there is that you don't see this every day. You don't see a newborn babe. Wrapped in swaddling clothes. And the shepherds' mind, when they heard the term swaddling clothes, they understood that that's normally what they did to Newborn Lambs. And they also knew exactly what he meant by manger, because they knew exactly where to go, by the way. Notice that the angel doesn't tell them where to go or how to get there. He just says, here's the sign, you'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, and he'll be lying in a manger. The shepherds did not have to go through Bethlehem, knocking on doors and saying, Hey, any newborns in here? They didn't have to go looking through stables in Bethlehem. Because when the angel said, You'll find them wrapped in swallowing clothes, laying in a manger, they knew exactly where to go. They knew what happened at the tower of the flock. They knew that that was the place of birthing lambs. They knew that there wasn't manger there and swallowing clothes there. They went specifically directly to that spot. In fact, that's implied in verse 15. Look at verse 15. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away. From them into the heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem to see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known to us. And they came with haste And found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. The impression is given that when they were able to go with haste, they knew exactly where to go. You know, I only go somewhere with haste where if I know where I'm going. I know that there are some who go with haste everywhere, even where they know you're going or where even if you don't know where you're going. But there's a confidence here. They know where they're going. They knew from the description, wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger, they knew to go to the tower of the flock. They knew to go to Migdal Idar This was not just any stable in Bethlehem on this consecrated ground in that special place. They knew that they would find the Savior there. But let me give you the last thing quickly. Look in verse thirteen. I want you to see the saving purpose of his birth. We saw the sovereign providence, the specific place, the significant proclamation, but then fourthly the saving purpose. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest And on earth peace, goodwill towards men. And distilled in verse 14 is the entire purpose of the birth of Christ for the glory of God. And for peace on earth for men. Now a lot of times when we read that we say peace on earth, we think of no more wars and no more striving and no more. That's not what he's talking about here. Because we still have wars, don't we? We still have that. By the way, when the Lord comes again, he'll put all that down. He'll eventually take care of all that. But when he said peace on earth here, he's not necessarily talking about peace horizontally He's talking about peace vertically with God. Because I want to tell you, friend, your biggest need today is to be at peace with God. You need to be saved. You say saved from what? Saved from sin? Let me just say this. The gospel starts with the holiness of God. And here's the problem today. We don't have any concept of the holiness of God, or at least we don't preach about it enough. Or the world doesn't really think about it. But you have to remember our God is a holy God. And that means he must judge sin. Not one half of one sin will go unpunished. But our God is also a God of love, and He doesn't want to punish you. And right now, if you're not saved, you're not at peace with God. You say, Well, I'm not angry at God. Well actually you are. You're at war. Maybe you don't really say it, but the Bible says To the heart that doesn't know the Lord that's lost, there's enmity. We say, well, no, I'm not at war with God. Okay, well, God's at war with you then. You say, well, why is God at war with me? Because you haven't done anything with his son yet. The gospel is not an invitation. Oh, come to Jesus. And by the way, you should come and we should invite, but the gospel is a command. Let me tell you something, friend. God sent his son to pay for the sin of the world. You can't avoid them. If you ignore them, that's a choice that you make. But if you do, you're not at peace with God. God sent his son that he might be the deliverer for your sin, that he would take your sin upon himself That God's wrath would fall upon his son, and his holiness would be satisfied with the sacrifice of his son on the cross. Therefore, peace with God is available to you if you'll repent and turn to him. But if you don't turn to him, you're not going to have peace with God. And if you don't repent of your sin, there'll be no peace. And unfortunately, I would have to tell you, friend, if you don't have peace with God, if that relationship is not settled, Then you have a long eternity ahead of you, out of the presence of God, in a place of eternal judgment. But the good news is this. Christ came that you might have peace. And God's desire for you is that you do have peace with Him And if that's not your standing before God, if you can't honestly say, I know that between me and God there's peace, Because I have repented of my sin. I have received Jesus Christ as my Savior and Lord, the one who came to this earth to die for my sins. He is the Lamb of God. That would take away the sin of the world. And I acknowledge that I repent of my sin. I turn to him. If you're not at peace with God, friend, then you know nothing about the real reason for Christmas. Christmas came, Christ came to give you this peace. Peace with God Friend, do you have it? That's what it's all about. That's what the angel meant when he said, on earth, peace and goodwill towards men. Goodwill from whom? Goodwill from God. Right now his will to you may not be good if you haven't repented. The Bible says he that believeth not is condemned already. But he but whosoever believeth on Jesus Christ, the Bible says, will be saved, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth on him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Friend, do you have that? Do you know that? Let's bow for a prayer together. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, then I just want to ask you, friend, can you honestly say I am at peace with my God? I know that. I know, and I thank God for the peace that I do have. But friend, if you can't say that with absolute assurance, I want to invite you today, right now, right there while you sit. Our God is so merciful, so loving. He longs for you to turn to him. And friend, would you do that right now? Would you say, yeah, I want this peace with God that was provided for by the birth of Jesus Christ, who would die for my sin. And today with all my heart, preacher, I'm turning to the Lord. I'm repenting of my sin, and I pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand, friend? Would you honestly say that's my prayer? I'm trusting him today. God bless you, dear friend. God bless you Anyone else? This is my prayer. I want peace with him. Peace with God. Father, thank you for again this beautiful narrative that makes very clear to us. The birth of our Savior and the purpose of this birth. And I pray, Lord, that all of us will leave with that absolute assurance in our heart of having this peace. Thank you, Lord, for what you're doing in hearts and lives. Thank you for this one that today raised their hand and said, Yes, I'm praying right now for peace. With God. Save their soul, Lord. Draw them near. And use your word in every heart and every life here today. We pray. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.