I invite you this morning to take your Bibles, open to the book of Philippians, chapter number two, the book of Philippians, chapter two. And we're going to be looking this morning at a few verses here in this wonderful passage of Scripture, in verse number five, if you'll find that, Philippians chapter 2, verse 5. And Let me read a few verses here with you. Verse 5: Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross. Now we have been celebrating the Sundays of Advent. This is the fourth Sunday of Advent. We've been kind of working our way through um you know some are remind were reminded of the Advent uh wreath where there's candles, four candles representing the four different themes, the four different Sundays leading up to uh the Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. And each Sunday, or we could say Candle Around the Wreath has a different theme. We've looked already at the hope, the theme of hope And we looked at uh Zacharias and the hope of Christmas, and we saw that that hope plays such a big part for us as believers. Our hope is in the Messiah who's coming again. And we also considered the theme of peace We looked at the story of um Luke chapter 2 when the angels proclaimed peace on earth. Last week we looked at the theme of joy. We saw the joy that the wise men had when they found the Christ child. Now today we come to the theme of love. This is the fourth theme on the fourth Sunday. The love of Christmas is what I want to talk about today. And uh this is the most important of all. Because Christ's coming to earth, his incarnation, I believe, is one of the most valuable, one of the greatest examples of love that mankind has ever seen. And this is what Paul points to here in Philippians chapter 2. But before we get into it, let me just ask you a question. What is love? When you try to define love, how would you define it? A lot of times we had a tendency to try to define love with uh an emotional definition. It's like one person said that love is a feeling that you feel when you feel like you a feeling that you've never felt before Or something like that. Someone else said it's the outward inexpressibility of the inward overallishness or something like that, you know. All these are con of course these are whimsical definitions of love. But how would you Define love. I I I think that the biblical understanding of love has to do more with actions than it does actual feelings. Now I'm not saying that love doesn't involve emotions, it surely does. But it goes a lot deeper than just emotions. And if I could just sum up what love is, if I could give it in one word, I think I would put the word selflessness to it. It is selflessness. That's the core of love. We could say that love, in its basic understanding, is selfless, sacrificial acts on the behalf of someone else. It is acting sacrificially for the good of others, for the good of someone else. You remember the story in John 13 where Jesus was in the upper room with his disciples and uh Remember that they were basically arguing about who would be the greatest in the kingdom. They constantly were arguing about that. And the Bible says that Jesus began to wash their feet. And then he said this. He said, In this manner you are to love one another. And the way I just demonstrated to you. And Jesus just demonstrated love. And what was love? It was a selfless act. for others. And I think that's a helpful definition. And because I I think that in the core is what the core of Christ's love to us. Jesus sacrificed himself because he cared for us. He was committed to seeking our highest good. That's the whole reason why Christ came to earth. It is supreme selflessness. 1 Corinthians 13, which speaks about love, says it like this: love seeks not his own. Seeks not his own. You're looking for the good of others. Now, let me just say that this is a message that is greatly needed in our society today. Because our society today is so filled with self-love. I know a lot of psychologists out there that say the problem with man today is that he doesn't love himself. I would just r disagree and say that the problem with man today is that he loves himself too much. The problem is self-love. It's people who are narcissistic. Where does that word come from? In Greek mythology, Narcissus was uh a hunter who was renowned for his beauty. His enemy was Nemesis. We've heard that word before, right? His nemesis was his enemy. And he thought of a way to finally get narcissists, and what he did was he lured him to a reflecting pool where narcissists would look down and see his own reflection, and he loved himself so much he was unable to leave that reflection. And so he died there at that reflecting pool looking at himself. And this is where we get the term narcissism. It's a fixation with oneself, or we could say self-love In 1979, Christopher Lash wrote a best-selling book. He called the book The Culture of Narcissism And in this book, basically, he examined and evaluated the dominating characteristic of American culture, and he came up with this idea of narcissism. This is the dominating characteristic, he said, of our culture is this self-love. And this is what he wrote. He wrote, to live for the moment. is the prevailing passion to live for yourself, not for your predecessors or your posterity, but to live for And I believe that one of the greatest problems that we have today is selfishness. And I think selfishness is the great destroyer. It has it is destroying marriages. A lot of times when I'm dealing with marriages and counseling and helping married couples, the issue in that whole counseling session is just very simply its selfishness. Selfishness is destroying homes. Selfishness is breaking up relationships. Selfishness is bringing misery. To the lives of so many people. Selfishness is dividing even churches. And this is the issue that Paul is dealing with here in Philippians. a divided church that needs this message. But we live today in this culture of narcissism and uh we're even he hearing it Ironically, especially around Christmas time, when really Christmas, if the spirit of Christmas is anything, it's this supreme selflessness demonstrated in the life of Christ But instead, what we see in the world today is this consumer mentality where Madison Avenue plays to that innate selfishness that's in every one of us. And that's how they sell their goods. You ever notice the commercial slogans? Have it your way. You deserve it. Look out for number one. You owe it to yourself. Buy this. You deserve it. Be good to yourself. And so we have this commercialism. here at Christmas time that appeals to this innate selfishness when ironically if Christmas is anything it's all about being selfless And that's what Christ demonstrated. Now, here in the book of Philippians, when Paul writes this letter from a Roman prison, he's writing to a church that he loves so very much. I believe that the Church of Philippi was one of Paul's favorite churches. It was a beloved group of people by the apostle. They were constantly worried over Paul, taking care of Paul. And Paul, while he was in prison, receives a visit from Epaphroditus. He's one of the messengers of the church of Philippi. They were concerned about Paul. They finally located him in that Roman prison. They sent Epaphroditus with a gift to give to Paul to take care of him. And in response, Paul writes this letter, the book of Philippians, and essentially it's a thank you letter to this church. But also Paul learns from Epaphroditus that there is a a terrible That's brewing in the church. In fact, the division is so severe that it's threatening to divide and destroy this church that Paul loves so very much. There were some people in the church that could not get along. And in fact, in chapter 4, Paul names names. Look in chapter 4. Real quickly in verse number one where he says, Therefore, my dearly beloved, and long for my joy and crown, stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. And then verse two he says, I beseech Yodis And beseech Senechi that they be of the same mind. Here are two women in the church that just could not get along. Yodius is the Greek word that means fragrant. Syneche means fortunate. One country preacher pronounced her name's You Owe Me and So Touchy because they just couldn't seem to get along. And Paul identifies the root of the problem that is threatening to destroy this church, this church that he loves so much, and he he identified the problem as very simple. It was just they were selfish. They were acting selfishly. This is the exact opposite of love. Again, love is selflessness, supreme selflessness. It's sacrificial acts on the behalf of others. It's thinking of others. It's putting others ahead of you. This is not what was going on at the church at Philippi. This self-centered attitude was destroying the church. And Paul was concerned about it, concerned enough that he even names names and he begs them to get along, to be selfless towards one another. Because he knows how dangerous that this selfishness can be. I read that in the South Sea Islands there's a bird there called the Mimi Bird. The reason it's named that is because the c the sound that it makes is me, me, me. Now I've never been to the South Sea Islands, but I have seen that bird in some churches and in some homes where all they think about is me. It's me. It's all about me. So what does Paul do to solve the situation here in this church? He doesn't come up with some novel idea about how they can get along. You know what Paul does? And this is something that we all need so very much. He simply points to Christ. And he points specifically to the incarnation of Christ. That is, when Christ left heaven to come to earth. This is why we celebrate Christmas, we celebrate the incarnation, we celebrate the fact that Jesus was willing to leave the glory of heaven, to leave uh behind him all of the glory and the privileges that come with being the Son of God, and it was willing to come to this earth. Why did he do that? It wasn't for himself. He was doing it for others. It was all about others. So look at Philippians chapter 2 and look at verse number 5. And notice what Paul says to this church in verse 5: Let this mind be in you Which was also in Christ Jesus. This is the key verse in this whole section. It ties all of these verses together here in Philippians chapter 2, from verses 1 to 11. Verse 5 kind of looks back on verses 1 to 4. It looks forward to verses 6 through 11, but this is the key idea. This is what Paul is saying to the church. He's saying, I want you to have the mind of Christ in verse 5. Let this mind be in you. This is a imperative in the Greek. This is that is it's a command. Paul's not making a suggestion. Paul's not saying it would be nice if you all Would think like Jesus, he's saying, no, it is necessary for you to think like Christ. I'm commanding you to have the mind of Christ. And what kind of mind did he have? It was one of love. It was one of absolute supreme selflessness. And so I want you to show, I want to show you in the few minutes that we have left here this morning, three steps in having the mind of Christ. Because this is a command for all of us. And again, beloved, this is what Christmas is all about It's all about the love that Christ demonstrated for us and how we need to model this love to follow the example of our Savior. And be absolutely selfless in our treatment to others. So three steps. Number one, think about the coming of Christ. This is what he says. Think about how Christ came. Look at verse number two, just back up. Fulfill ye my joy. Again, this is another imperative here. Again, Paul's not making a suggestion, he's making a command. I want you to make my joy complete. How? That you be like-minded, having the same love. What love? The love that Christ had for us, having the same love, being of one accord and one mind. And again, what he's doing here is he's describing characteristics that were part of who Jesus Christ was when he came. He respected his people. He respected us so much that he was willing to lay aside so many things to come for our benefit. Look at verse number three. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. He's saying reject self-promotion. Don't let anything be done through strife. That's a political term, rivalry. Someone out trying to win support for themselves. Paul says, don't be out there, you know. Trying to promote yourself or your own agenda. Don't don't uh live that way. Let nothing be done through strife or vain glory, empty glory. This is the idea of seeking the glory and the praise of others. But in verse 3 he says, But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. And that's what love is essentially. We are to esteem others better than ourself. We are to look upon others. We're not to be self-centered. Look in verse 5. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. The word look scope, where we get the word scope, literally means to look out for. A truly humble person is not self-centered. They're not focused on self. They're constantly looking out for others. They're looking at what others may need. So they're looking to help other people. That's what he's talking about, and that's what Jesus did. He respected his people Secondly, he relinquished his position. Look at verse six. Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God? Now, how do we know that Christ had such a selfless mind? Because Paul says, look at Jesus, look at his incarnation. He was in the form of God. But he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. What does that mean? The word form here, let me tell you what this means. The Greek word form is morphe, and it has to do with an inward nature. There are actually two Greek words which talk about a form, or we are a translated form. One is morphe, which talks about an inward nature. A second Greek word is schema, which talks about an outward nature. Now, what he's saying here is that the inward nature of Christ, the inward form of Christ, was God. He was deity. And that never changed. That inward nature. It did not change. I could illustrate it like this. When a child is born as a boy, that inward nature of that child is male. That inward nature never changes. Although the outward schema, his outward appearance will change. He'll go from infancy To adolescence, to a adulthood, to an older adult, that outward schema will change, but the inward nature never changes. The morphe. And this is what he's saying, that Jesus, when he came to earth, he never stopped being God. He was God that came to the flesh into the flesh. Who being in the morphe of God, the the nature of God, but watch this, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. The word robbery is the idea of a th something that you hold on to, something that you seize. And what he means here in this verse is, even though he was God, and being God carries with it a lot of privileges, you know, a lot of authority, a lot of glory. But the Lord Jesus did not seize or lay hold of those things. In other words, he was willing to lay aside All those blessings and benefits and privileges and glory that comes with being God, he didn't think it was something that he had to hold on to with dear life No, he set those things aside. Why? That he might come to earth and be a man. That he might come to earth. He never stopped being God, but he became a man. And we could say it like this: he renounced his privileges. That's the third part. Look in verse 7. But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. And was made in the likeness of men. You see, what did Jesus lay aside? What privileges did he lay aside? One of those privileges was heavenly glory. He laid aside his glory. During the whole earthly ministry of Jesus, when the disciples looked at Jesus, they saw a man. And the Bible says that they saw a normal, ordinary man. There was nothing about Jesus that would make him stand out as far as his humanness. But behind that humanity, deeper down in, there was someone very, very special there. And he had this glory that he laid aside. We never, the disciples never saw the glory of Christ They saw Christ in his humanity. They saw Christ in his humiliation. That's why in John chapter 17, verse 5, when Jesus prays, he prays, Father. Let them see the glory that I had with you before the world was. That was a prayer of Jesus. During his earthly ministry, he came in humility, but his prayer was, Father, I want all of these that are yours to one day see me in my real glory. Because he laid aside all of that when he came to earth By the way, that's how I know I'm going to heaven. Because Jesus prayed that I would be there to see his glory. And God the Father is going to answer the prayer of Jesus. I will be there to see his glory, and so will you if you know Jesus as your Savior. One day you'll go to heaven and see his glory. Jesus laid aside that glory. He laid aside divine prerogatives. He laid aside eternal riches. He laid aside that beautiful one-on-one relationship with the Father, that favorable relationship to go and die on the cross to hear To see that his father would turn away from him. We heard Jesus say on the cross by way of scripture, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? All of that, he laid aside that favorable relationship, all of those privileges. Why did he do that? Again, look down in verse number seven, but made himself of no reputation. This is the Greek word kino, it means to empty. That is, he just completely emptied himself. He emptied himself of all of that. Now, there's a big debate among New Testament scholars about what this means, this kino word, and there are some people that actually teach that Jesus emptied himself of being God. And I want you to know if you ever hear that, that's a heresy. He never emptied himself of that. Here's the idea. When he emptied himself, he emptied himself not by subtracting anything from his nature. But by adding to his nature. How did he empty himself? Not by what he subtracted, but by what he added. And what did he add to his nature, humanity? He took upon him the form of a servant. For the first time God became a man. And verse 7, and was made in the likeness of man. He became a man. That's how he emptied himself. And yet he was different. In what way? He was sinless. He was born of the virgin. Yet, although he was a man like all other humans, there was a little bit something that was different about him. That is, he was the virgin-born son of God. So he was The God man, he was truly God and truly man. Both together concurrently in one person. And you say, well, I don't understand that. Well, welcome to the club. I don't fully embrace that in theology. Paul said, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. One of the greatest miracles ever wrought among mankind was when God became a man. And why did Jesus do this? Why was he willing to leave the glory of heaven, to leave all the privileges and the prerogatives that come with being God, to humble himself, to empty himself by adding to himself humanity. Why was he willing to do all of that? Well, it was for you. He did it for you, beloved. It certainly wasn't for himself. It was for you. It was for me. And so Paul says the next time you have a tendency to be selfish and think about yourself. And put yourself ahead of everyone else and to put your agenda ahead of everyone else. Just think about the coming of Christ. Think about what he did. Think about how he was totally selfless when he came to earth. Think about his coming, but then think about the cross. If that's not enough If becoming a man was not enough in his humbling, look at verse 8, think about the cross. And being found in fashion as a man. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know how much he humbled himself. It wasn't enough that he just became a man But he humbled himself to the point to where he would allow himself to be taken unjustly, to be go through an unjust trial, to be mocked. To be spit upon, to be beaten beyond recognition, to be whipped and to be scourged, To be nailed to a cross. And keep in mind, beloved, during that whole time, Jesus did not utter any defense of himself. He didn't hire a defense attorney to plead his cause. The Bible says throughout the whole kangaroo court When they came to get Jesus and try him, by the way, the trial started like 3 in the morning. What court trial starts at 3 a. m. ? Only the kind where you want to do something evil to a person And it was uh uh that was exactly what happened to Christ. They wanted to crucify him. And during that whole time, Jesus uttered no Retaliation. He didn't threaten. He didn't say, would you just wait, I'm going to get you back. He didn't he done he did none of that He was silent. He accepted this abuse. He accepted the mockery. He accepted all of that. First Peter says it like this, listen to these words, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live under righteousness, by whose stripes ye were healed. And Paul says it like this. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. When he says even the death of the cross, he's pointing out the incredible, humiliating way. In which Christ died, and one of the most humiliating ways for anyone to die was through crucifixion. And all the pain that went with that. And Jesus, he deserved none of that. He was the innocent, pure, virgin-born son of God, but he willingly went to the cross. Again, why would he do that? Why would he humble himself to that extent? He did it for you. He did it for me. He came for us. Because we were the sinners. We were the ones that deserved to be hung on that tree. We were the ones that deserved the curse of God to come down upon us, for God's wrath to fall on us. I deserve that because I'm a sinner, because of my sin. I should have been the one that suffered. You should have been the one that suffered. But that's why Jesus came into this world so that we wouldn't have to suffer the wrath of God. He took it for us. He hung on a tree. Did you know that the Jewish people hated Hanging on a tree because it revealed a curse. Listen to Deuteronomy 21, 23. Anyone who has hung on a tree is under God's curse. And the Jews recognize this. In Galatians 3. 13, Paul said, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. I want to tell you something, beloved, the most selfless act that was ever done, the most loving act that humanity has ever saw Is when Jesus Christ hung on the tree for you and me and became a curse for us. There is no close second. There's nothing that can compare to the selflessness of Christ. Nothing. And when I lay Christ's selflessness sometimes beside my own selfishness, It becomes very odious to me, my own selfishness. I become overwhelmingly convicted of my own selfish agenda when I see the selflessness of Christ. That's why we should contemplate the cross. Because that is our example of what really love is about, of absolute total selflessness. And so Paul says to this church that's threatening to divide Because people are being so selfish. He says, look, have the mind of Christ. Think about his coming. Think about how selfless that was. Think about the cross. Think about how selfless Christ was when he died on the cross for you and for me. But now there's one other thing I want to mention before we close. Because Paul doesn't leave it there. Look at verse number nine. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The source, we see here the exaltation of Christ. And Paul's saying, look, think about the crowning of Christ. Because here's the principle, beloved. When you humble yourself and when you act selflessly towards others, you can rest assured that God is going to exalt you. God is going to bless you. That's the whole point here. You see, no one ever humbled themselves like Jesus. Therefore, no one will ever be exalted as highly as Jesus. Because God the Father is going to do it. That's the source of his exaltation. We see the scope of it in verse 9. He didn't just exalt them, he highly exalted him. This is the Greek word hooper uso. He is exalted beyond measure. He's highly lifted up beyond measure. And then notice where it says in verse 9: and given him a name that is above every name. This is what I call the significance of his exaltation. And there's the definite article in the Greek. He's given him not just a name, but the name. This is the name. You see, because Jesus was so loving towards us, because he was so selfless for us. God is going to highly exalt him and he's going to give him the name. Now you might say, well wait wait a minute, what is the name? We we have a lot of names for Jesus. And you know when we did our Christmas program, one of the things that blessed me most is when we had all these banners come in here. That showed the names of Jesus and who he is. But I want to tell you something. There is one name that God the Father has given to Jesus. That's the highly exalted name. In fact, at this name, the Bible says every knee is going to bow in heaven and earth and under the earth. Everyone is going to call on this name one day. You know, even those who don't even believe in them today, one day they're going to utter that name. God the Father has determined that it's going to happen. You say, what is that name? Well verse nine tells us, actually verse eleven. Here it is at verse 11. That every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is what? There it is right there, Lord. That's the name that God the Father has given him, to the glory of God the Father. I love the song that we sing at Christmas time. There's a line of it that goes, Jesus, Lord at thy birth. Lord at thy birth. So true. But I want to tell you something, friend. One day we're all going to utter that name, Lord, to the glory of God the Father. That's the name that God has exalted, given Jesus We'll all say that name. You know what I don't want to wait, I want to say it right now. Jesus is Lord. He is Lord. And we give him all the glory and we thank him for coming for us. And I want to tell you something, friend. If you say that from your heart and you make Jesus the Lord, that's how salvation comes. The Bible says For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You may as well do it. You're going to do it one day. You may as well do it right now. You may as well call upon him right now and call him Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful passage that tells us Of the greatness of our Savior, that supreme love, that honestly, Father, it's beyond our comprehension. This kind of selflessness Where Christ would leave the glory of heaven for us, humble himself, would empty himself. And die in cruel agony and humiliation and submit himself to that for us. It's beyond our comprehension And Father, with all our hearts we thank you. And fully and freely we utter that Jesus is Lord. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here today that's not made Jesus Lord of their life, that's not called upon him as their Lord and Savior, that today they will do that. Right there where they're seated, Lord, that their heart would rise in faith and call Jesus Lord. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you, friend, is that your prayer today? Would you be willing right now to say yes, Jesus is Lord? And I realized that his death was for me. He died for me. And today I call upon him as my Lord and my Savior. Is that your prayer, friend? Can I pray for you? I don't want to embarrass you. Would you lift your hand and say, Yeah, that's me, preacher. I'm I want to make Jesus my Lord today, my Lord and my Savior, my God Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Anyone here? God bless you, my dear friend. Father, thank you for these words. Use them in every heart here today. We thank you and praise you for who you are. Lord, I pray that every person here, every family represented would have a wonderful Christ-centered Christmas this week, where truly Christ will be honored. And we pray in his precious name. Amen.