Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Matthew, please, the book of Matthew, chapter six, and we're going to look at verse twenty-five Down to verse 34. Matthew 6, verse 25. Would you stand for the reading of God's word this morning? Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat in the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather in the barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one stoop cubit to his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to-day is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall not he much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore, take no thought saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Therefore, take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Thank you, you may be seated. May God help us to hear and receive His Word today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for your word and for how it comforts us in times when we need it. And so we pray that today you will indeed use these words of our Savior to bring comfort for those who have need of it. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Someone has rightly called this the age of anxiety. Let me ask you, you don't have to raise your hand, but have you ever struggled or had to battle with worry or anxiety? I think all of us If we were honest, would have to say there have been times when we've had to do battle with this. We often hear phrases like being stressed out. Or another phrase we hear a lot today is panic attack. According to psychiatrists, the most common mental disorder they encounter at their clinics across the country is the is the issue of anxiety. We're anxious about our finances. Will we be able to pay this month's bills? How will I be able to fix my aging car if it breaks down? What if I lose my job? What will happen? How will I put my kids through college How will I be able to pay my medical expenses? We're anxious about our health. What if I get some um cancer or what if I, you know, have a heart attack, or if I get Alzheimer's, or I'm disabled, I have to go into a nursing home all those things. We're anxious about our children. Will they turn out okay? Will drugs and immorality uh uh b uh be something that's a part of their life? Will they be able to avoid that? Will they be safe in this crime-ridden world? And the list could go on and on and on. And you might have gotten anxious when I read those questions there this morning. All these things Sometimes, you know, I talk to people that struggle with anxiety and they really can't identify any specific reason. There just seems to be this angst that they have. this inward anxiety and they really can't put a finger on, you know, maybe why they're so anxious. But the the issue is we have to learn to deal with it. We have to learn to deal with it because if it if if we don't, it's going to cause us problems in our spiritual walk and problems even in our health. Anxiety at its core is, we could say, an inappropriate response to the fears, to the pressures, to the demands of life. Stress and pressure are things that God allows in our life, and God uses those things as instruments that will sanctify us and will teach us how to be strong in Him God uses the stress and the demands of life and the pressures of life to conform us more in the image of Christ. Christ. And so stress and pressure are really not things that we can avoid, nor what should we try to avoid them, but what we must do is learn how to deal with it in the right way. Now there's a lot of books out there on the topic in Christian publishing houses, and uh and they're quite revealing. A lot of them are just simply little formulas or they are anecdotal. uh things they're psychological in their orientation. A lot of them have a lot of nice stories and things about anxiety, but very A few of them talk about Scripture. Very few of them give the Word of God. And so I think many Christians today are turning to the world for help rather than turning to God's Word. And I think that that approach is fraught with dangers. I I think the the ultimate problem with that is that it leads people away from God rather than to God. And anxiety and stress and pressure is something that should drive us to God, not to false answers, not to be dependent upon other things. whether it be some kind of medicine or alcohol that makes us catatonic where we're not awake to the realities of life The Bible tells us this in 2 Peter 1. 3, according as his divine power has given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. And we need to believe that God has said that He, through His divine power, gives us what we need for life and for godliness. And we need to understand that. What does Jesus tell us about dealing with anxiety? In this passage here in Matthew that we just read, three times Jesus tells us not to worry. Look again in verse number 25 where he says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life. Again in verse number 31, therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat or what shall we drink? And then again in verse number 34, the same expression. Take therefore no thought for the morrow. Three times Jesus here commands us not to worry. The heart of this passage is is really centered on these three statements. It's built around these three statements. In the first statement, literally in the Greek we could read it like this. Stop being anxious or literally stop worrying. The next two times we could say it like this, don't start being anxious. Don't start worrying. And so therefore This whole passage is kind of bracketed with this meaning, if you're worrying, stop it. If you haven't started, don't start. And that's really the way you can summarize this. This is the sin that Christians commit more than any other sin, and that is worry. I was surprised to find a Christian author who had this to say about worry and his book, Worry Free Living, he said this, quote, We suggest setting aside fifteen minutes in the morning and another fifteen minutes in the evening for active worry. If concerns surface during those times of day, the person should jot them down on a card, vow to deal with them during the designated period. Worry-free living involves confining the nature, the natural worry we feel to a a designated time slot. That's that's the strategy there. Just, you know, schedule worry. Schedule it. Schedule in the morning, schedule it in the evening. Well that's not what Jesus says about this. Jesus doesn't say set aside fifteen minutes every day to worry. He said, if you're worrying, stop. And if you're not worrying, please don't start. Don't start worrying at all. There's no good that can come from worry. Worry never dried a tear, it never lifted a burden, worry never solved a problem. It has the same effect on you that sin has in machinery It will just grate at you. So when we're anxious, what does Jesus tell us to do here? What is his answer? He tells us, look, take a good look around. Observe the things around you and learn deeply about what you see. Look at the birds of the air. If you're anxious, look at the birds and get and and observe. Look at the lilies of the field, there's a message there in that. And then consider the kingdom of God and make sure that you're seeking first the kingdom of God in your life. Because God said if you're seeking first the kingdom, He's going to take care of all these other things. He just will. So, based on that, Jesus gives us three ways to rid our anxiety when anxiety attacks us. What is the strategy? What are we to do? Well, here's number one, very simply, remember your heavenly father. Now we just read from verses 25 down to verse 30. And basically the sum of those verses is simply this: keep your eyes on your Heavenly Father. He knows what you need before you do. Nothing happens to you or me without God knowing it. You don't have a need that He's unaware of that He can provide for. And so when you're you know you're tempted to be anxious or you're anxious Here's the thing that you do, focus on your Heavenly Father. Robert Lewis Stevenson used to tell a story of sailors on a ship during a storm, and the ship rocked up and down and back and forth, and those sailors were uh very fearful they were thinking they were in grave d danger and so eventually one of them decided to go up to the pilot house to check on the safety of the ship And a few minutes later he returned down to his men and he basically said, Don't worry, fellows, I've just seen the captain and he smiled at me. He said, Everything's gonna be all right And that's an essential application here, what Jesus is saying. Listen, your heavenly father is in control. And when you are anxious or you're fearing danger in your life, you know what? Look at your father. Look at what God is doing. Look at his providences in your life. He's smiling down on you from heaven. You might not be able to see his face, but you can look out and see the providences that he's done in your life. And you can see how he is taking care of you, right? First of all, remember this, God owns everything. He owns everything. Look again at verse number 32. For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth what ye have need of that ye have need of all these things, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you Now, again, God knows what you need and he's able to supply it and he will add it to you. That's what Jesus is saying there. First, you have to understand this. God owns everything The Bible says in Psalm 24, 1, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Everything belongs to God. We know that. David says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and on earth is thine. Everything, Lord, belongs to you. Now, why is that important to know that? Well, because God has all resources, and guess what? God's not running out of resources. You know, even though we have these reports saying, you know, the world is going to suffer these shortages, I assure you, friend, that God, there's no shortages with Almighty God. A brochure from the United States Department of Agriculture entitled, Is the World Facing Starvation? gives these answers to two commonly asked questions. First of all, is the world's food supply large enough to meet everyone's minimal needs? And the and the answer is this the world has more than enough food to feed every man, woman, and child in it. And it goes on to give all the statistics about all of that. And it dispels that myth that, you know, the world doesn't have the resources to feed everyone. That's simply a lie. God has more than enough resources. Hasn't the amount of food production per person been dropping in the developing countries of the world over the last 25 years? And it answers it by saying that's another common Misconception, and it goes on again to give all of the statistics that that is simply not true. There's more than enough food to feed everyone in the world. More than enough. And here's the point. God owns it all. And God always feeds his creatures. That's what Jesus is telling everyone to do. Look around. Don't you see how that in God in his world he feeds his creatures? Jesus is calling upon us to observe some things. You can learn a lot about God just by looking around at the providences, at nature. Wasn't it the uh legendary uh detective Sherlock Holmes said you see but you don't observe? You know You're not observing. This is what Jesus is telling us here. Stop and observe observe some things. First of all, consider the sparrow. Look at verse number 26 at what Jesus says. He says, Behold the fowls of the air For they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather in the barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are you not much better than they? The next time you're tempted to worry about what you will eat, remember this. Jesus said, Look, consider the birds. I can just see Jesus here standing on the hillside in Galilee, looking up over the beautiful north end of the sea. And I can, you know, people were there around his feet. That part of the area of Galilee was a cross section of birds migrating. Birds were constantly flying about. I can imagine Jesus just lifting his hand to heaven and saying, Look, look at these birds. If you're tempted to be anxious or worried, just consider the bird. You never see a bird plowing a field or reaping a harvest that they planted. You don't see a bird building a barn and trying to gather things into the barn, and yet Jesus said, your heavenly father feeds all them. Are you not much better than they? You can learn from that. You're much more valuable to God than a bird. Look at Matthew chapter 10 real quick. Flip over to Matthew chapter 10. Look down at verse number 29. Notice what Jesus says here. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your heavenly Father. And then he says this, but the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Two sparrows for a farthing, that is basically a penny. You could buy with a penny, two of these birds. They were normally used um for, you know, you know, they were f you know, eaten, used for or d'herbs, people would use them. And yet Jesus says none of these birds is unimportant to God A bird can't fall to the ground without God knowing it, God seeing it. Each little bird is important to God, but aren't you more important than they? How much more important are you? Jesus again emphasizes the very hairs of your head are numbered. Let me tell you something. Life is a gift from God, and God has given you life. If he's given you the greater gift of life, won't he give you the lesser gift of sustaining life? If he gave you life, won't he sustain your life? Of course he will. And then Jesus says, consider the lilies. Look at verse number twenty-eight. And why do you take thought for your raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these And again I think Jesus, I can just picture him standing maybe maybe on the hillside looking out at the landscape, seeing those beautiful wildflower flowers that dotted the Galilean landscape there. And they were all over there. Have you ever been to Israel? Particularly this site of the uh Mount of the Sermon on the Mount, I should say. There's it's it's a beautiful hill, and I can just imagine the lilies there. And Jesus, you know, with his arm lifting and sweeping across the field saying, Look at all of those beautiful flowers. Look at all those lilies. You you see how they're clothed? You never see a flower behind a sewing machine or knitting a coat. And God clothes them, you know, and Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of those. You could take the most beautiful piece of clothing, put it under a microscope, and you know what it'll look like? It'll look like sackcloth. But then you could take the petal from a flower and put it under a microscope and you know what you'll see? Something totally different. The texture, the form, the design, all of it so much more. beautiful and glorious. And Jesus said, Solomon in all his array was not clothed like one of these little flowers. And if God cares to clothe the flowers of the field, Which today are and tomorrow are not. These little wallflowers, their life was short-lived. People would gather up these flowers once they died and they would use them for their uh to to fuel their fire And Jesus said, look, if God cares about the short-lived life of one of these little flowers, are you not much more than they? He's going to take care of you. So don't worry. It's it's worry strikes at the character of God. Worry is basically saying this, you know, God, I know that you can save me from sin and redeem me, but I just don't trust you to take care of my life during while I'm living here. That's really what you're saying. You're giving in to those things, those anxious thoughts. Listen to what the Bible says. Can a woman forget her child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? They may forget. God says, yet I will not forget you. Is it possible for a mother to forget her child? It doesn't happen often, but it's possible. But you know what's impossible? It's impossible for God to forget you. God will not forget you. God will take care of you. The Bible says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. And Greek scholars tell us that The way you actually read it is, I will know, never, ever, ever leave you or forsake you. It actually says it six times. It's like one one young seminary student was trying to explain this to an older godly saint and he says, They ac actually the way you read this is God says it six times, I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever leave you And she responded to him in a beautiful way. She said, Well, God might have to say it six times to you Greek fellers, but one time is enough for me Is it one time enough for you when God says, I will not leave you or forsake you? And so when we're tempted to worry, remember your heavenly father. But here's the second thing that Jesus tells us. Another piece of advice. Replace anxious thoughts with faith. If you worry, what kind of faith do you manifest? You manifest little faith. Look at verse number 30. Remember what Jesus said there? Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven. Shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Worry only causes you to lose ground in your Christian life. Someone has said the beginning of anxiety is the end of faith, and the beginning of true faith is the end of anxiety. But when we allow anxious thoughts to consume us, what is the effect upon us? We lose our peace. Worry begins with wrong thinking. It starts in the mind. In fact, the King James translates the Greek word thought. The word for thought or anxious is actually the Greek word which means to worry. or to have anxious thoughts. Don't allow these anxious thoughts to consume you That's where it begins. The battle actually starts there in the mind. Again, verse 25. Take no thought for your life. Don't let anxious anxiety Take hold of your life. Which of you by taking thought? Or why take thought again in verse 28 and verse 31? Take no thought. In verse 34, again, therefore take no thought each time. This word is expressing worry, but again, it also shows us that it begins where? It begins in your mind. It begins in the way that you think. The Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. It's like the the old trick you know you but maybe heard about. of the children love to play on their schoolmate. You know, one child says, Billy, are you feeling good? You look terrible. And then another child later on comes and says, Billy, are you sick? You look you don't look so good And then finally another one says, Billy, you don't you look really bad. And finally, Billy starts feeling bad. And he goes to the teacher and says, I need to go home because I'm sick. You know. And you know what? There's nothing wrong with Billy. The problem is that he's allowed those thoughts to consume him And you know what? As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Friend, that's how the devil works. He will suggest something to you. Then he will find other people to send your way to suggest those things to you. And you'll have these fears and you'll have these thoughts, and pretty soon you are consumed by those thoughts. And that worry, that thought, that anxiety digs a channel in your mind, and all the other thoughts are centered around this one negative Fear or worry, and the next thing you know, your mind has no rest. And it affects you. You know what we have to do as Christians? We have to guard our mind. We have to bring our thoughts under the control of Jesus Christ. That's where the battle begins, right there in your mind. And you have to replace anxious thoughts with thoughts from the Word of God. This is exactly what Paul said. In Philippians 4, 6 he said, be careful for nothing. Or we can say it like this, be anxious for nothing. But what is our response? But everything by what? Prayer and supplication How do you replace these anxious thoughts when they come? The first response we should have is to pray Go straight to God in prayer. You know, if you had the tendency to worry, go right to prayer. When the moment that anxious thought comes into your mind, go straight to God in prayer. And you know what the Bible says? Let with thanksgiving let your request be made known unto God. Let it be known made unto God. What's the response? What did God promise to do in response to that? And the peace of God will guard your heart and your mind. And the word guard literally means to garrison about, to be guarded, like soldiers guarding A garrison. And so that's the idea. When worry comes, you replace that negative thought of worry with prayer and thanksgiving to God, and God says, In return, what I will do is I will send my peace to you. My peace give I unto you, Jesus said, not as the world gives, give I unto you. And then Paul follows that in the very next verse by saying, Finally, brothers, whatever is true, Whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, what? Think on these things. Let your mind dwell on virtuous things, spiritual things, godly things. Let it dwell on the Word of God Because anxiety begins in the mind. And you have to bring your mind under the control of God and his word. And so we see then that Jesus tells us that we have to, you know, replace these thoughts You know, we we lose our peace, we lose our testimony with anxiety. Look at verse 32 again, for after all these things do the Gentiles seek. The word seek here actually has the idea of they are totally consumed in material gratification And let me tell you, anxiety, if your whole life is all about things and material things, then you're going to be more prone to anxiety and losing those things. You know, Jesus said, those are the things that the Gentiles seek. When he says Gentiles, he's talking about those who don't know the Lord, those who don't know God. They're focused on just these temporal materialistic things. That's what they're looking after. And if they see a Christian that has the same mindset, And is always consumed with worry and anxiety about those things. That's not a good advertisement for Christianity because they're going to ask, what do you have that I don't already have? You know, you're no different from me. You're stressed out, you're worried, you're anxious about all these things. That's not to be the mindset of the child of God. That's why Jesus will later say, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these other things God promised to add to you. You'll lose your peace, you'll lose your testimony, you can even lose your health Worry doesn't do anything for you physically except that it can it can actually hurt you and your health. According to a study from Johns Hopkins. Um worry. A doctor said this, we don't know why it is that warriors die sooner than non-warriers, but that He says, is a fact. Another guy at Mayo Clinic said worry affects the circulation, the heart, the glands, the whole nervous system. I've never known a man to die of overwork, but many who die of worry And so it does nothing for you. That's why we have to bring our thoughts under the control of God. I know some of you are thinking, you just gave me something else to worry about, Pastor. Don't worry about that. Your life is in the hands of God. Remember your Heavenly Father. Replace anxious thoughts with faith. And then here's the third thing that Jesus advises, renew your focus. Renew your focus. Again in verse number 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. The reason we're anxious is because we're focusing on the wrong things. And so we have to renew our focus. How do we do that? Focus on the eternal, not the earthly. That's what Jesus is saying in verse 33. Seek first the kingdom of God. Focusing on earthly treasure produces earthly affections. It blinds our spiritual vision. It draws us away from serving God. That's why God promises to provide what we need. As children of God, we have a single goal, that's the treasure of heaven. We have a single vision, that's God's purposes, we have a single master, it's not money, it's God. You can't serve God in money. And so make God your single master. And if you're focusing on his kingdom and he's your master and not money and material things, guess what? You're not going to worry about those things. You won't be anxious about those things. Worry causes us to lose sight of the right perspective there And so we seek first the kingdom of God. What does Jesus tell us to do here specifically? Step proper priorities You know, seek first the kingdom, seek personal purity and his righteousness. This should be the thing that we're focusing on in our mind. His kingdom. Living out a practical righteous life, being sanctified the way we should, and then we will see promise Prosperity. All these things will be added to you. God promised to add all of these things to you. Focus on the eternal, not on the earthly. But here's the second thing. Focus on today, not tomorrow. Focus on today and not tomorrow. Look at verse number 34. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought of the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Jesus was saying don't focus on the future, focus on today. Tomorrow will already have its share of problems And they'll have a way of working themselves out at that time, but just take it one day at a time. You know what God promises us? He promises us strength to meet the day that we're in today. You know what worry does? It drains all of our strength out of today focusing on tomorrow. And guess what we find out? Those problems don't normally happen. They don't normally come. The Bible says, as thy day, so shall thy strength be. God promises to give strength enough for each day. Don't drain our energy that God gives us today on hidden or unknown or unrealized fears and worries that probably won't come. Mark Twain said this, I'm an old man and I've had many troubles, most of which have never happened. Corey Tinboom said this, worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrows, it empties today of its strength. And that is so true. So Jesus said, look, don't worry about tomorrow. Just focused on today. God will take care of you each day As thy days, so shall thy strength be. God will give you, God promised to give you enough strength for today, today. And you know what? When you wake up tomorrow, guess what you'll find? That his mercies are new every morning. And that he will give you the strength and all that you need for that day. So don't focus on the future, focus on today. So, what is Jesus' advice? Remember your Heavenly Father. Replace anxious thoughts with faith. Renew your focus. Charles Davis tells of a man who was hiking on a mountain, caught up in the wonder of the landscape. He lingered on a trail. Darkness overtook him Feeling his way down the mountainside, he slipped and he fell over a cliff. As he fell, he managed to grab onto a tree limb and he hung for hours, hoping that someone would happen to come along and give him a hand. For hours his strength gradually slipped away, and finally he had no more strength. Finally, he decided just to turn loose and plunge down. He fell a full six inches to the ground. Only six inches from the ground, yet he suffered all night in terror. You know, many Christians are like that. You're hanging In fear and in terror, but what you don't realize is that right underneath you is the rock of ages. God is our rock. And you know what? He will not let you fall. He's got you. He's going to take care of you. And that's what we need to realize. When things look hard, remember your Heavenly Father. Replace anxious thoughts with faith and renew your focus. Focus on his kingdom. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, we thank you for the promises of your word. Thank you for these words from our Savior. I pray for those that are here today that may have been struggling. Or are struggling right now with anxious thoughts. And Lord, the truth is we've all been there. I've been there. I've struggled at times with worry and anxiety. But Lord, I thank you for the promises of your word. And I thank you for the victory that you give us, for the strength that you give us. That Lord, if we just simply bring these things to you with thanksgiving, you'll replace restlessness with peace. The peace of God will guard our hearts and our minds. Lord, when we're tempted to be anxious, may we focus on our Heavenly Father, you, Lord. Because you said in your word, Thou wilt give him perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. And may we seek first the kingdom of God. May our mind not be consumed with earthly things, but eternal things, focusing on your kingdom. And it's righteousness, knowing that Lord, you're going to take care of all these mundane things. You promise to do that. So, Father, speak to hearts. Give peace to those that are wrestling with worry and anxiety. Lord, may they have find rest in Christ. May they find peace in Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many will say, would you just pray for me, Pastor? That's been my struggle. And I'm claiming this peace from God this morning that he'll give me victory over these anxious thoughts. Just lift your hand. Let me pray for you this morning, beloved. Let me pray for you. God bless you, all of all of these. The most important issue, of course, is that you know Jesus That you know him as your Savior, your Lord. If you can't honestly say I'm sure that I've put my full faith and trust in Christ, I invite you now to pray right where you are. Reach out in prayer. Say, Lord, save me. I know that I'm a sinner. I know Jesus died for my sins. I come, I turn from my sin. I put my full faith And what Christ did for me. Save me, Lord. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand? Can I pray for you? Anyone here like that? Say yes. I'm trusting Christ today. Right now I'm making that decision to put my full faith in Jesus. Anyone here like that today? Can I pray for you? Anyone? Can I pray for you? God bless you. Father, you know the hearts of these that are here. Do your work in every heart. Thank you, Lord, we thank you in advance, and in Jesus' wonderful name