Well, take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Nehemiah, and we are going to be looking at Nehemiah chapter 10 tonight. Nehemiah chapter 10. And tonight I want to talk about just a renewal of your vows before the Lord. Did you ever um you know feel the desire to renew yourself or renew your commitment to God That's what really this whole chapter is about. We already saw, if you were with us in chapter 8, where Nehemiah read the scripture to the people, and God's people were under the hearing of the word, and really we're talking about three ingredients for revival There has to be the hearing of God's word. And then in chapter 9 last week, we dealt with the confession of sin, and we saw that chapter 9 was just one long confession of sin. uh where the people were convicted and they repented and there was true confession before the Lord. That's the second ingredient of revival. There has to be the hearing of God's word. There has to be the confession of sin And then there's a but that's not all. There's more to revival or true renewal. And there's a third step to that. I heard in a certain church there was a man who always ended his prayers with, and Lord, clean the cobwebs out of my life Clean the cobwebs out of my life. And one man who heard him pray that in the church became a bit weary of hearing this seeming insincere request because the man never changed. And one day in church the man prayed, Lord, clean the cobwebs out of my life. And the man interjected into the prayer, and Lord, please kill the spider while you're at it. We need to get the cobwebs cleaned out of our life spiritually, but we have to kill the spider. And so in chapter 9, we could say that they were praying to clean the cobwebs out, but in chapter 10 is where they, you know, kill the spider, where they make a commitment to the Lord. And really this is the third step to true revival and renewal in a life. And that is there has to be a formal commitment to change There has to be a desire to change, a commitment to renewal, a renewal of obedience. Now, the people here in the book of Nehemiah were very serious about that And Nehemiah wanted there to be spiritual renewal. He had built the walls, but he wasn't there just to see the walls built. He wanted people walking with God. He wanted a nation that was dedicated to the Lord. And so this is very, very important to Nehemiah. And these people took it very seriously. They were determined by the grace of God to make a new beginning in their life. Again, there comes a time in our life spiritually where we perhaps need a new beginning. And this is what's going on here. They wanted to renew their covenant vows with God. It was Alexander White who said that the victorious Christian life is a series of new beginnings. I like that. And so the nation had sinned, but now they were taking steps of dedication and obedience. And again, the question might come up, was there dedication Well, there are three evidences I think that we're going to see here in chapter 10 that shows us that their dedication to the Lord, their renewal, was very sincere. It was very real. So let me give you these three things. First of all, and and what they were basically doing is they're making vows to the Lord. And I want you to see three vows, or we could say vows in three areas of their life. Here's the first one. They made a vow of submission. Now the first 27 verses in chapter 10, I'm going to spare you. I'm not going to try to, you know, stumble through these names here. But there are a list of names that you see here in the first 27 verses. And these are the people that put their seal on the covenant that they made with God. This was a covenant to obey God's word. They heard God's word, but now they needed to obey it. Did you know it's not enough to hear God's word? That's important that we hear it. But there that's not enough. If all you do is you just come and you listen and that's it, you'll never see true renewal or revival in your life. What did James say? Be ye what? Doers of the word, not hearers only Not only do we have to hear God's word, we have to make some decisions with reference to obedience. And that's the difference between a true believer and a false professor A true believer will obey what they hear in God's word. And that's where the blessing comes from. And so this is what they're doing here in chapter 10. They are making commitments to submit to God's word They're making vows to the Lord. God, we are making a vow to obey you and your word. Look at verse 29. It says, they clay to their brethren. their nobles, and entered into a curse and into an oath to walk in God's law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe to do and do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord. And his judgments and his statutes. And so, what does it mean when it says they entered into a curse? That means that the vow or the oath that they're making with God is very binding. They're making this commitment. If they follow this commitment, what will happen? There will be blessings. If they don't follow this commitment, what will happen? There's going to be curses. This is binding. And what does this remind us of? Do you remember all the way back in the book of Joshua when the children of Israel made a covenant with God? You remember what Joshua did in chapter 8? There they were in the in Shechem. There was Mount Ebal on one side, Mount Girzim on the other. He divided the tribes of Israel. He put six on Mount Ebal, six on Mount Girizim. And in the valley there, which they say is a natural amphitheater where you can be in the valley and read or talk, and people on the mountainsides can hear you. And Joshua was there in the valley, and he read from the Word of God the blessings and the cursings of those towards those who obey or to those who disobey. And when he read out all the blessings, all the tribes on Mount Girzim, they said what? They said amen. And when he read out the curses, all of those on Mount Ebal said, Amen. And this was one giant object lesson before the whole nation of Israel. And the message was very simple. If you obey God's word, you will be blessed. If you disobey, you're going to pay the consequences. And there will be curses that come. And so this verse here reminds us of that where it says they entered into a curse and an oath to walk with the Lord and to obey all that God says. And so they were rededicating themselves. They were making these vows to God. And by the way, let me tell you, when you make a vow to the Lord, God takes it very seriously. If you don't believe me, just read Numbers chapter 30, verse 2. It says, If a man vow a vow unto the Lord or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond, he shall not break his word But he shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth. These are the laws governing vows or an oath before the Lord. Look, if you're going to make an oath or make a vow, you better keep it Because God takes that seriously. The writer of Ecclesiastes said, When you vow a vow to God, don't delay in fulfilling that vow. You better Make sure that you fulfill that vow, which brings up a question that has been debated by some Christians, and that is, should Christians make vows to God today? We see this in the Old Testament. Are there any vows that we should give to the Lord today? There are some who say we shouldn't make vows to God today, and there are others that argue that they should. I think that vows are still a part of the Christian life Because we see it in the New Testament. We see Paul making an oath before the Lord or vows to God to do certain things. We see this New Testament Christians doing that. I think when we make a vow, it helps us to focus Perhaps there's someone here and you say, you know what, I haven't witnessed to a person in a long time, and before God, I'm going to make a vow that I will witness to so many people. And this is a vow between you and God. God, this is what I'm going to do. I want to focus on being a witness for Christ. It was said of D. L. Moody that he made a vow before God that he would not let one day go by or that he did not share the gospel with someone. And one day he was getting ready for bed and crawled into bed, and it suddenly it dawned on him that the day had gone by and he hadn't witnessed to anyone. So he got out of bed, got dressed, went down on the street. The first man he saw, he shared the gospel with, and that man prayed to receive Christ. No wonder D. L. Moody was such a greatly used evangelist. So I think there's a place for vows that we can say before the Lord. They help us to focus. They help us to understand what we're supposed to do. They keep us accountable before God in certain areas. But we have to also notice vows are not To get God's approval, it's not for the approval of God, but it's because of the grace of God that we do it. We're not saved because we make promises. We make promises because we are saved. And that's the difference. And so it's okay to do that. It's okay to make a vow, but you better keep it. And these people here, they're making vows to the Lord. But also there's another thing I learned from this, the leaders have to set the example in following God. Because if you look at the list, go back to chapter 10, verse 1. And notice the first name on the list, it says in verse 1, now those that sealed were, and what's the first name after that? Nehemiah And then it calls Nehemiah here Tirshatha, which is the Persian word for governor. He's the leader. of this whole area, this whole region, this whole movement, we could say. Nehemiah is the governor. He's the leader. And so the first name on the list Where he seals his name to this covenant. This renewal covenant is Nehemiah. I'd like that. But then this list also includes priests. Again, I won't read the names from verses two to eight. There are priests in verses nine to thirteen. There are Levites. Verses 14 to 27. It calls them the leaders. Look at verse 14. It says the chief of the people, or that is, we could say the leaders of the people. They're the ones who put their name to this. This name this list is not exhaustive. It's just a sample But notice the names on this list are the leaders. And what does this teach us? That if the leaders are not committed, the people certainly won't be committed. So if you're a leader, you need to be committed to set the example for someone else. If I stand up here and I preach on tithing and I'm not tithing, I'm a hypocrite. If I preach you on giving or faith-promise giving and I don't do it myself, I'm a hypocrite. If I tell you to go out and share the gospel with someone else and I'm not leading in that, I'm a hypocrite. Leaders have to set the example. And that's what we see here. Write down Hosea 4. 9. Like people like That is, the people will be like the priests. They'll be like the leaders. And so leaders have to show the way, they have to be the example and commitment in their spiritual walk. We see this, and by the way, that's why God used Ezra. Ezra, the Bible says, had a prepared his heart to seek the Lord To uh seek the law of the Lord and to do it, the Bible says in Ezra 7:10. He wasn't just someone who stood up and read the scripture, he was a man who obeyed it, he did it in his own life And so whenever he stood to expound scripture, the Lord blessed it because he lived it. And the Apostle Paul said this. What did he say to the Philippians? Be imitators of me. He wasn't on an ego trip. He was basically saying, you follow me as I follow Christ. And there's a sense where that's a there's an accountability there. You're making sure that I follow Christ, and as I follow Christ, Paul said, You follow me So be an imitator of me, you follow me as I follow Christ. And so they made a vow of submission To obey God's word. Maybe that's what you need to do. Maybe there's an area in your life where you've been getting out of the path of obedience to Scripture. If you want renewal in your life, if you want the blessing of God on your life, you have to obey God's word. So maybe you need to make that commitment, that vow of submission. But here's the second vow they made. They made a vow of submission. And here's number two: they made a vow of separation. Look again in chapter ten and then drop down to verse number twenty eight where it says in verse twenty eight And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the porters, the singers, the Nathanees, and all that had separated themselves from the people of the land unto the law of God, their wives, their sons, their daughters, everyone having knowledge. and having understanding. So notice here now they're making a vow to live a separated life from the world, a holy, distinct life. That was different from the pagan nations around them. By the way, this is what God wanted Israel to do originally. When they originally entered into the covenant, Mount Sinai, they were to be what? They were to be a nation of priests. They were to show forth the praise of God, the glory of God. to the surrounding nations. They were to be a peculiar people, and they were to obey the law of God. In doing so, they would be peculiar. They would be different. And here that's what they're doing. They're saying we're going to separate ourselves. To the Lord. Now, this separation is a total devotion to God, no matter what the cost is. Whenever you become devoted to someone, out of necessity, you separate from someone else You know, when you get married, you make a you take a vow, a marriage vow, to be devoted unto that one spouse and separate yourself from everyone else with reference to husband or wife You separate yourself to love. This is a commitment made by love that you will love this one person. There's a sense where that happens spiritually with God. When we make a covenant with God, we say, God, I'm going to love you above all. You'll not have any rivals in my life. And if this means I have to separate myself from people or things, then so be it. I'm going to do what I need to do. And notice carefully in verse 28, they had separated themselves from the people of the land unto the law of God. You separate by Coming out from one thing and being separated unto something else. They came out from the people of the land, and they separated themselves unto the Lord. Look at verse 29. And they clay to their brethren And their nobles, and enter into a curse and into an oath, we saw that. So there's a sense in which they were united to their brothers and sisters in promising to obey the law of God. They were separated from the world, but as a family of God, as brothers and sisters, they would cleave to each other. You know, I think that's what the church is about, don't you? We come from out from among the world, we cleave to each other We hold each other accountable and encourage each other to obey the Word of God. And that's what we see happening here in the Old Testament. They clay unto their brethren. And notice the areas of separation. Look at verse 30 That we would not give our daughters unto the people of the land, nor take their daughters for our sons. And so the foul separation began in their family life. They promise not to intermarry with the nations around them. Now the concern here is not racial but religious. James Montgomery Boyce wrote this. He said, this was not a racial snobbery or prejudice, since the Jewish people had always contained some individuals of other races. And he's right Moses married an Ethiopian woman. Rahab and Ruth the Moabitis were welcome into Israel once they put their faith in the Lord. And so this conc the concern here was not racial, it was religious. And I think the key passage to understand this is in Exodus 34, verse 15, where God said, I don't want you to enter marrying, why? Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land and go ahooring after their gods And do sacrifice unto their gods, and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice, and thou take their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go ahooring after their gods, and make thy sons go ahooring after their gods. The concern of God was that they don't intermarry because they would be worshiping false gods. The concern was that they worship God alone. They didn't want their hearts to be drawn away from God. And so God didn't want his people marrying pagan people because the consequences would be disastrous. And by the way, Israel didn't listen to that. And they did become we could say canonized by the culture around them because they began to intermarry and their hearts were drawn away from God. This is the very thing that God feared. And by the way, in the New Testament, the Bible calls this an unequal yoke. The Bible still commands us to not be unequally yoked together. Young people, when it comes time for you to choose a husband or wife, make sure they love the Lord Jesus. They're a Christian. Because you'll have problems if you don't. Second Corinthians 6. 14 says, Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And so the Bible's clear on this. There will be problems all of your life, just like there would be with the nation of Israel because they were unequally yoked. You know, Joshua 23, 13 says that the heathen spouses would become snares and traps for you, whips on your backs and thorns in your eyes. That would be the problem. The problem with marrying an unbeliever is you have a different worldview. You have a different understanding of things. And marriage is challenging enough where both of us agree. Where you agree in marriage. But if you disagree, it makes it even harder. For example, what happens when a Christian marries an unbeliever The Christian says, I want to go to God's house. The unbeliever says, Well, this is my day off. I want to sleep in. A believer says, I want to tithe our income to the Lord. An unbeliever says, No, that's extra money. We can use it for other things. An unbeliever a Christian says, this is the Lord's day. It's a holy day. An unbeliever says, this is a holiday. I want to use it for myself. And so when there's a problem, a Christian will say, let's pray about it. And unbelievers say, I don't believe in that superstition. Let's just work it out. And so there's disagreement there. There's a struggle. There's a problem. But then again there's the problem of spiritual decay, just as we talked about, that an unbeliever can pull a believer down In Nehemiah 13, 26, it asks this question, was it not because of marriages like these that Solomon, king of Israel, sinned? And it uses Solomon as an example. Solomon had a heart for God, but he began to marry foreign women who didn't worship God, and they drew his heart away from the Lord. And Nehemiah points this out. Didn't Solomon make this same mistake? It says in 1 Kings 11, 4, for it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart. after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David, his father. One time a young lady came to Charles Spurgeon, the Baptist pastor in London, and she said, I want to marry this young man, but he doesn't know the Lord, but I think I can I can witness to him, I think I can win him to the Lord, I think I can pull him up to my level. And he said to the young lady, Stand here on this table, and she did. He said, Now try to pull me up. And she couldn't pull him up. And then he gave one tug and she came down off that table. He said, you understand it's easier to pull somebody down than it is to pull someone up. And he said, so it is with this young man. Uh and so uh there is a warning here that is given in Nehemiah. Now so there were there were uh vow vows about the family. We're going to obey the Lord in this regard. But also there were vows about the Sabbath. Look in verse number 31. And if the people of the land bring uh ware or any victuals on the Sabbath day to sell that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath or on the holy day, and that we would leave the seventh year and the the exaction of every debt And so they're making commitments that they would begin to honor the Sabbath the way God intended them to. See, here was the problem: the Gentiles and the people around them would treat the Sabbath just like any other day. They would come into the city, they would socialize, they would do business, and they were pulling God's people to doing the same thing. The Sabbath became just like any other day. where people would buy and sell and do all the things that you normally would do. The Jewish merchants were especially interested in making sales on the Sabbath. They did not want to close up their business when they saw people shopping that seemed to be a waste. And so what were they doing? They were ignoring the Old Testament laws about God's holy day, the Sabbath. And so what they said was, now we're not going to do that anymore. We're not going to ignore the Sabbath. We're going to treat God's day Special the way God intended. And they said if someone comes and they want to buy anything on the Sabbath, we're not going to sell it. We're going to be closed for business. We're not going to allow that to happen We're going to obey all the Sabbath laws, and part of the laws were you don't work on the Sabbath, you don't gather sticks on the Sabbath, you don't light a fire on the Sabbath. Why all those things? You see, all these Sabbath laws were grounded in the uh promises or the we could say the rest that they had in the Garden of Eden. You see, the Sabbath day was to remind them of all the blessings they had in Eden that they lost because of their sin. You don't work on the Sabbath because in the Garden of Eden you didn't have to work. You don't collect sticks on the Sabbath to make a fire to keep yourself warm because you didn't need to do that in the Garden of Eden because the environment there was always perfect. It was always 72 degrees with the sun shining Whatn't I mean? Aren't you mad about Adam about that? I mean, perfect weather all the time. You didn't need to worry about uh you know uh making a fire to make food because you didn't have to make a meal Because the food was hanging all around you in Eden. And so the Sabbath was to remind them, these are the blessings that you lost because of your sin. It was designed to make them think about what they had lost. It was designed to make them think about their own sins, that they had sinned against God, and the future blessings when God would restore all of those uh blessings of Eden. It was a day of relaxing before the Lord. And God's people had pretty much thrown that out And they were just doing whatever one else was doing. And so it was a day to remember and honor the Lord, to think about his blessings. It was a day to relax and to regain strength. I think we've lost some of that. I think here in our society today, we don't really rest anymore. You know, we don't take the time off that we need. And I think there's the law of diminishing returns there. The Sabbath day was a day to declare truth. It was really a silent witness to the greatness of God, to the supremacy of God. Now I know that we don't live in the Old Testament and we don't have Sabbath laws. The Sabbath was fulfilled in Christ. But I believe that there is something to those principles that we should keep even in the New Testament. I think that the Lord's day is now Sunday That is his special day. I know some of you might think that I'm going to be a bit legalistic here, but I think we ought to treat the Lord's Day as a very special day. And I think that we should refrain from doing activities that we would normally do. And I think while avoiding the legalism that the Pharisees fell into, most of us could do a better job of looking at ways where we could keep Sunday to be a special day. I believe that God's people should be in God's house on the Lord's day. I don't think you make that decision every Sunday. I think you make it once. And you determine to be there. Now I know I'm speaking to the Wednesday night crowd, so you guys get a pass, all right? So you can tell everybody else what I said here I think you should begin God's day in God's house. I think you should end it in God's house. In the New Testament, when Jesus resurrected, they saw they had they gathered together on Sunday morning and on Sunday evening Okay, that's for a future sermon. But I think you should be in God's house. And and this is part of their separation We're not going to be like the world. We're not going to separate. We're not going to marry, intermarriage, because that will turn us away from God. We're going to begin to obey some of the Sabbath laws because that will keep our focus on the greatness and the supremacy of God. So they were just committed to obeying the Lord and worshiping God the way that He should. That's what's going to happen when you have spiritual renewal in your life. God will be your priority. He will be above all things, and you'll want to honor him in every way. So they made a vow of submission. They made a vow of separation. And then thirdly, they made a vow of support They said, we're going to support the house of God. Look at verse 32. It says, Also we made ordinances for us to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God. So here, they're focusing now on the house of God. In fact, from verse 32 to verse 39, the phrase house of God will be used nine times. Nine times. So they're they're focusing now on God's house. A person's commitment to God's house is an accurate indicator of their spiritual life This is a principle that we draw from here. If your heart is right toward the Lord and you're having revival and renewal, spiritual renewal in your life, then God's house is certainly going to be an important part of your life, as we see here. The British expositor G. Campbell Morgan said this, whereas the house of God today is no longer material but spiritual, the material is still a very real symbol of the spiritual And he's right. When the Church of God in any place, in any locality, is careless about the material place of assembly, the place of its worship and its work, it is a sign and evidence that its life is at a low ebb. And again, I think he's right. Now, we know that God doesn't live in houses, but he lives in us. But still the place where we come to assemble together, this place where we worship, should have a priority in our hearts. To be in God's house and to support God's house. And notice that they're going to mention four ways here. There's going to be the temple tax. Look what he says in verse 32. And also we made ordinances for us to charge ourselves yearly. with the third part of the shekel for the service of God's house. This was the temple tax. This was an annual census of people 20 years of age and older. It was kind of a half shekel tax to keep up the house of God. Then there was the wood offering. Look at verse 34. And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the people for the wood offering to bring it into the house of our God. After the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to burn upon the altar of the Lord our God, as it is written in the law You know, think about it. If you have a burnt offering and you're constantly offering sacrifices, what does that mean you need a lot of? Wood And if you go over Israel, you're going to find out that wood is kind of a priceless commodity. There wasn't a whole lot of trees around. You had to go into the forest and get wood and go to the mountains and get wood. You know, uh Jerusalem is kind of in a a mountainous area. But there's not a whole lot of trees around. To get to those trees, you would have to go down a bit and go to an area called the Shapela where there was forest areas that was several miles away from Jerusalem, and then you would have to cut the wood, and then you would have to bring it back. And so part of the offering that some of the people could offer was wood. Maybe you were a poor person living back then and you couldn't give what others could give. You couldn't give maybe a full-faced lamb or things like that, but you could cut wood and bring it to God's house. That was your service. And here they're talking about that. That there were people that could bring a wood offering to God's house to help out And then there was the first fruits. Look at verse 35. And to bring the first fruits of our ground, the first fruits of all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the house of the Lord. And so this was also taught that you honor the Lord with the first fruits of all your increase, the Bible says in Proverbs 3. So whenever you had their first fruits, you would bring them to the house of the Lord also was a way of supporting the ministers, the priests, and the people at the house of the Lord. And then of course there was another way. There were tithes. Look in verse 37. That we should bring the first fruits of our dough and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees, of wine, and of oil, unto the priests to the chambers of the house of our God, and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the same Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage. And so the Jews were to bring a tenth, and of course that's what a tithe means. We know that. It's a tenth of what you received. You were to, they were to give Levites a tithe. They were to uh call say tithe a tithe unto the priests in Numbers 1825. And there were also two other tithes. There was a tithe for the poor, and then a tithe to be received once every three years. And so really if you want to get really literal about it, in the Old Testament it taught three tides. Did you know that? So when we give God ten percent, that's minimum wage. That's true. I mean sorry. If you want to be literal in the Old Testament, they had two different ties and then one every three years. And so they were committed to doing all this. That's what they were saying here. We're going to bring all the tithes. Notice not tithe singular, but plural. Even when Malachi uses the word, it's not singular, it's plural because there was more than one tithe that the people gave in the Old Testament. But here's the principle. That if your spiritual life is right, you're going to want to support God's work. That's the whole point. You're just going to want to bring and give to the Lord's work. Because that's where your heart's going to be. The same is true today. Uh we give to God because uh that's where our heart is. We want to make a contribution. We want to lay up treasure in heaven. I preached about that on Sunday morning. If all you do is laying up treasure for yourself You're kind of like that a rich fool in the parable that Jesus gave, where he's only thinking about himself, but you're not rich towards God unless you learn to give to the Lord. And so now I've heard people s argue and say, well, tithe is in the Old Testament. That's not the New Testament principle, and I've heard Christians argue that. But let me just give you something to consider. Tithing was practiced 400 years before the Old Testament law In fact, the first person we read about tithing was Abraham, who paid tithes to Melchizedek. He was giving tithes before there ever was a law. And then we see Jacob, where Jacob said to God, talking about vows? He made a vow unto God. He said, I will surely give a tenth unto thee. That was a vow Jacob made before God. God, I'm gonna give a tenth of everything that you give me, I'm gonna give it back to you. Again, that was before the law And then during the law, Jesus commended it. Listen to Matthew 23, verse 23, where he said, Woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye pay tithe. of mint and anis and coming, but have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment and mercy and faith, these ye ought to have done, and not to leave the other undone In other words, Jesus was saying to the Pharisees, you know, you're so meticulous about tithing that you even take your spices and you'll tithe a tenth of your spices. Ladies, do you do that? Do you go to your cupboards? Take out a tenth of your spices to tithe it and give it to the Lord. That's how meticulous the Pharisees were. And yet Jesus said, You'll do that, but you neglect the weightier matters of the law. Like showing mercy and kindness to others. And then Jesus said this, these you ought to have done. Now if the if the New Testament Pattern of giving was not tithing. That was an opportunity for Jesus to say, you know, we don't tithe anymore. He didn't say that. What did he say? These you ought to have done. So what is Jesus doing? He's commending it. Abraham commenced it. Jacob continued it. Jesus confirmed it and commended it Who are we to cancel it? And so it's a pattern of giving that we see even in the New Testament. In fact, I would say that we should be doing more under grace. Than Jews did under law. We should be doing more. Because Jesus was always saying, you know, he was always upping it. He was always increasing the level. You've you you've heard it's been said, but I say unto you He would always make it higher. He would raise the bar, we could say. And so here's the point. These people were so committed to the Lord. that they made these vows to God, not out of obligation, but out of just a true desire to honor him and obey him and love him and serve him. And so they made vows about their submission to God's word, vows about separation, vows about supporting the work of God. And you know what? God honored it. But look at the last phrase of verse 39. It's really the key, where it says, and we will not forsake the house of our God. We will not forsake the house of our God. I think we live in a day where people are not being faithful to the house of God. Where people easily forsake the house of the Lord. Here, these people wouldn't do it. This was their vow. We will not forsake the house of God. We will support God's work. And so this led to revival. Winston Churchill said, we make a living by what we get. We make a life by what we give. The same is true spiritually. Revival came and God honored them and God blessed them. And they and they this was the beginning of a new era in the history of the nation of Israel. Now again, revival is a series of new beginnings. And it might be that, you know, none of the things I mentioned here was that maybe the area where God spoke to you, it might be a different area. Where the Holy Spirit kind of said to you, you know what, you need to do something about this in your life. Because you're not obeying me in this area. Whatever the Holy Spirit says, you should do. Whatever renewal you have to make, whatever commitment, whatever vow to do, what you need to do to honor God, if you want a new beginning, if you want revival, you should do it. Let me just end with this uh article I read uh where they the archaeologists found in Jerusalem a 1500-year-old street that had been covered up for centuries. This was uh a map that there was a map that showed the existence of this This main road through the city of Jerusalem, but it had been missing for years. They couldn't find it. This old map had that it was there, but time and tradition had covered it up until there was a diligent excavation and this old path was dug up. It was made known. Jeremiah 6. 16 says this, thus saith the Lord, stand ye in the ways and see and ask for the old paths. The old path. The people back in Nehemiah's Day found the old path. The path that they were on, then they got off it, then they lost it. Then they couldn't find it. And then it was rediscovered. And they got back on it. That's what sometimes we have to do spiritually. Get back on that old path that you were on. It's been uncovered for you. Now get back on it and do what you used to do. That's all they're doing right here. They're making a vow to do what God originally commanded them to do. And they did it not for any man's sake. They weren't doing this for Nehemiah's sake. They were doing it before the Lord. Because they wanted God's blessing in their life. How about you? Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Lord, again, we are so grateful for the clarity and the power of Scripture that keeps us on the right path. That will dig up the old path for us. Show us the way that we should go. Now pray, Lord, tonight that you would just deal with our hearts There are times when, Lord, we got off the old path. We're not doing what we should be doing. And Lord, I just pray that you'll help us to be sensitive to the work of the Holy Spirit. To be ready to do whatever you convict us to do. To make vows before you of obedience, of submission, of separation. Whatever area, Lord, where we've been lacking, that Lord, we would renew ourselves. That there would be a new beginning in our life through the power of your Holy Spirit. And Lord, we we confess readily. We can't do this on our own. We need your help. So Lord, fill us and help us, empower us, and give us a new beginning in our spiritual walk. That will be all that you want us to be for your glory. How many will say that's my prayer with heads bowed and eyes closed? That's my desire. Back on that path. I don't know if I get to get back on that path. So Lord, bless these hands and the desire of their hearts to honor you in all things May it be so, Lord, for all of us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.