Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 5? 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word? We're going to read verse 17 down to verse 21 this morning, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and has committed unto us the word of reconciliation Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us to hear the Word of God today and to submit to it. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you for another day. We know that every day is a gift from you. And we thank you for another year. And as we look out on the horizon to a new year, we know that there are challenges ahead. But there's also blessings ahead. But Lord, as we look, we feel insufficient for these things, and we cast ourselves upon you and ask you to be our help. as we look out to this new year. I pray that as today we look at this passage of Scripture, that you will, Lord, open our eyes, teach us things, remind us of what we already know, and teach us things that we don't know. But with all the truth that we hear and we embrace, Lord, may we apply it to our life. And may you be honored and glorified in the way we do that. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, uh normally on a New Year's a preacher will try to find some special passage of scripture to preach on for New Year's. We've been preaching through 2 Corinthians and we happen to be right here. I can think of no better passage to preach from uh for the new year, the first Sunday of twenty twenty-three than this passage that we just read. When I was a teenager and first started coming to Grace, there was a banner that was hung on the uh one of the beams of the uh old sanctuary. We're talking about two sanctuary, maybe three sanctuaries ago. And uh this is when Grace was still relatively young, Pastor Johnson uh hung up a verse of scripture on the banner that said, Behold, I will do a new thing. How many of you Oldzheimers remember that verse? Would you raise your hand? We still have a few of you around here. Someone help them out after the service. But uh But I was a teenager look I remember coming in and and seeing that banner on there and uh every service I would look up and see that And that was a time when God was r was doing a new thing in my life, in the life of our family. You heard me say before, my father came to grace. He heard the powerful preaching of Pastor Johnson was Embraced the gospel and was saved and God changed his life and did a new thing in his life. And then I saw that and I uh got under the gospel and I trusted Christ and God began doing a new thing in my heart And also that was a time when God was doing a new thing at Grace Bible Baptist Church. Grace uh be began to grow. Many people uh who came under the preaching of the word, God was doing something new in their life. And I look back on that with fond memories, and every time we come to a new year, I kind of think of that verse. Behold, I will do a new thing. We have a God who loves to do something new in us. He's a God of the new thing. And when you truly come to know Jesus as your Savior, you're not going to be the same. Salvation is a transformation. This transformation takes place when you put your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. transformation that takes place in the life of a person is the argument that Paul is using here in 2 Corinthians to defend himself against all of the criticisms that have been leveled against him by the false teachers. uh there in Corinth. And what Paul's doing essentially here in 2 Corinthians is he's refuting all these criticisms. He's using one argument after another to refute these criticisms leveled against him. And you remember he was, if you've been in our study, and let me just kind of remind you a little bit, it's been a while since we've been in 2 Corinthians, you remember that they were criticizing everything about Paul. They first of all they criticize his message. The Judaizers said, well, you know, Paul's gospel's not getting a lot of results. He's not preaching the old covenant message. And by and Paul responded by saying, Look, I am a minister of the new covenant. The old covenant given by Moses was temporary, it has a fading glory. And Paul used the illustration of the The glory on m Moses' face that would fade away. Moses would go up into the uh Mount of the Holy Mount, be there with God, the glory of God would irradiate on his face, but that glory was a fading glory, and Paul used that as an illustration of the temporary glory of the old covenant. The new covenant is a message that has a permanent glory. And in chapter three, verse number six, he said who has also made us able ministers of the New Testament or the New Covenant, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit gives life. That is the old The old covenant, the law, if you want to go that route, you have to be perfect, and if you're not perfect in your obedience to it, then it's going to end in death. But the we're ministers of the Spirit. That is the gospel. That when a person sees their sinfulness and they understand that they need Christ, they run to Christ, they cast themselves upon Christ. And what Christ has done for them on the cross, that gives life. Paul said, that's the message I'm preaching. And if there's not a lot of people that are getting saved because of that, it's because the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not Well they criticize his manner. They criticize his physical appearance. physical specimen and we really don't like his speech because he doesn't use the the Greek rhetorical uh style that that we all love and prize And Paul responded by saying, Yeah, I know I'm just a regular common person. I'm just an average person, but God puts his treasure in earthen vessels. He puts the treasure of the gospel in common vessels of clay. And then they criticize his motives. They say, you know, Paul's just out for himself. He's just out to exalt himself. And Paul responded by saying, no, I'm not doing this for myself. Look in chapter 5, verse number uh 9 where it says, wherefore we labor that we may, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him. I'm laboring to please the Lord. And in verse 10 he says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. I'm laboring, knowing that one day I'm going to appear before Christ, and I'm going to have to give an answer to Christ for the way that I served and ministered. So I'm not in this for myself. I want to please him. And then they criticize his mentality. They said he's beside himself. Look in chapter 5, verse 13. For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God. That is, if you think I'm crazy, and the word beside ourselves is a word that literally means to stand outside of oneself, they're basically saying he has taken leave of his senses, he's he's outside of his mind, he's crazy. And Paul said, you know, if I'm outside of myself, if I'm crazy, it's for God. And then essentially what Paul's saying here, and this argument continues here in chapter 5, what he's saying is, look, I'm not crazy, I'm just a new creation. I've been transformed by Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you something. If people see you embrace Christ and you get saved and you live the way you're supposed to live as a Christian, the world is going to think you're crazy. They're going to think you lost your mind. And so Paul says, no, that's not, we're not crazy. We've been transformed by Christ. Paul said, I'm not turning over a new leaf. I've received a new life. I heard of a lady who was coming out of a beauty shop and she saw a lady there standing at the door and she said, Oh, Mary Jones, Mary, what a joy to see you. Mary, it's been years since I've seen you. And you look so different. You slimmed down, you've lost weight, you fixed your hair, you you you've made your face different. You even look taller than you used to be. And the lady said, Well, I'm not Mary Jones And the lady said, Oh, you changed your name too. The Apostle Paul, when he got saved He was so transformed that his name even changed. He was no longer Saul of Tarsus. He became Paul, the great preacher, I think the greatest missionary preacher evangelist besides the Lord Jesus himself, the Apostle Paul was changed by the grace of God. That's what the gospel does. That's what coming in in confrontation with Jesus Christ and understanding who you are and who he is, that's what it does. And that's what God wants to do for you. If you've not already saved, God wants to do that. And if you are a child of God, just know this. God is still doing that work of transformation in your life. He wants to continue to do new things. The Christian life is about God continuing to do new things in our life You say, how can I know that God's doing something new in me or that I've been transformed by the gospel? Well there are three marks that I want to show you here. in this passage that tell us of the new things that God does when we come to know Jesus Christ. The first one is we get a new priority. Look at verse 15. Again, we have to back up the whole argument is in this whole passage here. Verse 15, and that he died for all, that they which should live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. That is, when you come to know Jesus Christ, here's the change that takes place in your life, you no longer live for yourself You begin to live for him who died for all. That is Jesus. That they which live, that's us, should not live unto themselves. When we come to know Jesus Christ, we no longer live for ourselves. The priority now is to live for Jesus Christ. And that's the priority that Paul had. Like all true Christians, Paul lived his whole life for Jesus. He said to the Philippians, For me to live is Christ. To die, well that's that's gain, that's better. But as long as I live, it's going to be Christ. In Romans 1480 said, For whether we live, we live unto the Lord. Whether we die, we die unto the Lord, whether we live, therefore. or die. We are the Lord's. That's the priority. We belong to Christ. Now we purpose in our heart to live for Jesus Christ. Paul said in Acts 20, verse 21, None of these things move me. That is, I'm not shaken by any of the things that have happened in my life, neither account I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy Paul said, I'm going to continue to live for Christ. I want to live all the way until the final day. I want to finish this course with joy. Every day that I have is going to be Christ. You know, during the holidays, uh I called uh Dr. Bill Shay. Some of you know he's a friend of our church. He's been a friend for many, many years, as long as I can remember. And he's on hospice care now. And he's going to meet the Lord soon. He's going to go and be with the Lord. And I I wanted to go and visit with him. And so we drove up to uh uh a place called Corey, Pennsylvania. It's all the way out in western Pennsylvania. And uh I just wanted to go and just just just say my goodbyes to him. Because he's meant so much to me and to our church here. I regard him as a great servant of Christ, as a wonderful man of God. And uh when I was up there visiting with him, um You know, he was saying, you know, he was typical Dr. Shade, you know, I'm asking God to keep me alive until I finish this final project. And when I finish this final project, I'll be ready. to go home and and be with the Lord Jesus Christ. He was living every day, even though he was under hospice care, he was with in pain, taking morphine. He still he would tell me his routine. He'd get up. This is what he'd do And he's praying that the Lord will keep him alive long enough so that he can finish his final thing and then let the Lord call him home. You know what? He's a man who's lived every one of his days for Jesus Christ. I remember as a teenager when I was uh newly saved here at Grace was sent to a Christian camp. It was camp of the nations. And I remember that's the that's the first preaching camp I ever went to and heard Dr. Shade preach for the first time. And I I th some of the best sermons I ever heard he preached. And I remember just being impacted by him. And it was a camp of the nations where I surrendered my life to Jesus Christ. I said, Lord, I want you to have all of me. I want to serve you. And I think that was because of his influence. Little did I know that I would have the opportunity to preach around the world with with Dr. Shay. And some of you might know he's got a prosthetic leg. And during some of those trips, you know, he was up there in age, you know, already in his eighties, and with the prosthetic late, it was hard for me to keep up with him. And and he would teach and I would teach and we would go hours in the morning and hours in the afternoon and always I would be waiting saying, Doctor Shay, it's my turn now. He just went on. He was such he is such a faithful, diligent servant of Christ. And I when I prayed with him and said my goodbyes to him I just said, I just pray for me that I could be as faithful to Christ as you have been. If I can be as faithful to Jesus Christ as you have been, I will be a very happy person. That's the kind of legacy I want to have. I want to be, in 2023, I want to be a better servant of Christ. I want to be a better Christian. I want to share the gospel more. I want to win more victories. I want to be more faithful. Whatever days I have left, I want to give every one of those days to Jesus Christ. And that's what the Apostle Paul is saying here in this passage when he says, From henceforth that we should live not unto ourselves, but unto him which died and rose, unto Jesus Christ. That's what a believer wants to do. We want to, Christ is our priority, and we want to give all of our days to serving and being faithful to Christ. When you're transformed by Christ, you have a new priority. But then secondly, here's another thing you have: you have a new perspective. Look in verse 16 of chapter 5. Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh As a result of being transformed by the gospel, you're going to see things a new way. That's what Paul's saying here. We don't look at people the same way. That's what he means in verse 16. Henceforth know we no man after the flesh. Paul said, after I got converted, after I met Jesus Christ who was transformed, I don't look at people the same way. Just think about this. Before Christ Paul was a Pharisee. Pharisee was this elite group of kind of arrogant religious leaders who looked down on anyone who was not like them. They thought they were the the holy ones, the separated ones. And and and they actually called Gentiles dogs. They looked down on people from other races. They were racist, you could say. They thought that they were superior to everyone else. And Paul, when he heard about this new sect of Christians and this new one called Jesus, he considered all of that to be wrong. He was filled with anger at this new Christianity and this one called Jesus Christ, so much so that he made it his mission to go around and persecute Christians and try to stamp out Christianity. Listen to what Paul said in Acts 26, verse 9. He said, I verily thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth, which thing I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints did I shut up in prison. having received authority from the chief priests, and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. When it came time to vote, whether these Christians should live or die, I voted, let them die I was against them, Paul said, and I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme And being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities. Paul chased them down. He went out persecuting Christians and believers. His heart was filled with hatred and hostility. But something happened to the Apostle Paul. On the road to Damascus, you know the story, he met up with the Lord Jesus Christ, and old things were passed away, and behold, all things became new. Because when he me when he met up with Jesus Christ, he realized who Jesus really was. And I love that that what it says in Acts, when when Jesus appeared, uh he called him Lord, and then the next thing he said was, Lord, what do you want me to do? What is it that you want me to do? From that moment that he met Christ and realized who he really was, his whole life at that point had changed. He was going to direct his life to serve Jesus Christ. And later when Paul said, I'm under compulsion. Woe is me if I preach not the gospel. I have to preach the gospel. I have to preach about Jesus Christ. And the very people that he hated and looked down upon, he became a missionary to them. He became a missionary to the Gentiles And his heart longed to see people come to know Jesus Christ. Paul the persecution, Saul the persecutor, became Paul the preacher, and the people that he once hated, now he loved. He'd love them. I remember when I was in East Africa years ago and I got done preaching that a Muslim who had been converted to Christ came up to me afterwards and he hugged me. And he said, I'm a former member of the Al Qaeda. And he said, I've received Jesus as my Savior and my Lord. He said, a year ago I would have wanted to kill you. He said, but now I love you. And I love to hear you preach the word. And I say, Thank God for the gospel. Thank God for what the salvation does. We don't look at people the same way. We see all as being equal. We see all, we love everyone, we love people, we love lost souls, and we love the body of Christ. You see, that's what salvation does. That's the transformation. We don't look at people the same way. We don't look at Christ the same way. Look again in verse 16. Though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. That is to say, Paul saying, look, my view of Christ changed. When I uh first evaluated Christ, I made a human assessment, an assessment according to the flesh. I used my own rational mind. to evaluate him and Paul's evaluation was that he was the false Messiah. Paul said, that's how I looked at him. But the only the problem is is that he used only his mind. He he he wasn't enlightened by the Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit on the road to Damascus ripped the veil from his eyes. His physical eyes were blinded by the glory of the Son of God, but his spiritual eyes were open to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. And to see who he is. And Paul said, you know what? My whole assessment now has changed. And now that I'm in Christ, I see who he is. That phrase in Christ is a term that Paul uses to describe true salvation. You see, friend, you're either in Christ or you're out of Christ. This morning you're in one of two positions. You're either in him or you're not. You're out of him. And if you're in him, you're a child of God. You're saved. That's where the transformation takes place. If you don't Know him. If you're not in him, then friend, you're on dangerous ground. I love the illustration that Peter uses about the ark as the ark is a symbol of Christ. And back in Noah's day, you were either in the ark or you were out of the ark And those that were in the ark, they were safe from judgment. Those outside the ark, they were in danger. Those inside the ark experienced a brand new life. Because they would be carried to another place and have a new life, and the same is true If you're a believer, any man who is in Christ, look at verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. So we have a new priority and a new perspective. We don't look at people the same way. We don't look at Christ the same way. But here's the third thing: we have a new purpose. A new purpose. Look at verse 18. And all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and have given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. All those who are in Christ now have a new purpose You know why? Because now that you're in Christ, you know what God has done to you? He's committed to you a ministry. And what is that ministry? It's the ministry of reconciliation. We're ambassadors of our King. And the Bible makes crystal clear what our purpose is. You ever wonder why now that God saved you, why he just leaves you here on this earth, why he doesn't just save you and then take you on the heaven right away? You know, you have a purpose here. God leaves us here for a purpose. What purpose is that? Again in verse 18. All things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. God has reconciled us to Christ so that we in turn can go out and preach reconciliation to others. This word reconciliation is used five times in these verses by Paul. In fact, this Greek term appears only in Paul's writings. It's kind of a uniquely Pauline word. And really it's the sum and the substance of the whole gospel is in this one word, reconciliation. What does reconciliation mean? It means to Re-establish friendly relations. It has the implication of people who were friends, then they became enemies. And then they're reconciled to become friends again. That's the idea of the Greek word. To cause to become friends again, to bring peace. This is what I do sometimes in marital counseling. You know, I'm trying to reconcile uh two sides that are at war But this is what the gospel does. This is what the gospel is all about. When God created Adam and Eve, put them in the garden, the Bible says there is fellowship with God, and God came and walked With Adam in the garden and there was wonderful fellowship. Did you know that man was created to enjoy God and his presence? And that's the way it was, but something Happened there in the garden, and you know the story. Sin entered in, and Adam and Eve being tempted by the serpent to take the forbidden fruit did that. And that caused a separation. W what was before a friendship was ripped apart. And man became the enemy of God. And sinful man, now that Adam is a sinner, sinful man cannot experience the presence of the Holy God. So Adam and E were cast out of Eden. And mankind has been in war against warfare against God from that time on. But from that very first moment, God put into effect a plan to bring reconciliation in that relationship. And that reconciliation, first of all, what do we learn about it? It's all of God. Look again in verse 18. And all things are of God. This whole thing of reconciliation, this plan of salvation, it's all of God. This is God's idea, it wasn't my idea, it wasn't yours It's the will of God to reconcile sinners to himself. God so loved the world that he made a way of reconciliation. That's the character of God. The character of God is Is that he loves sinners and he wants to reconcile sinners. He wants to draw them unto himself. He wants them to no longer be enemies, but Friends. Reconciliation is all of God. Reconciliation is accomplished through Christ. Look again at verse 18, where it says, who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. God's plan to send his own son to be the agent of reconciliation began all the way back there in the Garden of Eden in the first promise in Genesis 3. fifteen talking about the seed of the woman. Christ's mission was to restore fellowship between a holy God and sinful man. The Bible says this in Ephesians two. But now in Christ Jesus ye who were sometimes afar off Are made nigh by the blood of Christ. What is the means whereby sinners can have fellowship with God once again and be reconciled? It's the cross of Christ. I saw a picture, you've probably seen it before, where God's on one side, man's on the other. There's a chasm between there's a bridge, and the bridge is in the shape of the cross of Christ. That's a beautiful picture. Exactly what Paul's talking about here. This the chasm between God and man was bridged by the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because Jesus came To be our substitute to satisfy God's wrath against sin. You see, before there can be reconciliation, God's holy wrath against sin has to be satisfied. It has to be appeased. So therefore God has to punish someone for sin. And he didn't want to punish us, so he sent his son Jesus. Look at verse number 19. To wit that God was in Christ. reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them. God didn't impute our sins to us. What he did was, he took the sins of mankind, he took my sins and your sins, he imputed them to Christ. He put them on Jesus Christ. And when Jesus died, the Father's holy wrath for sin was appeased. It was satisfied. That's where reconciliation begins. It's possible because of the cross of Christ. Jesus, the Son, was God's perfect sacrifice, and he's the only one that could have satisfied God's demands there's one mediator between God and man, and that's the man, Christ Jesus And look at verse number twenty one here, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The Holy Son of God became sin for us. Think about that verse. He who knew no sin became sin for us. That is, he became the sin bearer. All of our sins were placed on him. This is another part. of the doctrine of imputation. In fact, the Bible teaches three imputations. First of all, Adam's sin was all imputed to us. We all became sinners because of Adam. Listen to what Romans 5 says. Wherefore by as one man sinned under the world, and death by sin, and death passed upon all men, for that all had sinned. Did you know that when Adam sinned in the garden, we all sinned? And the sin of Adam was imputed on all of us. The verb there in the Greek is the eros verb, which means it happened all at one time. At one moment. Humanity fell. Humanity sinned against God. All of Adam's sin is imputed to us because he was the federal head of the human race. All that sin is put on our account. That's one imputation. But here's another imputation. All of our sin then was put on Christ. That's what Paul says right here. He who knew no sin became sin for us. All of our sins were laid upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And then there's a third imputation. When you put your faith in what Christ did for you on the cross, all of his righteousness is imputed unto us. All of his righteousness is given to us. That's the third imputation. That's what it means when it says in verse 21, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. When you repent of your sins and you put your faith in Jesus Christ and the work of the cross, your sins are put on Christ, His righteousness is put on your account, and now there can be peace between you and God. That's the ministry of reconciliation. God reconciled you to Himself through Jesus Christ so that you can go out and you can be an ambassador. And you've been given the word of reconciliation. That's the point here. You see, reconciliation is all of God. Reconciliation is accomplished in Christ. And then reconciliation is assigned to us. God says, here, you're reconciled? Yes, Lord. I put all my faith in Jesus. Good. Then you're my ambassador. Now you go out and you preach the word of reconciliation to the world. That's the point. Look in verse number 19 to it that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us What? The word of reconciliation. The word is logos, the message. God's given me and you that have been reconciled, the message of reconciliation. Look at verse 20. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God. We are ambassadors, every one of us. That's why God leads you here. He doesn't just save you and then take you to heaven. He leaves you in the world. You know why? You're his ambassador. Whether you realize it or not. You you know what an ambassador is? By the way, the word ambassador here is from the word press view, from the word it which means old man. And why did they use that term old man to talk about ambassadors? Because normally when you were an ambassador for a king and you went to a foreign country, they normally Picked out the older, wiser, more experienced people. And so that's kind of the word here. The idea here, however, is an ambassador is someone who represents their king and they're sent to a foreign country. to bring peace between that country or those people and the king. We are ambassadors of Christ. You know this world is not our home. Our country's heaven. That's our home. We're in this foreign land now, and we represent our king. And what we are to give this world is the word of reconciliation. We're to tell all those around, hey, listen, there's a holy God And he is angry about sin. His wrath is on you and it's a it's against you because of your sin. But I've got a good a a good word for you. It's a word of reconciliation. You can have peace with the holy God because of what Jesus Christ has done on the cross. That's the word of reconciliation. And so all of our life we are to be committed to this one thing. You see. People will never know unless they're told. What did Paul say in Romans 10? Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. But how shall they call on him whom they've not believed, and how shall they believe in him whom they have not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace. So we're ambassadors sent by our king into this sinful world. We have beautiful feet and a broken heart. And we're reaching out and we're sharing Christ with others that people would come to know Jesus Christ. And that's I love this expression here. We see the passion of it here in verse 20. Look at the last phrase. We pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God? That's the message right there. I'm standing in place of Christ. If Jesus were here today, you know what he'd be doing? He'd be pleading with you to come and be reconciled to God. But I'm standing in Christ's set and I'm pleading with you and I'm asking you, please, please, be reconciled to God. Be reconciled. That's the passion that we should have. I can think of no better way to enter into the new year than with this mindset. That we be our passion be that we preach this word of reconciliation because we are Christ's ambassadors. I love what Spurgeon said. Spurgeon said, if a person dies and goes to hell, let them have to step over the body of a Christian who's on their knees before them, pleading with them to come to Jesus Christ. And friend, I believe that with all my heart. I believe that with all my heart. So have you been transformed by the gospel? Well, if you if you have, there'll be a new priority in your life. You'll live for Christ, not self. There'll be a new perspective. You'll look at people differently. You look at Christ differently. There'll be a new purpose. You've been reconciled to God, and God therefore has committed to you this ministry of reconciliation. You're an ambassador. So let's let's charge out into the next year with this mindset that we are ambassadors for our King the Lord Jesus Christ. Some years ago Billy Graham was preaching in California in Hollywood and a kind of a hard-living, rough living Hollywood cowboy actor named Stu Hamlin came and he heard Billy G Billy Graham preach, and Stu Hamlin uh was transformed like the apostle Paul. He was made new. And Sue Hamlin later went and found his good friend John Wayne and he began to witness to John Wayne. And he said, John, I want to tell you what happened to me. And he started sharing the gospel with John Wayne. And then he said this, John, you ought to give your heart to Jesus. And then he looked John Wayne in the face and he said, This, John, it's no secret what God can do. What he's done for others, he'll do for you. And John Wayne said, you know, that's that's really nice the way you said that. You know, that should be a song, partner, you know. And Stu Hamlin later wrote the song, It Is No Secret What God Can Do. What He's done for others, He'll do for you. And friend, that's what Paul's saying here. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Ask God to do something new in your heart. Let's bow for prayer together. You take a moment, and I want to just encourage you. I'm in Christ's dead, as Paul said, I'm pleading with you. That you be reconciled to God. And friend, do you know that as you're here today? Do you know that you have been reconciled? Do you know that there's now peace between you and God because of what Christ did? And have you put your full faith in what Christ has done for you? And if that's happened, that means that the righteousness of Christ has been given to you. And you're at peace with God. Thank God for that. Thank God for the gospel. If you're hearing that's never happened to you, I just want to encourage you right now, right where you are. I'm pleading with you, be reconciled to God. Reach out to him in prayer. Pray. Say, Lord Jesus, I know that you came to bear my sin debt. And I'm asking you right now, forgive me. I'm turning to you. I'm putting my faith in what you did for me on the cross. I'm asking you to save me. I want to be reconciled. Reach out in prayer. Tell God that. And if you're here and you're already a believer, you know that God has saved you. Well Ask God to do a new thing in your heart. You know, sometimes the new thing is learning what God did for you at salvation. Salvation is a new thing that never gets old. We just continue to learn about this new thing that God did in us, this transformation. Maybe in the past year you've gotten apathetic in your Christian walk. You haven't been faithful. You have not been committed to Christ. You've been really living more for yourself than Christ. You know what? You need to hit the reset button to let God do a new thing in your heart. Say, God, do something new in me right now. I want to be more committed to Jesus Christ than I've ever been in my life. I want 2023 to be The most committed year of my life in terms of living for Christ. Father, do that work in me. Right now Do that in me. Reach out in prayer and tell God that. Father, there's so much work to be done. As I look out on the brink of this new year, I see challenges ahead, I see opportunities ahead, I see so much work that needs to be done for you, and I honestly feel insufficient for this. And Lord, we need you to work mightily in our heart. Lord, give us the same passion that the Apostle Paul had. Give us that commitment to the things of Christ. Let people around us see this transformation that comes only through knowing Jesus Christ. And may you be honored and glorified through it. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen