Look in Luke chapter 23 and look down at verse number 42. I want to just read two verses with you. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today Shalt thou be with me in paradise. Ty Cobb was one of the all-time great baseball players. I don't know if you're a baseball fan. Anybody a baseball fan in here praying for the Orioles? Ty Cobb played in 3,033 games. In 12 seasons, he led the American League in batting average. For four years, he batted over 400. He set 90 Major League Baseball records. Most of those records are still intact. So he was considered one of the greatest players to ever play the game. But he was also known for his wickedness. He was a very sinful man, a very immoral man. And yet, on his deathbed on July 17, 1961, he accepted Jesus Christ as his Savior. He was gloriously saved. And these are his last words. He said, You tell the boys, I'm sorry, it was in the last part of the ninth that I came to know Christ. He said, I wish I had been saved in the bottom of the first. So my question to you is this does Jesus save in the bottom of the ninth with two outs, two strikes? Does he save in the bottom of the ninth? I think that when we get to heaven, we're going to be surprised to see who is there in heaven. And I'm going to still look today at just an incredible conversion in the story of Luke here. And Luke's account of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. You know, the gospel writers each focus on a different aspect of the crucifixion. For example, Matthew focuses more on the miracles that took place around the cross. But Luke seems to focus on the characters. and the people that were around the cross. For example, we read just a moment ago of Simon the Cyrenian in verse 26 how that they compelled him to carry the cross for Jesus. Jesus was at this point had already been scourged and beaten. He was too weak to carry the cross for himself. One eminent specialist recently wrote an essay where he claims that something had happened where Jesus had his heart muscle was already bruised due to a direct blow. That was kind of the thesis of his paper And because of that, he proposed that he was severely weakened, his labor, his breathing labored, I should say, and so he was so weak he couldn't even carry the cross. And this man carried his worm. Luke also focuses on the mourners. We saw that. Look in verse 27. And there followed him a great company of people and of women, which bewailed and lamented This is a multitude of women sympathetic to Jesus' plate. They were not disciples, but just simply local women, devout women of Jerusalem, who perhaps have regularly witnessed crucifixions and they were very sympathetic But at one point Jesus says to them, Look, don't weep for me. And he gives a little proverb there in verse 31 For they to do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? What did Jesus mean by that? And basically what he was saying is, if the Romans will do this to me, who is an innocent person, what will they do to you who are guilty? Right. So he says, Don't weep for me, weep for yourselves. And that was prophetic because we know later on of the destruction of Jerusalem and how that really literally took place. But then on the Calvary. Luke focuses on Calvary. And in verse 32, notice what it says, and there were also two other malefactors led with him. to be put to death. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. And the male factors one on the right hand, the other on the left And so Luke focuses then on this. He simply says there they crucify him. He doesn't give us a lot of detail about the crucifixion of Jesus. And truthfully, there's no way we can ever really fully explain all that took place there. All of the suffering that took place with our Lord Jesus there on the cross. It defies description. Jesus suffered physically. He was beaten with a cat of nine tails. And simply put, he being infinite suffered in a finite period of time what you and I being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time if we went to hell. All of the hell was suffered there by Jesus Christ. He suffered physically, he suffered spiritually. And they add to that that Matthew's account says that uh that the father turned away when Jesus made the cry of dereliction. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? What happened at that moment? It's hard to really even describe that. But at that very moment, Jesus was bearing the sins of the world. He was bearing your sin, he was bearing my sin. He was the sin bearer. And the Father turned his back on him. Why? Because this was part of the the punishment that Jesus was taking even in the Father not looking upon his son at that moment. The Bible says that Christ died for our sins. He bore our sins in his own body. He once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he tasted death for every man. But what I want you to see here is what Luke focuses on are the two thieves that was there because we saw in verse thirty-three the Bible says that there were Thieves two thieves, one on the right and the other on the left. Jesus was right there in the middle. And Matthew's gospel, this reminds or excuse me, Mark's Gospel reminds us of how that this one little detail fulfills Old Testament scripture because Mark quotes in Mark 1528 and the scripture was fulfilled which saying and he was numbered with the transgressors Even that little detail is focused on to show that everything that happened at the cross, it wasn't an accident. It was all according to God's plan. It all happened the way God wanted it to happen. All of the gospel writers mention these two thieves, but only Luke mentions the conversation that took place. Here. And it's it's an incredible thing. What we see is an incredible conversion. Some amazing aspects that took place. So first of all, if you're taking notes, notice one thing I want to talk about, an amazing rejection. An amazing rejection. Look at verse 35. And the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided him, saying He saved others. Let him save himself if he be Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thy. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew. This is the king of the Jews. Here's the first thing that stands out to me about this story. The Bible says they were beholding him. It's from a Greek word where we get our word theater. They were continually watching. They were staring They were looking. They couldn't take their eyes off of him. And they began to ridicule him. It's not enough that he's going through physical excruciating pain. They add insult to injury. They have no compassion, no sympathy, and the Bible says they begin to mock. Their rejection, their hardness towards Christ was at that level that they actually began to mock him while he was being crucified. Who are these people? The gamblers, those who are casting lots for his garment, the rulers. Matthew twenty seven forty one says the chief priests and the scribes. They've been wanting that day to happen for a long time And then people who passed by, they shook their head. And they said he said he can restore the temple in three days if it's destroyed, but he can't save himself. And then the soldiers we saw, they were scoffing at him But notice something else. Look at verse 34. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. This is the first of seven utterances or sayings from Jesus on the cross. And keep in mind that a person who is being crucified, it was hard for them to breathe. They would have to push up, gather their air, and then speak. That's why you only see short sentences, short words Spoken because it was hard. And here's the first thing. Jesus gathers himself through great pain, and he says, Father, forgive them. That's incredible. Jesus prayed for mercy for his tormentors because he says they don't really understand the magnitude of what they're doing and and that's true. Had they known that this was the Lord of glory, the Apostle Paul would later say, they wouldn't have crucified him but they known it was the Lord of glory. They had no idea what they were doing. And it's incredible that they rejected him. Despite all the miracles, despite what he had done in his life, his teaching, and then add to the fact the miracle of of the darkness. Look in verse 44. And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. The sixth hour would be twelve noon and ninth hour would be three o'clock in the afternoon. So there was darkness for three hours. Luke uses the Greek word for eclipse. It means utterly failed. The sun failed. God supernaturally turned it off. Can you imagine that happening at 12 o'clock? If at 12 o'clock all of a sudden there was darkness. And it lasted for three hours? Wouldn't you have the tendency to say, now wait a minute, what's going on here? Something. This was God the Father's way of saying this wasn't just an ordinary event. And this is recorded even in the annals of Roman history. Tertillian mentioned this in his work The Apologeticum, a defense of Christianity. He says this at the moment of Christ's death, the light departed from the sun And the Lamb was darkened at noonday, which wonder is related in your own annals and is preserved in your archives unto this day. The God who said, let there be light, said, let there be darkness. And God threw a blanket of dark night around his sun. During that time there on the cross. You would have thought that the crowd at that moment would say, This is the Son of God. This is an amazing rejection. I don't understand how they didn't see it. I mean the Jews were always asking for a sign. Give us a sign. Here's a sign. And yet they didn't believe. Amazing rejection. We did an amazing rebuke. Look in verse 39. Then one of the malefactors which were hanging hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us Look at verse 40. But the other answered rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? So one thief sculffed at Jesus, and the other thief rebuked the scoffer. You kind of get the idea that these guys knew each other, that they were partners in crime. They're having this conversation. Keep in mind, here's Jesus in the middle, one on the left, the other on the right. The one scoffs, and the other says, Don't you fear God? You say, what's so amazing about that? This, that just a few minutes previous, both of them were scoffing at Jesus Both of them. Mark makes it cra clear in Mark 15, 32, those crucified with him also heaped insults upon him. Matthew 27, 44 says, both thieves were casting insults at him, but something happened to one of them He went from being a scoffer to a seeker in a very short time. Something happened where his eyes were opened, where he realized, now wait a minute, this is not just any ordinary man. In a moment in time there on the cross, his eyes were opened, and he saw something very crystal clear in his mind that this man was not just any man. There was something about him, something different. And then he says in verse 40, don't you fear God? And by this statement, we know that in a very short time, the fear of God struck this man By the way, that's an evidence that God's working in someone's heart when all of a sudden they develop kind of a fear of the Lord, kind of a reverence. Suddenly, he is awakened To the presence of God. He looked at Christ and he knew there was something different about him. What was it? Perhaps it was when he heard Jesus say, Father, forgive them. Who is able to forgive people like that? By the way, forgiveness was something that was viewed as weakness in the Roman world. In fact, revenge was the name of a Roman god. How could he forgive so freely? This is not just any man. There was something about him, there was a love about him, there was a peace about him, there was a majesty. about him. There was an innocence about him. There was a purity about him. And so this thief is looking on the cross and he's seeing this man die, he realizes this is different. This man And by the way, that kind of awe and reverence should happen to us anytime we think and focus on the cross. We we hear so many people rail about the cross today, but when you properly look at the cross, friend, it should provoke reverence. Absolute awe. And it did it for this man. So we see not only an amazing rejection and then an amazing rebuke where he rebukes his friend, but then an amazing realization. Look again in verse number 40 But the other answer rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? You see, this dying thief begins to realize some things He begins to realize, look at the word condemnation. Prima, it means judgment. The thief on the cross began to think about judgment after death There is a judgment after death. Now he wasn't worried about his earthly judgment. He'd already been judged by an earthly king. He was already dying because of an earthly judgment. When he mentions judgment, he's thinking about the judgment that is going to come from God. A judgment that happens after death. There's some men that say, well, I'm not afraid to die. Yeah, but what about the judgment? Are you afraid about the judgment? One time the Methodist preacher Sam Jones, his wife said, Sam, why don't you go talk to the old sheriff? He's dying. Sam Jones went to see the old sheriff. And the sheriff said, Sam, I've told you before I'm not afraid to die. And Sam J said, Yeah, but what about the judgment? And he said the sheriff sat up in bed and he said, My God, I hadn't thought about that And there are many people that don't think about the fact that there is a judgment after death. The Bible says it's appointed on the man once to die, and after that the judgment. Jesus said earlier in Luke 12, be not afraid of him that can kill the body, but fear him who can cast both body and soul into hell. You better be afraid about the judgment. This man realized there was a judgment. He also realized that he was a sinner deserving death. Look in verse 41. He says, and we indeed justly, that is, we suffer justly, we receive the due reward of our deeds. He realized that he was a sinner and he was deserving what he got. He's awakened. By the way, this is the attitude of a person who's truly repentant. A person who's truly repentant comes to terms with their own sinfulness and they realize How sinful they are and they deserve the judgment of God. This again is another evidence of God working in his heart. He sees himself as a sinner. And may I say this, my dear friend? You can never come to salvation unless you first realize that you're a sinner, that I'm a sinner, that we're all sinners before God You see, if you don't understand the problem, you'll never get the right solution. Someone asked me, what do you think the most important doctrine is for a person to learn? I always say it's the doctrine of sin. If you don't understand sin, you'll never understand salvation. If you don't know the problem, you'll never know the solution. If a doctor misdiagnoses a person, he will give them the wrong medicine. And we're in a world today where we have all these ideas and philosophies where man is diagnosing the problem of man, and these are all bad positions of the soul because they're all wrong. The problem with man today is that he's a sinner. And until he gets his relationship with God right, nothing else will be right. That's right. And so this man sees himself as a sinner. He says, we deserve what we're getting. But then here's an amazing, not only amazing rejection, and an amazing rebuke, and an amazing realization. But then there's an amazing revelation. Look in verse 41 at the end where it says, But this man hath done nothing amiss. Somewhere, at some time while he hung there on the cross, he was given riv revelation as to who Jesus really was. Suddenly he saw Jesus not as a criminal but as a savior. And he realized that Jesus was he was sinless. He said, This man hasn't done anything. Let me tell you something, friend. Jesus is the sinless Savior. He's innocent. He's pure. He's holy. He was the blameless Lamb who went to the cross for us. He knew that Jesus was sinless, but also he knew that he was a Lord. Look in verse 42. And he said unto Jesus, Lord. Remember me, Lord. You know what Lord means? It means master. And if Jesus is his master, that makes them his slave. You can't have a master without a slave. And by the way, that's exactly what salvation is. Salvation is becoming a slave to Jesus Christ. It's exchanging masters. We're all slaves to someone or something. It's a question of what? You're either a slave to sin or you're a slave to Christ. And so he says, Lord, I'm submitting to you. I'm submitting to your Lordship. The Bible says that thou shalt believe in thine heart, Jesus as Lord. And so he knows that Jesus is Lord. But then he knew that Jesus had the power to forgive sin. Look again in verse 42. And he said unto him, Lord, remember me. What's he asking for there? For forgiveness. He was saying, Lord, forgive me for my sin. Give me eternal life. Remember, he was in agony when he prayed this. Remember, he's It's he's struggling to breathe as well. And so he he he says in a very short phrase, Lord, forgive me. By the way, who has the power to forgive? Only God can forgive a man's sin. You remember when the four men lowered the cripple through the roof to the feet of Jesus? Remember what Jesus said at that moment? He said, Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins be forgiven thee. And some Pharisees are in the house and said, Oh, wait a minute Only God can forgive sin. How can you say that? You see, the Jews understood that only God had the power to do that. And here, this man on the cross realized He knew that very thing. Jews understood that. And so when he said, remember me, what is he saying about Jesus now? That he's not just a man, who is what? He's God. He's God. Not only is he innocent and sinless, he's God. So he said, Lord, remember me. As he repents. He knew that Jesus was a king. Look again in verse 42. And he said, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy what? Thy kingdom. If someone has a kingdom, that means they're what? They're a king. You can't be a king without a kingdom. And so now he realizes that Jesus was the Messiah. Where's his kingdom? Well, he also realizes that obviously his kingdom wasn't a literal physical kingdom at that moment, but that his kingdom was a spiritual kingdom. One day Jesus will come back and set up his literal kingdom here on earth. But before you can be a part of that, you have to be a part of his spiritual kingdom, and you do that by repenting and turning to Jesus Christ And so he receives Jesus as his king. He knows Jesus is master. He knows he's God. He knows that he's the king. But then also there's another thing that dawns on him. He knew that Jesus was going to resurrect from the dead. You say, how did he know that? Well, because a dead Savior can't do any of these things. How's he going to remember him in his kingdom if he's not alive? How's he going to forgive him if he's not alive And notice in verse 42, he says, Lord, remember me, not if you come into your kingdom, but when you come into your kingdom. He didn't say, if you happen to be king and savior, and if you do rise from the dead, well then remember me. No, he said when. You see, real faith doesn't say if, it says when. He knew Jesus was sinless, he knew he had the power to forgive sin. He thus he was God, he was king, and he knew that he was going to rise again the third day. But he also knew that Jesus was absolutely sovereign and had absolute authority. You say, how do you determine that? Because this man understood that Jesus had the authority to determine where he would spend his eternal destiny. Only God who has authority can do that. Do you realize today that God has the power to determine where you spend eternity? Because He's absolutely sovereign. And so a lot of times I hear people say, you know, I want to receive Jesus. The question is not, do you want to receive Jesus? The question is, does Jesus want to receive you? He's the one who's in charge. He's the authority. But I've got good news for you. He receives repentant sinners. He will receive someone who truly repents and recognizes him for who he is. You know, a lot of times people want to barter with God. They want to bargain, Lord, if you do this and I'll do this. Listen, you're not on any grounds to bargain. You understand that? You're not on any ground. And you know, the other thief he also asked for forgiveness. Look at verse 39. And one of the male factors which hang rail to him saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us He's trying to barter with Jesus. Jesus said nothing to him. Nothing. If you're the Savior, then save yourself and us. You don't come on your terms, you come on his terms. You recognize who he is, and then you repent of who you are. And you come on his terms. So here's not only an amazing rejection and an amazing rebuke, an amazing realization, an amazing revelation, but then here's the next thing, an amazing reassurance Because look in verse 43. Notice what Jesus says. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. What incredible words Jesus again on the cross pushes himself up under great agony, gathers his breath, and utters this famous statement today. You're going to be with me in paradise. Talk about assurance of salvation. You know, some Christians struggle with assurance. This guy didn't. Jesus said today, you're going to be with me in paradise. What an amazing story of salvation. Amazing conversion. You know what? God says in the bottom of the ninth, doesn't he? He stays in the bottom of the ninth. Now, just a few lessons and we're done. I want to remind you as we look at this story. First of all, salvation is all of grace. It's all of grace. You can't do anything to to make a contribution to your own salvation. It's all of the forgiveness and grace of God. Sometimes I hear preachers preach baptismal regeneration, oh you've got to be baptized. This guy didn't have time to be baptized. Sometimes I hear people say, well, you know, you've got to do this, you've got to speak in tongues. This guy could barely speak at all. All he could do is realize who Jesus was and what he was. And ask for forgiveness. And you know what? He got it. It is all of grace. It is all of God. You know what else I see in this story? Jesus is willing and anxious to save. He wants to save. He's anxious to save. And I want to tell you that if you come to Jesus the way this thief and by the way, I think his prayer and his model of salvation is a perfect model He comes humble, repentant, recognizing who Jesus is, pleading for mercy, and you know what? He got it. And I want to tell you, anyone who comes to Jesus that way will get mercy. They'll get forgiveness because Jesus is willing and anxious to save. And it also teaches me that salvation can come instantaneous. You know, sometimes I realize that God there's a process with people where there's a pre-salvation work of conviction and there's people that study and and the evidences are laid out and all that and then along the way finally they get saved. And that's sometimes how salvation takes place. But then there are other times when instantaneously God saves a person. Right there at that moment. There are deathbed conversions. We see right here in Scripture. Now there are some people that say, well You know, I'll wait until I'm dying before I get saved. Listen, this story should not cause upon to you to presume upon the grace of God. You better be ready right now. You better get ready today. Because you don't know when you're going to die. You don't know how you're going to die. There are death bed conversions, but there's only one story of it in the Bible. God gives us, I think, one story, so that we may not presume. But one story so that we all can hope upon of one person getting saved on their deathbed. Also, what I would just say this in closing, you know what this story also shows me? This story shows me that Jesus is the only way of salvation. We live in a world where there's this inclusivism where they say, oh, there's a lot of valid ways to salvation. There's a lot of valid ways to heaven. No. This story shows me that there's only one way And it's through Jesus. You say, how do you get to that? Because the fact that the Father would send his Son Jesus and allow him to suffer and die like this proves to me that there's only one way. You say, how do you get to that? Well let me give you an illustration. Let's just say that a doc a group of doctors come to me and they say, we got bad news. There's a horrible disease that's spreading upon the whole human race. Eventually everyone's going to die from this I said, that's terrible. They say, yeah, but we got good news. Your son has healing properties in his blood. And his blood, if we can just get at it, can bring healing to all of this disease. But he said but they say the bad news is he's gonna have to die. And his death will be horrible. He'll suffer like no one has ever suffered. But when he's done suffering, his blood will bring healing to everyone. Can we have your son? And I say, well let me ask you a question. Are there any other ways for there to be healing for humanity? And they say, oh yeah, there's plenty of other ways. Oh sure. We got we got several other ways. You know what I'll say to those doctors? Get out of my house. Don't ever come back. If there are other ways of salvation, I'm not giving my son to suffer like that and die. I would only consider it if it was the only way. The fact that God the Father spared not his only son. is proof that He's the only way. He's the only way of salvation. And salvation begins by looking to the cross. And seeing the majesty of Jesus, the beauty of Jesus dying for you, dying for me. Let's let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for this amazing story, this amazing conversion. It gives us hope. And Lord, it causes us to praise you. And so, Lord, today we pray. Lord, we pray for those who are here today. Who perhaps they don't know Christ. They've never been to the cross. They've never had the realization that this thief had. He is the Lord. He is the King. He is the one who has the power to determine our eternal destiny. He's the only way. And so I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ, truly repented and turned to Him, I pray that, Lord, today would be the day of salvation for them. Open their eyes. May they see the beauty of the cross, the amazing power of the cross. And may they be drawn to it today. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I just want to give a brief invitation today. May it be that you're here and you know Christ. You can praise them right now where you are. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you. For showing me who you are, for saving me by your grace. But friend, if you're here today and you can't honestly say that, I want to invite you yet again. The day of salvation is today. God still is reaching out. His arms of mercy to you. Will you look to the cross today? Will you trust him? Will you say like this thief, Lord, remember me? See what does it take? It just takes that that faith right there, that true repentance and faith, Lord, remember me. And you can hear the words in your heart, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. You can hear the assuring words of Jesus saying, You're my child. No, the Lord may not take you home today, but friend, one day we're all going to die Do you know him? Are you absolutely certain of your eternal salvation? Would you pray prayer if you're here and you say I want to know Jesus? Would you just in your heart just pray, Lord Jesus, say the words of this thief, Lord, remember me When you come into your kingdom, Lord, save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you pray that and mean it, I tell you, based on the authority of God's word, He will have mercy. He will forgive. He will make you his child. He will give you eternal life. And friend, if you pray that, why don't you let us know afterwards? Come to me, come to Pastor Earl. Come to Pastor John. Let us know that you've trusted Christ. Father, use these words to bring people unto yourself. And to encourage your children, we pray this in Jesus' wonderful precious name. Amen