Now turn to First Thessalonians chapter 5 this morning, verse number 18, 1 Thessalonians 5, 18. And this morning, this is such a wonderful season of the year. Truly a time when we think of our Lord. We're always to be thankful, but I love the Thanksgiving season. And so this morning I want to prepare our hearts for this by talking about this very uh important virtue in the Christian life and that is to be thankful. I want to talk about an attitude of gratitude. First Thessalonians five eighteen. Notice what it says there in everything give thanks for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you I want to speak just on Rudyard Kipling was a great British poet. I'm sure you probably read some of his uh work. It's a very uh he's a very gifted writer and uh he was a blessing to many, including a generation gone by. But even during his lifetime He was very famous and he made a lot of money from his writings. One time a newspaper reporter came up to him and said, Mr. Kipling, uh someone calculated that the money you make from your writing amounts to $100 per month. word one hundred dollars per word and then the newspaper reporter uh uh reached into his pocket and he pulled out a one hundred dollar bill kind of cynically and he handed it to Ruder Kipling and he said, now give me one of your $100 words. And so he he looked at the $100 bill, he folded it up He put it in his pocket and he said, Thanks. Thanks is a $100 word. In fact, I would venture to say that it It's more like a million dollar word. And unfortunately it's not a word that we hear uh often enough. It is rarely spoken, it seems like today. Now if any nation on the face of the earth ought to be thankful, it ought to be This nation, Americans. And if any group of people within a nation ought to be thankful, it should be the Christians. And if there's any group of Christians that ought to be thankful, it is Christians that are here at this fellowship where God has And so this morning I want to talk about an attitude of gratitude, and I want you to see three wonderful Wonderful principles that the Apostle Paul gives us from verse number 18, and it's a very, very simple but yet very profound. Here's the first principle: gratitude is to be expressed. It is always to be expressed. Look at verse number 18 where it says, In everything give thanks. I want to focus on those two words. Give thanks. First of all, actually that is one word in the Greek. It is the the word Eucharisto. So that might sound familiar, it's where we get our word Eucharist from. There are some people that use that word to talk about the Lord's Supper. But the word actually is a word that simply means to return thanks when someone has done good to you when there's been favor towards you, then there is an obligation to return thanks because of the favor or the goodness that was done towards you. This was a word that was used in Greek times Actually it was a Greek word where who w whenever a Greek worshiped one of their gods and they felt like they uh their God had been good to them, they would return Eucharistic So they would return thanks to that God. Well the Apostle Paul takes this word and he baptizes it and he uses it in a Christian context. And now he says, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ Christ, we have an obligation to return thanks to God for the good things that God has done to us and for us. And as I said before, this word is now used in some circles to talk about the Lord's Supper. They call it the Eucharist. Why? Well, because at the Lord's Supper, what are we doing? We're saying thank you to God for Jesus. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for our salvation. Thank you for the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there's another thing about this word I want you to know, and that is it is a present tense. Now if you've been listening to me on Sunday morning, you've heard me refer to in Greek the present tense. Remember in our language a present tense refers to the time of action, but in Greek language a present tense refers to the type of action And present tense means continual, or something that you make a habit, or we could say it becomes a lifestyle. This is a present tense verb. In other words, we could say it like this Habitually, continually give thanks to God. Make it a habit. Make it a lifestyle. And if you read the words of Paul, if you read his other letters, you're going to find He's using this word Eucharisto. Thanks be to God. A person who is thankful will be a happier person. They will be a healthier person. They will be a holier person. But also another thing about this word here, and that is it is an imperative, which in the Greek language simply means This is not a request from God. God is not requesting that we give thanks. It is a command to give thanks. Giving thanks is not an option. It is an obligation. We are obligated to give our thanks to God, just as if we're obligated to bring our tithes and our offerings to the Lord, we are obligated to give our thanks to God Shakespeare said this. He said ingratitude is as a marble hearted theme. Someone who is ungrateful has the heart of solid marble. One of the greatest indictments that the Bible gives against mankind is in Romans 1, where it says, Neither were they Thankful. Neither was man thankful. It's to be always expressed. So I want to ask you, have you ever thanked the person who led you to Jesus? Jesus. Have you ever thanked your Sunday school teacher who faithfully teaches you the Word of God? Have you ever thanked your founding pastor and the other pastors around here for their life of dedication to the Lord. Have you thanked your mom and dad for investing in your life, for giving you And providing for you. Have you ever thanked your husband for providing your material needs? Thank you is to always be expressed. Always. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Gratitude, thanksgiving is always to be expansive. Look again at this verse. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God. In everything. Now Now this is kind of uh really incredible when you think about it, and everything is in all circumstances, despite whatever may happen, at all times we are told You know, this is perhaps maybe difficult for some. You know, if we're told to thank God in most things, we could perhaps live with that, or if we're told to thank God, for the good things we we can live with that but in everything give thanks I mean this is really incredible when you think about it Paul says in everything Now there's a caution here I want you to see. It doesn't say that we are to feel grateful, because really emotions are unstable. Feelings come and feelings go, and feelings are dis Evening, as Martin Luther wrote, our feelings are very unstable, and feelings can be affected by the weather, by the temperature, by how you're feeling, uh the function of your body, and so on. But thanksgiving has nothing to do with feelings. Or feeling grateful. It doesn't matter how we feel emotionally. This is a command. We with the our will say, I will give thanks to God for everything Everything or in everything. Now some of you might be thinking, well, that's easy for the Apostle Paul just to write down and say, well, I suggest to you it wasn't easy for Paul. In fact When Paul wrote this letter to the Thessalonians, do you realize he was chased out of Thessalonica? And before he got there, he was uh beaten and whipped and imprisoned and shipwrecked He wasn't someone who was an Ivory Tower theologian, somewhere just writing uh decrees without really experiencing life. No, he was down in the trenches. He knew what it was about to suffer. In fact, in Acts chapter 16, we're told the story of how Paul and Silas were beaten with rods, then whipped, then thrown into prison. What happened when they got into the prison? Did they complain? No, the Bible tells us I don't know what the song was, but I think it probably was Let me give you a few things that we're to give thanks for. First of all, we're to be grateful for the blessings of life. Just write that down. Write down Psalm or excuse me, Proverbs 10 10 verse 22. The blessing of the Lord makes one rich and he adds no sorrow with it. And according to this verse, if you are a Christian, you've been blessed by God. You've been blessed with riches spiritual Riches. I like what one definition of a Christian read not too long ago. I read this. A Christian is someone that does not have to consult his bank book to see how wealthy he really is Do you thank God for the blessings of life? Just the simple blessings. Just your daily bread. Did you know the two-thirds of the world Goes hungry? They go hungry. Thirty people starve to death every minute. And here in America, we complain about dirty Dishes. But what does the dirty dishes reveal? God sure has been good to us. Thank God for those dirty dishes, which meant that we have eaten well. Well, it's really I can't hardly fathom someone sitting down to a table and just devouring their food without stopping to thank God for what We ought to have the attitude of the little girl whose father was a disc jockey and a radio network. When they went to a meal, the mother asked the little girl, Would you please give thanks for the meal? And she kinda hanging around her father learned how to speak And she said, This food, friends, is brought to you by the courtesy of Almighty God. Well, the truth is it is brought to us by the courtesy of God. Had it exactly right. We thank God for food. Do you ever thank God just for water? Just for clean water? Once I was over in Ghana, Africa. Africa a few years ago. And I was traveling from village to village. Actually, first I spoke to a group of pastors. And then I was had the privilege of going to twenty-three villages in three days. Preaching the gospel. That's a lot of traveling. That's a lot of preaching. I had a a uh translator with me, his name was Elijah, and I would speak the word the gospel and he would translate it. And so we would go to, you know, uh quite a few villages each day. And I I I can tell you by the time that was over I was exhausted going from place to place. And actually by the time it was over, I preached the same sermon in every village And Elijah the translator, he was translating the same sermon every time. And finally uh about halfway through I said, Elijah, uh you know, I think you can preach this on your own. And I said, I turned him loose. I said, Here you preach the sermon. And he actually But I remember we went to one village and we were getting into the Jeep to leave. And this was a this was a village that you would have thought the time Had forgotten, people still lived in grass huts. And as we were climbing into the Jeep to leave, there was a lady there and she said something I couldn't understand, but my translator said to me, she said We need water. We need water. And I looked around and there was no place for water. They had to travel miles just to get drinkable water. Water. Just clean water would change those people's lives there that lived in that village. And I was haunted By that. I did what I could to try to find a water supply or maybe to pipe some water in, but it just reminds me that we here in America, we can just turn on our faucet and we have drinkable water Have you ever thanked God just for water? I think we ought to thank God just for the smallest blessings. Just for the smallest things that He gives to us. We ought to be grateful for the blessings of But here's another thing. We ought to be grateful for the burdens of life. Again, Paul said, In everything give thanks. I want you to think about that with me. Not for everything give thanks But in everything there's a difference between giving thanks for everything and in everything, if we were to give thanks for everything We would have to give thanks for the devil and his plan for the world. I don't give thanks for that. If we were to give thanks for everything, we would have to give thanks for every bad or terrible thing that happened in our lives And I don't want to give thanks for those things. I'm not thankful for the storm, but I could be thankful in the storm. That's the difference. I'm not thankful for the trouble, but I could be thankful in the trou And you say, how can we be thankful even in the trouble? Because we know that God rules over all, that He is sovereign, and He works out His providential plan. And we can claim the verse of Romans 8 twenty-eight that says, all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. That's why that even in the storm I can be thankful because I know that this storm is going to produce good like Spurgeon said, blessed be the storm that casts me upon the rock called Christ. That's what God does Many times in the storms of our life. For the Christian, there is a silver lining in every cloud Perhaps you heard of William Cooper. I like to refer to him sometimes. William Cooper was a man who had bad things happen in his early life. He suffered from depression. He got so depressed. and he decided to take his own life. He took a had a gun and he fired the gun, but it misfired. He took poison, but he got well. He tried to hang himself with He hired a a carriage driver to take him to the Thames River in London. He was gonna jump into the river but The f the f uh the fog, excuse me, was so thick that the driver couldn't find the river. And he took him back to his apartment. And he went up into his apartment and he threw himself down on his bed and he said, I can't even Even kill myself. But he happened to see a Bible on the shelf that someone had given him years ago and he had forgotten about. And he opened the Bible and he read it And God spoke to his heart. And he poured himself out to God. That storm literally did cast him upon the rock called Christ. And he got saved. And later he became a hymn writer. Did you know some of the great hymns that we sing? William Cooper wrote those hymns. One hymn in particular says this: God moves in mysterious ways. His wonders to perform. He plants his footstep in the sea, he rides upon the storm. But then there's one line in that song that says this judge not the Lord by feeble sense. Don't judge By our senses what God's doing, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face Behind every providence that seems from our perspective where God is frowning on us, He's actually smiling. And He has a wonderful purpose that we perhaps we can't see. So we can be thankful in the principle of giving thanks in everything. It was during World War II Corey Tinboom and her sister uh had been harboring Jewish people fleas. And one morning they were reading their Bible and they came to this verse here, 1 Thessalonians 5:18. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God In Christ Jesus concerning you. And Cory Dim Timboom said there's no way that we can do this. And the sister said, Yes, we need to give thanks. We need to give thanks for the fleas that are around Corey Tinboom said, I can't give thanks for these fleas. How can I do that? She said, We have to. In everything the Bible says, give And so they prayed and they gave thanks for the fleas. Well it was during the months that followed that they really found out they had relative freedom in their barracks, unlike others around them. They had the freedom Ericks was the only place of refuge they had in that camp. Months later they found out the reason they had such freedom. It was because of the fleas. The guards would not dare come into that Once accosted by thieves, he was robbed of all his money. He wrote these words in his diary. Third, because though they took Everything I had, it wasn't very much. Fourth, it was I who was robbed and not I who robbed. Everything give thanks. Do we thank God for the rain as well as the sunshine? For the pain as well as the gains in our life for the Blessings as well as the crosses. Here's another thing we're to give thanks to God for, not only for the blessings of life and the burdens of life, but also the benefits of life. We read just a moment ago Psalm 103. It is one of my favorite Psalms. I would challenge you. We don't have time. I wish I could go there and spend the rest of the morning. Morning there. All those benefits? The benefits that he gives each day that we live. The reason I bring that up, if you ever go over to England you'll discover that in those English houses built in the eighteenth century, the windows there are very small. Because of the window tax. This was one of the most senseless taxes ever levied by a ruling power. The British government was charging houses that had windows that were so big Or they had more than six windows in the house. They were actually charging a tax on sunlight in the house. When I think about the cost of electricity that I'm paying for I shudder to think what I would have to pay if God started paying or charging us taxes on sunlight. Aren't you grateful? That we breathe is free. God doesn't charge for any of those things. He doesn't pay admission to see it for us to see a sunset or a sunrise or to hear a bird sing. Or to smell a rose. We're always thinking about people today. We we just seem to live in an age of rage where people are always angry. They're always demanding justice. They're always asking for things that is due unto them. And some people go on strike if they don't get what they think is coming to them. What if God all of a sudden went on strike? What if God decided to go on strike and wipe out all the benefits that He gives us freely each day? Someone wrote this and I just have to read it to you. I thought it was so good How good is it that God above has never gone on strike because he was not treated fair and and things he didn't like If only once he'd given up and said, That's it, I'm through. I've had enough of those on earth. So this is what I'll do. I'll give my orders to the sun, turn off the heat supply, and to the moon, give no light, and the ocean And yet he carries on, supplying you and me, with all All the favors of his grace and everything for free. Men say they want a better deal, and so on strike they go. But what a deal we've given God God to whom all things we owe. We don't care whom we hurt to gain the things we like. But what a mess we'd all be in if God should go on strike Next time you gripe about the long lines or having to go to work and attract through a traffic jam, or perhaps even paying taxes that you pay. Just remember that here in America we're blessed. In Russia a man has to work one hour to earn a loaf of bread. In America he works only six minutes. For a quart of milk, the average Russian works one hour and eleven minutes, an American works nine minutes. For a suit of clothes, the Russian must work 583 hours, the American works 38 hours. For a plain cotton dress, the Russian works 225 hours, and American works only four hours. We're to give thanks. Of course, George Washington, he declared the fourth Thursday of every November to be Thanksgiving Day, but I want to tell you as a Christian, every day ought to be a day of Thanksgiving. Message today, and that is gratitude is always to be expected. Look again in verse 18. In everything give thanks. And notice the last part: for this is the will of God. In Christ Jesus concerning you. This is God's will for all of us. And this principle has been established in the scripture. The precedent was established. Established in the Old Testament. Did you know that every year Jews would bring a peace offering to the Lord? There were five offerings that were Prescribed in the Old Testament. One was called a peace offering. Why would a person bring a peace offering? They would bring a peace offering because they just wanted to say thank you to God That was it. They were not trying to confess or repent of any sin. They were not trying to pay restitution. This one offering was prescribed for this one thing, and that is to give thanks to the Lord And you know what they would do at the peace offering? They would render their thanks to God, and then sometimes they would give a vow to the Lord, and sometimes they would give of their offering to God a free will offer Offering because God had been so good to them. But that was what was prescribed. And they would do it every year, this peace offering and fat in fact I think That the pilgrims when they came over here to America, uh William Bradford, who was the governor of that settlement, as you know, was a man who loved the Bible, he loved God, he was a godly man, he especially loved the Old Testament, he learned Hebrew very well. Well, when I was going through seminary and studying Hebrew, I learned I saw a facsimile of his Hebrew exercises that he would write out while he was riding on the Mayflower over here to America He was seat in the scripture. And I think that the the meal, the Thanksgiving meal that originated there in Plymouth, actually came from the scripture because did you know that the at the peace offering when a person brought a peace offering and this what was what was unique about the peace offering. This was the offering where that you took a third of it and you put it on the altar and you took a third and you gave it to the priest, but then the rest of it you kept for yourself And then what would you do? You would take it back home. And you would have a feast with your family, and you would invite your neighbors. And what was that? That was a meal. That was an offering of thanks to God Did you ever think that eating and worship were related? In the scripture, they are. You would have this Thanksgiving meal. It was done unto the Lord. And so if you Reading the Bible in First Kings chapter 8 when Solomon dedicated the temple, he had a huge peace offering. He offered thousands and thousands of thousands of bulls, and then he invited people People all around to feast with him. That was a huge thanksgiving right there in the Bible. And the Bible has prescribed this. So I think that when William Bradford got together on that first Thanksgiving, he was simply reading in Leviticus about the peace offering about sharing a thanksgiving meal together unto the Lord for all that he has done because that is what the scripture teaches And by the way, you know another Thanksgiving meal we celebrate all the time. In fact, once a month here at the church is called the Lord's Supper. Together and we share the Lord's Supper. You know what we're actually saying? Thank you, Jesus. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for my salvation. And just let me close with this. I wish I had more time, but I don't. But the greatest Thanksgiving meal Is yet to come. You know where that's going to be? That's going to be in heaven. And the Bible speaks about that. The marriage, supper of the Lamb One day we will gather together there in heaven. And we will be with our loved ones. We will be with the saints of the Old Testament and the New Testament. You say, well, we recognize them. Absolutely. Jesus said, you know, we're going to sit down to eat with Abraham and Isaac and all those. We're going to all come together in one big meal at the marriage supper of the Lamb. That is going to be the ultimate Thanksgiving meal For all of us one day there in heaven who know the Lord Jesus Christ. And so my prayer is, I hope that you know him. And I want to close with This the psalmist said this. What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits? And then he answered his own question. I will take the cup of salvation. And I will call upon the name of the Lord. That's a good way to celebrate. Take the cup of salvation that He's offered. Call upon His name. Let me just say this one thing. I think here in America we've lost the meaning of thanksgiving. It's a time of worship. It's a time when you get together with your family, your friends, you thank God with all your heart for what you You thank him together, and you enjoy one another, enjoy your family. That in itself is an act of worship on To God for all of his benefits, for all of his blessings. Take the cup of salvation. Call upon the name of the Lord. Give him praise. Praise. Let's let's bow together for prayer. And so, Lord, we do indeed with all our heart. Thank you. For all your benefits. And Lord, you have taught us, and we're still learning in everything to give thanks. We're not thankful for everything. There are some bad things that have happened. And maybe to some people here that I'm preaching to, Lord, and as they look back over the years, some bad things have happened. Happened. But Lord, even in those storms, you're doing good for us. Even in the storm, we can give thanks. For we know that Lord the end is good. You work all things together for good to those who love God and to those who are called According to his purpose. And I pray, Lord, that you would teach us to continue to trust in you even in the storm, to where we may not feel like it, but we can say thank you, God. In faith, I Thank you because I know that you love me. And what you're doing is going to result in good. May we by faith learn to thank you And Lord, may we banish ingratitude from our hearts. Forgive us for the times where we have taken for granted the small blessings of life. Lord, wake us up To know that even the small things are gifts from you, that your mercies are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And so, Lord, we all Offer to you today the sacrifice of thanksgiving. And what I'd like for you to do with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you just to take a moment there where you are. Make where you are sitting, just on a little altar. You don't have to kneel down, but right there while you're sitting, would you just render thanks to the Lord? Give him thanks. And if you're here today and you've never taken the cup of salvation, you've never called upon the name of the Lord, I encourage You to do that today. This is the best thing you can do. You'll be grateful that you did. If you don't know the Lord Jesus, He's reaching out to you. Not literally But by faith, he's reaching out to you through the preached word, through this invitation itself, he's saying to you, come and drink of my cup of salvation. I want to save you. I want to bless you. And if you've never done that, would you be willing to pray right where you are, Lord Jesus, save me, forgive me for my sin. I'm calling upon you right now Save me, Lord Jesus. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Anyone here? Say that's my prayer, preacher. I'm calling upon him. I'm going to take the cup of salvation unto myself. Anyone here? Can I pray for you For you? Anyone here? And so, Father, now bless these words to hearing hearts. Use it for your glory, we pray. And may when we celebrate Thanksgiving, may it truly be a Time of worship. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Alright