Now if you have a Bible, you can follow along with me to the in the book of Micah. It's the Old Testament prophet. Let me tell you how to get there. Go to Matthew and Mecca left, and go down six books, and you'll come to Micah. It's in between Jonah and Nahum. And if you don't have a Bible, if you uh you can just listen to me, we'll have a scripture verse here on our screen behind us. And really I'm just gonna mainly focus on one verse and the title of my sermon tonight is an amazing Christmas announcement. This is Micah 5. 2. But thou Bethlehem Ephrada, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, Yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose going forth have been of old from everlasting. This is an amazing, amazing verse. Really it's a it's an announcement. One of the joys that we have here in this world is to announce the birth of a child. Someone has said that the Old Testament is really simply a series of birth announcements. about a baby that is coming, the Messiah. And I think that's a good way to summarize the Old Testament. The announcement started with God Himself in Genesis 3. 15 You remember right after Adam's sin, God uh because he was tempted by the serpent, God said, I will put enmity between thee, talking to the serpent and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head Thou shalt bruise his heel. God already spoke right after the fall of Adam about a coming seed of the woman that would bruise the serpent's head And then Isaiah made this announcement in Isaiah 7. 14, therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And then of course there's the prophet Jeremiah who made his announcement. He said, The Lord hath created a new thing in the earth. A woman shall compass a man. And in that you have the implication of the virgin birth. This is here yet another birth announcement here in Micah 5. 2. We're going to see this is an amazing announcement. Normally when you make a birth announcement, you focus on things that are important to us about the baby, the gender, the weight, the name, the date and the time, and so forth. When Micah makes this announcement, he's going to focus on several important factors that we need to understand with the coming of the Messiah, the birth of our Lord Jesus. So I want you to see four fascinating elements about this announcement here. Number one, think about the scriptural prophecy. The verse that we read here just a minute ago in Micah 5. 2 was an announcement that was written 700 years before the birth of Christ. Think about that. You ever heard of a baby being announced 700 years before their birth? That's an incredible thing. This is what we call Bible prophecy. What is prophecy? Bible prophecy is foretelling the future. It is telling us what happened long before it happens. It is history pre-written. And this is one of the reasons we know the Bible is the Word of God, because only God can predict the future. We hear about fortune tellers, we hear about poem readers and soothsayers. As Adrian Rogers used to say, they are not prophetic, they are pathetic. Because they think they can tell the future, but really they can't. Only God knows the future. And in fact, if you read the verse very closely here, Micah 5. 2, you're going to see this is God speaking here. Look at it again, but thou Bethlehem Ephrata, here's God speaking to this little town of Bethlehem, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel. God is saying there is going to come a king, a ruler, that will be ruler of my people, that will be ruler of the world eventually. And again, this was 700 years before Jesus was born. In 165 A. D. , there was a man by the name of Justin Martyr. He was a brilliant philosopher. Really, it was before he got his name Martyr, he was just Justin. He was a skeptic. He scoffed at Christianity. He was a brilliant man. And then he began to study Bible prophecy, and as he studied Bible prophecy, he became convinced that the Bible was indeed the Word of God, and he became a Christian. And he became so devoted to the Lord that he died for his faith, and that's why we call him Justin Martyr. And just and Martyr said this to declare a thing shall come to pass long before it comes to being, then to bring it to pass This or nothing is the work of God. And that is so true. Only God knows the future and brings it about. God said, Remember the former things of old, for I am God. And there is no other, I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times, things not yet done, saying, My purpose shall stand, I will accomplish all of my purpose. Now think about a second thing with me. We think about the scriptural prophecy, but secondly, this verse tells us the specific place. Because again, look in verse 2, but thou Bethlehem Ephrita And then it mentions being little among the thousands of Judah. Notice that the prophet is very specific when he tells us that the Messiah will be born in Bethlehem. He gives us very precise detail. You say, what's the big deal? Well, because did you know that there were actually two places called Bethlehem and the Holy Land? When you think about the Holy Land, think of it as north and south. North was Galilee, south was Judea There was a Bethlehem in Galilee in the north, and there was a Bethlehem in the south in Judea. Now where did Jesus r uh grow up where did where was Mary and Joseph from? They were from Nazareth. So if someone back then would have heard that Jesus was born in Bethlehem, they probably would have made the mental leap to think that he was born in Bethlehem in the North Territory, which is only five miles from Nazareth, or they sometimes call it Bethlehem in Zebulun. But that would be wrong. The Bible is very specific. It wasn't the Bethlehem in the north, five miles from Nazareth where Jesus was born. It was the Bethlehem in the south in Judea, which is, you get this, 80 miles from Nazareth. Eighty miles away. In fact, you remember in Matthew chapter two when the wise man came to Herod They were looking for Jesus. They were traveling to that place of Bethlehem. You also remember the religious scholars came to Herod. Herod said, look, I want to know about this one who's the king of the Jews, and they said, they pointed to this prophecy in Micah 5. 2, and they said, according to the scripture, he would be born in Bethlehem of Judea, just outside of Jerusalem, just four miles as the crow flies. From Jerusalem down to Bethlehem. So notice, this is very precise where Jesus was to be born. In Bethlehem, Ephrita, in the south. Now, why is this important? Why does Matthew in his gospel emphasize this and Luke as well? Well, because did you know that there were many in Jesus' day that went around saying this? They said, you know, Jesus can't be the Messiah because he came from Nazareth. Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Listen to John 7. 27. We know this man whence he is. We know where he's from. In John 7. 41, others said, this is the Christ. But some said, is the Christ to come from Galilee? Is he coming from the north in Galilee or does he come from Bethlehem in the South. Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was? And so there were some around there thinking Jesus couldn't have been the Messiah because he grew up in Nazareth. Nothing good comes from Nazareth. That's up in the north. We know that the Messiah will be what was to be born in Bethlehem. And so there were some people that didn't understand. And so Luke in his gospel clears up this little misunderstanding that people had. And you know what Luke does? Luke explains why, although Mary and Joseph lived in Nazareth, Why and how that Mary had a baby, but it wasn't in Nazareth. It was in Bethlehem, 80 miles south. Away from Nazareth. What would cause Joseph to take his wife, nine months pregnant, on a journey 80 miles into the hill country of Judea? A very difficult journey when she's about to give birth. Why would he do that in the dead of winter? What would cause him to do that? Well, Luke tells us in his gospel why that happened, because in Luke chapter 2 it says And we know this verse. It came to pass in those days that there went out a what? A decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. There was only one thing that could really get Joseph and Mary out of Nazareth down to Bethlehem so that the Messiah would be born in that very specific location that was prophesied by Micah 700 years prior. Now think about this This is the sovereign hand of God. You see, if Jesus is born in Nazareth, then he doesn't fulfill prophecy. The word of God is not true. And if God's word is not dependable, friend, we have nothing. There's no salvation. There's nothing. Now, in order for God's word to be true, Jesus had to be born in Bethlehem, and so God in his sovereign providence. made this happen. There was a man by the name of Caesar Augustus. He called himself Augustus because it means great one. He had an ego problem. He thought he was great And he thought he was making a decree of his own will on people being taxed, which really the word is census. He wanted to take a census, and that was for the purpose of taxing people and finding out how many military men he could draft And he thought it was his idea that he'd do this census, but really it was the sovereign hand of God, wasn't it, that gave him that idea. And so really there's two things here It was a reason for Joseph and Mary to leave uh Bethlehem, uh to leave Nazareth and go to Bethlehem, but also there had to be a deadline. In order for them to leave at that time. You know, we have deadlines. We know what tax time it is. It's April what? Yeah, you know what the tax time is, don't you? You know the deadline And they and Caesar Augustus gave them a deadline, you have to have this in by this time. This is the only thing that could cause Joseph to take Mary, who was Nine months pregnant, put her on a mule, take her on that long, difficult journey into the hill country, eighty miles, but it's no coincidence because what they were doing was fulfilling Prophecy, what God had said would happen seven hundred years prior to the birth of Christ. And I'll tell you this, the Bible is even more specific. Not only did it tell us the very village in Judea in the South Country. But it gets even more specific than that, if you ask me. There's a lot of debate over where Jesus was born in Bethlehem. In fact, you can go over to Bethlehem. Um folks I'm sure are doing it right now, tonight, and they're going to the church of the dis of the nativity. I've been to Bethlehem several times. I've been to this church. This is the supposed birthplace of Christ. This was a church that was built over a cave. And later on another church was built to replace the one that was built in 326 A. D. But there was a tradition that w was based on uh Emperor Constantine and his mother Helena who visited that region and they decided that that one spot had to be the spot where Jesus was born And so they that became the traditional birthplace of Christ. And so they built a church over it. And now you can go to that church and you can go down. A bunch of steps into the basement, and you could see supposedly the actual place where the baby Jesus lay. The only problem with that, I don't believe that's the right spot. Hate to burst people's bubble if you've been there. You say, why? Well, Luke gives us a few clues about the specific spot of the actual birthplace of Christ. Really, there's just two clues. One is the word manger, and also the fact that there was no room in the inn. And since there was a manger, many people assumed that he was born in a stable behind an inn. You know, so we have this picture in our mind. Here's Mary and Joseph, they make this 80-mile journey, they come to the ancient Motel 6 there in Bethlehem. There's nothing available because it's tax time and the sit this little village is swelled up with people. And since there's no room in the motel or the inn, the innkeeper says, and by the way, there's no mention of an innkeeper in Luke. We just assume that since there's an end, there has to be an innkeeper, right? And so the innkeeper says to them, you know, we don't have any room in the end, but we do have a barn out back. Where the animals stay. And if you'd like, you can use that barn. And that's really the image that we have of the birth of Christ. The only problem with that is that it doesn't match what the scripture says. Let me just tell you that the word for in that Luke uses is not the word for motel. When he talks about the end, it's the Greek word catalom. And this word is only used one other time in Luke's gospel. Listen to where it's used. It's used during the Last Supper, where it says Jesus and his disciples met in the cataluma. Guestroom. The N simply means a guest room. If Luke wanted to talk about an N, he would have used another Greek word. Pandochion is the word for a motel or an inn. In fact, Luke does use this word in the story of the Good Samaritan. You remember how the Good Samaritan takes the injured man to the in Pandokeon. And then there's also an innkeeper in this story, a Pandokias, who is the innkeeper. And you remember the Good Samaritan gives him some money and says, take care of this man. So those words are used there in that story of the Good Samaritan. But Luke doesn't use any of these words here. He doesn't use the word Pandokion to talk about the end. He uses the word cataluma, which means guest house. And so, and you also have to remember this, that Bethlehem was a very small town, very, very little. They didn't have an in fact Micah says this, though thou be little among the thousands. Thousands of what? Thousands of villages. There were villages all over Judea. They were very small. But the smallest of them was this little village of Bethlehem. Wasn't big enough to have uh a motel or an inn there, probably but wasn't even there. And so I think what happened was That Mary and Joseph went back to Bethlehem, their native hometown, and while they got there, the family house, which has a guest room, was already filled with all the other family members That's what's going on here. And then and then people again they make this something, well then m what what happened then were they went to the stable behind the house And they had Jesus in the stable there. And why did they make that assumption? Well, because of the word manger. Manger is a feeding trough for animals. So they assumed that there was a barn. But we don't have to make all of those assumptions. You know why? Because there's another verse in Micah that helps us with this. Just look at Micah 4. 8. These are just just a few verses above Micah 5. 2. Look at Micah 4. 8. Notice what it says. And thou O tower of the flock, the stronghold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion, the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem. This was an early prophecy. Notice where it says Tower of the Flock. The Hebrew is literally Migdal Eater. Or watchtower of the flock. So according to the Old Testament, the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, but even more specific at the watchtower of the flock. Now, did you know that there was such a watchtower that was there in Bethlehem? We first read about it in the book of Genesis in the story of Rachel. When she was dying, the Bible mentions this watchtower. It mentions it in a few other places. You say, what's a watchtower? What does that to do with What's going on here? Well, a watchtower was used. It was a built-up tower that had a wooden roof on the top of it. And shepherds would go up in the tower. It was an easy way to do what? Keep watch over their flocks. It was very easy for them to use these watchtowers to watch over their flocks. And so a watchtower was used by shepherds to do that very thing. But also, didn't you know that a watchtower was also a place that was used to birth Little lambs, the ew mother, when it was time for her to give birth to a lamb, would be taken into the watchtower, and there she would give birth to little lambs. Now, let me just say this specifically outside of Bethlehem, this was sacred ground. You know why? Because this was a ground that was set aside to produce lambs that would be used for the sacrifices in the temple that was in Jerusalem just four miles away. And so the shepherds that were there in the fields watching over the flocks Taking care of them, birthing the lambs, and doing all of that. These were not just shepherds, they were shepherd priests. They were dedicated to this duty. Cooper Abrams writes this about it. The watchtower from ancient times was used by the shepherds for protection from their enemies and wild beasts. It was also the place used were safely brought to give birth to lambs in the sheltered building. The priest would bring in the ewes, which were about to to uh to lamb for production. These special lambs came from a unique flock. that was designated for sacrifice at the temple in Jerusalem. And you know what these seports would do? Once a lamb was born, you know, the very first thing they would do with the lamb is they would wrap that lamb in swaddling clothes. You say, why would they do that? Well, think about it. These lambs, in order for them to be acceptable for sacrifice, what did the Bible say about lambs? They have to be without blemish or without spot. What would assure that you take this little lamb that probably wanted to hop all around and could get straped up in briars and all these other things? What would keep a lamb without blemish? You would wrap that lamb in swaddling clothes in order for that to happen. And these shepherds who were men trained for this were this priestly task of setting aside lambs that were were qualified and worthy to be used for the sacrifice, they would wrap them in swaddling clothes. They also had strict rabbinical rules for cleanliness and holiness. They would maintain the stable very, very precisely to make it very clean. Again, this was ritual cleanness that they were concerned about after all, these lambs had to be worthy. And all this was according to Jewish law, according to the Mishnah Now, so the tower of the flock then was used for this purpose. Now let me quote you from one Jewish scholar, Alfred Eldersheim, in his book, The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. He writes this, quote, that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem was settled a conviction. Equally so was the belief that he was to be revealed from Magdal Eder, the tower of the flock. This McDull Eater was not the watchtower for ordinary flocks which pastured on the barren sheepground beyond Bethlehem, but lay close to the town on the road to Jerusalem. A passage in the Mishnah leads to the conclusion that the flocks which pastored there were destined for temple sacrifices. And accordingly, the shepherds watched over them. They were not ordinary shepherds. They were priests. So here's what I think happened. Mary and Joseph took the long journey, eighty miles from Nazareth down to Bethlehem. They went to the family house. The family house was filled. Some of you might have a little I don't know, maybe live to COVID, your house won't be filled. Normally around Christmas time you get a full house, right? All family members. There was no room in the house for Mary and Joseph. And so Mary and Joseph went to the uh McDahl Eater, the watchtower. The place where lambs were born, a place that would be clean, according to ceremonial cleanliness And there they had Jesus there in the Bagdal Eder, that tower that was right there in the fields of Bethlehem. And again, let me quote Cooper Abrams. He said, talking about Jesus uh that at Bethlehem talking about McDull Eater, this is the perfect place for Christ to be born. He was born in the very birthplace of tens of thousands of lambs which have been sacrificed to prefigure him, God promised it, pictured it, and performed it at McDal Eater. It all fits together, for that's the place where sacrificial lambs were Born. And so, folks, Jesus was not born behind an inn in a smelly stable where donkeys and other animals were kept And travelers were kept. He was born in Bethlehem in the birthing place of sacrificial lambs that was kept ritually clean. And those lands were offered as a sacrifice in Jerusalem. Now think about this. You know, when When the shepherds saw the angels and the angels gave them the announcement and Luke, remember what they said to the shepherds? They said, look, the baby's been born. In Luke chapter 2, verse 11, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Listen to verse 12. And this shall be a sign unto you Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. Think about that. What's a sign? A sign is something that doesn't normally happen. Something a little unusual. Here's the sign. You're going to find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. You don't normally see a baby laying in a manger. You don't normally see a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes. But this is the sign that this is the son of David, this is the Messiah that is born, King of the Jews. And you notice that in Luke's gospel These shepherds, they didn't go to Bethlehem knocking on doors and looking in stables saying, hey, we're looking for a baby that was just born. Anybody know anything about this? They knew exactly where to go because when the angel said Swaddling clothes, when the angel said manger, they knew about the tower, the watchtower. The McDull Eater, they went straight to that place. And so the Bible is very, very specific about the place where Jesus was born. Let me give you one other thought here before we go Think about the special person. Again in verse 2, it says, But thou Bethlehem Ephrada, though thou be little among the thousands, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel. Look at this next phrase, whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting. That's again an amazing thing here. His goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting, the Hebrew word Olam. Well Kaiser says it's used in connection with God. It can mean from eternity on. He came from eternity. He existed before Bethlehem. Jesus' beginning was not in maternity. It was in eternity. He came from heaven. God became a man. This is the greatest miracle ever. The greatest mystery ever. I can't explain to you how all that happened. But I believe it's true. Jesus was truly God. Jesus was truly man Can you imagine when Jesus went into the temple when he was twelve years old and had a conversation with those doctors and he just blew them away with his knowledge? And I can just imagine one of the doctors saying, How old are you? And Jesus said, well, on my mother's side, I'm 12 years old, but on my father's side, I'm older than my mother, and I'm as old as my father. You see, he was both God and man. On his mother's side, he got thirsty. On his father's side, he said, I'm the water of life. On his mother's side, he got hungry. On his father's side, he took a little lad's lunch and he fed five thousand. On his mother's side he was homeless and he didn't have a place to lay his head. On his father's side he earned the cattle on a thousand hills. On his mother's side he wept at the grave grave of Lazarus. On his father's side, he said, Lazarus, come forth. And resurrected him from the dead. As God, he knew all things, but as a man he grew in wisdom. How is it that he was God and man concurrently in one person? That's a mystery. And as I told you before, theology is not a problem-solving venture. It's a mystery-discerning venture. This is a mystery, but I accept it Because the Bible says it's true. Paul said, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. And why? Because this is the only way that you could have salvation. And don't miss this. You know, a lot of times we get obsessed over the place where Jesus was born. You go to Bethlehem, you have all those people over there. Just laying down in front of the place and kissing the floor where supposedly Jesus was born. They're doing all these ritual things about the very place But you know the truth of the matter is we don't know where that tower was. We don't know the exact location. And I think that's not an accident. I don't think God wants us to get obsessed about the place. What we should be obsessed about is the reason why Christ came The reason he came, the purpose. And what was the purpose of his coming? To save you from sin. To make sure that you have an eternal home in heaven. You see, God who is holy must judge sin. God is also love. He doesn't want to judge you. And so God, in order to be God, in order for His holiness to be satisfied and His love to be satisfied, there had to be a substitute for sin. Someone had to pay the penalty for sin. And God sent his son Jesus into the world. God became a man so that he could be the sin bearer. He could fulfill all the law of God on your behalf. He could take all of your sins that you've committed, all the sins I committed, lay them on Jesus, and the wrath of God that should have fallen upon us fell upon him. And he paid our sin debt that we might have salvation, that we could be forgiven of our sins. We could have eternal life. That's why Matthew said, and she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now I know it's very popular today to say that there are many ways to heaven. You know, the Buddhism is as equally vowed as Christianity. Islam is as equally vowed as Christianity. You know, that's called religious pluralism. They're all good ways or inclusivism. You know, all these religions have a little bit of truth in them And that's a really good feeling out there. And that's what everyone wants to believe today. The only problem is it's just absolutely wrong. It's just not true. And it's not true, and let me just say this, I've said this before, but the logic of Christ coming down and being born, the incarnation, God becoming a man, the very logic of that disproves this inclusivism that people feel so warmly about. If there were other ways to go to heaven, if there are other ways to have your sins paid for, To have eternal life, why would God need to send his son into the world? The very fact that God would send his son to the sin-cursed earth proves the exclusive nature of salvation. What if doctors came to me and they said, you know, you know, we we got COVID now. What if we had a virus that was worse than COVID where everyone that got it, they died, and then it was it was just fatal? And doctors came to me and said, you know what, we know your son, uh uh say your son Josiah, uh he has special properties in in his blood where we can make a vaccine that would save people from being killed from this deadly virus. Can we use your son's blood as a vaccine? And I said, well, I guess they will say, well, wait a minute, before you answer it, just know this, that in order to use your son, we're going to have to murder him. And he's going to die in agony. He's going to die in pain. In fact, this is the worst death that you can imagine. He's going to die in a horrible manner. Would you be willing to sacrifice and give us your son so that other people can have this vaccine and be safe from this fatal illness? And I would think about that, but here's one question I would ask. Let's just suppose I asked the doctor, is there any other way for these people to be saved? And the doctor said, Oh yeah, absolutely. There's plenty of ways. In fact, we've got several vaccines out there that are working. But this is just another option for us. You know what I would say to those doctors? Are you crazy? You're asking me to give you my son for you to kill him, humiliate him, and him die in a horrible way, shed his blood to save the lives of people when there are other ways That these people can be saved? You can't have my son if there are other ways. And I want to tell you, one of the biggest insults to Almighty God is for people to say out there, oh, you know, Jesus is one way, but he's not the only way. That's an insult to God Almighty. I want to tell you something, friend. The birth of Jesus proves there is no other way. There's no other way. Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No man comes unto the Father but by me. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. And friend, that's the message of Christmas. And if you can feel good about this time of year and get that Christmas spirit and open your gifts and All of that and feel nice and warm and then the Christmas season leave and you don't do anything about Jesus. You don't think any about anything about the reason he came, friend, you totally missed it. You don't really understand what Christmas is about. That's why I said, like I said, Sunday morning, you can't cancel Christmas. You can't cancel Christ and what He's done. All you can do is decide what you're going to do about Jesus. Will you trust Him as your only means of salvation? Let's bow for prayer together tonight And so, Father, I pray that you'll take these words and use them to penetrate the hearts of people Who need to understand the purpose of the coming of Christ into this world, to be the savior of mankind, the savior of our sins. How we thank you, Father, for your unspeakable, indescribable gift of Christ. That He would love us so, to die for us. To take away our sin debt. Forgive us our sins and give us eternal life. And I pray that if there's someone here tonight that's never prayed and reached out in faith to Christ, I pray that tonight will be the night that they do it I pray that they'll pray with all their heart and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. You came to die for sinners like me. Lord, save me. I receive you into my heart. Save me. And if you're here tonight, and if you'll just say that, he'll save you. Salvation is not difficult, it's simple. It was paid for by Christ. You just need to reach out and trust him in what he did for you. And pray that prayer. Save me, Lord Jesus. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And would you be willing to call upon him right where you are? Just say, save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use them, I pray, for your glory in Jesus' precious name. Amen.