Alright, turn to 1 John chapter 2. We're going to look at verse 12 to 14 today as we're going through this little epistle. And I'm going to just talk today about encouragement for spiritual growth. Well you're finding that years ago a dear Abby Column ran a story about a retired school teacher. And one day this uh teacher had her students take out two sheets of paper and list in names of the other students in the room on the paper. And then she told them to think of the nicest thing they could say about their fellow students and just write it down. And then she took the papers home that weekend. She compiled the list for each student of what the other students had said about him or her and then on Monday she gave each student his or her list and before long all the students in the class were smiling They were looking at what other students had said about them. And one student said, you know, I never knew that people liked me And that another one said, uh, I never knew that uh anyone really cared that much about me. And then years later, this teacher went to the funeral of one of her former students. Who had been killed at Vietnam. And many who had been in that class years before were there at that funeral service. And after the service, the young man's parents approached the teacher and said, We want to show you something. And uh they said that Mark was carrying this when he was killed and the father pulled out of his wallet a list that all the good things that the about Mark that his classmates had put down. That was that list that he had been given so many years ago. And they said as you can see he treasured that. He always kept it with them. And then some of the other students that were in that that class said, you know, I still have my list. It's it's back home in the desk drawer. And another one said, I still have mine. It's right here with me. I keep it in my wallet all the time. And another one said, I have mine too. And at that point the teacher sat Down and she cried. And then she used that assignment for every class she ever had from then on out. And so what's the lesson of this? This story shows how much all of us really need encouragement We need encouragement, and it means a lot. Now, when I think about that, when I read these verses here in 1 John chapter 2. Here, John is going to give us a bit of encouragement. Now keep in mind that John has been giving us several tests for self-evaluation and self-examination. And in doing so, he makes some pretty strong statements. For example, he gives us a test of obedience. How do I know that I'm saved, that my faith is authentic? He gives us the obedience test. Look in chapter 2, verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that says, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. Very strong statement there. John gives us the test of obedience. Any last week we looked at the test of love. How do I know that my faith is authentic? You will love other Christians. And notice what John said in chapter two, verse nine He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of Stumbling in him, but he that hateth his brother is in darkness. Anyone who claims to walk in the light, that is, be saved, John says, and hate his brother is in darkness. Now later on here in chapter 2, verse 15, John is going to give the test of worldliness, where he says, Love not the world and the things that are in the world, and if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now but before he does that, what John is going to do here in verses twelve down to verse fourteen is insert this short section. That really is designed to encourage the people that he's writing to. And I hope it will be an encouragement to you as well. He wants to encourage those who may have been troubled by what he has written so far. Because keep in mind, John's not writing to cause Christians to doubt their salvation. That's not what the whole point of this is. He's writing because it's really the opposite. He wants to strengthen faith He wants to strengthen that assurance to make sure it's a solid assurance. And if you're not careful, when you're given these spiritual tests, you can be negative if you're not careful. You can get to be so introspective that you think that perhaps there's no way for me to have true assurance. And so John realizes that much of this intense soul searching can be disturbing even for true believers. It is possible for Satan to twist words and to dishearten some weaker Saints. And John doesn't want that to happen. And so he uses an encouraging term, a tone here, we could say. And especially with regard to the next test that he's going to give. He writes to encourage them And basically what John is saying is, look at your life and consider what God has done. Look at the grace that God has ministered into your life. As if John is pausing and saying, you know what, I can see God's work of grace in you. I can see spiritual growth in you. In fact, if we look at these verses, verse 12 to 14, you're going to see the word because used several times. This is kind of an explanatory word. It's used in the perfect tense, which I told you before, it's just pres a completed action. that can kit continues to have results. And look at look in verse 12, I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven. I write unto you in verse 13, I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from you. From the beginning. Verse 14, I have written unto you, fathers, because so he uses it over and over again. He wants them to know that what he sees in them is authentic faith. And so this is an encouragement. And this is and John, by the way, John will do this from time to time in the letter. Look in chapter 2 and look down at verse number 19. Notice what it says. They went out from us, but they were not of us. That is, there was a group in the church that were not real in their faith. They they embraced a false doctrine and they went out, and John says they were not of us. But look at verse 20. But you Ye have an unction from the Holy One, and you know all things. Look at verse twenty one. I have not written on you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth So again, John's very encouraging here. Says to his readers, look, I'm writing this not because I think that you're not real, but because I think you know the truth. And no lies of the truth. I see, in other words, John is saying, I can see the grace of God working in your life. I want to encourage you here. One writer says this, John carefully calls us back to contemplate the grace of Christ. That's a good thing to To do. I want you to do that here today. I want you to carefully look at your life and remember the grace of Christ that has brought you to where you are. And let that encourage you. That's what John is saying here. Now, let me just say that these verses here, verses twelve to fourteen, these are in a lot of ways difficult to understand. There's a lot of questions that they raise. For example, why does John use the word write in the present tense and then I have written in the past tense? Why does John use three different expressions? He calls Christians little children, and then he calls them young men, and then he calls them fathers. And so really he makes six statements arranged in uh two sets, three statements each. And another thing that we learn about these verses is the word where it says little children. The word for children, actually, there are two different words that he uses here for little children. And so there's a lot of questions here. But one of the questions that is asked is why does he make three groups here? Why little children and then young men and then why does he call them fathers? Well there are several interpretations about this. And first of all, let me just give them to you. First of all, there's the literal age view. And there are some that say when John refers to these three groups, he's referring to the literal ages of people in the church, little children and young men and fathers. I don't think this is the right view because if that's true, he's leaving a lot of people out. And then there's another view that says this is just three ways of looking at all Christians He's just looking at all Christians in a different way. And then there's another view that says that he's referring to elders and deacons. When he says little children, he's referring to all believers. And yet when he says fathers and young men, he's referring to elders and deacons. That's another view. But then there's another one that says this. He's referring to simply the mature and the immature Little children refers to all believers. Fathers, however, refers to the mature, and young men to the immature. Another view there. And then there's I read one scholar that said this. He's being deliberately ambivalent. There's no way to know really what he means here. Sounds like he was pretty frustrated. When he gave that view. Then there's a I think this is the correct view, however. There's a view that says what John is describing here are three levels of spiritual maturity. Three levels of spiritual growth. These are not literal ages. These are really levels of spiritual maturity. And when he speaks in the masculine He's including everyone. You know, back in this day they would use masculine gender to refer to everyone, like mankind So he's talking about all Christians who are on different levels of spiritual growth and spiritual development. And I think that's exactly what John is referring to. here. And what he's actually doing here is giving us another objective test that we can use to evaluate ourselves to see whether our faith is authentic. And here's the test If your faith is real, you are going to have some manner of spiritual growth in your life. You're going to be on some level of spiritual maturity. You see, wherever there's life, there's growth. Wherever God imparts his salvation, there will be some form of growth that is taking place. in your life. Another way to say this would be like this. Wherever there is justification, there will be sanctification Wherever there is true salvation, you're going to begin to grow. The Spirit of God is going to work in your heart. And what John is saying to these believers here, he is saying I can see different levels of spiritual maturity in your life. I see the grace of God working in your heart. And so when we come to verses like this, what we have to do is we must give ourselves an examination and we have to ask ourselves this question: Am I growing spiritually in my life? Is there some measure of spiritual growth in my Christian walk? I want you to ask yourself that question Is there growth? Am I walking? Now we have to define what is spiritual growth in order to really understand it. And let me just say this parenthetically. I I taught this before on Sunday night when I was talking about the glory of God. If you're pursuing the glory of God, you're going to grow naturally. But let me tell you what spiritual growth Is not. It's not a matter of time. When we talk about spiritual growth, we're not talking necessarily about time because there are some people who have been saved a very short while and they've grown a lot. And there are some people that have been saved a long time And they haven't grown that much. It's not a matter of knowledge only. Now we have to have knowledge, we have to know God's Word, but there's a lot of people that have a lot of knowledge about the Bible, but they haven't grown very much spiritually So it's not a matter of time, it's not a matter of knowledge only, it's not a matter of activity. Some people think, well, if I'm really busy as a Christian, if I'm doing a lot of things, I must be growing spiritually But it's not a matter of activity. Remember the story in the Bible of Mary and Martha? Martha was always busy, but Mary, she was at the feet of Jesus. There are some Christians that are just busy for the sake of being busy, but they spend very little time at the feet of Jesus. And so it's not a matter of activity. Because you're busy. It's not a matter of prosperity. Sometimes a Christian will think, look, I'm prospering. God is just blessing me financially, and the quality of my life is good. But that's not, doesn't mean that you're growing spiritually. The quality of your life and character cannot be determined by your circumstances. There are some Christians that are in difficult circumstances and they're growing incredibly spiritual. It's not a matter of God's love. You know, you don't grow into God loving you more. When you got saved, God loved you perfectly. He cannot love you more, he will not love you less. He loves you perfectly. You don't grow into being loved more by God. It's not a matter of God's love. And it's not a matter of giftedness. You say, well, I have good spiritual gifts. I must be growing. You can exercise a spiritual gift and not be spiritual. The Apostle Paul is writing to the Corinthians. He said said to them, you come behind in no spiritual gift, yet this church that he was writing to was filled with carnality. And they weren't growing very much. So it's not a matter of giftedness. It's not a matter of your position. Because when you were saved, you were placed in Christ. Did you know that when you were saved, the Bible says you are now complete in Christ? You're complete in Him. In the eyes of God, every person here who is saved, you are fully righteous in God's eyes. Do you believe you understand that? Because when God looks at you today, you know what he sees? He sees his son Jesus. He sees the righteousness of Jesus. Because when you were saved, God imputed to you and your account the righteousness of Christ. You say, well then what is spiritual growth? Spiritual growth is bringing our practice up to our position You see, when you got saved and I got saved, God declared us righteous positionally. Now it's bringing our practice up to our position It's understanding everything that God has given us when He saved us. Do you understand that when God saved you, He downloaded you with the riches of His grace? You are complete in him because you have been given the grace of God in your life. And you know what growing is? It's understanding all that we've been given. I like to use this illustration. Years ago, a person gave me a software program to help me study the Bible. Just this incredible program. It was very expensive. It was an expensive gift. And you know what? I I couldn't figure this thing out. I've I've had this program for years and I'm still learning about how to do this thing. I mean I've bought books in the Christian bookstore only to find out I already have that book It's in the software program. And you know what I've been learning how to use it more and more and more. You see, here's the point. When you were safe, God downloaded you with the riches of grace. And growing is understanding everything God gave you. And then learning how to use it Learning that's why it's called growing in what? Grace. You're growing in grace as you learn to use and apply all of the riches That God has given you. That's spiritual growth. And by the way, it's that very grace that God has given us that should motivate us to want to grow. This wonderful grace. We should sing with the hymn writer. Oh, to grace, how great a debtor. Daily I'm constrained to be. I'm a debtor to the Grace of God. And that should motivate me to want to grow. Now, with all that in mind, I just want to touch on, we don't have much time, but I want to touch on just these three levels quickly. I want you to ask yourself, what level am I on? Look at the first one in verse 12. I write unto you, little children. And this is the first level. I want to call this spiritual discovery. Notice where he says little children. He'll use that expression in verse 12. He'll use it again in verse 13. And it just talks about a small child. Uh uh from an infant to seven years old really is what that word refers to. And really it speaks of those who are newly saved. And you know what? They're discovering basic truths in the Christian life Look at verse 12. I'm writing you little children because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. And so this is someone who learns that when you get saved, you have been forgiven of all of your sins. Now we might think that's pretty basic, but you'd be surprised. There are some Christians that still haven't fully grasped the concept that because of the grace of God, all of your sins are forgiven. That's an incredible thing. I had a sweet Christian come up to me one time and say, What happens if I die with unconfessed sin? They were actually afraid that somehow if they died with they had unconfessed sin that they wouldn't get to heaven That's someone who hasn't fully comprehended this one fact that your sins are forgiven. They're forgiven, all of them, every one of them. Incredible. And what's the basis of it in verse 12? Your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. It is on the basis of the perfect finis complete work of Christ on the cross not because of our goodness not because of our merit but because of the work of Christ that's again why we come to the Lord's table we rest Recognize that. We thank God for that. We rejoice in the finished work of Jesus Christ. And so a person like this, they have to come to the point where they understand the forgiveness of God And if you fail to understand the full measure of God's forgiveness, you will struggle with assurance. And you will have doubts. But this is basic. You get this discovery. You get this understanding. And by the way, don't ever re read a verse like this and say, ho hum Don't ever get over the fact that God has forgiven us for his name's sake. This is the greatest blessing. Don't get over that. That's why David said, How blessed is the man whose sins are forgiven. But then also look again in verse number 13. I read un you fathers because you've known him this from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because you've overcome the wicked one. Look at the last phrase. I write unto you, little children, because you have known the Father. Here's another characteristic of spiritual discovery. They get to know the Father. There's this new relationship with the father. You know, I kind of compare it to a little boy who's just, you know, learning who his parents are. And in my case, I have a new grandson who his Paw Paw is. That's me. You know, and they and they begin to discover their mom and dad and know them, and their little face lights up when they see their mom or their father. And they they had this natural trust, this natural love. And then when they get older and go to school, they talk about their father and how wonderful he is. And you know, little children, the Bible says they glory in their father. And so it is spiritually. This is someone who's newly saved. They have this new relationship with God the Father. It's a wonderful relationship. There's joy, there's blessing, where you know that God loves you, you know that God cares for you, and it's just a beautiful thing. And that's kind of the discovery stage. However, there is one negative here, and that is that a person on this level doesn't really have a whole lot of discernment. They need to grow to learn to discern things. And so this brings us to the next level, and that is young men. So little children, I call that spiritual discovery, and then we have young men. This is spiritual discernment. I write unto fathers because you've known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you young men because you've overcome the wicked one. Here's another level of spiritual growth When you learn to do spiritual battle, you learn to discern. And look at 14, verse 14, I write unto you, fathers, because you've known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because you are strong and the word of God above you. So what are characteristic of the person on this level? What are the characteristics? First of all, they are strong. There's a spiritual strength now. They've grown stronger in the Lord. And also, why? Because of their source. The word of God abides in you continually. Understand this is the way you grow spiritually, is the word of God That's why we emphasize the scripture here at Grace. We always have. Pastor Johnson for forty over forty-three years preached the Word of God. We now follow in that same pattern of preaching and teaching to you the word of God because you know what? We believe this is God's word passionately and if you're going to grow strong spiritually, you've got to know God's word. know the scripture. That's what makes you strong. And so John says, you know, you're on this level now. You're strong because God's word abides in you And you've overcome the wicked one. This is someone who realizes they get to the point in their Christian life where they know that there's spiritual warfare out there. You know, you ever see a Christian relatively new in the Lord? They're filled with joy, and then suddenly that joy is gone. You know why what happened? Satan attacked them. Something happened to rob them of that joy. I've counseled young believers like this. What happened? Well, what what is happening is that God is now teaching you another lesson, and you know what it is? Living the Christian life is a warfare. You have a lot of enemies out there. And there's a lot of things that you need to be aware of. And so God will allow you to go through these times. to teach you that you have to get strong, you have to know God's word, because there's a lot of lies out there, there's a lot of false teaching out there, there's a lot of temptation, and you have to develop a spiritual strength where you're able to discern with the word of God. And you're able to overcome, the Bible says the wicked one. That's what he says down here in verse number fourteen. You've overcome. Look at that word overcome there from the Greek word Nike, and it means victory. You've learned to have victory over the devil. You have learned to overcome that this is another stage of spiritual maturity when you can learn to take the Word of God and grow to the point where you can overcome the wilds. And the lies of Satan. Because there's a lot of bad teaching out there, a lot of error. You've got to know the truth. You've got to learn to discern it. You've got to know how to overcome all these things. And when you get to that level, you've reached another level of spiritual maturity in your life. And let me give you the last one here. Little children, they know this is the spiritual discovery stage where they know their sins are forgiven. They're getting to know their relationship. With the Father. Young men, this is spiritual discernment where you learn the Word of God and you become strong and you've learned to have victory over all of your enemies. Here's the third stage. Spiritual fathers, we could say. And they're known for their spiritual depth. Look again at verse 13. I've written to you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning. He uses the same expression in verse 14. Look at again in verse 14. I write unto you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning, same thing. The word know here is the Greek word for know by experience. It's not book knowledge. It's knowing God by experience. This is someone who has known God for a long time. They have walked with God. They have developed a spiritual strength in their life They have fought many battles. They've gone through many trials. They have walked with God through many valleys. They've won many victories. They have carried many crosses. And they have known the Lord. And John says, you know him that is from the beginning. Why does he make that emphasis there? The one who is from the beginning. Because I think characteristic of someone like this is they have taken their eyes off of eternal, or excuse me, earthly perspective. They have an eternal perspective. They look at the eternal things of God. They've developed this eternal look. They think about their life. They know that the world is passing away. There's nothing here in this world that is really all that important compared to eternity. And John's really preparing them for what he's going to say. Look in chapter 2. And look at verse number 17. He said, And the world passes away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abides forever. You see, the older you get, the more you realize how short and uncertain this life really is. And as you grow older, you see more clearly all the things that people strive to attain, the riches, the recognition, the pleasure, whatever, they all fade away in the light of eternal. None of that is important when you think about eternity. What's important is that you know God, that you walk with God. And so they have known him that is from the beginning. So why does John tell us these things? Because he wants to encourage us He wants to encourage you. What level are you on spiritually? And are you striving to grow more? To know God better. That ought to be the desire of every believer that we grow to know God more, that sanctification takes place. in our life. John wants to encourage them. And now remember again, why do they need encouragement? Because they've had people that were part of their assembly that were not true. They left the assembly They looked back and they criticized those who were left behind, and they said they're not true believers. They really don't know what we know. We're the real enlightened ones. And John is saying, No, that's not true. You I write unto you, not because you don't know the truth, but because you know it. I write unto you because uh you have you know that your sins are forgiven. And you know him and you know the Father. I write unto you because you're strong and the Word of God abides in you. I write unto you, Father, is because you've known him, the one who is from the beginning. So he writes to give them this encouragement. In a sense, John is saying, listen, don't listen to them. Remember the grace of God that is working mightily in your own life. I heard about a pastor who once entered into a greasy spoon restaurant and he went there because he wanted to have breakfast And when the waiter came to him, she was kind of groggy and disinterested, and she took his order. And he said this, he said, bring me some ham and eggs and a few kind words So she returned fifteen minutes later and she set the food in front of them and she said there. And then he said, Well, what about the kind words? She looked at him for a moment and she said said, I advise you not to eat those eggs. John is saying to the believers to whom he's writing here, listen The encouraging word from John to these believers is, listen, don't eat everything that they're serving you. Don't listen to them. I'm writing to you because you know the Lord. You're strong. You know that your sins have been forgiven. And I want to encourage you to keep on in the faith. I want this to encourage you. Today, because I look out here, I see so many people that love the Lord Jesus and so many levels of spiritual growth. Let this be an encouragement to you to keep on growing in Christ. Keep on growing. But also ask yourself this question: where am I in this spiritual journey? Let's bow for prayer together today. So Lord, we thank you for again your word. And I do pray, Lord, that this is an encouragement to your people here today. But as we talk about this subject of authentic faith, at times if we're not careful, we couldn't come across a bit negative. Maybe some that may get the idea that is assurance really positive? Lord, I pray that you'll minister their heart and assure them that it is possible. Lord, you want folks to know that they know Jesus. And Lord, I pray that as people today hear these words, that they'll take spiritual inventory in their own heart and remember the grace of Christ that is working in them so richly Richardly, bringing them to new levels of spiritual growth and maturity in their life. That Lord, they would be encouraged to go on for And Lord, if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ as Savior, that Lord, today would be the day of salvation. Salvation. Lord, do what no man can do. I can only preach the truth, Lord, but I can't change a heart. Only you can do that, Lord. I pray, Lord, that you would grant repentance and grant faith to those who need it here today. With heads bowed and eyes closed, is there someone here today that would say that's my prayer? I do want to know Jesus. I'm not sure of my salvation, but I want to know Him today. Would you be willing to pray right where you are? Lord Jesus, save me. Would you say this prayer in your heart? You don't even have to say it out loud. Just say it in your heart Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me. Forgive me. Make me your child. And give me that assurance in my heart, Lord, that I know Knew you. Father, bless again these words to every hearing heart. Use them for your glory. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.