Uh take God's word uh tonight, would you please, and open to the book of Revelation as we continue our study through uh Revelation. We come tonight to chapter nine. And uh We are in this study dealing in the period of time that is called the Great Tribulation. Now, hearing these things that we've heard in the book of Revelation ought to motivate us to do several things. First of all, it ought to motivate Folks, if you're not saved to get saved. When I s hear about the judgment of God, the wrath of God that God will pour out upon this world Uh I uh thank God that I know Jesus as my Savior. I thank God for the grace of God that awakened me to come to Christ. And for anyone who hears these things, they should be motivated to trust Jesus. But secondly, if you are saved, this should make us serious about sharing the gospel with other people, sharing Christ. Like one man said we need to get our heads out of the clouds of prophecy and get our feet on the pavement of soul winning. And that's so true. Now last week we uh we looked at the opening of the seventh seal, and that was in Revelation chapter 8 And you might remember that in chapter 8, verse 1, when the seventh seal was opened, the Bible says there was silence in heaven for about the space of a half an hour. That is, that all of heaven was amazed at the severity of the judgment that would be poured out when this seventh seal was opened. And we also notice that out of this seventh seal, the Bible says came seven angels. They came forth out of the opening of the seventh seal. Which again to me suggests that the judgments that we're seeing here taking place during this time are sequential judgments. They are linear From the seventh seal comes forth these seven trumpets that are called trumpet judgments. Now I've told you before that in Israel trumpets uh had several purposes. They were for the purpose of worshiping when the uh trumpet would sound, uh a lot of people would understand that to be the time uh to worship. I I've been to Israel and was able to go to the Temple Mount and see the southwestern corner of the Temple Mount, and there archaeologists discovered an inscription on a stone uh that was there that basically announced that that was the place where the sounding of the trumpet went forth when it was a a call for people to worship there at the temple. But trumpets were also used not only for to call people into worship, but also they were used for warning or to talk about some special event. For example, when the law was given at Mount Sinai, the Bible says there was the sound of trumpets. But also another purpose of trumpets was they were used for war. Trumpets were used to declare war or to signal a time for an army to go forth into battle. And what I think that we're seeing here in in the uh The book of Revelation with the going forth of these trumpets, these are what I call trumpets of war. I said four of them I see as trumpets of war. The last three we call trumpets of woe. And that's because of what we read in uh Revelation chapter eight, verse thirteen. Look at that verse again. And I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet. of the three angels which are yet to sound. We saw in chapter 8 the sounding of these first four Trumpets and these were judgments that would were be poured out upon basically the earth that would affect the ecology of the earth. and would have a domino effect on the inhabitants of the earth. But now what we see here in these last three trumpets, we're going to see that these will be judgments that will affect people themselves. These will be judgments poured out upon the people themselves. And so what we see in Revelation chapter 9 then are two frightening armies that are going to be let loose. And they will be permitted to judge mankind. Now, throughout our study in Revelation, I've been trying to show you the various approaches to the book. And when we get into some of these interpretive issues, I kind of tell you, well, you know, here's this view and this view. This is just so you can know that and be informed about that. The historicists, when they take this uh a look here at chapter 9, they basically look at Revelation chapter 9 as uh the Western Roman Empire being destroyed during the Gothic period because they had the tendency to look at everything in the book of Revelation as things that have already happened that have taken place over the history of the world. The preterists, when they come to chapter nine, they they say really the word for angel here should be an eagle flying. They claim there's a variant in the text that in some texts it talks about um a an eagle flying and and announcing um what's going to take place. And then they go on to say that the sign of the Roman army is the eagle and so therefore what this is talking about is the attack of the Romans against Jerusalem in 70 A. D. , they have a tendency to read everything and push everything into 70 A. D. And so these three woes then they say are the destruction of Jerusalem. The first will is sedition among the Jews, the second is the besieging of the city itself, the third is the burning of the temple. And the idealist looks at chapter nine. And the idealist says that the angel is symbolic of a warning God is giving to wicked people of all ages, of all time, that if they don't repent, things are going to get worse. That if you don't repent of the judgment God has already given, thus the judgment in the first four trumpets, then what will happen is then things will get worse for you. But the futurist view, which we take here, interprets these events as things that will yet happen. Things in the future in the day of the Lord And the symbols speak of literal events. We know that this is apocalyptic literature here in Revelation. And that means it's written with a lot of symbols, a lot of figurative language. We understand that. But these symbols have literal realities behind them that we have to understand. And so we'll see symbols like a star that falls, we'll see symbol symbols like the locust and the key and the armies and all these things. When the next trumpet sounds, what'll happen here in chapter nine is literally all hell will break loose on earth. Two armies will be released, as I said. That's why I kind of titled this sermon an invasion from hell, because really that's what we're seeing here. in this chapter. And so I want you to notice with me three horrible realities about what will take place here in chapter 9. Number one is what I call the infernal army of hell. Notice what we're going to see is an army of demonic spheres unleashed on earth. Notice the leader. Look in verse 1. And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth. And to him was given the key of the bottomless pit. So John sees in this vision, first of all, a star that falls from heaven. The question is, who is this star? Now there are several factors that lead me to believe that the leader of these hordes that are going to be unleashed is the devil himself. Notice it is the star that falls from heaven. And this star is identified by a personal pronoun, the pronoun him, indicating that this is a real person. And so I believe it's none other than Satan. We can compare other scriptures. In Luke 10, 18, Jesus said, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning. And then in verse 11 it kind of gives us the name of this leader. Drop down to verse 11. And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abadon, but in the Greek tongue his name is Apollyon. In the Hebrew, Abadan is simply means destroyer or destruction. And it means the same thing in Greek, apollyon. It is destruction Again, I think of the devil. Jesus said in John 10:10, the thief cometh not but to kill and to steal and to destroy. Again, he was referring to Satan there. Part of Satan's whole desire is to destroy. And so a key is given to this arch enemy. And again, notice in verse 1, and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit. And so I think this is the key that opens the penitentiary of the place where these demonic spirits are kept. A key here is a uh uh in the book of revelation uh it symbolizes authority so for a time satan will have authority here on earth to do his will um The key is given to Satan. He unlocks the chains of those demonic spirits that are in prison. He opens the door and they are unleashed. And look at verse number two. And he opened the bottomless pit and there arose a smoke out of the pit as the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. There will be a time during this period of judgment on the earth when God will allow Satan to unleash his fury upon the unrepentant, ungodly inhabitants of the earth who have continually hardened their heart against God and refuse to respond to the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ God will accomplish his wrath through the works of Satan. And this is nothing new because God has always used Satan to accomplish his purposes. Now God is going to use him in this period to accomplish his wrath that is being poured out. This is part of the great day of the wrath of the Lord that is poured out upon the world. The bottomless pit here, the word for pit in the Greek is abyss. Luke makes it clear that abyss is the abode of demons in Luke 8, 31. He calls it that and he says they besought him that He would not command them to go out into the abyss. This is when Jesus cast out the demons of the man, and uh they begged him, please don't cast us into the abyss. And so this would be a place of torment, a place where demons reside are kept in prison. And again, to be honest with you, when I think about this, I think about Um the passage that tells us that God has a place where he keeps angels or the fallen spirits who have sinned so Uh high-handedly, so grievously against God, that he put him into a certain place and he's holding them there, the Bible says until the time of judgment. Write down in your margin, 2 Peter 2, 4 For if God spared not the angels that sin, but cast them down to hell, the word for hell they're Tartarus. The only time this is used in the whole New Testament. It's not used anywhere else. It's a special place where God placed demons who sin against God in a terrible way. And the Bible says they are reserved there unto judgment. Now some people say, well, this is referring to the original fall of Satan. You know, well, if you believe that, then you believe that Satan and all his demons are in prison right now. I don't think Satan and his demons are in prison, do you? I I think, you know, they're not in any prison. They're they're on the loose. They're doing their work. So this has to be referring to demons that committed a terrible sin. It was so terrible that God put them in a prison, a prison that to be held there, the Bible says, until the day of judgment. Now what was this sin? We don't have time to get into all this, but I believe this sin took place in Genesis chapter six, where it talks about the sons of God came unto the daughters of men. They left their habitation. Jude also speaks about this. and they committed a terrible immorality, not just normal sin, but equino as an intensification of an immoral sexual sin. And because of that, God put them in a prison And perhaps this is the prison where these demonic spirits will, for a time, be released upon the earth to do all the damage that God will allow them to do during that time. Just think about what would the world be like if all the prisons in the world were open and all the criminals set free. Think about what it would be like If the governments of the world decided just to empty the prisons of all the criminals, think about the havoc that would reap. But friend, you think about what it will be like during this time when God will give the the devil the authority to unleash his hordes, his armies upon this fallen world against all of the unrepentant people. in this world, you can think you can just it doesn't take a lot of imagination to think about all the torment, all the viciousness, all the violent So we see the leader, and then we we see the locust. We see in verse two that again, uh, when he opens the pit, there's smoke out of the pit As the as the smoke of a great furnace and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. Again, Jesus compares hell to a furnace of fire. And when it's open the smoke comes out and out of this are an army of demon like creatures uh compared to locusts Again, look at verse 3. And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth, and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power So again, this is symbolic speaking of a reality. These are not literal locusts, but they're symbolic of an army of beings that will come and they will do great damage, just like In the Middle East, swarms of locusts could do terrible damage. This will be a a swarm of, I believe, demonic spirits that will do horrible, horrible damage to the earth. Um again, um historicists, when they look at this passage, they say the locusts are the uh the the uh Muslim armies. Um the the star they said is Muhammad and the army of locusts are the Arab Muslim armies that tormented the Roman Empire. That's how they look back and they say ah that's what this is all about The preterists again will quote from Josephus and say that this army represents the army of Rome that came against Jerusalem at that time But the idealists and the futurists agree here that the locusts are symbolic of demonic hordes released against unrepentant people here on the earth. Now I'm going to borrow some words from John Phillips to describe this army. First of all, they're infernal in verse number three. They come out from the smoke. They come from out from hell. These demons are just like locusts. Like again in the Middle East, they would sometimes cover the earth in great clouds, swarming billions of them across the face of the earth, actually darkening the skies. But here they're these locusts they're diabolical. They're from hell. They invade earth. But then they're insatiable. Look at verse number four. It was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only those men which have not the seal of God in their forehead In the east, great swarms of locusts were known to come and descend in dense clouds and devour everything that was green. We saw this in uh history many times. In 1951 and 52 in the Middle East, in Iran and Iraq and Jordan and Saudi Arabia, they say every green thing was devoured by uh locusts. They devoured things for hundreds of of thousands of square miles. But here the writer clearly tells us that these locusts will not feed on greenery. Rather they will be after men. That's who they're going to be after. They will have an unquenchable appetite for mankind, not green things, but people. And their whole mission will be to torment People and to bring destruction to people. Now the only ones that they can't hurt during this time, the scripture tells us, are those who have been sealed with the seal of God in their foreheads. And we saw earlier on that there will be some during this time that will have that seal of God, which was the the protection of God. These are True believers, people who know the Lord as their Savior. And we saw the hundred and forty-four thousand with the seal of God and uh and the multitudes there in the tribulation period who are saved have this seal of God. This would be any believer. Any believer has this seal of God. And so this army will not be unleashed to torment believers. It'll be unleashed to torment those who are not believers. Those who have hardened their heart against the gospel. They will be intolerable. Look in verse number 5. And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months. And their torment was as the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man. They say that five months is the average life of a locust. And so, unlike one writer says this, unlike the previous judgments, which apparently were short in time, this judgment extended for five months. And then he goes on to say, this is important as it refutes clearly the notion that all these judgments will occur at a brief span of time immediately before the second coming of Christ. And I think that is an important note. But for five months, these locust-like creatures will hurt, and the Bible compares it like the sting of scorpions. I've never been stung by a scorpion. I hope I never will have that thing happen to me. You know, but I have talked to people who have been stung and they say it's it's not fatal, but it produces a terrible and intense pain A terrible pain on the human body. How bad will the torment and the pain be that these beings bring down upon humanity? Well look down at verse number six. And in those days men shall seek death And shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them. And so this suffering will be so terrible. That there'll be ones who want to die. They'll welcome death. Death will be a release or a relief for them. But the Bible says they'll want to die, but they will not die. But then notice also about these things, they're irresistible. Look at verse 7. And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle And on their head, as it were, were crowns like gold, and their faces were the face of men. First of all, the shapes they were like horses prepared to battle. And I think this Perhaps symbolizes their rapid progress. They're like an army well organized, charging over the ground. They'll stop at nothing. No one will be able to resist them as they go marching through systematically Satan's evil forces will cover the earth with pain. And so they'll march throughout the world at that time looking for victims. They will leave no stone unturned, and people will not be able to overpower them. But also they'll be invincible in verse number seven. The Bible says they'll be wearing a crown. A crown like gold This is the only time in the book of Revelation where the victor's crown, the word Stephanos, is used of anyone other than Christ or the saints It's used here to signify that these beings, Satan's cohorts, will be wearing a crown, which again to me gives the idea that for a time they will be ruling, they will be in control, they will have authority Satan has always wanted a crown. Satan has always wanted control for a time. He'll be given this crown and he'll use it to bring woes to the earth. But then they'll also be intelligent, we see in verse number seven where it says, And their faces were the faces of men. And in Bible typology, a face of a man symbolizes ration rationale, intelligence, wisdom. And so these will be intelligent beings. They'll have a very cunning plan. You know, the Bible tells us that Satan has wisdom, a superhuman wisdom. And so they will have wisdom here. You won't be able to outsmart this army in any way. But then also they'll be insidious. Look at verse number eight. And they had hair as the hair of women. And so this perhaps speaks about the seductive nature. of these demons. Hair like women, but then also again it says in verse number um eight that they will have teeth, uh as it were, their teeth were as the teeth of lions. So they'll be uh attractive, they'll be seductive, they'll be able to use that to deceive people, but yet at the same time, they will also have the bite of a lion. And so um and so we can see how terrible this is going to be. But also they'll be insensitive. Look down in verse number nine. And they had breastplates, as it were, breastplates of iron. And the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle. And so they will have breastplates, the Bible says, as breastplates of iron. And I think that this could very well symbolize the fact that they are hardened in their heart. There's not going to be any mercy, no matter how much people groan in misery and in pain. They will not be moved. They are impervious to any emotion, to showing any mercy to anyone that they will be dealing with. They have breastplates of iron. But also they'll be inescapable in verse number 9. It says, and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle. They will be all about. They'll be flying all over. There will be no one that can escape them. No place to hide during this time. Now, let me just say here that I have read some commentaries that when they look at the descriptions that we just looked at regarding these locusts. Kind of overliteralize, I think, the description, and they are expecting creatures that look exactly like this in that time. I don't think that's the intention of the writer here again. Remember that John is using apocalyptic literature which uses a lot of symbolism in it. But each of these symbols speaks about a reality that's behind it, something that's very real. You know, we saw the symbol of the lamb. John turned and he saw the lamb as it been slain. That doesn't mean that literally Jesus in heaven is a lamb and he looks exactly like a lamb. But the symbol of the Lamb, what does that speak to us about? It speaks to us about the innocence of Christ, of him dying for our sins on the cross, being the Passover Lamb, and so that symbol there stands for a very real um uh uh Christ and uh the the spiritual reality of what Jesus did for us, and I think this is the way that we need to look at this army of locusts. These are symbolic things And they speak about realities of things that will take place during this time that are going to be terrible things that will happen at that time. Now again I've read commentators where they are overly literal on this, and they think that John, what he's doing here is that he's describing modern weapons of war. I've heard people talk about that. That what's happening here is John, God's allowing John to have a vision. He's looking way into the future. And what John sees in this vision is he sees um weapons of war, and he's using the words that he knows in his time to discou to describe these modern weapons of war. Let me give you an example of that. Hal Lindsay, for example, thinks John is describing helicopters here. And he goes on to say this may be just conjecture. But it does give you something to think about. This is how Lindsay talking here. A Cobra helicopter does fit the composite description very well. I've never seen a cobra helicopter. But he says this fits the description. Also, when they they make the sound of many chariots. He says, so possibly the means of torment will be a kind of nerve gas sprayed from its tail. Here. End quote. That's how Lindsay. Now With all due respect, I d I don't think that John here is describing Apache helicopters or cover helicopters. That's just my opinion. I think we need to be careful about forcing our contemporary world into the scripture. I think we need to be careful about that. Um and and our interpretation. Again, this is symbolic apocalyptic literature. But that speaks of a reality. I would just say that. We know that it's going to be bad. It's going to be terrible. These things that are described here talk about true suffering. This demonic army that will be unleashed will bring real suffering to humanity. God will use them to pour out his judgment and wrath upon an unrepentant people. And if that gives you trouble, just remember, you know, remember there's also a real hell, beloved. A hell that will torment souls of people who do not repent of their sins. This is this is bad, but it's not going to be any worse than hell. And so we have a God of wrath who will bring wrath to those who will not repent. But then I want you to see number two here, not only the infernal army of hell, but the invincible angels of war In verses 13 and 14, there's another army that will be unleashed on man. This army will have at its head four evil angels. Look at verse 13. And the sixth angel sound uh sixth angel sounded. So we heard the sound of the fifth trumpet. We see the locusts come forth. Now here's the sound of the sixth trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altars which is before God, saying to the sixth angel was had the trumpet Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates. So here is again the the sounding of the trumpet. There's a voice that the Bible says from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before God. You might remember this golden altar. I think what he's referring to here is the altar of incense. And you remember that incense represents the prayers of God's people. And I believe there will be prayers for God to bring Vengeance and judgment upon all those that have persecuted the people of God. There's a sense in which this voice coming from the uh before the altar there is almost as if God is answering that prayer and again he's pouring out judgment And this voice here says to again Luce, the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates. Why the river Euphrates? Why there? But we're not really sure about that, to be honest with you. The river Euphrates, that area of the world was the cradle of civilization. Um it formed one of the boundaries for the Garden of Eden. It was also uh a boundary for Israel. And the fact that these four angels were bound at the river Euphrates, it's a fast it it is fascinating to think about because Uh there again I've read a lot of different views on this, and I I can't I don't have time to give you all of these different views here. One writer says, since this was the place of Satan's original deception of Adam and Eve It is possible that God has kept the demons in check there as a reminder of the original evil Satan brought to the world. Another writer says this. Another possibility is regarding the River Euphrates, is its connection with Babylon, and the symbolism is Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots, and the abominations of the earth. According to that view, in Revelation 18. 2, Babylon becomes the habitation of demons and a prison of every foul spirit, a cage for every unclean and hateful bird. So maybe that's the reason. But they come from Euphrates, but then notice the period of these angels. It says here that the four angels were loose. which were prepared for an hour and a day and a month and a year. Now watch this, for to slay the third part of men. Now the leak The the locus, excuse me, could bring torment and suffering, but people would not die from that. Here, when this army is unleashed, And these four angels are loosed. It will be for the purpose of war and to kill. It will be death And the Bible says they'll have a period of time here to bring this. A year, a month, a day, and an hour. That comes out to 9,505 hours. That will be the time limit that they have. And notice the power of these angels. We see this in verse 16. And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand, and I heard the number of them. And so they will have an army together, a great army that will be two hundred million strong It's possible that this number is not literal but suggests just a great army that cannot be numbered. So here's this huge army Now again, there's debate as to whether this army is an army of demons or is this an army of men. Uh and so there's the modern army view. You know, some Bible teachers teach that this is John is describing here In the his ancient vocabulary, the modern weapons of war. Again, I'll quote David Hawking, who writes on this. He said the heads of the horses were like heads of lions. Here symbolic language describes the nature and purpose of such an army ready to devour like a hungry lion. Verse 19 says, their tails were like serpents having heads. It is possible John is describing military machines. This seems likely when we read it in verse Seventeen, that out of their mouths comes fire, smoke, and brimstone, and they're going to kill one third of mankind So he thinks these is talking about weapons of war. There's another view that this is again a demonic army. John is simply describing here a demonic army. We're not to uh to see this as a literal army Um the emphasis is not on the riders, but uh uh but on the horses. The description cannot fit war horses as we know them. And for that matter, modern warfare equipment like tanks, like some people want to use to put there. But either way, the message is this. This army is going to have destructive power. They're going to have destructive power, and they are designed to kill. And according to verse 18, again, look at that. By by these three was the third part of men killed by fire. by smoke, by the brimstone which issued out of their mouths. One third of the population will be killed Now we've already seen earlier in earlier passages of Revelation where many die. One quarter of the population has already been killed. From some of the plagues that have come upon the earth. And if we're to understand these judgments as being sequential, here is another one-third of the population of the earth. And so we're seeing a uh an incredible reduction of the earth's population in this time due to God's judgment. And so this is going to be again a terrible time. Let me give you the last thing here. We saw the infernal army of hell. We saw the invincible angels of war. But here's the third thing, the incredible arrogance of man. The incredible arrogance of man. Now you would think that after all of this. . . Again, there would be repentance. There would be people running to God. But instead what you see is there's no repentance. Look at verse number 20. And the rest of men which were not killed by these plagues, that's key there. What are these? These are plagues. These are plagues. That's a key thing to see there. And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands. That they should not worship devils and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and of wood, which neither can see nor hear, nor walk. So, what we see here is their unrepentant heart. They do not repent, even after all of this judgment. You would think it would strike fear into the heart of people and that they would run to God. But they don't. They don't repent of the works of their hands. That's ascribing idolatry. The idols that they make of their own hands. We, you know We live in a world where people make their own idols, and you don't have to use just use your hands. A lot of people use their mind. The idea here is idolatry They still committed idolatry and the worship of devils is mentioned there in verse number 20. They participated in demon worship. They refused to give up The worship of the devil and their idols. And so they're unrepentant, but they're also they're unrepentant of their sins. Look at verse 21. Neither repented they of their murders. nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornications, nor of their thefts. We see their unrepentant heart, their unrepentant iniquity. And here are four sins listed that will dominate the world at that time. And really, when you look at it, it dominates our world even today. We're living in a world where murder is rampant. We're seeing more killing. There's not a week that goes by that I'll talk to someone who either calls me or they're they talk to me when they're walking out of church and talk about a friend that they know that was killed, that was murdered. It just seems like violence is skyrocketing. But here during this time, the killing will be even worse. But again, we live in a day where that's happened. In our world today, in our country today, we've legalized murder. It's called abortion. Legalized murder. And judgment be far behind when we've done that. But also sorceries. It says they didn't repent of their sorceries. This is the Greek word pharmakaiah, which means the use of drugs. Drugs and pagan religious rites and demon worship in that day were often tied together. And again, we look at our world today, we see drug abuse and drug use on the rise. But then also fornication. And this is a general word which speaks of all types of sexual sin Um you just name it. It's included in this general world word. We're living in a world today that's again has exploded in this kind of sexual immorality and iniquity. And then finally Stealing, thief, thievery, nor are there thefts. Again, we do we not see this today in our world? I've I don't know about you, but I've watched videos that people have sent to me where they seen just people walking into a store, taking out a backpack and filling up whatever they want, and then just walking out the door. It just seems to be happening all over now. And they just it's unrepentant, it's very hard in their heart. They don't feel any need to uh you know pay for anything And this whole spirit is something that we see, and it's not hard to imagine that even during the tribulation period there will be people that will be doing all these things and they don't repent of any of these things. And this is why God's wrath is going to be poured out upon the world. This is why God is angry. And he's angry at sin. And he will judge every sin. So I don't know about you, but to think about these judgments poured out, it just brings fear into my heart It really does. This chapter reminds us of what Satan wants to do to people. He wants to make people suffer. He wants to lie to people. He wants to murder and kill. He wants People's lives to be a hell on earth, that's what he wants. It's literally what he desires. He's like a caged lion But one day God will allow the lion to be released from his cage for a time, and he'll be able to do all of this havoc upon the earth. But it will be a judgment that God allows to an unrepentant world. And again, the best way to avoid any of this is to know Jesus as your Savior. Just make sure that you're saved, beloved. Make sure you know Christ. Make sure you have the seal of God. This is the 2 Timothy 2. 19, and we'll be done Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his. That's the seal right there. The seal of God is that you know God, you know Jesus, and God knows everyone that is hit that are his. There's the seal. And let everyone that nameth the name of Christ. Depart from iniquity. That is the life of a true child of God. A true child of God seeks to live a practical righteousness. And they have the seal of God on their life. Friend, if you know Jesus, you don't have to worry about God's wrath. That's the best way to avoid all of this. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, as we just look at this sobering chapter tonight I pray, Lord, that we will be warned. And that we will see in all these things that, Lord, you are a holy God who hates sin. Who has promised to judge sin and sinners who are unrepentant. And there's a fearful judgment awaiting those who harden their heart and turn against the gospel and turn against Christ. And so, Lord, may this be a warning for all who hear that they which should turn to the Lord before it's too late, that they should put their faith in Christ. And Lord, may these things also stir our hearts as believers. To get out and share the gospel with everyone. The only hope that this world has is the message of the gospel. And Lord, we have it. You've given it, you've entrusted it to us. So Lord, help us to be faithful stewards of it. Help us to be busy about the master's business, sharing the gospel with everyone that we have the opportunity to speak to. So bless these words so our hearts tonight, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen