Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to Romans chapter 16. We have been in this study of Romans for a long time, and we're bringing it to a close now. Because we come up to a part of this letter where Paul is basically saying his greetings to the believers that are there in the church. Now, this is a fascinating chapter in the New Testament for several reasons. And there's a lot of different ways that you can approach this passage. But what stands out to me is, I think, an inside look that it gives to us. of the early church and the people that are in the early church and what kind of people they were. Now we know that the church is not the building. It's not mortar and bricks and steel. That's not what the church is. The truth of the matter is we have a beautiful building here, but if something happened to this building, uh we're still the church. Because the church is not the building. The church is the people, the believers that make up the church. Not too long ago I uh received uh word of the one of the first church that I pastored in uh Louisiana, Hope Baptist Church Um a tornado just tore through uh central Louisiana and just literally tore that church apart. In fact they had a Christian school going and and uh they got the kids out of the Christian school building, got them into the sanctuary building. And thankfully because the uh education building where the where the students met was absolutely flattened. It was devastated. And they got under the pews in the sanctuary and uh the tornado literally lifted the roof up off of that sanctuary, but thankfully uh nobody was hurt in that building And so that church was demolished. I I when I saw pictures of it, my heart kinda sunk because I helped uh remodel that church. How dare that tornado tear apart But you know what the truth of the matter is? That the church is not a building. The church is the people of God. And this reminds us of this here in this uh this list that Paul gives us He's going to give us a list of names of people that make up the church that he was writing to the church at Rome. Now this is a long list of names, it kind of And when you come to a section like this in Romans chapter 16 with this long list of names It's good for us that we keep in mind that the Bible says that all scripture was given by inspiration of God. Sometimes we might be tempted to ask the question, Lord, why is this in the Bible? Why just a list of names like this, excuse me, that are in the scripture? And we have to be reminded that this is there's a reason for this. God doesn't put these names in here just to fill up space. There are some things that we can learn because the Bible says all scripture is given for our training in righteousness so that we can be equipped. And so evidently there are some things that God wants us to learn just by looking over these names that Paul will go over here. in this passage, their spiritual benefit and food for us as believers. Now, in this section here in Romans chapter 16, Paul isn't uh teaching here. Rather, all he's doing is he's just greeting his friends. He's sending his greetings from some who are with him in the church at Corinth when he wrote to Rome. But again, these are words that were inspired by the Holy Spirit of God. And these are things that God wants us to look at. And so we're going to do that tonight. Now the church, one thing, great lesson, one big idea that we learn from this whole chapter is the church is made up of ordinary people It is made up of diverse people who know the Lord, who are growing in him. We're growing together to serve him and to love one another. That's really the big message that I get out of Romans chapter 16. So with that in mind, I want you just to see three Uh important lessons we learn about the church from this list here. The church, first of all, is a place of dedicated soldiers. And when I say soldiers, I'm using the analogy we are soldiers for the Lord Jesus Christ. And we see an example in the very first two verses here of Romans 16 of two dedicated soldiers. Look in verse 1. I commend unto you Phoebe, our sister which is a servant of the church, which is at Sincrea, that ye receive her in the Lord as becometh saints, that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you For she hath been a succorer, or that is someone who comes along and helps of many and of myself. also. Now there are two people that I want to point out in the very beginning. One of course is Paul the Apostle. Look in verse 1 where he says, I commend. And one of the things that stands out to me as I look at this chapter is the heart of the Apostle Paul. He has a true pastor's heart, and I think he has a model for me, people like me and other servants of the Lord to follow. And um now there's this idea out there that those who are interested in ideas, those who are interested in theology, those who immerse themselves in books. Those kind of people are not relational. They're not relational people. But Paul really dispels this notion here. I think that the biblical motto of a pastor, and I'm preaching to myself now, will you let me do that? Say yeah, man, you can hammer yourself here. I I think that the model, in my opinion, and my humble and yet most accurate opinion I think the model of a pastor is a theologian slash shepherd. I think that those two things are the biblical model. And I and I say that because I think that today if you look out across the horizon of the church in America, it it seems like that the the the office of a pastor is kind of being redefined Some treat it like it's a CEO, you know, a head of a corporation. Some uh treat it like uh the pastor is like a president or uh even reigns like a king or or even is some kind of a celebrity. And I don't see any of those paradigms in the Bible at all. I don't see any of that matching scripture. I think Paul refutes all of these ideas. One of the things that we see about the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans is that first and foremost, he was a theologian. And that word theologian is not a dirty word. A lot of times when people think about a theologian, when you talk about theology, you even mention the word people's eyes start getting heavy and they start nodding off. But may I tell you that the most exciting thing to study in the world is God? To know more of God, to know the nature of God And I think that Paul was, above all, I think he was a great theologian. When I read of Paul, when I read the theology, and and many of you have been with me through this whole journey as we study through the book of Romans I am just amazed at the incredible theologian Paul was as we studied through the book of Romans. We started out with sin. In the first three chapters, and then in chapter four and five, it talks about salvation, that beautiful justification that we have in Christ. And then in chapters 6 and 7, and chapter 8, he deals with the whole issue of sanctification. Now that we are saved, how that we say no to sin and yes to Christ and how we mortify sin and crucify the flesh. And then when you get into chapters 9, 10, and 11, we talk about sovereignty and the incredible plan of God. that he has for his people. And then when you get to chapter twelve through fifteen that we've looked at, he talks about the service of the believer, the surrender and service of a Christian. Because of the mercies of God, how we are to present our body, a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto the Lord. And I look at this and I see here a tremendous theologian And I see a depth of theology here in this book. And sometimes people say, man, that book of Romans, it is so deep with theology, I don't know if I can get it. Well just remember this, that the book of Romans was not written to academic theologians. It was written to people in the church. That's what we see. You know who the book of Romans was written to? The list of names that we see here in chapter 16, who were ordinary people like you and I. Who wanted to learn and know about the gospel and Paul uh taught it to him in a very masterful way. You know what that tells me about us? That if you are a believer, you know the Lord Jesus Christ and you have the Holy Spirit, you can know the deep things of God. God. You can learn the deep things of God. Sometimes this comforts me when I see that Paul is a theologian because sometimes people will say to me, You're too deep. Now I haven't had anybody here in this church say that. But I mean the last church that I pastored, I had people come by and say, Well, you're just too deep for me. Well, let me just say, beloved, I'm never trying to be deep. I'm never trying to impress you with my knowledge, even though I'm sure I do. I'm just kidding. I I don't try to do that. Friend, I I'm not trying to be deep, I'm just trying to be clear. You know why? Because this is God's word and you're his people, and when you make the word clear, the Lord of the church, the Lord Jesus Christ, speaks to his people. And I want you to hear from the Lord. Not me. I'm a nobody. I'm just a voice, but I try to make God's word clear. And you know what? You have the Holy Spirit so you can know the deep things of God That's why he's given you the Spirit, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, that we might know the deep things of God. And so we see here And by the way, I know I can do better at communication. I know sometimes I can be tedious, and I can do better at times, but regardless of that, you have the Holy Spirit That will teach you the deep things of God. The church has to have solid theology. And so we see here in Romans, Paul the theologian. But we also see in Romans here Paul the Shepherd. Because here in this chapter, what we see in chapter 16 is we see the relational side of Paul. He wasn't just some ivory tower theologian Who hammered out the doctrines of the gospel and didn't have any association with people, far from it. He was a man who was very relational. He had a heart for people And chapter 16 bears this because this chapter includes the names of people in the church at Rome. And if you take time to read through this, what you'll find is that there are 33 names in all. Listed here in chapter 16. 33 names. Now think about that. And he's the one naming them Paul's saying, Greek so-and-so, and Greek so-and-so, and he's going down the list, and there's thirty-three names in all. Twenty-four of those names are people that are at the church of Rome. Nine of those names are people that are at the church at Corinth, and keep this in mind, Paul knew all these people personally. He had an impact in their lives Now, what is the significance of this for us? Why does God include these details in Scripture? Well, it shows us that true servants of Christ do not live lives of isolation. They are involved in the lives of others. They are people who are willing to invest themselves in other people, in the lives of others. And I want to ask you a question tonight. Is that true of you? If you are a Christian, you are a follower of Christ, part of what God wants you to do is not live a life of isolation where it's just you. But he wants you to be relational and he wants you to invest in others. He wants you to invest in the lives of others This is what Paul told Timothy in 2 Timothy 2. He said, the things that you've learned of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to do what? To teach others also. Timothy, whatever I taught you, whatever I have invested in you, I want you to invest that into others so that they in turn can invest it into others God has called us not to live lives of isolation but to invest in others so that they in turn can invest And I think all of us, if we were honest here tonight, can look over our lives and realize that we're here at this point in our Christian life because there was someone who invested in you someone who discipled you. Now I think that there are three relationships that I would encourage every believer to have. in your Christian wall. Number one, I think that uh you ought to have an uh an apostle Paul in your life. It's someone that you can look up to. Someone that is farther along in the Christian life that you can learn from. that can mentor you and and and help you. And I granted some people like this are hard to find, but they're around. And if you look hard enough you can find someone and say, you know what, I'm impressed by their life. I see the way they live. They're real. And I can learn from them, and you need to get to know them and let them invest in you. You need to have an apostle Paul, you need to have someone that's willing to invest in your life. I'm so grateful for the the people that have invested in my life, the Apostle Paul's that taught me. And of course, when I mention this, I can't help but think about Pastor Johnson. God bless his memory. And how he was willing to invest in so many young men that are out there preaching the gospel today That they are in turn are investing in the lives of others. You ought to have an Apostle Paul. You ought to have someone that you can look up to. But then you ought to have a Timothy. You say, what's that? That's someone younger or someone that you find worthy of investment, someone that you yourself can invest in Look around for someone that could use what you have in the Christian life and disciple them. Do you have a Timothy? Do you have someone? That you are teaching and discipling, and then you ought to have a Barnabas. You say, what's that? That's someone who is your peer. That's someone who can encourage you. You know, Barnabas, the actual name means encourager. This is someone that is that you can be accountable to, that you can pray with, that you can bring burdens to and trust them whenever whatever information you impart unto them about the life that you are having or the struggles that you may be having. This is someone that you can trust with that information that will encourage you, that will pray for you, that is a peer. I think we ought to have these three relationships in our life And that's what I see in this passage here. I see people that Paul has invested in, that in turn are investing in others, that are peers, that are encouraging one another. So we see Paul the apostle, but then there's another person that we see here in chapter sixteen. Look at verse one. He says, I commend unto you Phoebe, our sister, which is a servant of the church, which is at Sincrea We see here what I call Phoebe the servant. Now Paul starts out commending to the church at Rome a faithful servant of Christ who is a woman. And notice this word commend, the commendation we see here, is the idea of introducing or affirming. Paul is giving a recommendation to the church regarding this woman. Did you know letters of commendation were well known in the ancient world? They were used to affirm a person's authenticity. Because in the early church, there were missionaries that were out traveling around, and uh they would carry with them letters of commendation. A letter of recommendation. And it was from someone that was well known, someone that was noteworthy, because back in the early church, you have to remember they didn't have uh, you know, they didn't have motels that were dependable, that were safe. And a lot of times the traveling missionaries and preacher were dependent upon the hospitality of other Christians. But one thing that you didn't want to do if you were living in the early church, you didn't want to entertain a false teacher You didn't want to entertain someone who didn't really teach the true word of God. There were a lot of hucksters out there. There were a lot of people traveling in their early church. That pretended to be true preachers and missionaries of the church that they were not. They were actually false teachers. There's a document in the early church called the Didacti, which basically had in it a rule that said If a missionary or a preacher stays longer than three days, they're a false prophet. Get rid of them. I have that hanging in our missionary home down in the I'm just kidding. You stay longer than three days, you're a false prophet, so get out. Just kidding. But that was part of the problem that they had back then. And so to make sure that the person who was traveling was authentic, a genuine believer, they would have a letter of recommendation from someone that was noteworthy. And this is what Paul's doing here in Romans, because the the actual letter of Romans that he is going to deliver to the church is going to come by the hand of a woman, Phoebe. She herself will deliver this letter to the church And along with this letter of theology that Paul gives, there is here in chapter 16 a word of recommendation from the Apostle Paul about the character of this woman. And Paul basically says that she is someone that you can trust. She is a true servant, a servant of the church. She has labored and served in the church at St. Cree, which was not very far away from the church at Corinth where Paul ministered. And he was basically commending her to the church at Rome. Now we're not exactly sure what business that she had in Rome. She wanted to go there. Perhaps there was something Some service that she wanted to do, and she needed to be received by the believers there in the church. And so Paul writes this letter, and Paul says, receive her. Look what he says down in verse number. 2. That ye receive her in the Lord as become as saints, that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you. For she has been a succorer, or that again, that word there means a helper of many. And Paul says, of myself as well. So here he gives her this recommendation. And notice that he uses four endearing titles about this woman. He calls her our sister, simply that she was a devoted member of the family of God. She was a true believer, a sister, Paul says, and then he calls her a servant. In verse number one, a sister, a servant. And by the way, the word for servant here is the Greek word diikonos And it's where we get the word deacon. And so some, as a result of this, some argue that this was an office or a title. And so thus there are many There's a debate out there, and I don't want to get into all of the debate with you here tonight, but there's a debate in New Testament scholarship that this woman, Phoebe, she was a actual deacon, and so there are some therefore that argue that There is nothing wrong with women deacons in the church and they use this as an example to argue their point The word here is a word that actually where we get the word deacon from. However, it's used many times in the New Testament to simply talk about serving or being a servant. And the Greek word here is actually neuter, which is often used in this way to talk about household servants Who did menial tasks? It was used of servants who drew the water that Jesus turned into wine. Paul used this term earlier in the letter to refer to secular government as ministers of God. Now, the noun form of the word that's used, dikonas, that form, many times it is referring to the office of the church, but it's not used in that way here. But that's a debate for another time. The point that Paul is using or that Paul is giving us here is that this was a woman who served faithfully. And she was a succorer, and again the word just means someone who cares for, who comes to the aid of others. She was an effective servant in the church. Perhaps probably a single woman. You would have to assume that if she's willing to travel from Corinth and make the long, dangerous journey to the city of Rome. She was either a single woman willing to make this journey and be gone for months, or she was a married woman that had a very understanding husband. And if she had children, he was incredibly understanding and was willing to allow her to make this journey. So I believe that uh that she was a single woman. She was a true servant of the Lord. She was willing to take on this task of traveling this long distance to Rome to give to the church. This important document. Think about this. This book of Romans was entrusted to her to take this long journey and delivered safely into the hands of the leaders at Rome. And along with this was this letter of commendation where Paul says, she is a true servant. She is a sister in the Lord. And he says, I want you to receive her The word for receive here is actually a technical word. Decomai is a word to receive, but it has the Greek prefix on it, paradecomai, really receiver in. Don't just receive her superficially, but really open up your arms of love and receive this woman because she is a real true servant of the church she demands and deserves your respect and your reception. So here is a faithful, faithful servant. of the church. You know what I think about this when I read this, where would the church be today without the faithful sacrificial service of godly women? Where would we be? I think about our own church here at Grace, how we have so many godly, faithful women who serve in the church and are such a help. I mean if you take these women out of this ministry here, uh guys, you you guys are pretty sorry. You're not going to be able to No, I'm just kidding. We're sunk We're sunk without the service of faithful godly women. And and Phoebe here, she certainly represents the faithfulness of godly women servants who are willing to take upon themselves huge endeavors, huge tasks to serve the Lord. And this is what the church is made up of. The church is made up of people like her. And if the church doesn't have people like her, then we're not going to be able to be all that God wants us to be, and all that God has called us to be So Paul says to this church here, receive her in the Lord, as look at verse 2, as become as saints, just like God's people should. And notice what he says, and that ye assist her. Paul requested that the Roman church help her in whatever matter that she needed in the business, he says, that she has need of. The word for business pragma, where we get the word pragmatic. And it refers to anything that needs to be carried out, any transactions that needs to happen. And again, we don't really know the details of that, but we do know that she was someone Who had a heart to serve the Lord, and perhaps her business was simply to help further along the gospel in whatever way that she could in the church And I say this, friend, the church, where would we be without dedicated soldiers of Christ who are willing to take upon themselves big tasks? for the Lord. But here's the second thing. The church is a place of dedicated soldiers, but I want you to write down number two. The church is a place of diverse saints. And we see this in verse 3, on down to verse 16. The next 13 verses mentions a diverse list of names. And beloved, we don't have time to go over all of these names, each one individually. If you ever want an interesting study, just go through these names and just find out what you can learn. about some of these people. There are some very interesting things that I think that you'll find about these people. But what I want to say about these names in general is that if you look at it closely, what you'll see is this is an eclectic list Some of the names on this list are Jewish people. Some of the names on this list are Gentile people. Some of the names on this list are slave names. There are slaves, I believe, as we'll show you. Some are freemen. Some are ordinary citizens. Some on this list of names were people of status, people that had position in the upper echelons of the Roman government and society. And what you have here is you have all these people from diverse backgrounds, diverse nationalities, diverse positions in society. And yet all of these people make up the church at Rome. You know what that tells me about the church? That the gospel of Jesus Christ is able to cross over all kinds of barriers, doesn't it? It crosses over racial barriers, it crosses over social barriers, it crosses over uh national barriers, all those barriers are erased. When a person comes to the Lord Jesus Christ, there's total equality, total unity in the church. And what you find at the church at Rome is you have Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians and they're living together in love and they're living together in unity. You have to remember this was a day in which the world was divided racially We think that racial division is bad in our day, and indeed it is. We would love to just remove it all. But Fred, if you think it was bad in our day, I think it was even worse in Paul's day. The racial divide between Jew and Gentile. Arkand Hughes wrote this. He said: language, national animosities, and differences in religion and culture had divided the world of that day into hostile camps that could only be held together by the sword. Interesting. That's how he held them together. He was saying that the only unity that came in the world was forced by the government. At the edge of the sword. You better get along, or you'll have the sword at your throat. But that was really only a superficial unity. And I wanna want to tell you, friend, I I think that to some extent the same can be said today. Today the government is trying to force all kind of racial unity and and through legislation and through programs and through laws. And I'm not saying those things are wrong. I'm just saying that it's all very superficial. Because I believe that the only thing that can bring true unity and love and tear down all the barriers that separate man, I believe, is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The answer is in the gospel of Christ. Under the preaching of Paul and others, all of those walls that separated people in that day, they were all ripped down. They were all pulled down. And what you find in the church at Rome was poor men worshiping with rich people. You found slaves worshiping with free men you found Jews worshiping with Gentiles and they were genuinely loving one another. It didn't mean the church was not without its own share of conflicts and problems that will be in every place, but overall It was a place where there was love, there was unity. And that's what the gospel does. That's what the church is about. The church is a place that should be a place of diversity Where all of us are come together, we're all one in Christ. There's total oneness and equality in Christ, and all the barriers that characterize those who don't know Christ are all ripped away. And there's total oneness and unity. And that's what we see here when you read these names, at least that's what I see And we see affection, genuine affection. Look what Paul says in chapter 16, verse 16. He says, salute one another with a holy kiss. Now some of you teenagers, that doesn't mean that you can go and kiss after church tonight. That was just a common affection affectionate greeting back then. It was part of the culture. Normally a kiss on the cheek A hug and all of that. This was genuine affection, genuine love. And that's what we see here. With this this list, Paul genuinely loves all of these people. Some of them he has met, some of them he's only heard about and maybe corresponded with, but he loved them all. He loved them in Christ 25 individuals he names here, 17 men, 7 women that are on this list. And some of them are couples, for example, again, we don't have time to go over all these specifically But look what he writes in verse number three. Greet, Priscilla, and Aquila, those are names that we recognize, right? This was a husband and wife team. They were an important part of Paul's life. They were driven out of Rome by the Edict of Claudius in A. D. 49, so they met Paul in Corinth and they stayed and worked with him there during the tent making. And they were the ones that discipled a young man by the name of Apollos, who was mighty in the scriptures, but he very eloquent that he but he needed a more of an understanding of the gospel, and it was Priscilla and Aquila that did that, that pulled him aside, and they began to invest in the life of Apollos, and he became even a greater instrument in the hand of God as a result of this godly couple that was willing to invest in the in the life of this man. And again, that's the kind of people that we need in the church. People that are willing to invest. Epina Natus, excuse me. This was Paul's first convert, he says, and um in verse number five. who is, he says, the first fruits of Achaea unto Christ. How many of you are still in contact with your first convert? Paul was here. And then he mentions a lady by the name of Mary. We don't know much about her, but Paul says who bestowed much labor on us, the word for labor, capeo, meaning work toil to the point of exhaustion. And then in verse 7, he salutes another couple. He couple he calls this couple Andronicus and Junea. This was a he calls his kinsmen. They were special to Paul. for several reasons. Perhaps they were part of the family in some way, but also they were fellow prisoners, Paul said. And there was a they did time in prison together, no doubt, because of the gospel and their faith And they had a special bond for the Apostle Paul. And then there were others as we go down this list. But what we see is a list of names of people who were. Diverse people who were servants, who served the Lord with all their heart. They were people that love one another in the church. Let me go on to the third point. We only have just a few minutes left. I'd love to go over some of these names. There's one name that I do want to point out to you. Look in verse 13, where it says, salute Rufus. chosen in the Lord and his mother and mine. The reason I point this name out, who was Rufus? Well Mark 1521 identifies Simon of Serene as the father of Alexander and Rufus. Now couple this with the fact that Mark wrote his gospel to Rome, and we conclude that Rufus was the son of Simon of Cyrene. Now who was he? He was the man, if you remember, in the Gospel of Mark, who carried the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. This was the son of the man who carried the cross of Christ in all likelihood. Very interesting name there. And again, we don't have time to go over all these names, but let me just give you the third point. A church is a place of dedicated soldiers. The church is a place of diverse saints. The church is a place of diligent servants. And in verse 21 down to verse 24, again, Paul will list some names. He'll list uh the names of a group I call the the fully surrendered. Verse 21. Timotheus, my fellow worker, and Lucius and Jason and Sosopater, my kinsman, salute you. And then he mentions uh tur Tortias, which uh he says who wrote this epistle salute you. Now who is this? This in all likelihood was a slave. That was a slave name. And when Paul was writing this book of Romans He was evidently dictating this letter, and it was the hand of this one servant, Tertius. And uh that actually wrote it down. Now the reason I say that this is a the name of a a servant or a slave is because in Rome Prominent household servants would have the names of numbers. Similarly, there was Primus, that's number one. There was Secundus, that's two. There was Tertius, that was three. There was Quartus, that's four. Quintus is five, and so on. And you see in verse 23 another man by the name of Quartus, which was the number four. And so Tertius was simply the name for Number three. He was evidently a slave and a prominent Roman household. And what he's saying is, I wrote this epistle, and I salute you. Now I'm trying to figure out how this happened. Paul's kind of dictating. Maybe he stops to take a breath and he kind of writes that in there real quick. I want to say a hi real quick here, everybody at the church at Rome. He was just a servant. But notice where he says, I salute you in the Lord here. And I think in the Lord, really it reads like this: I Tertius, who wrote this epistle in the Lord. Greece you that's the little rendering of it. When he's saying basically, even though I'm just a slave, I had this privilege. Of writing this with my hand, this letter that Paul wrote. He was a man who was just willing to do the most seemingly menial thing. Because he was just a dedicated, devoted servant of the Lord. And again, this is what we need. People like this in the church Willing to just do the menial things. In verse 23, Gaius, mine host, and the whole church salute you. In all likelihood, this was a rich man. It was his house where the church met at Corinth. He was one of Paul's first converts at Corinth. Remember, he's writing from Corinth, and Paul says, by the way, Gaius, salute you. And he says, who is mine host? So Paul was staying with him and of the whole church. In other words, he's hosting the whole church. He was a rich man that probably had a big house. And the church, you have to remember back in the early church, they they met wherever they could, and a lot of times they were meeting in households. And Gaius, who was one of Paul's first converts, in all likelihood, opened up his doors, and that's where the church met in his house there. And so he says he salutes you. And also in verse 23, and I'll close with this, Erastus, the chamberlain of the city, salutes you, and Cortus, a brother. Did you know that This name Erastus, where he says he's the chamberlain of the city, which means he was a city treasurer. That is, he was a man of high prominence. uh had a political office. He was no doubt a friend of Gaius here. He's also mentioned in 2 Timothy 4. 20 as having stayed in Corinth. So in 2 Timothy 4. 20, Erastus remained at Corinth, Paul says. Did you know that archaeologists uncovered an inscription? from Rome, from Corinth, rather, that bears his name. It was next to a first century sidewalk. And it literally what they read was Erastus In return for his uh leadership, laid this pavement at his own expense. So there's an inscription, and by the way, I've seen that, it's in the British Museum. It was discovered written in Greek, and it gives this very name of this man that Paul mentions here. This is just another evidence that the Bible is true. The name that very name is given there. It was a high city official. And again, we don't have time to go over a lot, but there are other names in here of prominent people. And you know what that tells me? That the gospel that Paul was preaching It was reaching into the upper echelons of the Roman government. And they were Paul was leading people to the Lord that were people of prominence. And so this is what the church is made up of: dedicated soldiers, diverse saints, diligent servants. Now, as you go over this list, what about you? Where are you in all this? Can you relate to anyone on this list? Have you been busy serving the Lord? Are you willing to make sacrifices? Are you willing to give Are you willing to risk? Are you willing to devote your life to the Lord Jesus Christ? And I hope that as we look over this list, that it will encourage us, it will inspire us to be all that God calls us to be. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow together for prayer. And so, Father We are so thankful that we have your word that guides us, that teaches us. instructs us on how to live and and even in the most detailed places in Scripture and perhaps passages that some would not relegate to being that important We find words of instruction and encouragement for us as we look over these names of people, people who love you, people of God, people who love one another. People who are faithful to you in a very difficult place, I pray, Lord, that all of us will find encouragement to be faithful as well, to serve you with all of our heart. At the beginning of a brand new year. Father, I pray that this will be a year That we see more take place, more happen, more service, more worship, more love, more spreading of the gospel. More sacrificial deeds and acts of love. We'll see more of this than we've seen in the previous year. That Lord you would bless us. We know, Lord, that as a church, we need your blessing to be all that you called us to be, but we also need to take responsibility. To do what you've called us to do. And Lord, help us to do that. Help me to do that. And may we be faithful, dedicated soldiers. Diligent servants, diverse saints loving one another. Lord, grant that to us, that we might have your blessing. And Lord, we pray all this for your honor and your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen