Look in Jeremiah chapter 35, and uh I want to talk tonight about an object lesson in obedience. Have you ever heard of the term brand loyalty? Yeah, that's where uh you know you use a brand because that was what your parents use. You know, for example you hear somebody say, Well I my grandfather My father drove a Ford and my father drove a Ford and now I'm gonna drive a Ford for the rest of my life. family. Uh I think I broke my father's heart when I bought a Chrysler. I really do. And uh and now I've really gone to the dark side because I drive a Nissan now. So um so we you know we we we do this. Our you know, how many of you use a certain product because your parents used it? Anyone here still do that? Yeah. That's brand loyalty. All the way From tractors to toothpaste, from purses to perfume, from shoes to shaving cream, we just use the products that our parents used because and that's called brand loyalty. Christians, we want to instill into our children a spiritual brand loyalty, we could say. I want my children to read the same Bible that I read I want them to love my Jesus, the same Jesus that we worship and love. I want my children to be loyal and love him. I want my children to hold the same set of convictions And I want to be able to pass those things on down to my children. Whether we realize it or not, we are influenced Influencing our children, we're leaving a legacy behind. And that's really what Jeremiah chapter 35 is about. Uh this is a chapter that perhaps you haven't never heard this read. It's somewhat or preached on, I should say Chapter 35 happened during the close of Jehoiakim's reign. You remember that he was the king who cut the Bible up and threw it into the fire. But what God wanted to do here is he wanted to give an object lesson to the nation of Judah just before judgment was going to come. He wanted to give them something for them to remember. And he's going to use a family. He's going to use a family called the Rachabites to teach a very, very important lesson that the nation of Judah need to learn and frankly we need to learn. So I'm going to talk about three things tonight. I want to talk about the test of the Rakabites and then the tradition of the Rakabites. And then finally the testimony of the Rakabites. First of all, let's talk about the test. Notice God's instruction to them in verse number one. The word which came unto Jeremiah Now God commands Jeremiah to go to the house of the Rachabites to invite them to the house of God, the temple, and aside. Chamber that is there. This uh then he told Jeremiah, I want you to offer them some wine to drink when they go into this room. Now this is a very curious thing for him to do. Why would God want Jeremiah Jeremiah to do this. Now in reading and studying for this, I've read some where some have argued that you know this is morally wrong for Jeremiah to do this. Uh it's like God tempting these people which of course is absurd because we know that God does not tempt people. How do we know that? Well because the Bible says in James chapter 1, let no man And say when I'm tempted, I'm tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. In order for anyone to tempt someone else, there has to be something evil about your own Nature, and there's nothing evil about God. God is absolutely completely holy. Therefore, it's impossible for God to tempt anyone because God always has holy intentions. and everything that he does. Besides, who is any man to judge God? Who is any man to speak against God? Man is not the judge of God. It's like Paul said in Romans 9 20, Who art thou, O man, that replies against God God, who do you think you are to judge the Lord? God doesn't do a thing because it is right and just. A thing is right and just because God does it. He is the standard of what And so what God's doing here is he's using a family to make a point. We could say it's the exact same thing that happened with Jesus. Remember the Bible says Jesus was led of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted. And why did God do that? To show, to demonstrate to the world that Jesus Christ is in the Impeccable, he cannot sin. It's just like the railroad company that built a bridge over a chasm and then they put three big engines out there on the bridge and someone came along and said, What are you trying to do? Break that bridge? And they said, no, we're trying to demonstrate that it cannot be broken. And even so it was with the Lord Jesus. God was demonstrating the infallibility, the impeccability of the Lord Jesus Christ Christ. And now here in this story, God has a equal purpose. He wants to put on display a character, virtue that is worthy of putting on display. So he's going to use his family Now, who are they? Well, we don't really know that too much about them, other than the Bible says they are the children or the descendants of a man by the name of Jonah Jonadab. And we don't really know much about Jonadab. The Bible does mention him in scripture. He's mentioned in 2 Kings chapter 10. He was riding in the chariot with Jehu. You might remember When God was purging Baal worship from the land, he was using King Jehu to do it. Right next to him in the chariot was a man by the name of Jonadab. He was equally zealous And so these uh he was uh Jonadab, he was the son of Rachob, and so thus they're the Rachabites. Now They were also related to the Kenites, who were descendants from Moses' father-in-law. And so they were a non-Israelite people. These are not Jewish people. These are Gentile people. Nonetheless They joined Israel in uh the promised land very early in their history. They were uh has been associated with the Israelites. They always maintain a very good relationship With Israel, yet they maintained their own tribal distinction all the while they had a relationship with Israel. And they were nomads. They just dwelt in the wilderness. in the south called the Negev. That he was going to absolutely separate from uh any cities, the city of Jerusalem or anywhere else, because he was separating from a lot of the sin that was uh there in the So we could call him a separatist. He wasn't really a Puritan. You know, the Puritans in church history, they were the ones that wanted to stay in the Church of England and purify the church of some of the religious rituals. The Separatists said no it's not worth it. We're getting out and we're gonna worship God the way we want to. Well we could say that these were kind of ancient separatists that were uh doing what they felt was right. One one scholar says the Rachabites were reactionaries. They were the countercultural movement of the Davidic Kingdom. William Barclay said this. Community was founded in protest against the corrupting influence of Canaanite life and religion. You remember that was one of God's concerns when the Jewish people went into the promised land that they would not be corrupted by the Canaanite culture around them. To be Canaanized, we could say. And so Jonadab saw that happening And he rebelled against that. And so uh he therefore, Jonadab, made some hard fast, steadfast rules for he and his family So we see Jeremiah's instruction, or God's instruction. Notice Jeremiah's invitation. Look in verse number 3. That I took Jahazaniah, the son of Jeremiah. This is a different Jeremiah, of course, the son of Habazaniah and his brethren, all his sons, and the whole house of the Rachabites, and I brought them into the house of the Lord, in the chamber of the sons Sons of Hanan, son of Ig Igdaliah, a man of God, which was by the chamber of the princess, which was above the chamber of Maessiah, the son of Shala Of the the keeper of the door, and I set before the sons of the house of the Rachabites pots full of wine and cups, and I said unto them, drink ye wine. And so notice he does exactly what the Lord says. Jeremiah brings them into the temple, the house of the Lord. And notice it says the whole house. This wasn't just Just a few in the family. This was a this was a grand family reunion. They were all there according to verse three, the whole house, the whole clan, the husbands and the wives and the children. Children and the grandchildren and the aunts and the uncles and the cousins. They were all there, all the living descendants. They were having, you could say, a family reunion there in the temple. This was probably a uh a high moment for them to all get together at the temple of the Lord. And notice the place they were they they went into a room alongside the temple. You see there were chambers that were built alongside of the temple And they invited him to a certain room, and they also included in there Ja Azaniah one of the in one of the side rooms of the temple. Again, these were rooms that surrounded the temple temple and sometimes they were used for storage. Don't you notice any house of God has places for storage. Did you know that? You know things where you say just throw it in there for a little while. You know. Testament temple we had that. And there was a place for meetings sometimes, and even priests would live sometimes in these places. And they went to a particular room that belonged to uh the son of Ig Igdala excuse me Igdala I should say and we don't really know much about him except that the Bible calls him a man of God and normally that That's a term for a prophet. But the room occupied a prominent position. It was next to the room of the officials, over the room of Mahessiah, the son of Shalom, the Doorkeeper. The doorkeepers had a big position there in the temple. And so this was evidently a high position because those holding it were singled out by the Babylonians for judgment So just kind of picture in your mind, here's this room, and here is some high officials that are in that room. There's a prophet there we know of, one, A. Deliah And then there's also Jeremiah. And then there are priests and uh and and other officials from the temple, and they're all gathered together. And you also have there in that room all of the Living descendants of Jonadab, the Rachobite family. So this had to be a pretty good sized room. There's a lot of people there in this company in this room. Now again, remember, all of this was supposed to be an object lesson. God wanted to teach them something very, very important. So we see here the presentation So Jeremiah sets bowls full of wine with cups before them, and he says to them, Drink ye wine. Now this is a command. This isn't a request This is uh the uh Hebrew imperative, the call imperative in Hebrew. Um and so to refuse this hospitality would be rude on their part. It would be considered rude according to the laws of hospitality back then. This would even be considered an insult. So you can imagine that this command coming from a respected prophet like Jeremiah I'm sure they respected him. Giving this command put some pressure on this family to drink this wine. And so this was a test here for them Let me just say there may be times in your life when God will allow a test to come upon you or come upon your family. And perhaps the purpose for this is none other than to use your testimony, your character, your uh virtue as an example to others who may look at it, who may see it. You are before uh as far as God is concerned, a demonstration of a great virtue that needs to be seen by others. And so in order to put that on display, God will put you into some kind of a test. And this is exactly What happens here? So we see the test of the Rakobites, but I want you to see, number two, the tradition of the Rakobites. The question is, how do they respond? Well Well the Bible tells us we're about to learn about their fidelity and character. Look down in verse number six. But they said, We will drink no wine for Jonah The son of Rachob, our father, commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine, neither ye nor your sons, forever. Notice that. They just flashed Now this was a very firm decision. They didn't say, uh, can you give us a minute, Jeremiah? Okay, family, let's have a huddle here. Let's talk about this You know, what are we gonna do? You know, this really puts us in a dilemma. Uh they didn't really talk about it. Uh I'm sure they were concerned about being thought of this route and sociable but really it wasn't that big a concern uh to where they they hesitated because they don't they don't hesitate at all. You see when you live by principle and you live by stand And you live by biblical conviction. Really, these are decisions that are already made. You don't have to keep making these decisions. Because when you determine that you're going to live By certain principles, by certain values, by certain standards, uh those decisions are already made. When Sunday comes, we don't get up and say, Well, I'm gonna see where should I go to church today. That decision's already made. You say, well yeah you're the pastor. You have to live that way. But I got news here I wasn't always a pastor. And you know e And there should be many things in the Christian life that are like that. The decision has already been made. There are certain things I'm not going to do, and there are certain things that I just will do faithfully, because this is what God requires of me And so for them, uh they didn't worry about being called rude or socially unacceptable. They had already made this decision. It was made a long time ago. This was a firm decision But also this was a family decision because notice where it says we will drink no wine. Not I, but we. Center among a bunch. They all stood together. They all made the same refusal. This was not a divided family, but a family united around a set of core beliefs and principles. Principles. Philip Riken said this together they cited their family catechism. I like that. They all cited their family catechism. So we see their response, but notice the reason They give it in verse number six. He says, For our father commanded us, Jonadab the son of Rachab, our father, commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine, neither ye Ye nor your sons forever. And so what was the reason they firmly refused? Because their father had given them a command and he told Taught them how he wanted them to live. He taught them to abstain from wine. Now why did Jonadab teach them this? This was during a time when Jonadab lived. It was a time of unprecedented apostasy in the nation of Israel. He lived in a time when Ahab and Jezebel were on the throne. Uh he was one of those seventh During the time of Elijah that did not bow his knee to Baal. He was faithful to the Lord during the days of Baal. And you remember that that point in Israelite history that the Israelites had basically replaced the worship of Yahweh with the worship of Baal. There was wholesale apostasy going on in the land. They were worshiping the a pagan god and part of the pagan worship was drinking wine. That was such a big part of the pagan religious worship. It was so common in the Near Eastern uh pagan religion to protect his family, he wanted to guard his family. And one of the things he said was since wine and the drinking of wine can pervert your uh judgment and since this is such a part of The Canaanite worship, I'm telling you as your father, drink no wine. Have no part of this. Don't be a part of this ungodly culture. He gave them another command along with that. Look at verse seven neither shall ye build house, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any, but all your days ye shall dwell in tents He didn't want them to build in the city where there was the possibility of being corrupt. Opposite of Lot. Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom. He wanted the city life. Jonadab pitched his tent away from the city. He wanted and taught his family to live uh on On their own. He was repulsed. He was disillusioned by the corruption that was in Israel. And in verse 7, the Hebrew negative expresses kind of a permanent prohibition They weren't to not do these things just for a s a short period of time. They were to never do these things. Never drink wine, never uh live in house Houses and plant vineyards and uh sow seed and do any of these things. And he taught them that if you'll do this, you will be blessed. At the end of verse seven, notice it I think this is a repetition of Exodus twenty twelve where it says if you honor your father and mother, that you may Your days will be long upon the land which the Lord your God gives you. In other words, if you obey your father, if you honor your father, if you honor what he says, God will honor you and you'll And he was basically saying, Honor my commandments and God will bless you. And the Bible says that over and over, right? Proverbs 1 8 My son, hear the insurance And if there's any young people in here, uh under your parents, uh God expects that of you. And I want to tell you that your parents Parents aren't half as dumb as you think they are. They're actually very intelligent people. They've actually been around a little bit longer than you have in this in this world, and they do know a few things. Proverbs 14 And hear, O my son, and receive my sayings in the years of thy life shall be many. And so that's the reason they give. This is what our Father told us. And he said That we have obeyed our father. Um, and look at verse ten, but we have we have dwelt in tents and have obeyed and done according to all that Jonah They just basically say, Look, we have been committed to keeping our father's commands. We've lived this way all this all this time. And you know, I would say that you know Jonadab did a pretty good job of instilling these values into his children because it's remarkable when you think about it, they're living this way, this life Many years later. Now remember, Jonadab lived in the days of Ahab and uh Jezebel and Elijah, and here we are in the period of Jeremiah Jeremiah now. You say, how many years had passed since Jonadab gave that command? Two hundred and fifty years. Two hundred and fifty years had passed. You know, to kind of put that in our day, that would be like, you know, my grandfather nine generations back giving me uh the the family a command I'm still living by it, you know. Because my father told me to live in a tent. Really your father told you that? Well actually he was my grandfather. Really your grandfather Well, actually, he was my great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather, nine generations back. He lived in 1758 You would look at me and you would say, You are crazy. You're living by some principles that a guy gave in 1758, but that's the way they lived. And in fact, to live in tents and live as no as nomads in the land of Israel, that had been out of fashion since Joshua crossed the Jordan River. And they began to take possession of houses. And so uh you can just imagine that people in Israel when this group of people came into the city of Jerusalem were kind of glaring at them the way you glare at the Amish when you go to Lancaster. That's the way these people were being glared at by the Israelites when they came into Jerusalem. Now you would think that this would be pretty hard for on a young man if he was going to find a wife before he proposed. He would say, you know, I just need to tell you, you know Before you say yes, I just want you to know you'll never have a house, you'll always live in a tent. We'll never have a garden, we'll never have vineyards. Uh this made it a little bit challenging for But that's the way that they lived. And Barclay writes this in Jeremiah's eyes, their attitude shone like a beam of sanity in a corrupt society What caused them to stand out? They were totally committed to continuing their father's legacy. They were totally committed to obeying their father's command And in fact they explain why they're even in Jerusalem there. You say, well if they hated the city of Jerusalem and they didn't want to be why were they there? Look in verse eleven. It says, But we ca it came to pass When Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up into the land, that we said, Come and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians, so we dwell at Jerusalem. They were really just taking refuge behind the walls of Jerusalem in the city for just a time because Nebuchadnezzar and his army was out there prowling around And they were causing great destruction there in the land. And so here they are, they they come into the city, and again I can just imagine them when they walk through this gates, people in the city pointing at them and laughing at them and saying, who is this group of people? Um H. J. Arnside wrote this. They were live they were a living sermon. They were a living sermon On subjection to the law, for any who would take and recognize them, for anyone that really understood them and recognized them, he said they were a walking sermon. They were a living sermon of obeying. And so we see the test of the Rakhabites. We see the tradition of the Rakabites. But I want you to see the third thing. You to see the testimony of the Rachabites. Now, all this happens. They turn Jeremiah down flat. I can imagine there might be a little awkward silence there in the room for a minute. And so the word comes to Jeremiah. Look in verse number twelve. While Jeremiah was there in that side room of the t Temple. Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem Jerusalem, will ye not receive instruction to hearken to my words, saith the Lord? And so you you get the idea here then, right? God says that Jeremiah Jeremiah, I want you to go out to all the men of Judah, and I want you to tell them, ask them this, will you not obey my words Here is this family of the Rachabites, and they have been obeying the word of their father for all these years, and this hasn't been an easy command for them or an easy thing. And yet here they are being completely loyal to these commands, doing what their father tells them, and yet the people of Judah aren't listening to me You're not obeying me. Look in verse number 14. That the words of Jonadab, the son of Rachel, that he commanded his sons not to drink wine are performed for unto this day They drink none, but obey their father's command, notwithstanding I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking, but ye have not hearkened unto me. I have sent also unto you all my servants, the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from his evil way And ye shall dwell in the land which I have given you to your fathers, but ye have not hearkened your ear Or excuse me, inclined your ear nor hearken unto me. Here God was saying here are these people obeying a command that was given to them all these years ago. Yet you're not obeying me, and I speak to you early in the morning. Now there's a contrast that is very obvious here and where where God says they Obeyed their father who spoke to them once. But I'm speaking to you constantly every day. Rising early, and that expression rising early is a Hebrew idiom It just means again and again. Again and again I speak to you again and again. I give you my commands, I give you my words day by day. I send prophets, I give you messages, and day Day by day you will not listen to me. What an indictment against the people of Judah. What a rebuke this was to them the people of Judah. And by the way, the problem is not unique to Israel. There are people all over this world who just will not obey the voice of the Lord. They will not hear his word Again, H. Arnside said, uh has not this awful indictment a solemn message for Christians? How widespread is this same willful spirit even among those who are bought with a price, even the precious blood of Christ. And so again, there's a contrast. The word of the Jonadap Was spoken once. God speaks continually to Judah. The word of Jonadab was given long ago. The word of God is given to them daily. Again, this is a rebuke. And this should be any of us here who may be disobeying any of what God says. God wants obedience from us. And because of this, because of their continual stubbornness God uses this family as a object lesson and a rebuke to the nation, and then God promises to punish. Look down in verse 9 Number uh sixteen or seventeen rather we could say. Therefore thus says the Lord, God of the hosts, the God of Israel, behold I will bring upon Judah and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them because I have spoken unto them, but they have not heard, and I have called unto them, but they have not answered. I have spoken, but they have not heard. I have called, but they have not answered. The second line deepens the offense. And they say nothing just walk by you and look at you? That's kind of rude, don't you think? And here this, you know, you say, well if it happens once, perhaps they didn't hear me, you know They probably, you know, were thinking about something, so I'll give them a pass. But if every day you say to that same person, Hi, how are you doing? Great to see you, and they walk by you, stone faced And that happens day after day after day. Well now that is not uh a you know something that they are just it's not a mistake. They Are purposefully closing their ears. And this is what's going on. God says, look, you have constantly ignored me. You have not been listening to me And so because of this, God says, I'm going to punish Judah. Now later on, the judgment that falls upon this nation is very severe. So much so that some people might scratch Their head and say, Why? Why? Why is this so severe? And God says, This is why. Because I have called unto them, but they have not answered. The problem is they didn't hear me because It's not that they couldn't hear me calling because I did it every day. The problem is they just have ignored me. They haven't listened to me. And so there's a rebuke for Judah But I want you to see a reward for Jonadab. God promises a reward in verse eighteen. And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rachabites, thus saith the Lord God of hosts. Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, because ye have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts and done according to all that he had commanded you. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel Israel Jonadab the son of Rachob shall not want a man to stand before me forever. So as a result of the faithfulness and obedience of this family, God says, I'm going to bless you. And really, what he's doing is he's actually blessing Jonadab. Now he's dead, yet God still bestows a blessing on his family. Um some of God's blessings transcend our earthly life. They go far beyond our earthly existence and they continue long after we are gone. What a legacy. And God says To this family, and this is a an incredible blessing. There shall not lack one of them to stand before me. What does that mean to stand before me? Again, this is a Hebrew idiom. It's used over 100 times in the old Testament and it's used to speak about a special calling. Sometimes it's used to speak about a prophet or a priest or a king, because when you think about it, each of them Stand before God in some way. Ministering there in the holy place where there is the altar of incense, there's the brazen altar, there is uh even the ark of the covenant, there's the candle uh seven golden candlesticks and table While they're there in that tabernacle, they are standing literally before the Lord. And so God says, what it really means is God says, I'm gonna bless your family In that there will always be someone in your family that will be used, that will stand before me because of your faithfulness, because of your obedience. Now it's interesting to note that in Nehemiah chapter three, verse fourteen, a hundred and fifty years later we find one of the You know what he's doing? He's faithfully serving the Lord. He's being used there in the book of Nehemiah. He's an inter integral part of what's going on, building, rebuilding the wall of Nehemiah. There's one of the descendants of the Rachabites, and they're faithfully serving the Lord and being honored because this is the blessing of God. And so let me just in closing We just got about five minutes. Let me give you just some practical lessons uh for all of us in this story. And here's number one, and these aren't really, you know, uh it's not rocket science, it's very simple number one always honor your father always honor your father you say well my dad you know I'm on my own now my dad is is old that doesn't matter. In fact, the older the more honor you should bestow. Um it's never too uh late to honor your parents. If you haven't been doing that you need How? Still taking his advice seriously. Uh they were uh honoring his his memory, his legacy by what they were doing. Number two, remember that God honors people who honors Their father. God will honor you when you do that. I don't know of a single Christian that was used greatly by God who did not honor their father And God says, if you honor your parents, you honor those, I will honor you. Here's a third lesson we learned from this. Set godly standards for your family. Set godly standards. Um, as we look at the life of Jonadab, we have to admit, I look at his life, I'll tell you, he's a bit overzealous. I mean I get that Yet he did some good things here. He made some good and wise decisions. And and and evidently he did it in a way where his family remembered that Um you know God never really wanted his people to retreat into the wilderness. That was never really, I think, what the Lord wanted. And God doesn't want you to sell your home and live in a tent, are you? The Lord is not necessarily commending a nomadic lifestyle here, but I'll tell you what he does want. He wants his people to be He wants his people to be godly and to show the world that there's something different about us, not odd, but holy, set upon the earth. And if you're gonna live like that, if you're gonna do that, you're gonna have to have some standards that you live by. And that's not legalism, friend, that's just simply spiritual discipline. And that's seeking Here's a fourth thing. Teach your children to hate sin. Teach your family and your children to hate sin. That's one major lesson I learned from this. And again, evidently he instilled This into this family. The Bible says this in Psalm 97, verse 10: Ye that love the Lord hate evil. If you love the Lord, you're going to hate evil. Psalm 34:14, depart from From evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. So teach them to hate evil. Here's a fifth thing. Teach your children to look at this world as a pilgrim. Words to have a pilgrim mindset. I think that's one thing that he taught his family. You know what? This isn't your home here. You have another place that's going to be your home. You know what? That's true of the Christian. Christian, this world here, this is not our home, folks. Don't get too comfortable here. Our real home is in heaven. That's what the Apostle Paul told the Philippians. Our citizenship is in heaven, and we're looking for the Savior. And so while we live in this world, we have to realize we're making this journey through this world, but we're pilgrims And now a pilgrim, you know something about a pilgrim, he has his affection set on his real home. Now he lives in another place, but his affections are set on his home. Our affection Our affection should be set on eternal things. Our affection should be in the kingdom of God. That should be our loyalty there. That is our home. You know. There may be a time in our own family lives when the Lord will test us to see where our real affections lie. Do we really have eternal affections? I read this uh this week and it's a true story. A couple lived in suburban Washington, D. C. and one day they approached their pastor and they were asking their pastor to help them with their college student uh who was uh their daughter and uh she was feeling the call to be a missionary and so they came to their pastor and said can you help us with this and the pastor said oh that's wonderful that your daughter feels the call to be a missionary and they said oh no you you you don't understand us we want you to help us talk her out of ruining her life That was their response. That's a failed test right there. No, we're to teach our children to put the kingdom of God first, to have an eternal perspective But here's the last thing. Remember God expects obedience. And this is really the overall message. This was the reason for the object lesson to already Of the nation of Judah, God expects our obedience. How obedient are you to God? And let me just say the telltale sign of truth Truly being a Christian, it's not hard. It's one word, obedience. Are you obedient to the Lord Jesus Christ? If you're not living in obedience Life, then friend, I I you know, you really have no biblical assurance because listen to what the Bible says, and hereby we do know that we know him. This is how you know that you know that you're a Christian. If we keep his commandments. If there's a desire and a pattern of life where you're seeking to To obey the Lord. And Jesus made this very, very clear. In fact, look at his whole earthly life. Every second of his earthly life was completely committed To obedience to the Father. Someone calculated it like this. I thought this was very interesting. He said, you know, Jesus lived approximately 33 and a half years, and he calculated that in Seconds. You want to know the seconds? It's one billion fifty seven million one hundred and fifty seven thousand and twenty one seconds I want you to be able to reproduce that next week when I ask you, all right? That number there, that's a lot. And then he went on to write this. In every second of the average human being's brain, there there is one billion neurons all firing about two hundred times per second, giving a capacity of twenty million billion Firings per second. And then he went on to say, you add that to the seconds that Jesus lived, and his whole point was this: every neuron of Jesus brain was completely obedient to the Father. Every part. And and so his whole point was his whole life Was one of obedience. And may that be said of us that we every second of our life is lived in obedience To the will of God, in obedience to the commands of our Father, of our Savior, because this is what God expects of all of us. And that's why God gives this object lesson. And when we're not obedient, we must realize that we we will face the consequences. If we're not living a life of obedience, God will punish us. Just like listen, if God did not hesitate Hesitate to punish the apple of his eye, Israel, when they disobeyed. Do you think God would hesitate to punish us? And really we have to s we have to really broaden this. This is really not Personal in this passage, it's really national. Think of it that way. This nation didn't obey God. And if God punished Israel because they didn't obey Do you think God would hesitate to punish America if America doesn't obey? And then, of course, we also can make it personal. What about you? What about me? Let's bow for prayer together And so, Lord, as we come before you, we see this story, this narrative that teaches us so much. Lord, may we have that fidelity to your commands, that loyalty to your words, the words that you speak to us, not just one time But morning by morning, rising up early, continually, Lord, you speak to us through your word, through preaching. Through the words perhaps of others that you might use, through your Holy Spirit, through the presence of your peace, through the absence of your peace, through providential means, Lord, day by day You speak to us. Lord, may we listen. May we be obedient to your words. May we have the heart of this family mentioned here. Where, Lord, we're loyal. We're completely Committed to obeying your words. And in doing so, Lord, may we see your blessing on our lives. And we pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.