I want to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 1, if you will, please. Romans chapter 1. And uh again a familiar verse of scripture, Romans 1. Where it talks about in verse 20, for the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. so that they are without excuse. Now, as you know that here in our Sunday school hour, we've been going over the topic of apologetics. And we know that apologetics is learning to defend our faith. It's from the Greek word apologia, which speaks of a defense. And we get this word that's used in the Bible in the and the classic passage that deals with apologetics is in 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 15, where it says, be ready always to give an answer. And the word answer is a defense. uh for our Christian faith. And so uh we need to do that. God calls all of us to be apologists It's like I said before, all of us are theologians, you're either a good one or a bad one. All of us have a belief system about God. The question is, does it harmonize with the Scripture We can say the same thing about being an apologist. All of us are apologists because God has called all of us to be apologists. You're either a good one or you are a bad one. And so the goal of this class Notice I call it a class. This is kind of treating you all like my seminary class here. And um, you know, uh by the way, there's gonna be a final next week. And uh The goal of this class, the goal of this study is to make you all good apologists. Because we're living in a world where we need to give an answer, don't you agree? We're living in a world that is very hostile to the gospel. Society and culture is leveling attacks against the scripture and against the very idea of there being a God. And so we're going to learn to defend the faith. And this is an ongoing thing. We continually learn the Scripture and learn to argue for the truth claims that we have and to uh know that the Scripture teaches. Now As I've taught you before, there are four basic approaches to apologetics, and what we've been looking at is the classical approach to proving the idea that God exists. Because as we had told you before, then a classical apologist believes that defending the Christian faith begins with two major pillars. One pillar is the existence of God. that you must be able to prove that God exists. And the second pillar that a classical apologist believes that you have to be able to prove is the is that the Bible is the Word of God. Those are the two major pillars. And again you might be surprised and say, well how come we don't uh say that the major pillar is you know God exists and that Jesus is the Son of God Well, because if we can prove that God exists, that would be number one, then we prove that the Bible is the Word of God. It's no use proving that the Bible is God's Word if someone doesn't believe God exists, right? So we go from the beginning to prove that God exists, and then number two, that the Bible is the Word of God, because if we can prove the Bible is God's Word after we've proven that God exists. Then all the rest of it is just simple hermeneutics. We just simply interpret what the scripture says and we can give answers from there on out. And so these are the two major pillars. uh that a classical apologist will say you have to prove these two things. And so what we have been doing here is we've been giving the arguments that a classical apologist will use for that first major pillar Which is how do we know God exists? What are the arguments that they use with reference to this one issue on the existence of God? And so if you were with us last time, you remember that we said basically we started off with a cosmological argument. Uh we basically said there are four possible options for reality, that reality is an illusion. We kind of crossed that off the list. That's You know, reality is not an illusion. Reality is self-created. You know, you can't create yourself. You know, you can't not exist and exist at the same time. All right, that's impossible. So we we looked at that and we looked at reality as being self-existence and basically we looked at all these and we crossed all these off the list and we got to the argument that reality was created by something that is self-existent. And this is what is called the cosmological argument And the cosmological argument says everything that begins to exist has a cause. The universe began to exist, therefore the universe has a And we know that the universe began to exist because science helps us to prove that the universe had a beginning. And you remember we looked at several scientific, we just kind of give a summary of uh look at some of these scientific facts, the lost thermodynamics. The expanding universe suggests that there was a beginning, uh uh radiation echo, uh galaxy seeds, uh Einstein's theory of relativity, all of this suggests to us that uh The universe began to exist, and so therefore the option of a creator is the best explanation for all of reality, as we talk about. And so really that is the best uh option. And so that is, again, the cosmological argument. And then from there, so we we we everything that begins to exist has a cause. And from there we we looked at another argument that's used by classical apologists, the teleological argument, which basically says behind every complex design is a designer. The universe has a complex design, therefore the universe has a designer. And uh we looked at that and we we know that we're able to determine whether something has a is caused by natural um processes or where there there's intelligent b design behind something. We know that the wind and the rain can't cause, you know, Mount Rushmore Or water and erosion can't cause an arrowhead to be made like that that has that incredible design to it Or just these cave drawings. We know that these lines were not formed by natural means. And so we instinctively recognize marks of intelligence. We understand that. We we see that. And so this again is the is the uh argument of design. Since the universe shows an intricate an intricate design, there must therefore be a designer. And if we look at the argument given by Thomas Aquinas. that every agent acts for an N, even natural agents, he says. Now what acts for an N manifests intelligence. By natural agents by na natural agents have no intelligence of their own, excuse me, but natural agents have no intelligence of their own. Therefore they are directed to to their end by some uh intelligence and and basically all he's saying here is that you know just to give an illustration if you see an arrow uh sticking into a bullseye you know that the arrow in itself had no intelligence to get there on its own right There had to be someone who directed that arrow to that bullseye. So there was an there was a intelligence behind that Arrow getting there. That is the difference between natural and intelligent agents. There was an intelligent agent that directed that arrow. If you see a robotic assembly line, you know, even though there's no human present that that robotic assembly line just didn't appear by natural causes. Well, one day there was an explosion and there was all these robots and they began to make cars. We know that that is just not reasonable. All right So the intelligence is there, it's just one step removed, even though you don't see any human being that made the robot. You know it had to be made. And using that same argument We would have to look at the universe that God created and say that the universe expresses an incredible, intelligent design. Remember that the word uh uh teleological is from the Greek word telios, which means design And again, it just this is why we use the word because again, it helps us to explain that behind every complex design is a designer. But and so we considered the question, does the universe and life exhibit design? Even atheists will admit that the universe exhibits design design. They they they still won't give God credit for it though. They'll say yes, but yeah, it shows overwhelming design, but they still don't want to admit that there's a designer behind it because that would force them to have to admit that there is a God. And then DNA research provides, according to Anthony Flew, new and enormously powerful argument to design. Uh the code discoverer of DNA says biologists must consistently keep in mind that what they see was not designed but rather evolved. They have to keep reminding themselves about that, because all the evidence in front of them tells them opposite. You know, and we say that this is a real example of Romans 1 suppressing the truth or pushing back the truth. They don't want to acknowledge that there is a God, so they're holding the truth away. They have to constantly remind themselves that this evolved. You know, because the evidence is staring them in the face as Philip Johnson, the lawyer from Berkeley, or the professor of law from Berkeley, said Darwinian biologists must keep repeating that reminder to themselves because otherwise they might have become they might become conscious of the reality that is staring them in the face and trying to get their attention. It's right there in front of them. Now we said that really there are two pieces of evidence that show us that the universe has and life has intelligent design, and we talked about the fine-tuning argument. which is also called the anthropic principle, which simply means that all the earth was created, all the universe was created to sustain s to sustain life on the earth for man. Uh if if and and the universe it was finely tuned so that man could live comfortably on the earth. I say I should say relatively comfortably on the earth. It was actually a whole lot better before Adam kind of messed up some of it for us with his fall. The earth was at a perfect environment all the time um before Adam's fall And then after the flood, then there came the four seasons, and then there came, you know, rain and dry spells and so on and extremes of heat and cold and so on. But still the universe shows this incredible fine-tuning, sometimes called the Goldilocks effect Or anticipatory design. It states that purposes that the fundamental constants and quantities of nature fall into an exquisitely narrow range of values which render our universe life. And it states that if these constants and quantities were altered even by a hair's breadth, The delicate balance would be upset and life could not exist as we know it. It argues that the naturalist proposal of time plus matter plus chance is insufficient to explain the conditions We find that support life. And again, I won't go over these in too much detail, but we just uh I did this before with you, just gave you a few facts. The oxygen currently makes up 21% of the atmosphere. Were it 25%, fires would erupt everywhere. And if it were 15%, humans would suffocate. If gravity was altered by 000 and so on, percent, one percent, the sun would not exist and the moon would crash into the earth. And there's just all kinds of these facts that science scientists are discovering that show this fine-tuning of the universe that if it were changed just a little Life on earth would not be inhabitable for man. And there are many of these. In fact, there's 122 of these facts at last count. And the astrophysicist Hugh Ross has calculated that the eyes of all these anthropic constants and quantities to be in place for any planet in the universe by luck alone to be one chance in ten with 138 zeros after it. How would you like to place a bet on those odds? This number becomes even more incredible when one realizes there are only 10 to the 70th atoms in the entire universe Mathematicians point out that the anything that exceeds 10 to the 50th power is the exact same thing as zero chance. There's zero chance that all these things can just happen by, you know, um well what are what are some of the uh uh explanations you get? Well, physical necessity, that's not possible As the cosmological constants exist outside of the environment. What about chance? Could this all happen just by chance? Well we already saw the possibility, you know, and but and besides, chance doesn't make things happen, chance is just uh uh a mathematical probability. Um So it can't be chance. So the the logical argument behind that then is an intelligent designer. That's the best answer for for an appeal. to the or to the best explanation, only ruled out by atheists because of their anti-supernatural world view. And so, again, uh we have to logically go back to the idea that since the universe manifests this incredible design, there has to be a designer behind that design. That's just logical, right? And so this is the argument of design. Now there's a second part of this argument of design. This is called the argument of specified complexity. And this argument basically says that nature and life, that is human beings, contain the imprint of an intelligent cause with evidence such as DNA bearing the marks of a designer. Now we already kind of looked at the universe, and the universe to us uh undoubtedly shows this mark of incredible design. But even if you look at um You know, man, human beings, biological life. Everything there also shows the marks of a designer, an incredibly wise designer. And they have found this in just DNA, right? Just DNA itself. Shows the incredible design of a designer Even atheists like Richard Dawkins, again, he admits that the message found in just the cell nucleus of an amoeba is more than all 30 volumes of the Encyclopædia Britannica. The entire amoeba itself has as much information in its DNA as 1,000 complete sets of the Encyclopædia Britannica. That's incredible when you think about that. And the important thing to understand is that the makeup of these entities is not random. The information is highly organized. They find that in the nucleus of a cell, the DNA is incredibly organized. They see that and they know that to be true. You know, there's a difference between data and information, right? Isn't that very obvious to us? If you see this picture here, you see the alphabet. We can say that that's data. Information is when you take the data and you arrange it into something that makes sense, something that communicates something very specific. When you read a novel, you know that there was a a writer that wrote that. It just the alphabet just didn't form into this incredible novel, right? Like there was an explosion One time in a print shop and suddenly you saw as a result of that explosion there was the uh Webster's dictionary left behind there. Webster's dictionary came about as this explosion, you know. Of course we know again that just doesn't happen. And so um you have to have information that organizes uh the data. This is according to the magazine Scientific American. It says, ask anybody what the physical world is made of, and you are likely to be told matter and energy. Goes on to say, yet if we have learned anything from engineering, biology, and physics, information is just as crucial an ingredient. And so DNA, they say, as according to Francis Collins, resembles software design. It has such an intelligent Design behind it. This is what Francis Collins said. He said, at first approximation, one can therefore think of DNA as an instructional script. a software program sitting in the nucleus of the cell. Its coding language has only four letters or two bits in computer terms A particular instruction known as a gene is made up of hundreds or thousands of letters of code. You think that all happens just by accident? DNA bears the mark of an intelligent design. DNA is mathematically identical to language. What language has ever risen without an intelligent cause behind it? Again, quoting Francis Collin here, he said, investigations of many organisms from bacteria to humans revealed that this genetic code By which information in DNA and RNA is translated into protein is universal in all known organisms. No tower of Babel was to be allowed in the language of life. How deeply satisfying is the digital elegance of DNA. Now again, this is our argument here for And so you you would have to say this incredible intelligent design logically points to a designer. I like what uh John Lennox said. He said, you know, it is it not to be wondered at that our archaeologist immediately infers intelligent origin when he's when faced with a few simple scratches, whereas some scientists, when faced with the 3. 5 billion letter sequence of the human Genome informs us that it is to be explained solely in terms of chance and necessity. Incredible. That kind of blindness. Here's a stained glass window Here's a look at the design and a DNA. Both show intelligent design. And again, the former atheist Anthony Flew said this, I think the origins of the laws of nature and of life and the universe point clearly to an intelligent source. The burden of proof is on those who argue to the contrary. I would agree with that, wouldn't you? I mean you have to prove the contrary because everything points to an intelligent source So now this is the other argument used by classical apologists to answer the question, is there a God? And the classical apologist will say, yes, everything that begins to exist has a cause. He'll use the cosmological argument. He'll use the teleological argument behind every complex design is a designer. The universe has that complex design, therefore the universe has a designer. But let me give you the third argument that's used that points to a creator, and that is we could we call this the moral argument. Or I should say classical apologists call this the moral argument. And the moral argument Basically says objective moral values and duties do exist. Wouldn't you agree that moral values exist? How many agree that their moral values do exist? And from that it follows logically and inescapably that God exists. If moral values and laws exist, then there must be a God that exists. You say, why that? Well let's let's let's look at this a little closer. Again, we ask the question, does true right and wrong exist or is everything relative? Is there right and wrong, or is everything just relative? Is there true morals? Well some people say no, like uh Nietzsche, he said this, you have your way, I have my way. As for the right way, it does not exist There's some people that actually believe that. You've got your way, I've got my way. And you would have to get to that, say that if there was no creator, there's no higher authority than your Opinion of what is right is just as valid as my opinion is what is right. To me, this is right. To you, that's right. There's no higher authority to appeal to So everyone does what's right for themselves. You know, this is what Nietzsche's saying here. But is that true? Is that true? Let me ask you a question. Is this sometimes or always wrong? Torturing babies for fun? Is that sometimes wrong or is it always wrong? The Indian practice of widow burning. We would say that's always wrong. Always. Priests sexually abusing children and church authorities covering it up That's always wrong. All these things listed here are always wrong. Rape. Murder of the innocent. Those things are wrong. Always. We can't think, you know, we can't say, well, in this context it's not wrong. No, it's always wrong. Always. Oscar Wilde said this, nothing like excess. Nothing is good or bad, only charming or dull. So says he. But was the Holocaust dull or charming, or was it just wrong? It was just absolutely wrong. So we would say then that few deny that some acts are always morally wrong. Always. This equates to there being objective moral values and duties in life. Certain things that are always morally wrong, then that means there must be objective moral values and duties in life That means they exist. There are certain things that are always wrong. Even the atheists will admit this. Here's what Louise Anthony said. Any argument against the objective reality of moral values will be based on premises that are less obvious than the existence of objective moral values themselves. So let's define the terms a little bit closer. Objective. What do we mean by objective? That means independent of opinion. If 51% of the population said rape was right, it would still be wrong. Would you agree with that? Doesn't matter if the majority says this is right, it's still wrong. It's just wrong. That's objective. Okay? Values. This is whether something is good or bad. A description of worth. And then when we say duties, there's an oughtness to this. This is something for which we are obligated to do. This is something that is required of us. It's required. So that's what we mean by objective values and duties, things that are required. of us. Now here's the thing. The key ingredients for objective moral values are really two things, then, right? There has to be a standard That provides the measure of what is good and what is bad. There has to be a law, a standard that tells us what's right and what's wrong And then number two, there has to be an authority, someone or something that has the right to impose the standard and enforce this standard, right? It discerns that it's wrong and then it enforces or even gives penalty for those who don't do what is right. Everybody with me so far? C. S. Lewis said this, a man does not call a line crooked unless he has some idea of a straight line. We've got to know where the lines are drawn, right? We can't really punish without, you know, I always sometimes tell parents this, you know, you're only really effectively disciplining your children when the children know where the lines are drawn, right? There are some parents, you know, they get angry and they they discipline their kids, but the kids didn't even know what they did wrong. What did I do wrong? I didn't know where the lines are. So I say to parents, clearly communicate where the line is drawn. And if they knowingly cross that line, then they know they've done wrong. So there has to be this understanding of where the lines are, what is right and what is wrong. You see, there's a distinction between the source objective moral values and duties and how we come to know them. The first is ontological, meaning the source, origin The second is epistemological, the knowledge, or the question, you know, how do we know that? And so we would say then that there are four possible sources of these objective moral values and duties. Where do we get our we know that moral values exist. And so therefore, since they ex right and wrong exists, there has to be somewhere that we get these values from. Where do we get our moral values from? And there are four possible sources for these values. Number one is the universe. Is it possible that we get our moral values and laws from the universe itself? Or from society or culture. Does society and culture have the right to tell us what our values, our moral values are? Or here's another possibility, the individual. Can the person, the individual, him or herself, determine what is right or wrong? And then the fourth option would be what? A transcendent creator. These are the four options. Okay? So let's just look at these four options. Alright? Let's say, first of all, what about the universe? Can the universe Determine what is right and what is wrong. A man says to the universe, Sir, I exist. Nevertheless, replied the universe, that fact has not created in me the slightest feeling of obligation. And what he's pointing out here is that how can an impersonal, um, meaningless universe create Personal moral beings. You know, from the standpoint or from the cause standpoint of cause and effect. And effect must represent its cause in essence and nature. You know, what do we say in the Bible? Man was created in the image of God. You see, the effect reflects in essence in nature, the cause to some degree. So then we would ask the question, how can an amoral, impersonal, meaningless, and purposeless universe accidentally create Personal moral beings who are obsessed with meaning and purpose. How can the universe do that? And we would have to say that it does not do that. So we would have to X off the universe from our list. All right, what about culture? If we don't get our morals and values from the universe, we have to cross that off. What about from culture? Give you an illustration here. In Kenya, the practice of beating is carried out. A close family relative of a young girl places a strand of beads around the young girl's neck. This effectively is a temporary engagement, and the relative can now have sexual relations with her. Some girls are beaten when they are six years old. Many young girls get pregnant and either have abortions or kill their babies at birth When they reach adulthood, the girls will marry outside of their village. But taboo dictates the girls will never be able to marry if they keep their babies resulting from beating. So they would have to get rid of them, right? So here's the question. By the way, this is a cultural standard determined by that particular culture. Here's the question: Is beating right or is it wrong? We would say that it's wrong. You see, here's the point. If culture is the source of objective moral duties, then we have to accept these things because these are things that are part of the culture that says it's okay, it's all it's alright. Widow burning can be morally acceptable if culture is the one who gives us our objective morals. Cannibalism can be morally acceptable. Murder can be morally acceptable. Unforgiveness can be morally acceptable. Rape can be morally acceptable. Gratuitously torturing innocent babies can be morally acceptable if culture is the one that determines our morals and our duties. How many would be willing, you don't have to raise your hand, but how many would be willing to say it's okay for society and culture to say what is right and what is wrong? Let me stand on a soapbox here for just a minute. Can't resist. It doesn't matter what the government says about Abortion, it is wrong. Doesn't matter what the govern the government legalizes with respect to homosexuality, it is wrong. It is sin. And I know we're being pushed by our society and culture to say certain things are okay, certain things are right. But I would say that culture doesn't get to determine that. Um anyway, let me move on here. Get off my soapbox. During the trials at Nuremberg, the Nazi defense attorneys argued that Hitler's soldiers who were on trial were only following the orders of their society and should therefore not be held accountable. They were only following the rules of society That's why they did that murder. And a judge countered that argument with the question: But sir, is there not a law above our laws? See the point there? We need an ultimate authority to appeal to in matters that transcend history and culture and society. We need a higher authority to appeal to. And so we would say that, you know, we don't get our judge our morals and values from culture. There's another thing to consider here in this argument, and that would be the issue of what is called the reformers' dilemma. The reformers' dilemma. You say, what is that? What is the reformers' dilemma? Well, it goes like this. If moral relativism suffers from Excuse me, moral relativism suffers from what is known as the reformers' dilemma. If moral relativism is true, then societies cannot have moral reformers. Why? Moral reformers are members of a society that stand outside that society's moral code and pronounce a need for reform and change in that code. How many of you here today would say, thank God for certain moral reformers that looked at the code of culture and society, stood up and said, Hey, wait a minute, this is not right, this is wrong. And we could think of people in history that were like that. We think of uh, you know, for example, Cory Tinboom, who risked her life to save Jews during the Holocaust. Or how about William Wilberforce, who sought the abolition of slavery in the late 18th century, he fought tooth and nail in Great Britain to abolish slavery. And I think that had an impact on abolishing slavery here in the U. S. William Wilberforce looked at it and said, hey, wait a minute, this is wrong. It's just wrong. Corey Timbum stood up and said, Hey, this is just wrong. She was a moral reformer. What about Martin Luther King Jr. , who fought for civil rights in the U. S. ? If moral relativism is true, then these reformers were immoral. You would have to say that. You see, if an act is right, if and only if it is in keeping with the Given Society's code, Then the moral reformer himself is by definition an immoral person. Moral reformers must always be wrong because they go against the code of their society. But such a view is defective, for we all know that real moral reform has taken place. You know, how could a culture ever be positively influenced from the outside if the culture is the determiner of what is good and evil? You understand that? How could we with the gospel and the word of God ever impact a culture and a society if the culture is the determiner of what is right and what is wrong. So in my opinion you would have to cross culture off the list We cross off the universe. We cross off the culture as the determiner of our moral values. But then what about the individual? Does the individual determine what is right, what is wrong, what is good, or what is bad? How do you decide between differing moral opinions if each individual is the ultimate decision maker of what is good and bad? Everyone's opinion is as valid as the other. How does a statement for me rape is wrong, but it might be okay for you? How does that sound to you? Is that okay? Of course not. With individuals, everything boils down to emotion and emotive responses to morals without moral global absolutes. You know, just to give you an uh idea here, there was a debate between Bertrand Russell the Atheist and the Jesuit philosopher Frederick Copelson and he looked at Russell and he asked, Lord Russell, do you believe in good and bad? And Russell replied, Yes. Copelson continued, How do you di differentiate between good and bad? And Russell said The same way I differentiate between blue and green or yellow and green. Coppelston then said, wait a minute, you differentiate between yellow and green by seeing, don't you? Russell said yes. So Copelston challenged him by asking, how do you differentiate between good and bad? And Russell replied, I differentiate on those matters on the basis of my feelings. What else? on the basis of feelings. So you can see how that would work. You know, it's just if I feel that it's wrong, then that's to me that's where I get the absolute that my morals from, whether I feel like it's right or whether I feel like it's wrong. But uh watch people how they react to being wrong, watching them being react to being wrong proves they want to recognize an absolute morality. Wouldn't you agree with that? Steal from a relativist. You know, a person who believes in morals are relatives, just steal something from them and see how they respond. You know, you s steal their car. They want to arrest you. Hey, wait, what are you doing? You know, this is there's nothing wrong with this. According to my standards, I can take whatever I want. I mean, I thought you were a relativist. You don't believe in absolutes. Let them be the victim of false advertising Watch how they respond when their spouse is relatively faithful to them versus absolutely faithful. And the reaction showcases the recognition of absolute morality. The bottom line is people want an a- they do want absolutes, don't they, after all? They do believe in certain absolutes. But again, where do these absolutes come from? They cannot come from the individual. And some people argue that they, you know, what about science? And I don't have time to get into that, and I'm going to skip that for sake of time. But let's go back to our possible um sources of where we get our sense of right and wrong from. We have to cross off the universe and impersonal universe can't create personal beings. you know, obsessed with a sense of purpose and meaning. Society and culture can't be the one who determines our sense of right and wrong. We can't get it from the individual because each person will do what is right in their own eyes and that would create havoc This leads logically, again, to this one idea, there has to be a transcendent creator. And again, this is the moral argument for God. And we would say one moral argument for God is laws imply a what? A lawgiver There is an objective moral law. Therefore, there is a moral law giver. And another moral argument for God, if God does not exist, objective moral values and duties do not exist. But we already saw that objective moral values and duties do exist Therefore, God exists. So everybody with me on this then? So this again, this is the moral argument. Now we've looked at three arguments We've looked at the cosmological argument. There has to be a cause. Reality has a cause. Things that are created has a cause. We looked at the teleological argument. This universe that shows design Life shows an incredible design, that means there has to be a designer. And then we look at the moral argument. Since there are objective moral values, that argues that there must be a God. Since they exist, there has to be a creator and judge in God that exists. Now again, these are the three major arguments. that are used by classical apologists to argue for the existence of Almighty God And let me just say this one thing because we are running out of time rapidly. Let me skip ahead here to say this. What does the Bible tell us? God's law is written on human hearts, right? Everyone has in them this sense of right and wrong. Romans 2. 15, which show the work Of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness God has built a sense of right and wrong inside of people. And the Bible calls this a conscience. It's an inward judge or an inward courtroom, I like to call it. That accuses you when you do something that is wrong and excuses you when you do what is right. The Bible says that's That's just a factor. Paul Little said this, there is built into every man the deep awareness that love and justice and holiness constitute a higher order of reality than do hate and injustice and wickedness Even men who do not believe in a God of love and righteousness at all seem to be continually troubled at the hatred and cruelty that abounds in the world. The Christian philosopher J. P. Moreland said this: How is it that humans can have intuitional insight into the nature of morality? Because God has created us to know moral values. And again, this here's a man that departed from atheism because of this one thing. He's the renowned Genesis geneticists, I should say, Francis Collins, head of the Human Genome Project, he came to realize these truths about God's moral law And this is what he said. He said, I started this journey of intellectual exploration to confirm my atheism, that now lay in ruins as the argument from moral law. and many other issues forced me to admit the plausibility of the God hypothesis. Agnosticism, which seemed like a safe second-place haven, now loomed like the great cop-out it often is. Faith in God I should say now, excuse me. Now seem more rational than disbelief. Later he concludes, after twenty-eight years as a believer, the moral law of God still stand out for me as the strongest signpost to God. More than that, it points to a God who cares about human beings and a God who is infinitely good and holy. And so We would say then that this this God provides the only objective standard for moral values. Now, so how do we know that God exists, according to the classical apologists? The cosmological argument, the teleological argument, the moral argument, all of that. Now, I have one minute left All right? But listen, what's the presuppositionalist response to this? In other words, remember I told you that in apologetics, you have the classical apologists? who uses philosophy and reason to prove the existence of God. And then there's the presuppositionalists. And what does the presuppositionalist say? You don't have to resort to all of that. A presuppositionalist, if they were sitting in this this Sunday school lesson this morning, you know what they would say to me after the lesson? They would come up to me and they would say, Dr. Harmon, you just wasted everybody's time. You don't have to explain all that stuff. You don't have to use all those arguments. You know why? Because the Bible says, in the beginning, God. In the beginning, God. And God does not take the time to build a logical or scientific case for his existence, but merely presupposes it And that's where you should start. That's where believers should start. So remember I told you that in apologies, apologetics, you have these different methods of approaching, answering these questions. A presuppositionalist will say You have to start with the presupposition that God does exist. And so what I want to do next week is I want to show you the response of the presuppositionalists. Now you guys aren't bored, are you? Are you sure? You would tell me if you were bored, right? Because I can move on to something else. Alright, so next week I'm going to show you the response of a presuppositionalist and um and hopefully again all this will help you to understand how to make a defense for Christianity. Let's let's have a word of prayer together. Let's all stand together as we pray today So Father, thank you again for the fact that we have the Word of God that does teach us truth, objective moral values and truth. We thank you, Lord, that you haven't left us in this world without a compass or a rudder on a dark and stormy night, but we have the truth. We have the standard. And thank you, Lord, that the Word of God teaches us about you and who you are. So Lord, help us to learn these things and to be able to give an answer to those who ask us. Lord, bless the service to follow and help the Word of God to be effective in changing hearts and lives. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Alright