Look at Galatians chapter 1 this morning. We've been talking about this subject of apologetics, and uh we've been dealing with various topics now in this for a while And the one issue that I want to bring today is the exclusive nature of the gospel. And I want to entertain this one question, is Jesus the only way? Is Jesus the only way? Well, in Galatians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul is writing, and if you ever read the book of Galatians, you know that he wrote this with great emotion. And look what he says in verse 6. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you under the grace of Christ unto another gospel. Look at verse 7, which is not another. But there would be some that trouble you that would pervert the gospel of Christ. Now a uh initial look at these two verses would Maybe cause someone to think that, well, there's a contradiction here because he says in verse 6 that it's another gospel, and then in verse 7, right on the heels of that, he said, which is not another But actually the two Greek words for another are absolutely different. The word for another in verse 6 is heteros. which is um which is uh another gospel which is the absolute total opposite gospel which is not another and the Greek word there is alas which is meaning the same So he says, I marvel that you have been removed to a totally different gospel, which is not the same gospel. We could say it like that. That's what Paul is saying. Because the Galatians had allowed themselves to be persuaded. that there was another gospel. So I want to talk about this whole issue of the exclusive nature of salvation And ask the question, is Jesus the only way of salvation? Is it possible for a person to make it to heaven other than the gospel that was proclaimed by the apostle? And Paul. Now the answer, of course, to those of us who are here and we know the Word of God, that's kind of a no-brainer for us. We would say, of course, there's no other gospel. There's only one way to heaven But just know this that in the days in which we live today, this is an answer that we're going to have to be able to give a little bit of depth to. because we're living in a postmodern age where it is the it's kind of in vogue that um we accept people from all different types of religions And believe that there's more than one way. After all, it's very arrogant of us to say that we're the ones who have found the way and nobody else has found the way You know, I think about that illustration of the cello player who um you know the uh the orchestra leader was leading the orchestra and one cello player was had his finger in one spot and he wouldn't move his finger as he was playing the cello and all the other cello players were moving their fingers up and down the neck and the orchestra leader stopped and he said to the one guy, he said, How come everyone else is moving their fingers and you're keeping your fingers in one spot? He said, because others are looking for it and I have found it. There's a sense in which the world kind of looks at us the same way. They say, you know, you're telling me that you found the answer. Well it wasn't because of anything good of us It's because of the grace of God. But we're living in a day today where this pluralistic idea is something that is uh is is pretty much the accepted norm. Gandhi, the religious leader, said the soul of religion is one, but it is encased in a multitude of forms. A multitude of forms. And again, that's the prevailing notion today So let's define a few terms. First of all, inclusivism. What is inclusivism? Inclusivism is that the idea that one religion is best But salvation is possible in other religions as well. Now one religion is best, but salvation certainly is possible in other religions. For example, a Christian inclusivist might say something like this, I'm a Christian, and I think Christianity is the most correct religion, but I also think there is saving truth in other religions like Islam or like Hinduism. And inclusivist is unwilling to say that any other way is wrong. That any other way is wrong. Just a for example, you know, this is uh Joel Osteen. He's kind of our favorite whipping boy, right, for some of us preachers. Joel Osteen was on Larry King in uh 2002 during an interview, uh Larry King said uh with Larry King I should say, he said that he's not sure what happens to people who reject Jesus Christ. And then Larry King followed up with a question about Jews and Muslims and other non-Christians. He said, they're wrong, aren't they? They're wrong, aren't they? And Olsen replies, well, I don't know if I believe they're wrong. I know they love God, and I've seen their sincerity. That was kind of the the answer there. And then when he was pressed further, he said, Well, you know, God's got to look at your heart. God's got to look at your heart. So he was totally unwilling to say that any other way was wrong. That any other way was wrong. Well, and the problem is God does look at the heart. He sees all of us as sinful, right? And we need salvation. So that's inclusivism And then there's another idea which we would talk about, and that is religious pluralism. Now, what is religious pluralism? This is the view that all major religions are equally valid and lead to God and salvation. Whereas inclusivism says, well, my way might be the best way, but they're saving truth in other religions. Pluralism goes the next step and says, all major religions are equally valid. And they all lead to God. D. A. Carson, a New Testament scholar, kind of gives us an idea. He says, in general, pluralism is the process by which the number of options in the private sphere of modern society rapidly multiplies at all levels, especially at the level of worldview phase and ideologies. So this is again the prevailing uh mood today in the world, religious tolerance to say that there's no one religion that has cornered the market on truth. All religions are equally valid. It is wrong for anyone to stand up and say that we have the truth. This is the truth, and this is the only truth. There has to be religious tolerance. There is no one religion inherently better or superior than any other major religion in the world. So with religious pluralism, all the major religions, Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, they are all equal. They're all equal We say it like this. There are many roads that lead to heaven. It's like the top of a mountain. There are many paths that lead to the top of that mountain, but they will all arrive at that same destination So no fear, no worries. And of course we could say this that pluralism leads to universalism Which says that, of course, that all people are going to heaven, regardless of the religious background. Everyone is going to end up in heaven That means if all religions are equally valid, then again this leads to the next logical step. Everyone's going to make it there to heaven. In fact, there was a book put out called uh ecumenical jihad by a man by the name of Peter Kreft. Now Peter Kreft is uh uh called a brilliant uh apologist. Actually um I would disagree with that notion. I mean he's a brilliant man um but he doesn't hold to the fundamentals of the faith Uh when he's an apologist, he's actually a Catholic apologist, but he's been hailed as a brilliant apologist. And he writes this book called Ecumenical Jihad. Let me let me just describe to you the motif of this whole book One day he's surfing in California and he gets turned over by a wave and he hits his head and he's knocked unconscious. And while he was unconscious, he says he has an out-of-body experience. He uh he went to heaven. Now how in the world he was able not to drown during this whole thing, I don't know. You know, if I'm knocked out underwater, I'm probably going to drown, but Peter Kraft uh evidently didn't happen to him. But he had this out-of-body experience. He went to heaven. And when he goes to heaven, he's amazed to find uh what he sees when he arrives in heaven. When he gets to heaven, uh he uh He basically sees Buddha there. Buddha's in heaven. And he says, Hey, what in the world are you doing in heaven? And and I mean Buddhism is not Christianity, so how did you get to heaven? What are you doing here? And he says, Well, you know Buddha says I was into contemplation and I was into peace and I was into tranquility and what I didn't know about Jesus Christ, I straightened out when I got here to heaven And then he went a little further and he found that Muhammad was there in heaven. And he says, what are you doing here, Muhammad in heaven? And he says, well, you know, um Jesus is just one of the prophets like Muhammad, he says, and and uh he says, you know, what in fact we were into morality We were into being good. In fact, Peter Kreft in the book says that in a lot of way Muslims are better Christians than Christians. Because he says Muslims they don't they don't fornicate, they don't commit adultery, they don't commit homosexuality and other things, and so their standards have a tendency to actually be higher than even believers. And so Muhammad says to him, you know, what I didn't really know about Jesus or God, we straightened it out when I got here. And he goes further into heaven and he he bumps into some Jews there. And he He says the same thing to them and basically they said, Well, you know, we worship the God of the Old Testament and and that was good enough for God because we were worshiping him who is the one true God. And again, what we didn't know about Jesus, we all figured out when we got there. And then he goes a little further and he runs into some atheists. And they said, well, you know, the reason God led us in is because we were sincerely searching for the truth. And so you kind of get the idea of what's going on here in this book. Peter Kreft basically says in the book, he says, when we all get to heaven, we're going to find all each other there. So why are we fighting down here on earth? Why are we at odds down here on earth since we're all going to make it to heaven? He said, let's all get together and let's win this war. And what war is he talking about in this book? Is the war is against the culture That's why he this is called ecumenical jihad. Let's all come together and let's all follow the great leader. And in this book, you know who he says the great leader is? Any guesses The Pope. The great leader is the Pope. So let's all follow the Pope. And let's all get together. Let's get on his side. That's some pretty bizarre stuff. How many of you would agree with me on that? Pretty bizarre stuff. And yet he's hailed as a great apologist. But here's the kicker. On the back, there's an endorsement on the book by Chuck Coulson. And this is what he wrote. Peter Craft is one of the premier apologists in America today, one of our most valent intellectual warriors. That's ridiculous. Because that's another gospel. It's totally wrong. But this again, this is the idea. This is some of the mindset that's out there today. So let me just say there are three approaches to religion then. One is inclusivism. Inclusivism, again, as we said, one religion is best, but salvation is possible in other religions. There's another approach, which is pluralism, which we just looked at, the view that all major religions are equally valid and lead to God and salvation. And then the third approach, of course, is exclusivism. And what is exclusivism? There's no salvation in any other gospel or faith or religion other than faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. That's exclusivism. Now there's a lot of people out there that would say, that's the problem I have with Christianity. You guys think that you're the only way. And I would say, absolutely right, we are the only way. I shouldn't say us, but Jesus is the only way. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. So let's take a look at this pluralism. What's wrong with pluralism? Isn't choice a good thing? I mean people would ask that question. Again, these are the ideas that we need to contend with today in our society. Isn't choice a good thing? Well, let me give you four issues with pluralism. First of all, number one, it is self-defeating, and we'll talk just a little bit about that. It's self-defeating. Number two, it confuses taste and truth There's a difference between a person's personal taste and objective truth. And it confuses those two things. And number three, it causes tolerance to trump truth. In other words, tolerance becomes more important than truth itself. And then number four, it ignores the law of non-contradiction. So let's look at these four points with respect to pluralism. Number one, pluralism is self-defeating It's self-defeating. You say, in what way? Well, philosophical pluralism says that every worldview, religion, and viewpoint is what? Equal and true. Everyone is equal and true. However Pluralism rejects the Christian claim of there only being one and only way to God, which is Jesus. So in other words, they on one hand they'll say every world religion is equally true, but then they'll violate their own rule by saying Christianity is not true. You understand it's self-defeating. So pluralism excludes Christianity and therefore does not adhere to its philosophy of accepting all beliefs as true. They're willing to say every religion is true except Christianity. So it's self-defeating. Pluralism, therefore, is self-defeating. Paul Copin A uh apologist said this. Pluralism cannot survive if Jesus Christ is the unique way to God. So the pluralist has to try to explain away the evidence for the incarnation and the resurrection. The pluralist has to reject the Trinity and salvation only coming through Jesus. He simply cannot allow the Christian faith to be what it claims to be. And of course he's absolutely right. So it's self-defeating. The next thing, pluralism confuses taste and truth. It confuses taste and truth. Pluralism fails to make the distinction between matters of opinion. For example, I like chocolate and you don't, it's a matter of opinion, and matters of truth Which is objective. There's one true God that exists. A person's opinion or desire cannot change reality. Your opinion, your personal opinion, or your personal desires does not change what is reality, what is objective truth. And that's the bottom line. Mortimer Adler, another apologist, said pluralism is desirable and tolerable only in those areas that are matters of taste rather than matters of. truth. And so this is another problem here for those that are pluralistic. But then the third thing we said was that pluralism causes tolerance to trump truth. Pluralism prizes tolerance of broad truth because it does not recognize any view as being objectively true. But should society tolerate every view, every belief and behavior? And that's what really what pluralism is suggesting. We have to be tolerant. It prizes tolerance above truth. And so that means we should tolerate every view. every belief and every behavior. But again, the p the question is posed. Should we accept it? Every view? What about Nazism? Okay to accept that? Okay to say that's okay? Of course not. What about racism? And what about other such beliefs that are absolutely, totally sinful and wrong? Are we supposed to accept those things? How about tolerating those who say 2 plus 2 equals 5? Okay to say that? Should such claims be embraced and accepted? And so again, we see how that it causes tolerance to trump the truth. So just an important reminder here, pluralism fails to understand that. While all people fails to understand this one thing, that while all people have equal worth, not all ideas do. Not all ideas are of equal worth. That's the problem with this pluralistic idea. And then here's the next thing. Pluralism ignores the law of non-contradiction. That is to say, pluralism ignores one of the foundational laws of logic, the law of non-contradiction. What's the law of non-contradiction? Very simply That something cannot be A and non-A at the same time and in the same sense. Okay? It can't be A and non-A at the same time and in the same sense. It turns a blind eye to the fact that worldviews teach radically different things about critical things. They can't all be right. All these religions can't all be right. They teach different things. They teach things that are opposed to each other. So how can they all be right? It can't be A and non-A at the same time. I like what one famous wise man said. He said, let him who believes in the law of non-contradiction be beaten and burned until he admits that to be beaten and burned is not the same thing as to not be beaten and burned. It's a little bit radical. I'm not proposing that. But you get the idea there. You can't be A and non-A at the same time. Everyone can't be right. Jesus can't be the way, and then other people say, well, there's other ways. No, it can't be A and non-A at the same time. You see. Another result of religious pluralism is what we can call syncretism. Syncretism, what is that? Pluralism tends to be very sync syncretistic. What do we mean by syncretism where it's mixing in beliefs? You kind of come up with your own set of beliefs. You just select what you like. Okay? You form your own view. It's kind of the same way a person might walk down a buffet line and you put various foods on their on your plate to form a unique meal. There's a sense in which philosophical pluralism will kind of do the same thing. They'll kind of go through the various ideas and religions of the world and they'll select certain things that they like. That appeal to them. And then these beliefs are kind of melded into something entirely new, yet something that must be immediately accepted into the pluralistic culture as being valid and equal to other existing beliefs. And so they kind of come up with their own, and I meet people like that all the time. They treat the Bible and religion like a buffet line. I like this about God, but I don't like this truth about God, so therefore they kind of they just phase that one out. We all love the idea that God is a God of love. How many love the idea that God's a God of love? And the world loves that idea. But they don't want to talk about the fact that he's also a God of wrath, that he's a holy God who must judge sin. Who hates sin, but he loves you and he doesn't want to judge you. That's why he sent Jesus to die for your sins on the cross, to pay your sin debt. And so, you know, again, I meet people like this all the time. Um they kind of come up with their own. They become a god unto themselves because they become the authority of what is right and what is wrong, what idea they're going to accept and what idea they're not going to accept. And that's what pluralism does. It's very synchristic. It's syncretism. They're synchronizing and bringing in their own set of beliefs about God. But where does a person get the authority to do that? God has the right to describe and explain and reveal who He is. And we have to receive what God's revelation is about Himself. But anyway. That's some of the problems with pluralism. Let's talk about overcoming pluralism. Again, we're talking about the exclusive nature of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But let me ask you this one question here. Is exclusivity wrong? Is it bad? Is it wrong to be narrow-minded? Some people say, you know, you're very narrow-minded. Well, is there anything wrong with that? Is there anything you know what when I go to the doctor, I want my doctor to be very narrow-minded, especially if he's getting ready to do surgery on me I want him to be very narrow-minded. I don't want to say, well, you know, we're going to try a few new things here. We're not sure it's going to work, but I want my banker to be very narrow-minded. I want him to say 2 plus 2 equals 4, not 3. How many of you would agree with that? I want my pilot on the plane to be very narrow-minded. I was I was j um we were took this trip back from Liberia. Well I was in Liberia. I used the illustration of the fact that we received the witness of man all the time And one of the things I asked the crowd, I said, how many of you have ever gone up to the to the uh pilot of your plane, knocked on the cockpit door and said, Can I see your license, please? Anybody ever do that before you ride on a plane? I want to know I want to see your license. I want to know how many close calls you've had. No, you just naturally get on there because you trust the pilot, right? That's called receiving the witness of man. and the idea if we receive the witness of man we shouldn't receive the witness of God. And the guys that were with me, they kind of played a trick on me. When we were on the plane, we weren't sitting together, and the pilot, the captain, came through and was talking to Chris and Dr. Shade and Will Shocky. And Chris and Dr. Shaden Wilsaki said to the pilot, would you do us a favor, would you go up to that red-headed guy in the front? Would you show him your license, please? Because he's been looking for a pilot to show him his license for a long time. And the and the captain actually did it. He came up to me to show me his license, but you know what? I was asleep, man. I was gone. I was totally out of it. So I didn't get to see his license. But anyway. No, I want I want there's nothing wrong with being narrow-minded or there's nothing wrong with being exclusive Exclusivity, exclusivity, I should say, is required in many things. For example, in marriage. How many of you want to be exclusive in marriage? Of course. While many people exist, saying yes to your spouse means saying no to all others. In government While many political systems exist, only one system can be embraced and implemented at one time. In economic policy, there's many economic systems. Only one can be practiced in a society. Exclusivity in mathematics. While many answers exist, only one answer can be the correct answer to a math problem. Only one. There's only one correct answer. So there's nothing wrong with being exclusive. We have to be exclusive. Again, the uh apologist Adler says The truth or falsity of entertaining propositions is absolute and immutable. The correctness of the judgments we make about them is relative and mutable. So why is exclusivity important? Well, let's take this example. Should I take an an acid or chemotherapy for a stomach ache? Well, that depends on what the problem is. Okay? The answer depends on the question. What is wrong with my stomach? And it's important that you get the right answer there Right? Truth and getting correct answers to important questions is vital. It's very vital. What are the major questions when it comes to life? And this is where it gets we're getting down to the nitty-gritty here. We have to diagnose the problem correctly with man today So let's talk about some of the basic questions, the major questions in life. What is the most basic metaphysic reality? What is the fundamental human problem, and what is the solution to that problem? These are the most important questions. And the most basic metaphysical reality is that there is a infinite personal God, a single infinite personal God, that created everything He created all things. This God is a Trinity, three distinct persons and one God. His attributes include omnipotence, omniscience, omnibenevolence, and many more. We looked at that when we studied the existence of God in our study here in Apologetics. This is the most basic metaphysical reality that there is a God. If you were here Wednesday night, I gave the illustration of Francis Schaefer. Some of you know that We're going to be having a seminary starting next fall here, Faith Theological Seminary. We'll be on our campus here. This will be the new home of the seminary. But one of the famous graduates of Faith Theological Seminary was Francis Schaeffer, who is well known for the book that he wrote called He Is There and He Is Not Silent. And in that book, he gives classical, apologetic, philosophical reasons for the existence of God and the fact that not only is God there, but he's not silent. This is the basic metaphysical reality that there is a God. He's there. And he has revealed himself not only in natural revelation, but in the special revelation of his word. The second thing, the fundamental human problem, what is it? Humankind was created in the image of God, but utilized free will to choose disobedience to God over following God's Path or his will. The end result is that every person alive is born separated from God and spiritually dead with a propensity to sin and choose evil over good. That's the fundamental human problem Now I I know that there are many philosophical f uh philosophers out there that want to give different answers to the human problem. And we've kind of talked about that already, but this is the problem. And remember if you don't diagnose the problem correctly, you'll never get at the right solution or the right answer. This is the fundamental problem. Further, a person's body is corrupted from the sin disease and is destined to perish. Each person cannot save him or herself and is in need of help. What's the solution to the human problem? God's solution was to have a Savior come and represent both parties to pay the penalty for committed sin. This Savior must be God to represent God and be sinless. The Savior must be man to represent fallen men living under the law. The second person of the Trinity, the Son, came via the incarnation and became the sacrifice to justify man before God and then be raised from the dead to give life to those who were devoid of spiritual life. That's the solution. And this is what the scripture tells us very clearly. An important reminder. People have a right to adopt any religion or no religion if they wish. Religious variety exists, but they can't all be correct. They can't all be correct. Various faiths, I should say, having some true positions. That is, Buddhists are right that suffering is universal, Muslims are right, that there is one God, Hindus are right, that the ultimate is the infinite Jews are right that God spoke through the Hebrew prophets. They all have maybe just a little bit of truth, but they get all can't be completely right. And that's the thing that people have to come to grips with. Can there be another way to God? Is it possible that there's another way to God besides Jesus Christ? And we would say there is absolutely no other way. to God, besides the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me just give you some reasons then for the exclusive nature of the gospel. The exclusive nature of the gospel. And I would argue, number one, the virgin birth proves there's only one way. The virgin birth. Look at Matthew real quick. Look with me in Matthew chapter one. Look at the book of Matthew, chapter 1. Of course, we know this story. This is the account of the virgin birth of Christ. Look in verse 18. It tells us now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with the child with child of the Holy Ghost. And it says in verse 19, then Joseph, her husband, being a just man. was not willing to put her away publicly uh make a excuse me not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away private privileges But while he thought on these things, behold the angel Lord appeared unto him in the dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. So the Bible is very straightforward here, very clear. God sent his son Jesus into the world, born of a virgin. Matthew gives just the facts about this public account. The Bible says while they were espoused, they were legally married, but espousal in Jewish marriage was different from marriage the marriage custom today. Espousal meant that they were the the the the the form had been signed. Joseph had made his claim to be m Mary's husband, the Bible says they had not yet come together because in a Jewish marriage you know that there was the c there was the contract stage Where a man would go to the bride's prospective bride's father, and he would have to pay a dowry, have to pay a wedding price. And the father and the prospective bridegroom would have to agree on that I mean he wasn't going to give his daughter away for nothing. She was worth something. I think we should still do that today, by the way. It's too late for me. My two daughters are already married away. Messed up my opportunity there. But once the contract was signed, they were legally married. They were espoused. The claiming came next when he would come and go and get her as his bride, and then there was the consummation stage. And so they were espoused But the Bible makes it very clear before they came together she was found with a child of the Holy Ghost. And Joseph was in a dilemma. The Bible says he was a just man. He was not willing to make her a public example. Because finding out that she's going to have a baby, and put yourself in Joseph's shoes, what's he thinking? That this wonderful young woman, this godly woman, he was shocked to find out that she was with child So he's thinking that she had committed a sin. And at that stage he had several options. He could publicly divorce her and shame her. Or he could put her away, divorce her privately, and that's what he was going to do until God came to him and said that what is in Mary is of the Holy Spirit. In verse 21, and she shall bring forth a Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. You say, what's the point? The point is this. Why would God send his son into the world? Why would there even be an incarnation if there were other ways of salvation? Why would God even have to do that? Why would God have to send Jesus? You know, if a doctor came to me and said, Mr. Harmon There's a terrible disease going on in this world and y your son, there's something about his blood type where that In his blood is the is the answer. His blood actually is the antidote for this terrible disease that's killing millions of people. Do you mind if we use your son's blood as an antidote. And I would say, well, what do you have to do? But they said, well unfortunately we have to kill your son in order to use his blood. But in his death, millions of people will be saved. And I say to the doctor Is there any other way of saving these people? And the doctors say, oh yeah, there's plenty of other ways. Sure. I mean there's, yeah, there's we have many other options But can we have your son? You know what my response would be? No, you can't. You do the other ways. I'm not giving you my son if there are other ways of salvation. And to me, the very fact that God would send his son Jesus into the world, the virgin birth in itself, logically, to me, is proof that there is no other way of salvation. Why send Jesus into the world to die for sin if there is another way? The virgin birth of Jesus Christ into this world is one of the most important events to ever happen in human history. I mean it's really when you think about it, it's the it's the uh it's the beginning of the answer for all mankind. Larry King, the CNN host was once asked who he would most want to interview if he could choose anyone from all history. He said, I would like to interview Jesus Christ. And then the questioner said this, and what would you like to ask him? And King said this very perceptive. He said, I would like to ask him if he was indeed virgin-born. That the answer to that question would define history for me. And you know what? He's absolutely right. This one thing. Was Jesus the virgin-born son of God? Did God send his son into the world that he might be the Savior to the world. And why would he do that if there are other ways of salvation? So the virgin birth to me proves the exclusive nature of salvation. But then here's the second thing I would say the claims of Jesus himself. The claims that Jesus made himself. Now remember we said that before when we were talking about Jesus, he's either who he claimed to be or he is a deceiver. And you have to make your choice. But he can't be a good teacher. Because he claimed to be God. And a good teacher doesn't lie. And if he's not God, that means he's lying. That means he's a deceiver. So a good teacher is not an option. A good prophet, a good teacher, like some religions like to say, that's not even an option. Either he is who he claimed to be, or he's not. He's a deceiver. And if he is who he claimed to be, then everything he said is what? True. Everything he said is true. And what were some of the claims that Jesus said? Jesus said, I am the way. The truth and the life. No man comes unto the Father except by me. In Matthew 7, Jesus said this, enter ye at the street gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many there be, which go uh in thereat Because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that findeth. And so Jesus there in Matthew chapter 7 was being very, very exclusive. In fact, why don't you look in Matthew 7? I want to show you a few more verses here. Show you a few more verses here in Matthew 7, because this is one of the most fearful passages in all of the Bible Look at Matthew 7. Look at verse number 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. What's Jesus saying there? This is the way that you know that you're truly a child of God, that you truly have put your faith in Jesus Christ. Because the fruits of your life will prove that you're trusting in Jesus alone as your way of salvation. You'll want to do the will of God. Because then he said this in verse 22, Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Talk about being exclusive. There wasn't many ways for those people that came to Jesus here in this verse. He said, I never knew you. Depart from me. This is so much for the idea that everyone's going to make it to heaven If they just do, if they're just trying to be sincere and they just try to do what they believe is right, then they'll be okay. They'll make it to heaven. No, Jesus said there's going to be many. That come to me. And I'll say, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. And so this is a very fearful verse. This is why This pluralism is so very dangerous because the scripture makes it very clear there's only one way. Jesus Would later say this in John, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. For God sent his son, not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is what Condemned already. You don't believe in Jesus? Then you're condemned already, the Bible says Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. So much for Peter Crest's idea that when people will get to heaven, they can straighten out what they believe about Jesus when they get there No. You either believe and you put your faith in Christ alone now, or you're condemned already, the Bible says. So the Bible makes that very clear with reference to the exclusive nature of salvation. Jesus warns of being wrong. Jesus said to the his disciples when they were trying to talk to the Pharisees, let them alone. They be blind leaders of the blind And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. He said to the Pharisees on one occasion, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, you make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves. At another place, Jesus said this: take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness. If you think what you have is the real light, and it's actually darkness. That's a very dangerous place to be in. For these people who are pluralistic and say, well, I I I I'll bring this into my belief system and this in, and they think that what they have is the real light. Jesus said, if what you think you have is the light And it's really just darkness. In a later place he said, if therefore thy light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? How great is that darkness? What you think you have is the light, it's not. How great is the darkness. But then think about this. Think about Jesus' prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. You remember this? When Jesus was praying, the Bible says, with as it were great drops of blood. And it says he went a little farther and he fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. Now think about that prayer. What was Jesus saying there? Now Jesus wasn't reluctant to do the will of the Father. He was committed to doing that. But this is the natural reaction of holiness with the prospect of actually becoming the sin bearer. Jesus who is holy and pure and innocent. Knew that for a moment in time, he was going to be the bearer of all the sin of all mankind. Think about that. That's beyond their comprehension. He was going to bear all sin on himself. Moment in time. And for that moment in time, God the Father was going to turn his back on his son. There would be a separation of fellowship between Father and Son, which has never happened. Ever And all of redemptive history, except that one moment on the cross when Jesus said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? But for that one moment when Jesus was bearing sin This would happen. And so these were the things that the Lord Jesus was not looking forward to. He was kind of It was a natural reaction of holiness. He was shrinking back at the thought of these realities with respect to sin. Not that he didn't want to do the Father's will. So he prays this prayer. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass for me. You know what he's saying? Father, is there any other way? Is there any other possible way that salvation can come to mankind? And the silence of heaven said there is no other way. No other way. And Jesus, of course, we know became the bearer of sin. He who knew no sin became sin for us. Or we could say became the sin bearer for us. This one prayer here, and the fact that God the Father did not answer this, or he was silent, proves there was only one way of salvation and Jesus Christ. was the one who's going to pay that way. And then let me give you one final argument about the exclusive nature of the gospel. We talk about The virgin birth logically proves it. The claims of Jesus Himself proves the exclusive nature of the gospel. And I would say the anathema of Paul that we just read. Go to Galatians chapter 1 again and look at this. Galatians chapter 1. Because here Paul is writing again with great anger Great emotion. If you read the book of Galatians, you see it. And in verse 6, he says, I marvel, I'm astonished, chapter 1, verse 6. that you're so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ unto another gospel, heteros, absolute different gospel Which he says, which is not another, which we say, which is not the same, not the same gospel in verse 7, which is not another. Alos is the Greek word there Different from the word another in verse six, Greek word. But there be some that trouble you would pervert the gospel of Christ. Look at verse eight, but though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you. Let him be what? A cursed. Strong term there. This is the Greek word anathema. Devoted, absolutely devoted to judgment. Absolutely, completely devoted to judgment, which really means If we could be literal, let him go perish in eternal fire. If anyone preach any other gospel Than the one we preach. That's pretty strong. And this is Paul saying there is no other way. There is no other gospel. And then he repeats it. It's not enough to say it in in um verse 9. He says verse 8 he says in verse 9, as we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have received, let him be accursed And then later on, he'll even say that even if it's an angel from heaven, then let him be accursed. So, actually in verse eight, but though we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel, then let him be a curse. Did you know a lot of false Theology and doctrine have come by angels. You know, Joseph Smith supposedly listening to an angel, Muhammad the Prophet supposedly getting his instruction to write the Quran from Gabriel the angel and so on. Paul says, even if it's an angel from heaven that gives you any other gospel, let him be accursed. So we've got to wrap this up. We're out of time. But let me just say this. Do all roads lead to God? There's a sense in which yes they do. Because God exists, and when you die, you will meet Him. You will meet Him regardless of the path you've chosen. When you die, you're going to meet God. And you will meet Him regardless of the road that you're on. But you know what? What then? Because we just read where Jesus said, depart from me, I never knew you. So friend, everyone's going to meet God in death. The question is, what's after that? The Bible says it's appointed unto men once to die, and after that the what? The judgment. So you either know Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord or you don't. And if you do know him, then the Bible says that's the way of salvation, putting your faith in the finished work of Christ. If you don't know him, if you haven't trusted in him as your Lord and Savior, if you're trusting in some other way. Then friend, the end will not be good. Because again, Jesus spoke about hell. Depart from me, I never knew you. So there's only one way, and that is through Jesus Christ. Let's all stand together, we'll have a word of prayer, and then we're going to have our service in a few minutes to follow, but let's pray together. So, Father, thank you for the truth of Scripture. It's not unclear. It's not ambivalent. It's so very clear. our Savior came to die for sin. The only way of salvation is through Christ. And I pray, Lord, that as believers We uh today will stand firmly on this truth because we're living in a pluralistic world today that is non-tolerant of this idea of the exclusive nature of the gospel. But Lord, may we as believers stand firmly on this, without shame, without apology, knowing that your word is true. Give us that courage of conviction in this world today, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.