We've been dealing with the issue of defending the faith, and today we're going to take up the subject of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ and how important it is that we understand uh the resurrection of Christ as taught in the scripture and be able to um to show and prove uh the resurrection of Christ because this is so very foundational for our faith. And so let's start out this morning. I want you to take your Bible and open to John 20 real quick. Let's look at the scripture this morning. Go to the book of John, chapter 20. And this is the account of the empty tomb that we see in the scripture. In John chapter 20, it says, the first day of the week cometh Mary of Magdalene early, when it was yet dark. See, she went to church when it was dark. Then she runeth and come to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said unto them They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. And Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre, and he, stooping down, looking in, saw the linen cl clothes lying. Yet went he not in Then come a Simon Peter following him and went into the sepulchre and see if the linen clothes lie, and the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also that other disciple which which came first to So this is the Shreford account, and of course this is recorded in the other gospels as well about this what happened on that resurrection morning. And of course there have been those who have doubted that, of the resurrection. And so we want to talk about this and talk about what the scripture has to say about this because what you're going to find is that even those early disciples as we read here in the scripture, even they doubted at first until they came around to understand that the resurrection of Christ of course was true. So we want to talk about this, so let's so let's get the facts down. What is the resurrection? And of course this is very fundamental. We're laying down the facts here. It's that the Bible teaches that Jesus the Son of God was crucified. And of course we know he was crucified for us. It was our sins that was laid on him. For the forgiveness of sin, he was resurrected from the dead, and he lives today. The Bible teaches that Jesus is the Son of God. And we're going to talk about that in a minute. But also this all took place around A. D. 30. He was crucified during the reign of the Roman Emperor Tiberius. After dying on the cross, he was then buried in the tomb of a prominent Jewish leader by the name of Joseph of Arimathea. It was a borrowed tomb. And then early on Sunday morning after his crucifixion, several women who followed Jesus, including Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary, the mother of James, and Salome went to Jesus' tomb. They were intending there to anoint the body with spices and ointments. Of course you know Jewish burial custom, that's exactly what they did. They would just wrap in the grave clothes uh sp all kind of uh spices uh that would actually dip the grave clothes, I should say, in those spices. And then wrap the body, and then they would put more of that on the on of those spices on the body. And so they were finishing this this this uh preparation for um for death. But but think about that. If Jesus was going to come out of that grave after three days, which he had told the disciples he was going to do, and they didn't really seem to comprehend it. And then those who who who maybe listen, maybe listen half-heartedly, why would you need all those spices if Jesus was coming out of that grave, right? There seemed to be a little bit of doubt even in the women that Jesus would ever come out of that grave But they but uh they were wondering on the way there who would roll the stone away for them. And of course there was an earthquake. The angel appeared uh with when the women saw the stone that was rolled away, they found the tomb was empty. They feared something had happened to the body of Jesus, that perhaps someone had stolen the body away, and the angel of the Lord assured the women that Jesus was alive, that he had risen from the dead. So they leaving the tomb, the women went to tell Jesus' disciples what had happened. And before they reached the disciples, Jesus himself appeared to these uh women and these women then became the first eyewitnesses to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ So over the next few weeks, Jesus appeared to more than five hundred uh others, proving that he had risen from the dead and verifying And so over the centuries, skeptics have developed several objections to the resurrection of Jesus. And they have given us some of these alternative theories about what they thought perhaps took place rather than a resurrection from the dead. And many believe that Jesus' resurrection is too difficult to prove beyond a reasonable doubt. And so what we want to do is just consider some of those uh those uh objections and then give evidence to um to to deal with those objections there. So let's let's let's look at the skeptics' objections. Okay? Uh doubting the claims of Christians. And so they've they've developed these objections over the centuries, as I said, claims about Christians, about the authority of the Bible and the resurrection of Christ. And again, they believe that Jesus' resurrection is too difficult to prove. So did Jesus here's the first objection And we've talked about this a little bit, so I won't go into too much detail, but one objection that skeptics give with reference to Jesus is that he was a mythological figure. They doubt that Jesus even existed to begin with, that he was ever really on the earth, that he was a mythical person. And so they say he was made up. Too good to be true. He had to be a mythical figure. And so um if he did exist What proof is there that he was crucified? And so here's an answer to that objection. Evidence for Jesus comes from many written documents from the first century. Now, of course, we believe the Bible. The Bible is sufficient itself for us as believers. But if you had to go outside the Bible to talk about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, there are at least 39 sources. Again, this is in addition to the New Testament. These are extra-biblical sources, historical documents that speak about Jesus, the historical reality of Jesus, and his life, and his teachings, and his death, and his resurrection. So if we just take the Bible out for some people, now as Christians, we don't need to because we believe the Bible, but let's just say for some people, I need more than the Bible. Well there's extra those documents throughout history that speak about Jesus as being a historical person. Uh if if you don't believe me, uh there's a there was a show that was done years ago It was by the ABC News host, Peter Jennings. And uh it was the title of the uh show was uh a A Search for the real historical Jesus. And the whole show is this based on this one premise that the Jesus that's in the Bible was not really reliable. We have to go outside the Bible And we have to find other historical documents that tell us about this man called Jesus. And let's see the real Jesus, because the whole idea implied in that was that uh this Jesus in the Bible was someone that was made up by the Christians. But the whole premise of the show was to prove that there was really a historical Jesus. It's just not the one that you find in the Bible. Of course, that's a slap in the face against the scripture. But at least it does one thing, and they were able to do it on that news program or that documentary, and that is to prove that there was a historical person called Jesus. And they use these sources to back up that one fact that he really there really was a person named Jesus who lived and taught in the first century. And of course we again refer to these sources here and the historian uh Josephus who writes about Jesus. Again, these are all extra-biblical sources. Just an example here, Ignatius Ignatius was a church leader. He was a pupil of the Apostle John. He lived 70 years after the crucifixion of Christ. He was martyred for his faith. But uh before he died, Ignatius wrote this about the Lord Jesus. He said this. Again, this is an extra biblical historical source. He was condemned, he was crucified in reality, and not in appearance, not in imagination, not in deceit. He really died and was buried and rose from the dead. That's a pretty good clear statement right there, is it not? He he uh was crucified in reality, not just in appearance. Um maybe he's referring to some of the Gnostic teachings back then. uh when he says that phrase there. But not in imagination. This is not something that anyone made up. Not a story in someone's fancy. Not in deceit. This wasn't a staged uh event where they were fooling everyone. and trying to create some uh some legend. You know, there was a book written by a man by the name of Hugh Schofield, not Schofield, not the guy who wrote the Bibles Uh Schoenfeld, actually, I think is the way you pronounce it. It's called the Passover plot, where he said that Jesus and his followers, uh, what they did was they staged this whole thing. This was all something that they planned together, kind of like putting together a drama or a play to make up this legend, to form a religion. They were all planning all this out. Well, I can tell you that took a lot of planning to do all that. But here he's saying, this was not in the sea. He really died and was buried and rose again the third day. And so um and then of course there's another historical document, an early creed or statement of faith written in the Bible. was written by the Apostle Paul between eight and twenty years after the death of Jesus. In other words, this was the cru what was Paul wrote in the Bible, what he included in the scripture in that passage in 1 Corinthians, many New Testament scholars believe, was a creedal statement that was being used by believers already at that time. And this was just again between eight and twenty years after the death of Christ, already this creedal statement was going around that Jesus uh died and was buried and rose again according to the scripture. In fact, look in 1 Corinthians, just turn there in chapter 15 and just look at that passage with me. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And we'll start in verse number three. First Corinthians fifteen, verse three. For I deliver unto you first of all that which I also received, how the Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. That he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And then it continues on that he was seen of Cephas and the of the twelve. After that he was seen of all five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles And last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. So in that statement that Paul makes, he's including in a creedal statement that was used by believers just Less than we could say twenty years after the death of Christ, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scripture. And most critical historians agree that documents take more than twenty years to become corrupt by mythological development. And so that one creed statement there in itself. it offers historical evidence as to the reality of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. But then you add to that the several witnesses that were reported Appearances of Christ after the resurrection. And of course these are recorded in the Gospels and Paul's letters and other New Testament letters These accounts date from 25 to 60 years after the death of the Lord Jesus Christ, relatively recent after the death of Christ. Now, if Christ did not exist, Or if the information within these documents was false or corrupt, those who knew Jesus, either friend or enemy, would have objected to the misinformation. If all these things were not true, many people back then they could have objected and say, wait a minute now. That's not true. That's a lie. That's being embellished. That's not what happened. There had many people that had plenty of time to object to that. And Peter said We didn't follow cleverly invented stories when we told you about the power and the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. So that's one of and that's one objection. But here's another objection. They say, okay, all right, look, well, let's just say that he did live, he was a historical figure. But he was just a man. He wasn't anything more than just a ordinary man. If he did exist, he wasn't everything his followers claimed he was. He was simply a compassionate person. He was a charismatic leader. He was perhaps a great prophet and a teacher, but he was not God. Have you ever heard that before? Oh, he was a great man. He was a good teacher. He was a prophet. We're willing to concede all of that. We're just not willing to concede the fact that he was God. And again, there are a lot of people who use this argument here. Well, how do we answer that objection? Well, first of all, did Jesus ever claim to be God? Of course he did. All throughout his earthly ministry, we see these claims all throughout the New Testament. Jesus claimed to be God. Okay? In fact, look in look in John chapter 8 real quick. Let's just look at one passage in John chapter 8 and just go there. Look in John chapter 8. Look down at verse number 21. And notice what it says. John eight twenty one. Then said Jesus again to them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and I shall die in and shall die and ye sh shall shall seek me and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, ye cannot come. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself because he said, Whither I go ye cannot come And he said unto them, ye are from beneath, I am from above. Ye are of this world, I am not of this world I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins, for if ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. And they said unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus said unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning, I have many things to say and to judge of you, but he that sent me is true, and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. Then understood uh excuse me, they understood not that he spoke to them of the Father. Then said Jesus When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, then shall ye know that I am He, and I do nothing of myself, but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things. And he said un and he that sent me is with me The Father hath not left me alone, for I do always those things that please him. And so um here Jesus is making this claim here. uh and uh and uh that he is god. As many of the Jews didn't understand it. They didn't they didn't get it. But uh he continues in John chapter eight. In fact this chapter is one of the strongest uh chapters in the Bible where Jesus makes the claim. Look in John chapter 8. Look in verse um look at verse um 57. Look in verse 50 or 56 rather. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and was glad. Again, he's speaking to these Jews here. Verse 57. Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet 50 years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? And Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was what? I am, I am. Now in the Greek there it's very emphatic. It's twice I, I, I am. And so he's making a strong claim right there. And this is just one place. You can go to John chapter 4. You can see it also there. He claimed to be eternal. And this is what we saw here in John 8. He claimed to be equal with God, the Savior of the world, who would die for the forgiveness of sin, and who would rise again on the third day. So Jesus is constantly making these claims. He claimed to have the power to forgive sin. Remember when the man was lowered down before him in Peter's house and uh and Jesus said, you know. Um that y in order that everyone might know that the Son of Man has power to forgive sins, arise up and walk. And the man did. And the Pharisees that were there got angry. Because they said he's he's calling himself God. Who can forgive sins but God? Well they got it that time. And so Jesus is constantly making this claim to be God in the Scripture. In addition to that, he performed miracles and signs to support his claim. And Jesus at one point said to the Jews, look, if you don't believe my words, just look at the works that I'm doing. Look at the things that I'm doing. Those works in itself bear witness. of my claims. There were miracles of healing. Matthew chapter 8 focuses on the authority of Jesus and his healing ministry. as as the Son of God, miracles of nature. Who can still the winds and the waves? Uh only God can do that. There's miracles of rest the restoring of life, uh resurrection. And so on. So all these miracles was supportive of the claim that Jesus made that he was God. And these miracles which were performed before people all around. could not be contested by Jesus' enemies. So much so that on the day of Pentecost, Peter said that Jesus proved his power and authority by performing miracles and wonders and signs. Those miracles itself. And that's what led Nicodemus to come to Jesus by night. And what did he say? No man can do these things that you do unless God is with him You have to be from God to be able to do the things that you're doing, all of these miracles. So Jesus very clearly, all throughout his earthly ministry. makes the claim to be God and he supports the claim through the miracles that he performed. And so we could say this, and you've heard this argument, I'm sure. Jesus is either what he claimed, or he was a madman, or he was worse. Who goes around claiming that they're God? Well, it's either someone who's not altogether there, someone who is seriously has it has issues, someone who is purposefully Deceiving others or someone who is really God. Those are your only three choices. Now there are people today that claim that they're God or that they're Jesus, but we know that those people are crazy. They're certifiable. But what about Jesus? Knowing the things that Jesus claimed and did, most people would agree, they would say, well, he was a moral and upright teacher. We could see in his life and in his ministry he was definitely a moral person. Biblical scholars suggest that one cannot say Jesus was a great teacher, but not God, and that's true. You can't have it both ways. You can't say that he was a great teacher and he was or or but not God. Why? Well, because he claimed to be God. And if he claimed to be God, you can't say that he was a good teacher because he would be what? He would be lying. How can you say that someone who is deceiving people is a great moral teacher? You can't even go there. You don't even have that option. It was actually C. S. Lewis who first pointed out this argument in his book, Mere Christianity. And this is what he said in his book. He said, I'm trying here to prevent anyone saying the the re the really foolish thing that people often say about him that is Jesus. And then he goes on to say And this is what people say. I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing he says we must not say. You can't say, well, I'm ready to accept him as a great teacher, but not God. He goes on to say, a man who would say, who excuse me, who said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic on the level of a with a man who says he is a poached egg, or else he would be the devil of hell. You must make your choice He says, either this man was and is the son of God, or else a madman, or something worse. And that's very true, isn't it? You can't, you don't have that other option. He either is who he claimed to be, or he's a lunatic, or he is, as C. S. Lewis said, would be the devil. And so we believe that he is, of course, all who he claimed to be in Scripture. Part of the reason is because Jesus filled many of the ancient prophecies, and we talked about this before. More than 100 prophecies found in the Old Testament were fulfilled by the Lord Jesus Christ. You remember I if you were here and you've been w with us in our apologetic study, uh we talked about Peter Stoner and the principle of probability and how that as he gave a probability the all the prophecies in in the Old Testament that Jesus fulfilled. The chance of that happening by coincident are just not possible. Just eight of those prophecies being fulfilled is a numerical value that is impossible to be done by chance or coincidence alone Jesus fulfilled all of those prophecies. And we went over these. Consider, for example, being born in the line of the King David. Being born in Bethlehem, entering Jerusalem on a donkey, being betrayed for thirty pieces of silver, crucified, rising from the dead. Think about all the Human contingencies had to happen in order for all those prophecies to be fulfilled, and yet all of those things were fulfilled just like the scripture says. More than fifty were fulfilled by his death and resurrection. Fifty. And so months before his crucifixion, Jesus told his disciples, That he must suffer many things, be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and teachers. Jesus also accurately predicted that he would be killed after three days and rise again. And so uh we believe he is who he claimed to be because of the very works that he did, and because his life demonstrated a fulfillment of all of the prophecies of the Old Testament. That's how we would answer that objection. Well, there's a third objection that skeptics give with reference to Jesus and his resurrection. They say that Jesus followers made it all up. This was a myth that was fashioned by the church. This was all something, a story that they made. They invented this whole story in order to deceive the world. They convinced Jesus, the people that Jesus was the promised Messiah and that he fulfilled the scripture and that he rose from the dead. So this was all one big plan, one big made-up story. Well, how do we answer that? Well, evidence suggests that a deception on this magnitude, on this scale, it's just completely unlikely. I mean that's that's ridiculous to think that of that. And think about this: the disciples, after the resurrection of Christ, and after they had their earthly ministry, many of them, how did they end their life? Think about it. How did they end their life? They ended up dying for Jesus. If you look in history, The twelve disciples, many of them died a martyr's death I would say except for John the Beloved, I think all the rest of them died a martyr's death. People will not knowingly die for a lie. If they all got together and made this story up and knew it was a lie, do you think that they would be willing to die for a lie? No, that's not even reasonable. And think about this. Were the disciples bold, courageous people? I mean, reading the gospels, they weren't very bold and courageous. In fact, um You know, we'll we'll see, but they were they were um people who ran really for fear of their lies. They were not fearless liars who wanted to fool the world. They, after the crucifixion, the disciples, they fled in fear for their lies. They were running and hiding. And you remember on the night on the when Jesus was um taken And then his trial in the early morning hours after that, and how Peter followed what the Bible says afar off, and finally when someone identified him and said, You're one of those followers, what does the Bible say he did? He cursed and he swore and he denied Doesn't sound like a bold person who fabricated a deception in me. He was afraid. Now we know that after The day of Pentecost, after the Holy Spirit had come and had filled these followers, the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, their lives were completely transformed. They left their former trade, their jobs, and they began to tell the story of the Lord Jesus Christ. And after that, their whole life changed. Now, when they had the Holy Spirit, now they're filled with boldness But it's not because they're trying to propagate a lie, it's because they're trying to propagate the truth of who Jesus Christ is. Now they endured all kinds of suffering. For the Lord Jesus. They endured hunger and persecution and abandonment, imprisonment, suffering, torture, and as I said, even death Again, you do not die for something that you know is a lie. You only die for something you believe Or be willing to die for something you believe is the absolute truth. And as I said, many of these disciples suffered. Peter suffered crucifixion himself upside down. Now I've mentioned the name Ali Strobel to you before. He was a journalist who um uh who was a skeptic and by studying the resurrection of Christ he was converted to Christianity. He went out to disprove the resurrection. But instead of disproving the resurrection, he got saved because he believed that it was historically a fact just as the Bible said. And Lee Strobel would write this. He said, people will die for their religious beliefs if they sincerely believe they're true. But people won't die for their religious beliefs if they know their beliefs are false. And that's true. If a person really believes Then they make it to the point, and that conviction is so strong that they'll die for it. But no one, only people who are not sane, I should say, would be willing to die for a lie. And so again, this is highly unlikely that they made up this story and that they were giving a deception to people. And also you think about this, and we just read this in the in the in the in the in the uh gospel of John chapter 20, that even the disciples themselves doubted The Lord Jesus. Go back to John chapter 20 real quick. Just look at this. Look at John 20. Now again, we have the ladies that are coming to the tomb. They were bringing spices. They were preparing the body because they didn't have time to really prepare it well on Saturday. And And so this in itself kind of shows you that they were they were uh not believing that he was going to rise again because you don't need to bring all those spices that Jesus is coming out of that grave after three days. Save yourself the trouble and the money. But they were bringing those spices. So it suggested even these women here doubted some. The disciples doubted. In fact, in Luke chapter 24, verse 11, it says, And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed not. When the women told the disciples, the Bible says the disciples, they they thought that they were crazy. Idol tales is the Greek word layros. It's used to speak of delirious stories told by sick people. So when these women came to the disciples and said that he's risen, the first response of the disciples was, you ladies, with all due respect are crazy. That was their response to these women. But look in John chapter 20, look in verse 25. We'll use Thomas here as an example. It says And actually we'll look at verse 24. But Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. Verse 25. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord But he said unto them, Except I shall see his hand his hands, the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe Now Tomless is what we call an honest doubter. Remember I told you there's a difference between an honest doubter and a dishonest doubter? A dishonest doubter is not looking for the truth. They don't want to believe They're looking for reasons not to believe. But Thomas was an honest doubter. If you give him the right evidence, he will believe. He's not he's not wanting to doubt. He wants to believe, but he has serious doubts. And he represents the disciples and their first response. This is Thomas's first response. So think about this. All the old Jesus followers doubted the resurrection until Jesus physically appeared to them. Then they believed It wasn't until after that that they believed. In fact, the first response of the women at the tomb, they thought that someone stole the body. They were afraid. Their first response wasn't to believe that Jesus rose again. And so you understand the point. How could the disciples make all this up as a deception when initially they didn't believe? They were filled with doubts until the proof came. Once Jesus appeared, the women worshiped him and shared the news with the other disciples, as we saw in John chapter 20. a moment ago when we read it. And so all of this suggests that a deception on the part of the disciples is highly unlikely. And again, the disciples did not believe the women's report of the empty tomb until Jesus appeared before them. When these women came, they just didn't believe him. And so um Thomas did not trust the testimony of the other disciples. He requested to see and touch Jesus in order to believe, but once he did see Jesus The Bible says he believed. When Jesus appeared to him and said, Here, Thomas, put your finger in my nail prince, put your hand in my side, Thomas' response was, My Lord and my God. So Jesus provided the evidence. Again, which that tell us that if a person is honestly doubting, God is willing to give you the evidence. You know, He's not going to give evidence to people who are dishonest doubters because that's a waste of time. They're not wanting to believe. But to someone who's honestly seeking the truth, God will give them the evidence. He will lay it before them, just like Jesus did to Thomas there. And then also we we thought about the women who didn't believe initially, and then the disciples who didn't believe the women's report. But also there's another thing to consider here, why that a deception on the disciples' part is unlikely James. Who is James? James was the half-brother of the Lord Jesus. And what does the Bible say about James? He didn't believe who Jesus was at first. I mean you have to put yourself in James' position. He grew up with Jesus and Nazareth. How would you like to have an older brother that was absolutely perfect? That would be hard to live with. How many you think that? If you don't believe me, ask my brother Jeff. He grew up with me. No, I'm just kidding. How would you like to have to grow up with Jesus? And and Thomas and James didn't believe. He was kind of like Thomas that he doubted. uh who Jesus was. And when Jesus preached in Nazareth, if you read in John chapter 13, you'll find that uh it was it was James who was actually embarrassed by Jesus. He was embarrassed by his preaching. And he thought that Jesus was was crazy. In fact, they wanted to take him and take him home. He needed to get out of there. They thought that he was as crazy And that was what James thought. And he may have doubted the resurrection as well. But think about this. What happened in James' life? After the resurrection, after encountering the risen Lord, according to 1 Corinthians 15, 7, James becomes the leader of the church in Jerusalem. Think about that. He goes from being skeptical, thinking Jesus was not altogether there, to believing that he was the Son of God, that he did Come out of that grave on the third day, he was converted, and he now becomes the leader of the church in Jerusalem. How can you uh give account for that kind of transformation in the life of James. If this is all would you think that would happen if this was all a made-up story? If this was just a deception? And according to Josephus, James was eventually stoned to death because of his faith in the risen Lord. Again, go back to the same point. Will a person die for a deception? Will a person die for a lie? And we say absolutely not. And so again, it's unlikely, very unlikely. That this was a story that was made up. So we consider the the women who found Jesus and how the evidence convinced them, the disciples who doubted, but then the appearance of the Lord to them convinced them. James, who was skeptical about Jesus and didn't believe the first, he's totally converted. Can you think of someone else whose life was transformed by a personal encounter with the risen with the risen Christ? What about Saul of Tarshius, a Pharisee, strongly opposed Christians? And of course, he opposed this whole new movement, so much so that the Bible says he did what he persecuted believers. He assisted in the execution of these early Christians. And when the risen Christ, however, appeared to Paul on the road to Damascus, he was completely transformed. Saul became Paul. uh one of the greatest followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. We know that throughout his lifetime he can he was continuously persecuted and imprisoned for preaching about the Lord Jesus Christ. But he is the writer of most of our New Testament. 13 books of the New Testament were written by the Apostle Paul. So again, all of this evidence of how the disciples themselves didn't believe until they encountered the risen Christ. They saw the evidence. This suggests that there's no way that this was a deception on the part of the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, here's another skeptic's objection. What's the next one? Well they say, well, okay, the witnesses were unreliable. They would say there's no impartial witnesses who could verify the physical resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so We would say in answer to this objection, there were several witnesses and no evidence from the opposition. All four gospels agree that the first eyewitnesses to the proof of Jesus' resurrection were women. Anyone wishing to make up a story in the first century would not use women as their primary witnesses. Now in our day today, this is going to sound very, very um uh chauvinistic. So let me ask your forgiveness in the very beginning of this. But you have to remember that in the first century Um women's testimonies was not highly valued. Now that's wrong, of course, but that's the way it was treated in that day. On the surface, you know, women as primary witnesses to the empty tomb doesn't really seem like a major proof for the resurrection. But again, when you put it in that that cultural context, the significance of these eyewitnesses Lies in the understanding of the role of women in the first century, especially first century Judea. During that time A woman's testimony was considered worthless. That's just fact. In fact, did you know that in the first century Judea, a woman was not allowed to serve as a witness in court? Because they thought that their witness was totally unreliable. You say, well, what's the point here? Well, think about this. If if you wanted to fabricate a story of the resurrection. Would your first primary witnesses to the resurrection be someone that was considered unreliable? Would those be your first witnesses? Of course not. Uh they would have if you wanted to fabricate a story about the resurrection, you wouldn't use women as witnesses because of the cultural a stigma that that was present in the first century, you would come up with men who had influence, political and religious influence. That's who you would use for your witnesses. Instead Those who recorded these events wanted to be accurate, so they reported the actual witnesses who happened to be women. So think about that. Um, John Warwick Montgomery, the apologist, he he says this. In 56 A. D. , Paul wrote that over 500 people had seen the risen Jesus, and that most of them were still alive It passes the bounds of credibility that the early Christians could have manufactured such a tale and then preached it among those who might easily have refuted it simply by producing. the body of Jesus. And he's absolutely right. If you wanted to disprove the resurrection, and these stories that were going around about the resurrection of Christ, All one would have to do is simply produce the body of Jesus. But they couldn't do that because there was no body to be produced. That would be the greatest weapon against the early witnesses. It's just produce the body. Just show us the body And these weapons were never used again because the body did not exist. Jesus came out of that grave And so the silence of those who oppose Christianity, while Jesus' followers preached about the empty tomb, only confirmed The fact that the tomb really was empty, and its vacancy could not be explained otherwise. The silence of the opposition. is evidence of the historical fact of the resurrection of Christ. Well, another objection uh that skeptics use is they say, well, the physical resurrection of Jesus was not really that important to the early church. Christianity began as a moral and philosophical movement. And so they say the resurrection of Jesus was a later mythological theory rather than an early historical reality. That's the uh objection that they give. Well, we would say that sociological evidence suggests that it was a historical event. What do we mean by that? The social change in the faithful Jews is evidence of the resurrection. I mean, there were Jewish people that became followers of Jesus. That in itself is evidence, because for thousands of years, Jews endured persecution and oppression. They were scattered all over the face of the earth. Unlike every culture around them, the Jewish people never lost their cultural and religious identity. They refused to uh to break away from what they knew to be, what they thought to be true. Only after a few years after the crucifixion, more than 10,000 Jews embraced the teaching of Jesus Christ and his followers. And so these early Jews, Jewish Christians, continued to worship on the Sabbath, but they began worshiping on Sundays as well to mark the resurrection of Christ. And as the church matured, they continued to worship on Sundays, referring to those days as little Easters. The fact that there was such a change there. And their practice. And so a reasonable explanation for the transformation of so many Jews Is that they or people they knew had seen Jesus Christ after he rose from the dead. So think about that. And then you have all the early church practices that all give testimony, that give evidence to the resurrection of Christ. They celebrated the resurrection. In fact, that's what we do every time we come to church on Sunday. We don't just do it on Easter. We celebrate the resurrection every time we come through the doors of the church. And Jesus' followers were baptized when they first believed. Then they would gather together and celebrate the Lord's Supper. These practices were all to celebrate again the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Baptism we know celebrates the resurrection. We know it's a picture of The death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ by going under the water. The believer remembers the death of Christ by being brought out of the water. The believer identifies with Jesus in his new uh in their new life. And the Lord's Supper, when we eat the bread or drink the wine, it's a memorial. We're remembering the sufferings of the Lord Jesus Christ. He told us to do this as often as you will. And so the Bible says that this is this is a time of joy for believers. It's joy in recognizing the crucifixion of death and the resurrection, and with that there is eternal life, the crucifixion for our sins. Uh the dying for our sins, the eternal life that He gives us when we put our trust in Him, and all of that. So we would say that baptism in the Lord's Supper would not have been carried out in the early church. Why would the early church do that? If the resurrection had not been a central component from the very beginning, why would they do that? Of course, that's uh that's ridiculous. Now let me let me fast forward here because we only have uh three minutes. I never finish these. these lectures. We're gonna have to start earlier. Um let me see here. I wanna I wanna um Let me see here. Uh I want to go to theories, some of the theories that skeptics have. We're not gonna have time to finish this, but um So let me let me let me let me move forward here. So skeptics also have theories about what actually happened to the body of Jesus, some theories. And um one of them is that you know the eyewitnesses that said they saw Jesus actually had a hallucination. All the appearances of the living Jesus after his death was merely a hallucination. So think about that They're saying that the people didn't really see Jesus. They just only had a hallucination that they saw Jesus. Anybody here ever have a hallucination? Don't raise your hand. But But um that's not even it's not even rational to think that. You know why? Because the Bible says he appeared to more than 500 people. So are you telling me? That more than 500 people had a hallucination? The same one? The same hallucination, 500 people? Psychologist Gary Collins writes this, hallucinations are individual occurrences. By their very nature, only one person can see a given hallucination at a time. And yet they're claiming that all these people had the same hallucination. It's not true because those who saw Jesus after his death did not expect to see him. They were surprised. when they saw Jesus. Psychiatrists agree that hallucinations require expectation. And then of course they say, well, Jesus didn't die on the cross. He didn't really die. And that's why they thought that he rose again, because he never really died to begin with. Well, the Roman soldiers who nailed Jesus to the cross are pretty much experts at what they do But they still say that he didn't die, despite that. They say rather on the cross he passed out. He was removed from the cross. He was placed in the tomb. And later Jesus was revived and left the tomb in a weakened condition. Can you believe that? Well, if this were true, then Jesus had to survive mass blood loss, torture, a stab woman in his side. The Roman soldiers who were well acquainted with crucifixion would have failed in their duties, and remember, if they fail in their duties, they suffer with their own death, if you fail in your duty as a Roman soldier. Furthermore, if the soldiers failed, they would have received the death penalty, as I said. The Roman soldiers broke the legs of the two criminals crucified next to Jesus in order to speed up their death. They would suffocate, they couldn't push up so they would suffocate and die quicker. If Jesus were still alive, they would have done the same to him, but the Bible says none of his bones were broken. And so the witnesses saw that when Jesus was stabbed in his side, water mixed with blood poured out, medically indicating that Jesus had already died. No one questioned whether Jesus was dead or alive when they prepared his body and completely wrapped it in linen. No one questioned it at all then. And then if Jesus had survived crucifixion, every eye witness would have been mistaken. In addition, while suffering from the wounds on his back, in his side, in his feet and hands, Jesus had to roll the stone away, which would take normally several men, but he had to do it in a weakened condition, and then he would have to sneak past four actually I would say there were sixteen guards, four on each direction. and then walked several miles on the road to Emmaus. According to studies of the first century tomb, the tomb was likely sealed by a 2,000-pound rolling stone that fit in a sloping track. impossible for an individual to move from the inside of the tomb. So, friend, that's all we have time for. But we're considering the historical evidence of the resurrection of Christ. When you add up all of this evidence here, We just simply say this as believers, there's more evidence to the resurrection of Christ than is necessary to prove that Jesus really did come out of that tomb. Let's all stand together. We're going to have a word of prayer, and then we're going to prepare for our service to follow today. Father, thank you for the word of God and the clarity of it. Again, Lord, we as Christians need to be able to give an answer to those who ask us of the hope that we have. So help us, Lord, to learn these things. Help us to be able to articulate these evidences. all that to prove the reality of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the risen Savior and Lord. And Father, may people Continue to hear the gospel in this church and be transformed by the resurrected Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.