On this the topic of um apologetics. I hope it's not getting old to you because I intend to turn you all into brilliant apologists. All right. So uh we're going to be dealing with that again today. But let's let's open up our our passage of scripture that we know so well, but I want you to look at it again. First Peter chapter three, and I want you to look in verse number 15. This is as I said the locus classicus, the classical location for the passage that deals with this issue of apologetics. First Peter chapter three and verse fifteen. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you of the reason of the hope that is in you with meek And so remember we said that the word uh uh uh apologia is a word that simply means to defend. It was an official term used in the courts of that day. to give an answer. And what we want to do as believers is be able to give an answer to the world against some of the lies that are put out there, frankly, against Christianity. Some of the hard questions that are posed about by people who who ask the question, Why should I believe in a God? How do you know there is a God? How do you know the Bible is the Word of God? All those difficult questions, and we want to be able to give an answer to people who ask that question. And that's what apologetics is deals with. Now so far, we've talked about the meaning of apologetics. that God's call called all of us to this. We talked about the different methods of apologetics. We talked about the arguments that are used for the existence of God by classical apologists. And we've also talked about the presuppositional response with respect to having to prove there is a God, a presupposition as we'll say we start from the presupposition that there is a God. Everyone starts with some presupposition and the most reasonable The most rational presupposition to begin is with the idea that there is a God. And in the beginning, God doesn't try to give an explanation for himself Or give you reasons to believe in him, he just says, I, in the beginning, God. Now I want to talk about really today dealing with the problem of evil because this is a question that people pose with respect to apologetics, and that is You know, why should I believe in in a God when there's so much evil in the world? If there is a God, why does he allow so much evil and suffering in the world? How many of you had people ask that question too? Or perhaps you've heard that question posed. Why should I believe in a God when there's so much evil and suffering in the world? And this is a thing that we want to prepare ourselves to give an answer about. Why does God allow evil? Now this particular area is called, this is a branch of theology that is called theodicy This is the branch of theology that deals with defending God's goodness and justice in the face of the existence of evil. And the word theodicy comes from two Greek word theos, which Which is God, and Dice, which is the the Greek word for the justice of or the rightness of, or we could say the righteousness of. And this poses the question, how can God be good and right and just when he allows so much evil and suffering in the world? And so really it deals with then the vindication of the divine attributes of God's holiness and justice and allowing uh evil, uh uh sin and evil and suffering in the world. And this term actually goes all the way back to 1710. It was coined by a German philosopher in his work titled The Essay of Theodicy about the Benevolence of God. The Free Will of Men and The Origin of Evil. You ever notice those guys back in those centuries had really long titles to their essays and books? I mean the whole the title is almost the essay itself. But it kind of gives you the idea of what he's talking about here. Now the purpose of the essay that was written was to show that the evil in the world does not conflict with the goodness of God. And if God exists, why does evil exist? Again, this is the question. Why would a just loving God create a system in which evil is so pervasive? Now again, questions like these have been around. They've kept philosophers busy. Everybody has their own theodicy, we could say, their own reason or answer to this question. The problem is a lot of these theodicies just don't harmonize with what the scripture says with reference to God. Epicureus was a Greek philosopher, and he asked this question, he says this, poses this. Is he that is God willing to prevent evil but not able, then he is infinite, as he's not almighty. Is he able but not willing? Then he is malevolent. Is he both able and willing? Whence then is evil? And then is he neither willing nor able? Then why call him God? And so you can see that this whole idea, this whole thought goes all the way back and to the days of the Greek philosophers where they're posing these questions J. S. Mills goes on to say if God were all powerful, he could destroy evil. If God were all good, he would want to destroy evil. But evil is not destroyed Therefore, an all-powerful and all good God does not exist. And again, we've all heard these kind of arguments. We've heard these kind of reasons. uh for people not to believe. But remember I told you that some people they just don't want to believe in a God. And since they don't want to believe in a God, this is a handy reason for them not to believe in God. If man is just pushing God away and looking for reasons not to believe, this is one of the most used clubs against God that we could say. This existence of evil and sin and suffering in the world. And so what I want us to do is just kind of look at this. This is probably going to take us two weeks, so I hope that you'll be with me on both weeks until we wrap up all of it. Because you might leave here today saying, I don't know about that preacher. I think he's half crazy. Well wait until you hear everything before you judge me to be crazy. And trust me, I'm worse than you think. Uh so so we what we want to do is we want to know what what do we what do we know about God? What does the scripture tell us about God? Let's start there. We know that God is omni-benevolent. You say, what's that mean? Omni simply means all. Benevolent just simply means good. And it simply means that God is always good. How many of you would agree with that? God is good. He's always good. Okay? We don't have to wonder about that because the Bible tells us. Jesus said to the rich young ruler, No one is good but God alone. God is good. The psalmist affirmed that the Lord is Good. In Psalm 106, verse 2, it says, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. And again, the Lord is good and a stronghold in the day of trouble. And so I have no problem believing that, that God is a good God, that God is a God who does what is right. Abraham said in the Old Testament, Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And of course the answer to that is of course he will always do what is right. In fact, God is the standard of what is good. God is the standard of what is right. God doesn't do a thing because it is right and good. A thing is right and good because God does it. He's the standard of what is good and right. Alright? So we have to affirm that first of all. And the reason I uh make that point is because And some answers to the question of evil, as we've already seen, there were some who would propose the idea that maybe God isn't always good. In fact, in Greek mythology, the Greek gods, there were some Greek gods that were good, and there were some that were not so good And the ones that were not so good, they had a place for them to go. And it's the word Tartarus that was a kind of a Greek hell where the bad gods went. And there are some out there that actually would question the goodness of God. But we can't do that because the Bible says God is good. Here's another thing that we know about God, and that is God is omnipotent. Not only is he omnibenevolent, but God is omnipotent, and what does that mean? It means that God is all powerful. God is able to do anything and accomplish His holy will. How many of you believe God is omnipotent? Amen. God is all powerful. God asked this rhetorical question in Genesis 18, 14, is anything too hard for the Lord? No. He can do anything. Jeremiah said, nothing is too hard for you. Paul said, God is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Jesus said, with God all things are possible. Now again, it's important to establish this point because some people, when trying to answer the problem of evil and suffering in the world, they would pose this idea that perhaps God is not able to To hold off some of the evil that's in the world. Perhaps he he's trying, but he he he just can't stop it. That's that's the excuse that some people would use. Uh you say well I can't I it's hard to believe somebody would do that. There's a guy by the name of Greg Boyd who wrote a book called God at War. The biblical and spiritual conflict. And Greg Boyd argues in this book, and I've read this book, not all of it, I've I had as much as I could take, and I and I put it down. But he argues in this book here that God is locked in this cosmic warfare with Satan and evil. That there's this constant war that's going on, this const this cosmic dualism when sometimes Satan wins and sometimes God wins. And uh, you know, and that's what he honestly poses in this. Sometimes Satan wins, sometimes God will win. Well I have a serious problem with that answer. And by the way, this is his what he calls the Trinitarian warfare theodicy. This is his answer for why sin and evil are in the world. It's because God's doing the best he can, but sometimes he doesn't win. And what does that say about the omnipotence of God? It's saying that God's not almighty. And what it does is it puts the devil on equal footing with God. And the devil is nowhere near equal to God. And so he says in this book here, let me give you a little quote here. He says, It seems we must either believe that God does not prevent certain events because he chooses not to, or because he's unable to. And of course he diverts to that. He's unable to uh prevent some of those things. He goes on to say this. The w the the warfare the the warfare worldview denies that God always chooses not to intervene for this world required the belief that there is a specific purpose behind everything. We can't we can't believe that that God has a purpose for everything Therefore, he says, hence the world fair the warfare worldview must accept that at least sometimes God is unable to prevent them. Sometimes God just can't stop it. The reason we have a 9-11, you know, God was doing the best he can, he just didn't he couldn't stop it The reason there's certain sickness and things that are happening in the world is because God was just unable to stop it. And that's their theodicy. That's how they explain sin and evil and suffering in the world. And this also, along with this, is a book that was put out. You may have heard of this book written by the rabbi Harold Kushner. who wrote the book When Bad Things Happen to Good People. You may have heard of this book because it was a national bestseller, a lot of people that went through suffering. uh y uh pick this book up and it seemed to be a comfort to them in a very difficult time. And the book that he wrote is dedicated to the memory of his young son Aaron who died at the age of fourteen of an incurable genetic disease, which is hard but we always hate to hear something like that. I think the worst uh trial that a parent can go through is to lose a child. So our heart goes out to anyone that would lose a child. But in in wrestling with the loss of his his son. He was trying to figure it out, you know, why would God allow this? Why would this happen in my life? And uh so he came up with this book here. This again, this was a New York Times bestseller for many months in a nonfiction category. And what he does is he he offers comfort to grieving people, but his answer to the philosophical problem is that God Does his best and is with people in their suffering, but he's not fully able to prevent it. Again, that's the same argument. God's doing the best he can But he just at times is not able to hold back sin and hold back evil and hold back suffering. And so he says in the book, God is like people, is a victim of sin and evil. He says he is at the mercy of circumstances. Now, I have a problem with that view, because my Bible tells me again, as we already saw in these verses, that our God is all powerful. That he is almighty, that there's nothing too hard for him. And so this view, this theodicy we could say, denies the omnipotence of God. So we have a view that denies the omnibenevolence of God. There are some people that say, well, God just isn't always good. That's why there's sin in the world. But we can't go there because we believe what the Bible says that God is always good. And we can't go here because we believe what the Bible says, that God is always omnipotent. But also, this denies the sovereignty of God. The Bible says from him and through him and to him are all things. And that he works all things after the counsel of his will. In Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in the heaven, he does whatsoever he pleases. Daniel 4, the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, gives it to whomsoever he will. The Bible portrays God most accurately as not only omnipotent, but sovereign, exhaustively sovereign over everything that happens. And so again, this view denies the sovereignty of God. There's another verse here in 1 Chronicles 29. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and the earth is thine Mine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come from thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thy hand is power and might, and in thy hand is able to make great and to give strength unto all. So you see, this is how God is portrayed in strength. Scripture. The mighty, all powerful God who is sovereign over all. So we can't adopt a theodicy that would bring God down and say that He's not all powerful. Well, I also believe this God is omniscient. What do we mean by omniscient? This means God is all-knowing. God knows everything. God knows all and seems and sees all. Past, present, and future. In fact, Wayne Grudel, in his I like that his definition in his systematic theology about the omniscience of God, he defines it like this: God fully knows himself in all things actual and possible in one simple act. Everything. When you think about the omniscience of God, it just it's amazing. It's amazing. God knows everything about you. He knows everything about everybody. person that's ever been born before they were ever born. He knows the thoughts that's going to come into their mind before they come. He knows what's going to happen tomorrow and ten years from now and a hundred years from now. He knows everything, and he knows it in one simple act. Amazing. That God knows everything. Now again, the reason we make this point is because, again, there are theodicies out there that would deny this attribute of God. They would redefine the omniscience of God. In fact, there's a theodicy called open theism theodicy. This is what this poses. In fact, in the book, again written by Greg Boyd, the same guy who wrote the book on God at War, he decided to write another book where he said that they called God of the Possible Where he says basically there are two motifs in the Bible. The motif of future determinism, and again I read this book as much as I could stand. And uh he said there's the there's the motif of future determinism where God knows the future because he determines it. And then on the opposite side of that, he says, there is the motif of future openness where God does not know what will happen. He knows only future contingencies or future possibilities. So what he does basically is he redefines the omniscience of God and saying, God knows everything that's already happened And God knows the things that He is going to determine to happen, but there's an area out there where God doesn't know about. Where it's called it's open. It's all open. It's not determined. Okay? That's why it's called open theism. It's just open. He knows what could possibly happen in that area of unknowing. He knows what could possibly happen. He knows all the future contingencies. He knows all the future possibilities. But when you get right down to it, he's not exactly sure what will happen. Because that future is not yet reality. And since it's not yet reality, how can God possibly know about it? And so he says, Greg Boyd says in his book that there are divine ignorance passages in the Bible that we should take literally. Divine ignorance means God is ignorant of something. Okay, for example, when Adam was in the garden and God's saying, You know, Adam, where are you? God's looking around for Adam, hide and go seek with God in the Garden of Eden. Where are you, Adam? Oh, there you are. Hiding behind that bush. We should take those passages literally. When Abraham sacrificed Isaac on Mount Moriah, And he was getting ready to bring the knife down, and God stopped him. And God said, Now I know that you really fear me. As if God didn't know that before. But now he knows it. And this whole test certified that in God's mind. When God expressed shock over Israel's disobedience, saying, Nor did it enter into my mind. God's you know I d I had no idea that she would act this way. It didn't even come into my mind. You know What would we say about passages like that in the Bible? Were those passages originally intended by the writer to express the idea that God honestly doesn't know something? No, these are what are called anthropomorphic. That's a big word. I want you to go home and practice spelling that. Anthropomorphic passages. What is that? Anthro? The Greek word man, morphic in the form of This is where God in the scripture, in order to communicate to man, he lowers himself and he uses language on the level of man in order for man to understand him. Okay? So God will sometimes uh present himself in in anthropomorphic terms so that we can understand A lot of the Bible has anthropomorphic passages like this, but these passages, if you read them with a wooden literalism, you're getting out of something that was never originally intended there God was never originally intending to communicate that he really didn't know where Adam was, or he didn't know what Abraham uh was going to do, and or he didn't know uh that Israel was going to sin against him at such a uh awful fashion. No, God is just simply communicating in a way understandable. But God is a God who knows everything. He knows everything, past, present, and future. And another book, another open theist, his name is John Sanders. And he has this same idea that, you know, God there's a there's a future out there that God doesn't know about, and so therefore, um, you know, we're not sure what's going to happen. And he calls the title of this book The God Who Risks. The God who risks. And he called the creation of man God's project. God was learning how to be a parent. And so in his idea, God is actually learning and growing in knowledge. And in creation was God's experiment with man, and God was learning Himself how to be a parent, a father. And uh and it it it went wrong on him. Uh when he created man, you know, that whole thing in the garden with a snake, man, that messed things up. And man got really bad. And the experiment that God made with man, it went really bad. And so therefore, man got so evil that God said, you know what, I'm just gonna scrap this whole thing and start over. So I'm going to destroy the world with a flood. And so God decided to do that. He took responsibility for the failed project. John Sanders says in the book. God destroys the earth with a with with but the grief that the flood caused was even greater than the failure of the project, he says in the book. So God decides a different course of action next time God says, you know what, that flood, that really hurt me, and so I'm not going to do that again. I'm going to put this rainbow in the sky to make sure that everybody knows that. In other words, according to John Sanders, God made some mistakes. And God is learning from those mistakes, and God repents of things that he did. That's the God that he's presenting there. Again, this is an open theism. What are they trying to say here about, they're answering the question of why is there sin and evil sometimes in the world? It's because God doesn't see it coming. He doesn't see it coming. There's just certain things he can't see. And so their answer then to this theodicy is. God is not omniscient the way we think. Since God doesn't know everything, there are things he does not see coming. He was caught off guard. This is an easy way to expand evil uh uh to excuse me, should say explain evil when it seems to get God off the hook. Sanders by the way, Sanders wrote this book You should you know, when you when I read it, I read the first thing I read was the introduction to it. He wrote this book. This book came about as one night he was driving down the road. He was a he was a reporter, a journalist. before he went into uh theology. And he was driving down the road. He saw a terrible accident in front of him And when he got close, he decided to get out and investigate since he was a reporter. He went over to the scene of the accident. There was a man laying under a a sheet who had obviously died. Was hit by a tr uh And he grieved over that. And he went back and he thought, how can God allow this to happen? How can God, you know, allow my brother to die like this? In such a terrible accident. And he began to rethink some of the theology that he had learned as a child. He was a Christian And he came to the conclusion as he reread a lot of the old of the Bible, and he came to those passages in the Bible where it seemed like God didn't know what was going to happen in the future. And instead of reading that as an anthropomorphic expression, uh he took it literally. And he came up with this conclusion. God just didn't see it coming. And he wrote this whole book to give us a new understanding of God. As a God who can see potential things, but not everything. He doesn't know everything. But I have a problem with that theodicy because I believe that God is omniscient So I can't go there. God is omnibenevolent. He's always good. God is omnipotent. He can do anything. God is omniscient. He sees everything. These theodicies bring down God. And they try to place them in a level of man where man can understand. The only problem is again it doesn't harmonize with the Bible. And then there's another theodicy out there, and I'll say this just for fairness, and that is the Christian science theodicy. And the theodicy of the Christian science is simple: they flatly deny the reality of evil. According to their system, all sin, badness, disease, and other negative effects of evil are simply figments of imagination, or as they would say, the errors of mortal thinking. You know, you only think that there's bad. There's not really bad. Okay, it's not real. Mary Baker Eddy taught the Bible was full of errors. And was only useful when interpreted by her own writing, science and health were the key to the scriptures. So we needed Mary Baker, Glover Patterson, Eddie, I mean she has a lot of names, but we needed her help to Interpret the Bible. And in this volume, Eddie rejected Genesis chapter 2 as a corruption or a lie, and relied on Genesis 1 to make a case for humans as completely spiritual creatures who have nothing to do with matter. Genesis 2 links the creation of man to the dust of the ground. So that's why she called Genesis 2 a corruption. Creation science describes humans as purely spiritual and immaterial creation of a spiritual and immaterial God. And basically this to me sounds like rework Gnosticism from the first century. That's all she does really here. It's just a new lie. And she goes on to say if God is the spiritual and material creator of all things and is Creations are purely spiritual. The problem with the world we live in is simple. We have been deceived into thinking matter, sin, illness, and death exist when in fact they don't exist. It just doesn't it's just not real. You only think it is. Okay? How did this happen? Christian science teaches our deception is the result of the devil. But it defines the devil as evil, a lie, an error, a belief, a belief in sin, sickness, and death, or belief in the material world. The devil is not a person, but just simply a belief. Just here's a quote. This evil is a negation because it is the absence of truth, it is nothing, because it is the absence of something, it is unreal, because it presupposes the absence of God, the omnipotent and omnipresent. Every mortal must learn that there is neither power nor reality in evil. Now I I don't I don't want to go on too much on this, but um you know Jay Adams basically commented on this and he said they implode their own belief by this internally inconsistent, self-contradictory explanation. If there is no such thing as evil, if God is all in all is God as they teach Then this all-knowing God, of which every human being is a part, cannot err, and there's no such thing as a mortal mind. But we have to go on again because we can't go there. That's ridiculous to think that evil doesn't exist. So none of these theodicies work because God is omnibenevolent, as we said, God is omnipotent, God is omniscient, and there is real evil. How many of you would agree that there's real evil and sin and suffering in the world? Evil exists. It's out there. We know that. We see it every day. Our eyes are open. It dominates our world. And we could divide this up into several categories. First of all, there's natural evil, which we would call calamity This is impersonal. It's uh not something a person does to another. This natural calamity. It's external, it is physical, it's temporal, it's a product of a cursed creation. that we live in and it acts on people every day with devastating effects. We live in a cursed creation. How many of you realize that? I mean, and you say, well yeah man has man has cursed it. Well actually man sinned and God cursed it God is the one who put the curse on it. As a result of man's sin. So that's why we have disease. We have Disasters, we have catastrophes, we have from tiny v bacteria to tidal waves, from viruses to volcanoes, and the Bible speaks about this. in in many places. For instance, Romans chapter 8, for the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who has subjected the same and ho. Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption and the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. All of creation is groaning You know what creation wants to see? The full redemption of you and me. When the Lord comes back and we get a brand new glorified body, and creation is waiting for that. In fact, the Bible presents creation personified in Romans 8. Standing on its tiptoes, looking out in the future, saying, When is God coming back? When is Jesus coming back? Because when Jesus comes back We all get our redemption completed. The final stage of our salvation is completed. We get a brand new glorified body. And guess what creation gets? Creation gets a brand new body, too. There's a new heaven and a new earth. You see, uh creation is linked with man so much so that when man fell and took the curse of sin, creation took the curse of sin too. And when man gets renewed, creation will get renewed. So creation is groaning now because all of creation now is cursed, and we get all these things happening in the world. tidal waves, we got hurricanes, we've got tsunamis, we've got tornadoes, we've got disease and bacteria. You know, just one little virus can come up, a new virus that man has never seen before. And before man can get a handle on it, many people can die. That can happen very easily. In fact, in the book The Great Influenza, you may have heard of this book, this is again a New York Times bestseller, it was um In this book it talks about the great influenza that took place right around World War I. And it tells in this book it talks about the first actual cure of a human disease came in 1885. They couldn't cure human disease until then because we didn't really understand the science of it. In 1915, a few Kansas guys are conscripted to go into the Army. And so they're going to go to the First World War. But they go to Kansas and they get the flu caused by some tiny little virus. These guys here. And before the influenza that started with a few guys in Kansas ended, 100 million people around the world were dead. 100 million people. It's amazing. It just couldn't be stopped. Every scientific approach was tried. And actually, in the effort to try to stamp out this disease, this illness, this there came the formulation of the American Medical Association as we know it. A lot of the great medical centers that we know of today in our country came into existence as a result of this great influenza to try to stop this disease that was killing so many people. And so they never found the cure, even to this day, for that particular virus. And if it came back, it would do the same thing all over again. The Center for Disease Control is constantly battling to fight off these diseases that come about. And what is this is again, this is the result of a cursed creation. That's why I say that it's a common grace from God that God has given man the ability to use technology to hold back the curse of creation that is out there. That's all a common grace from God. Every time you walk into a hospital and get a medicine that helps you, or anything like that, get an X-ray or MRI. Or any of those things that kind of help you fight off a disease. That's a common grace from God. That God has given man the ability to do that because we live in this cursed earth that has this curse of uh from God on it. Where we're constantly fighting these battles against this. There's natural evil in the world. We know that. There's moral evil. People acting in an evil way against others. Psalm 14, verses 2 and 3. The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men. to see if there were any that did understand and seek God. And what did he discover when he looked down? And by the way, the word there for children of man, the Hebrew is Call Bene Adam all the all the sons of Adam, all the children of Adam. God looked down from heaven to all the children of Adam. Who does that leave out? Nobody He's looking down through the telescope of time. He's looking out on all of mankind. He's looking out on all of every person. Remember, God can see all things in one actual act. Past, present, and future. And here's a definition of it right here in Psalm 14. He looks, and what does he see? Does he see anybody doing good? Does he see anybody seeking him? They are all gone aside. They are altogether become filthy. There is none that doeth good. No not one. Nobody. So there's moral evil that happens in the world. Someone said when the chips are down, these civilized people will eat each other. And then there's supernatural evil. Supernatural evil. And we know this because the Bible speaks of it. Satan is the father of lies. He's a murderer from the beginning. There are demons, fallen angels cast out of heaven, vile beings as old as creation. What does the Bible say in 1 John 5 19? We know that we are from God And the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. Literally in the Greek, lies in the lap of the wicked one. That this world is under the domain of Satan. What does the Bible call him? The prince and the power of the air. The Bible calls him the God of this world. And so Satan and his demons have had thousands of years to express their um Corruption? They don't have any kind of human government like man. You say, why didn't you mention that? Well, because human government was established by God to do what? To restrain the evil that's in man In fact, God has given several things to man to restrain evil. What are they? First of all, the conscience. Soon as Adam and Eve sin in the garden. God gave them a conscience and they were able to feel the guilt of what they had done. Conscience restrains evil in people. And what else is he given? The family, moms and dads who teach right and wrong, restrains evil. And then the government is another tool that God has given man to restrain evil. Human government is to exercise A God ordained power and authority to hold back the evil that's in man. And then there's also, of course, the gospel, the the church, with the and which is the most powerful force in restraining evil in the world. is the church and the gospel itself. But Satan and his dominions have no such restraining forces in their system. And so they do evil unabated. This evil hierarchy has nothing in that system to restrain them. And then finally there's eternal evil. And we we know what that is. That's judgment, that's hell. So just to summarize everything that we've talked about already We have to we can't we can't accept any of these theodicies or explanations for sin and evil in the world because they deny an aspect of God. And they bring God down. A valid theodicy must affirm that God is omnibenevolent, he's good. God is omnipotent, He's powerful, He's omniscient, He's wise and all-knowing. Evil does exist. To stick your head in the sand and to play that metaphysical game, say that there's no evil, is just ridiculous But here's another thing, God is sovereign. And I know I mentioned this before because uh You know, it goes along with being all-powerful, but let me just talk about this just a little bit. God is sovereign. God is in control of all things. That's what the sovereignty of God teaches in the scripture. And the reason I bring this up is because there is out there this free will theodicy where it's also called autonomous theodicy. And you say, what is that? This suggests that the cause of evil is the abuse of free will. The reason we have evil in the world is because God has allowed free will because it is the highest good. And God wants to preserve this highest good of free will That is at the heart of all Arminian theology, free will trumps everything. God has to preserve man's free will So God had to allow for the possibility of evil in order to preserve the most highly priced thing that exists, according to this theodicy, which is man's free will. He has to preserve that. And so this is what is called then the free will theodicy. God gave angels free will that operated completely apart from his divine purpose. God gave man free will. That operates completely apart from any divine purpose. Both have self-determined freedom to act And so Satan Lucifer in heaven, when he got was filled with pride, decided, you know, he wanted his own thing, and God had to kick him out of heaven. It's because he had his own free will and free agency to do what he wanted, and so therefore sin came about there, and then Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, they had their own free will, and that's why we're in the mess that we're in. Now we wouldn't deny that that they are part of this sin and evil coming into the world. But the problem with this is, you know, they think this gets God off the hook, right? Well, you know, God's off the hook because, you know, Lucifer and and uh And Adam and Eve, God is not responsible for the evil the devil is. Adam and Eve are. Why did God, but here's the problem with that. Why did God create them with that possibility? In other words, this people that hold on to this theodicy say, well, this gets got off the hook. Well, okay, but Did God know that Adam and Eve was going to sin? Well, if we believe in the omniscience of God, we do. Did God know that Lucifer was going to rebel? Of course he did. And so God knew it would happen. We have to ask this question: could God have prevented it? Yeah, he could have. Of course he could have. Well then the question still comes up. Then why didn't he? If he knew that Lucifer would rebel And he would tempt Adam and Eve, and Adam and Eve would sin and bring all this into the world. Why didn't he just stop that? I mean he could have he could have created it in a way where that was not possible, because there's nothing impossible for God. So my point here is that this free will theodicy doesn't really get God off the hook. Any theodicy that deals with the problem of sin and evil Must be built upon God. It has to start with God. All things ultimately go back to God. You can't just build your answer on Adam and Eve. And you can't just build your answer on the devil. In fact, that's why this is called theodicy. Because this is the dilemma. It's defending the justice, the holiness, and the righteousness of God in the face of sin and evil. So we have to go back to God. Because God, who is all-knowing and all-powerful, he could have prevented it. He could have stopped it. He saw it coming. He knew it was going to happen. We have to go back to God from the very beginning. The question of theodicy deals with the righteousness and justice of God and allowing evil. So a free will theodicy, what it basically does is it reinvents God. The Bible does not present a God who values human will over his own will. Because you know what the problem with that is? That would make man sovereign and not God. That would put man in control and not God. That's the problem with that. Or a God whose own will can be thwarted by the free will choices of humanity. Do you think that my will can actually trump God's will? Can overcome God's will? Can stop God's plan? Prevent God from doing what He ha has designed to do? There's a problem with this free will theodicy. To design a God that has limited power, limited knowledge, that gives his creatures sovereignty over himself is to design a false God. Man doesn't have control over God. Man can't stop God. That is a God that has no control of man or demons or the universe, and therefore we can be sure of nothing that He's promised. Well God says, well, yeah, I know I promised this, but you know what, you guys messed it up. So I can't do that now. Well, how do I know how anything's going to turn out? How can I be sure of anything then? If man can thwart the promises and purposes of God, he can stop God's will from coming to pass. Again, that puts man in the driver's seat and not God. But the Bible teaches that God is sovereign. He's sovereign. And the Bible teaches that God is exhaustively sovereign. Not just, you can't be just a little bit sovereign. You say, well, you know, God's He's in charge of all the big things, but He's not in charge of the little things. Well, the little things can overturn the big things. You know. The illustration I l I use is kind of corny, but you know let's just suppose I go to Africa, Liberia, I'm over there ministering, I get bit by a mosquito, I get malaria, I die, go to heaven, and God says, Jerry, what are you doing here? Well God, I was in mal I was in Liberia, I got sketobite, I got malaria, and now I'm here in heaven, and God says, Well, I didn't intend for you to be here right now You know, I'm sovereign over the big things, but I'm not sovereign over a mosquito bite. Sorry about that. I missed out on that one. God is sovereign over every detail. Because like big doors swing on small hinges, big events swing on small details. One little detail can overturn a huge event. So that's why God he's either sovereign exhaustively or he's not sovereign at all. You understand my thinking there? He's sovereign over life and death. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 32, 39, see now that I, even I, am He, and there is no other God with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. Job 1, 21 and 22 and Job said, Naked came out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. Thither the Lord gave, and the Lord had taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And the Bible says, and all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. When did Job say this? After he lost his children. He said the Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And James it says, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live. Because God has power over my life. If God wills, I'll live to finish this Sunday. Or tomorrow, because God has the power over life and death. First Samuel two, six, and seven It says, uh, the Lord killeth and maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave and he bringeth up. The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich, he bringeth low, and he lifts up. He's sovereign over life and death. He's sovereign over disease and defects. In Exodus 4, and the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? Who maketh the dumb or deaf or seeing or the blind? God said to Moses when Moses said, Look, I can't speak. God said, Who do you think made you? I'm calling you to do something. Do you think I know what I'm doing here? I'm the one who made you. I make the dumb and the deaf and the seeing and the blind. In 2 Chronicles 21, 18, after all and after all this the Lord smote him in his bowels with an incurable disease. Speaking of King Jehoram. The Lord gave him that disease. In Genesis 12, and the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarah. 2 Kings 15, 5, and the Lord smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a several house, and so on. He's sovereign over life and death. He's sovereign over disease and defects. He's sovereign over natural disasters. Who do you think sent the flood in the beginning? That wasn't something that God just saw coming. God said to Noah, for yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain. upon the earth, forty days and forty nights, and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth In Psalm 105, 16 and 17, moreover, he called for a famine upon the land. And God called for the famine. God brought it. On the land. And then in Psalm 147, verse 18, he sendeth out his word and melteth them. Flow in Psalm 148, verse 8, fire and hail, snow and vapor, stormy wind, fulfilling what? His word. He calls for it all. He's got control of it all. In Job thirty seven, by the breath of God frost is given, and the breath of the waters is straightened. Also by watering he weareth a thick cloud, he scattereth his bright cloud, and it is turned round about by his counsel. That they may do whatever He commandeth, that upon the face of the world of the in the earth he causes it to come, whether for correction, Or for his land, or for mercy. God will send storm. He'll send rain. He'll do this. He'll do it to correct. He'll do it because the land needs it, or he sometimes just wants to show mercy. God will do it according to the way he wants to do it. That's what he does. He's Okay, so we're out of time. I told you I told you this was going to take two weeks. Now we're halfway through. Now, before you judge me a heretic, you have to hear the rest of it. So how many of promise you won't call me a heretic? And that you'll come back next week and hear the second part of this. Alright? Because we've got to finish it up because we're not done answering this question yet. We have a big answer here that we need to give. We need to go to the scripture to find out what is the biblical idea of, you know, what is how does God explain sin and evil and suffering into the world? What does God say about it? Because that's what we're driving through. That's what we're getting at. And so far all we've done today is we've shown how all these other explanations, these other theodices are inadequate. Because they all bring down God. But we want to stay what the scripture says about God. We'll do that next week. Let's all stand together. We'll have a word of prayer and we'll finish it up. Father, so bless us as we continue to study your word, Lord. Give us understanding. Lord, bless our service to follow. And Lord, just save souls and strengthen the body of Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Memph nore