Good morning everyone. Good to see you here today. As you know, we've been talking about here in our morning study, we've been dealing with the issue of defending our faith which is called apologetics, and we're dealing with the issue most specifically now of reasons to believe the Bible is the Word of God. This is one of the big attacks again that today comes against Christianity, against the church. is questioning the authority, the veracity of the scripture. And so we said that one of the things we definitely want to learn to do is be able to give an answer why we believe that the Bible is the Word of God. And so we've been I'm just going over reasons with you from the scripture on why we know the Bible is God's Word. And let me just review with you real quickly. Remember one of the reasons, if someone came to me to say, uh Pastor Harmon, can you prove to me that the Bible is the Word of God. I would just give these various arguments. And the first one I would say is, well, just consider it scientific accuracy. Remember we talked about that. Because it makes sense that if God created the universe, this God wrote a book that wherever scientific fact has been proven to be true, it would harmonize with the Bible And we have shown that wherever scientific facts well not all scientific facts, but the some scientific facts that have proven to be true uh we saw that it harmonizes with the scripture. For example, the ancients used to believe that the earth was supported on, you know, crazy, crazy ideas about what the earth was supported on supported on. They used to believe the Hindus and Chinese that the earth was supported on the backs of elephants, or on the backs of a tortoise, or on the back of a coiled snake. But what did Job say? Job was the first book of the Bible written and Job says he hangs the earth on what? On not How did Job know that? Because the same God that created the universe also inspired Scripture. Isaiah said it is God who sits on the circle of the earth There are some people that used to believe the earth was flat. Some people still do today. But the Bible says in Isaiah, this Isaiah was written 750 years before Jesus. Isaiah said, God sits upon the globe is the Hebrew word. or the sphere or the ball of the earth. How did Isaiah know that? Well, it's because the God who created the universe also wrote scripture. We looked at other scientific facts. with reference to this. And I'm not going to get into all of that and go over it again because we have to move on here. But we we talked about scientific accuracy and we also said if I were going to prove to someone the Bible is the Word of God, I would point to another thing. I would say, look at the fulfilled prophecy. And you remember last week we looked at some individual prophecies that were fulfilled very, very specifically. For example, the prophecy in Ezekiel 26. where God prophesied seven specific things that would happen to the city of Tyre and all those things happened. Peter Stoner, who is a professor at Westmont in California, applied the principle of probability to all those prophecies. And they came up with a mathematical equation of what it would what the odds would be for those things happening just by chance or just by coincidence. And the chances were 400 a million to one that all of those things would happen just like the Bible says they would happen, and yet they happen. And then you add to that the prophecies about Jesus the Messiah and how he would come. And if you go to all those specific prophecies, by the way, there are over a hundred Old Testament prophecies that Jesus specifically fulfilled. And if you apply the principle of probability to all those prophecies, you come up to a number that is hard for us even to imagine. And the bottom line is it's it's impossible that Jesus will be able to fulfill all those prophecies by chance, by happenstance. We're talking about where he would be born. Uh how many of you had control over where you were born? Anybody have control over where you were born? None of us, right? And yet there are still liberals that say, well, Jesus, he saw those prophecies and he tried to fulfill them. Oh, really? Well, I would tell you this. God made those prophecies and God determined to fulfill them. That's the honest truth. So the chance of all those things happening would be impossible. So you can point to fulfilled prophecy, and by the way, we can spend weeks and weeks on just pointing to prophecies in the Bible that were fulfilled, and yet they were fulfilled just like the scripture says. And now I want to give you a third argument here today, and I want to talk about historical accuracy. And uh again, one of the big attacks against the Bible is that it's not historically reliable. And I think I've told you before that if you question the historicity of the scripture Then we question our very salvation because our whole salvation is based on historical facts. Our salvation is based on a man by the name of Jesus who literally lived In a place at a time, who did things. The gospels all record that. If all of that is a myth and a story, then we have no foundation for our salvation. Our salvation is based on facts that happened in the Old Testament all the way back to Adam. If Adam wasn't a real person, then why do we need salvation? Because if Adam wasn't a real person, then he didn't sin. He didn't bring the world into sin, humanity into sin. If we don't have any sin, why do we need salvation? So to attack the historicity of the Bible is to attack our salvation. And you have these theologians out there, these critical scholars that say, well, you know, the Bible, it's a good religious book. It's just not historically reliable. And that's that's a lie. The Bible is reliable because the God who created the heavens and the earth, and the God who is the controller of history. If he had a book and he had historical facts in that book, it would make sense that those four historical facts be true. That it's not just stories and myths. And this is where archaeology comes in This is a picture of Bryant Wood, dug with him at Kerbadel Macatter, one of the foremost biblical archaeologists today. And we're going to take a look at just some historical facts that line up with the scripture. The Bible is continually vindicated by history, archaeology, and geography. And it should increase our confidence in the credibility of the scripture. Now I think I told you before there are people out there that that call the that are minimalists that say the Bible is minimally historically reliable And again, that's just false. Biblical archaeologists are what are called maximalists. They believe in the maximum value of the historical reliability of the Bible. In archaeology, the more they dig And someone has called this day even today the golden age of archaeology because they're they're discovering things there every day now. There's all kind of things that are being dug up and discovered. There are thousands of potential spots to dig. And there's only a few hundred that have been dug, and what they have found lines up with the Bible. There's no contradiction. It's in full harmony with the historical events and the people and the places in the Scripture. How many of you ever heard of William F. Albright? He was uh he's kind of called the uh the leading archaeologist uh in the last century. He attests that there is little doubt that archaeology has confirmed the substantial historical accuracy of the Old Testament tradition. Now let just let me just say that by the way, William F. Albright taught down at Johns Hopkins University, and he was not always a maximalist. He went into the field of archaeology, biblical archaeology, thinking that the Bible wasn't very reliable with reference to its historical facts. And then he spent years and years digging over in Israel. And after many years of digging and being called the foremost arch biblical archaeologists of the last century, he changed his tune completely. And he said that there's little doubt that archaeology has confirmed the substantial historical accuracy Now he call says Old Testament because most of the places where he dug and the area where he specialized was with reference to Old Testament cities and peoples. and cultures. But he he definitely changed his mind on that. Recent interviews with leading archaeologists in Israel have again confirmed. the historical and geographical trustworthiness of the Bible. This is uh uh Steve Ortiz. Uh I got to know him a bit. But this is what and he's a he's considered another um preeminent archaeologist today. Uh he said serious scholars, even if they're not believers, even if they do not think this is a sacred text still consider it to be history because things match up so well. There isn't anything to contradict or anything to make weary weary of the testimony of Scripture And then Millard Burroughs wrote over a half century ago, said this, on the whole, archaeological work has unquestionably strengthened confidence in the reliability of Scripture. or scriptural record. More than one archaeologist has found his respect for the Bible increased by experience of excavation of Palestine. He stated archaeology has in many cases refuted the modern views, the views of modern critics. And there's just all kind of evidence out there that substantiates the Bible. discoveries made since the 1800s. It is estimated that 5,000 possible sites for excavation exist in Palestine alone. Less than 200 have been explored. Of the several hundred thousand tablets discovered and in museums, only about 10% have been translated You know, for example, you know, they found the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947. You know, they're still working on translating some of those. Some of those. So Uh and things that they find. I mean we we dug over in you know in Shiloh for a few seasons. We're still trying to figure out and decipher some of the things that were found and some of the digs that were there However, when we do find things that are definite, they always harmonize with the historicity of the Scripture. Uh the importance of archaeology is that it has aided many local uh biblical locations and locating I should say many biblical locations. It has thrown a floodlight on the customs of the biblical world and so on. It has helped us to clarify meanings of many biblical words by comparing their use in ancient documents. Just for an example, Uh I was over in uh two two summers ago I was over in Israel and um w we were uh exploring certain areas And we came upon a place where there was this funny looking bush and it had on the end of it a a fruit. It looked like a pear. There's several of them hanging there. Well I knew it wasn't a pear tree So the local locals basically told us what that was, and it was called an arara tree, an arara tree, or an arara bush. And um if you take the fruit, basically you squeeze it, it feels like a balloon. And if you open it up, it's it's like this white and milky type substance that that that comes out of it. And that is poison. In fact, it's deadly poison. And they found out that warriors would dip their arrows tips in this poison. And the word is a ra-ra. And there's a passage in um in the in the book of Jeremiah, chapter 17, that scholars have labored over because it's it's comparing the blessed man with the cursed man, and the cursed man will be like a And it uses a word, the Hebrew word is a ra. But scholars didn't know what that word meant. And so they translated it a bush or a heath. or a tree, but they weren't exactly sure what that word actually means. And then you know they wouldn't know what it means until unless they were over there in the land and they explored around and they found this ara tree with this fruit on it, which actually is death. And so it really brings that passage of Scripture to light Cursed is a man that trust is man, trust is in man, for he shall be like a rah-rah, which is basically poisonous. It's poisonous to put your trust in man instead of God. That's just one instance of how going over in Israel and digging and looking and exploring and seeing some of those things helps bring light to the Bible. And as they find things, we understand more the customs. It helps us to understand and interpret the Bible with even greater accuracy. And so that's the importance of archaeology. It supports the claim of divine inspiration. And just some important discoveries in 1843. A French explorer discovered uh Khorsabad in in Assyria. They discovered the palace of Sargon. This is the one mentioned in Scripture. that was dish that conquered Samaria and destroyed the kingdom of Israel. They discovered that this this palace occupied about 25 acres This is a relief that's now in the British Museum there. You see the picture of it that they found in the palace of Sargon II. Now before that The critical scholars were questioning if there ever was a man by the name of Sargon because there was nothing that they found in history that spoke of him. And then of course archaeology discovered that it's just like the Bible says. And so the Bible was right again. In 1845, another English archaeologist uncovered Nineveh. The Vinebot is spoken of in the book of Jonah. They found the remains of Ashur Banipal's library there. He was the grandson of Sennacherib. Sennacherib was the king that of course came against Hezekiah in Jerusalem. They found a library there with fragments of 2600 tablets that had all kind of incredible discoveries, facts on there that helped us understand that culture. And then between 1925 and 1931, about 20,000 tablets were found in northern Iraq, a place called Nuzi. These were documents that provided information about the culture back in the days of Abraham and the times of the patriarchs. All of that greatly supported that period that we read about in the book of Genesis. And so again, what do all these discoveries prove that the Bible is historically reliable? These are not made-up stories. These are things that happened. The newsy tablets parallels the picture of patriarchal society as presented in the Old Testament. Cyrus Gordon said this, thanks for the newsy text, we may feel confident that the s social institutions have come down to us. authentically. And uh just to give you one illustration because I don't want to spend too much time here, but how many of you remember the story that when when Jacob left his father-in-law, uh he left by night Uh he left suddenly. And uh how many of you remember that story in the Bible? I mean he just he wanted to get out of Dodge quick. He didn't want his father-in-law to know it. So he pulled off his Mayflower truck late at night. And uh just like the Baltimore Colts did when they left Baltimore. Anyone remember that? Anybody still bitter about that? Yeah You know, remember that commercial that came out right after they left, you know, it's a commercial about an ATM machine where a Mayfower truck pulls up at midnight, guys get out in cult uniforms, standing in line, getting their money. to get back in the truck and leave, you know. And uh yeah, I'm still mad about that. But uh well here's Jacob and he's gonna leave late at night. And he didn't want his father-in-law to know. And uh so he's he's getting out of town. But one thing that his wife does before she leaves is she basically takes the the family idols. She takes the family, you could say, gods. You know, Laban wasn't a worshiper of the true God. And so he had these family idols. And Jacob's wife, Rachel, stole her father's Household gods. Now why would she do that? Why would she want to take those gods? Well, because did you know that the Newsly tablets demonstrate a case where a man was able to claim the estate of his father-in-law because he possessed the family Tarathum. So to have those in your possession legally gave you the right to your father's uh possessions, your father's inheritance. Now think about this. Jacob had been ripped off by his father. The Bible says Laban ch changed his wages ten times. What kind of would how would you like to work for a guy named Laban? Constantly changing your wages. And by the time Jacob he had enough and he was ready to leave and he left And but Rachel, feeling like her husband has been dealt with unfairly, took those family uh gods, idols. And we wouldn't really know why that was so significant unless it was for this discovery that told us of the customs in that day. That to have the family terraphim meant that you were able to possess the father's inheritance. That brings to light the scripture, does it not? Doesn't that help us to understand that story more? And I don't want to there's a tablet there that kind of reads of this, and we don't need to spend too much time on that. But that's just one illustration of how it just helps us understand the Bible better and it supports the the fact that these were real literal historical stories. These were not made-up fables. These were things that literally happened And then again, between 1933 and 1960, 20,000 clay tablets were discovered in the southeast Syria at a place called Mari. And they dated to the 18th century BC. And again, these were tablets that also helped us to understand the customs of the Bible Another important discovery. And then another one, of course we know of the Dead Sea Scrolls and how important they have been for us to verify what scripture tells us. I don't need to go over all the facts with you about that because we have talked about that before. I will mention one thing that I mentioned last week again. All the all the attacks against the book of Daniel, because Daniel was so specific in his fulfilled prophecies. Critical scholars say, well, the book of Daniel wasn't written in the sixth century, it was written in the second century. He's not giving prophecy, he's giving history. He's not looking forward, he's looking back. That's how script critical scholars attack the Bible and they say it's not fulfilled prophecy. Those prophecies are too specific. There's no way that that that they that those prophecies are that specific and the Bible speaks uh years ahead that it could be that specific. Well, the Dead Sea Scrolls proved that argument wrong because the Dead Sea Sea Scrolls establish that the book of Daniel had been written a long time before the second century That's why that discovery was important and for a lot of other reasons we can go on. In 1929, excavations at Rash Shamrah. This is over in Syria. Several hundred texts were uncovered which shed amazing light on Canaanite religion in the fifth fifteenth and fourteenth centuries BC. This was important because a lot of critical scholars were saying that Israel's religion was borrowed from the Canaanites. They said, oh, you know, they're just borrowing stories from the Canaanite religion. Well, this discovery helped everyone to understand that that was not the case. Because the Canaanite religion was so different, so much different from Israel's religion. And again, it supported the Bible and overturned the arguments of the critics. Talk about camels. They were domesticated animals in Egypt. When Abraham sojourned in Egypt, he was given camels by the Pharaoh. You might remember that story in Genesis chapter 12. There was a famine and he ran ran down to Egypt for help, and among the gifts that he gave him were camels. Camels were mentioned as some of the victims among the livestock that died in the fifth plague in Egypt. Now critical Scholars of the Bible said that these are errors because there was no record of domesticating camels in Egypt until the 11th century B. C. So again, another attack on the Bible. Oh, that can't be right. Then archaeologists They found evidence that the camel was present in Egypt as early as 3000 BC, centuries before the time of Abraham. And again, the Bible was proven to be historically correct and right all along. And again, we can go on. You know, other other as far as writing. Critical scholars said, well, you know, Moses couldn't have written the book of Genesis because writing hadn't been invented at that time. And then so that was the big attack. But again, they found, uh, and this is the actual picture of the one of the finds, they found a early, early alphabet that existed a long time before Moses, which proved that people were writing during the time of Moses. They began writing a long time before that. And so again, the attacks of the critics were wrong, and the Bible was proven to be accurate and true again. Did you know critical scholars attacking the historicity of the scripture said that this character of David in the Bible, we have no historical record about him. We don't know anything and never heard of anything historically outside the Bible about this guy called David. He's too good to be true. He's a made-up legend by the Israelites. And that was what critical scholars did until, did you know that archaeologists found a a uh stone, it's called a st uh a steel. and or Estella, however you want to pronounce that, they found this stone with the name of David on it. It was near a city called the city of Dan. The city was actually, before it became the city of Dan, it was called the city of Laish. But now it's it was changed by the Danites to the city of Dan. But they found this stone inscription with the name of David on it talking about the house of David. Okay, this was uh this inscription here, found by archaeologists, was found in uh 1993 and 94. Found three pieces right there in that uh North Galilean uh little town there. And uh I know you don't know Paleo-Hebrew letters here, but you see there this is the word house of David. And it refers to David's descendants. Now again, this was a big discovery because up until this time, critical scholars were doubting if there ever was a real person named David. And this proves that there was. There really was. And by this time, his house had already been established. His descendants had been around for a long time. This inscription is called the Tell Dan inscription because it was found in that little uh town called Dan. there in the northern part of Israel. Now originally part of it was part of kind of a victory pillar. It was inscribed by a king who was bragging about having victory over Um the two kings, the king of Israel and the king of Judah. Okay, so it mentions the king of Israel, it mentions the house of David. So again, this was a big s a big find. There's a picture of it from uh the whole thing that they found. Um and again it was found in this city that was originally called Laish. And some of you might remember this story in the book of Judges that there was a priest, and that doesn't really give his name, but he's a priest that um stole from his uh mother or became the priest of a guy by the name of of Micah. And he was a family priest, and the tribe of Dan came down, and they kidnapped this family priest, and they made him the priest over the whole tribe. And they went and they conquered this city called Laish, and they renamed the city Dan. And this this Levitical priest, that the Bible doesn't give us his name in the beginning, it gives us his name at the end of the story. This Levitical priest basically led them in idolatrous worship, kind of a synchronization between the worship of Israel and Canaanite worship. And so this whole city of Dan, the whole tribe of Dan, was given over to this idolatry. But this is the very place where they found this stone. And again, according to Judges 21, Israel's northern boundary was the city of Dan. And the Bible tells us in the book of Judges that the children of Dan destroyed a Canaanite city by sword and fire and built their own city. So again, this all matches uh the biblical account, all the finds that were it there in the city of Dan, which was formerly called Laesh, there. And so let me just uh fast forward here uh again. I visited the city of Dan, and what you see there is an altar That's what the altar would have looked like. And you remember that King Jeroboam, when he became king of Israel, he led the nation into idolatry. And because he didn't want the people going down to Jerusalem to worship because they might forget him and and be loyal to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, he set up a altar The Bible says he set up one in Dan and he set up one down in Bertheba in the south, or excuse me, Bethel in the south. And so this is where this altar would have been in Dan. You can see, again, this was the place where they would come and burn. on the altar. This was a a pagan altar built by Israel in that time. This is the gate of the city of Dan. You can see here it's kind of on an incline with stones that are uneven. Kind of go up to the gate and make a sharp left to get in. That was done for military strategic purposes if an enemy is going to try to invade your city, uh you would want it to be hard for them. So the gate was made to where first it was uneven stones, you can trip easily. You had to go uphill, and then when you got to the top you had to make a sharp left to get in. That was all for military purposes. But this was the city there where they found this this this great find um uh uh that verified that david was a literal person because of the st the uh the inscription they found on the stone there. And everything that happened there in the in Dan, archaeologist found, support the Bible. the historicity of the scripture. And then also the city of David. I think I may have told you about this before. They found the remains of the palace of David there. That all supports what the Bible says again with reference to a historical figure of David. They also uncovered evidence of his conquest of that palace. They found the Siloam Spring that was guarded by towers. According to the books of 2 Samuel and 1 Chronicles, King David conquered Jerusalem and made it the capital of Israel. Everything that archaeologists uncovered there verifies all of what the Bible says here. And so we can go on. King Sargon, we already talked about him, so we don't need to spend too much time there. But let me let me just talk about another discovery. The book of Acts is a historically reliable document. You know, critics of the Bible once alleged that Acts was not not a reliable document from the standpoint of history. Again, they're attacking the Bible. They're saying Acts could not possibly be historically reliable with all the facts there. There was a man by the name of Sir William Ramsey. He was a British scholar. He set out to prove the unreliability of the book of Acts. He became, however, thoroughly convinced otherwise After years of digging up the evidence and archaeological explorations, Ramsey became convinced that Axe was so remarkably accurate in its detail that the whole of it must be considered trustworthy, he said. And this is kind of a long quote here. Um I won't give you all of it, but basically in there he is talking about all the things that he discovered and how that he came to this conclusion that Luke was a great historian that everything in the book of Acts historically was reliable. Just read a little bit of this. This present writer takes the view that Luke's history is unsurpassed in respect of its trustworthiness At this point, we are describing what reasons and arguments changed the mind of one who began under the impression that the history was written long after the events that it was untrustworthy. So he changed his mind after studying all of this. He calls Luke the historian of the first rank. And his work, William Ramsey's work, has not been overturned. So what are we talking about? We're talking about the fact that the Bible is historically accurate. And again, the Bible has been proven to be correct and right. with respect to this. And there are other things here that and I don't want to bog you down too much on this one thing here, but you get the idea. There are other other discoveries that we can talk about. This is Megiddo, a city of Solomon um that was uncovered. Again, it proves the Bible to be historically accurate with reference to the facts regarding Solomon and building cities and gates and so on. Jabin of king of Hazor is named in the conquest in the book of Joshua. We read of Jabin king of Canaan who reigned in Hazor almost 150 years later in the time of the judges. We see that name. And so this has caused some to wonder if the two accounts are describing the same event or if the Bible is simply mistaken in describing a king living for so long. So you have Javen mentioned in the book of Joshua And then his name being mentioned 150 late years later in the book of Judges. Is the Bible wrong? Well, no. Archaeologists helped to solve this problem A tablet was discovered in the excavations at Hazor in 1992 addressed to Jabin, the king of Hazor, which dates to the 17th and uh 18th centuries BC When one adds this to the archaeological discovery, to the biblical references above, it becomes clear that the name Jabin was applied to the kings of Hazor over a period of almost 400 years. And so this was a dynastic title. That's what this discovery helps us to see. That it was used just like Egyptians used the word Pharaoh. It wasn't a name, it was the title of a king. And so again, the Bible is proven to be historically accurate. And again, on we could go. I think I already told you about the discovery of the Hittites, where Critical scholars said there was no such thing, and they found out that of course there were there were Hittites, there were discoveries of these people, and uh texts and so on, a civilization of people. Um let me give you another another um place here, a place called Lake Ish. There at this place called Lakish. This was a city. I I got to visit this city as well. This was a city that was a buffer city before uh if an invading army was coming to Jerusalem, uh Lakish would be in their way And Lake Is this Buffer City, uh, they did some excavations there in nineteen thirty-five And they found some letters written on pottery pieces. Remember I told you pottery pieces were kind of when Israelites got done with their Pottery, they would or these their vessels, they would break it, and they would use the pieces kind of like post-it notes. They would write things on it. And they would find they find these all over in archaeological sites. But they unearthed some some of these pottery pieces that had writing on it, and these were messages, these were desperate pleas by the Judean defenders of the city for military assistance. And they found out that this was during the time when Nebuchadnezzar was invading Judah and Jerusalem. The city was conquered by Nebuchadnezzar before the letters could be sent out. So again, this discovery harmonizes with the biblical record of Nebuchadnezzar coming against Jerusalem, and the Bible says he comes against the city of Lachish, and then of course he goes and then he conquers Jerusalem. And these discoveries are in complete harmony with what the Bible has to say about Nebuchadnezzar and his conquering there. So we have the Lachish letters. And again, on we could go through this. Let me just give you one more here. We'll move on to our next point. The Siloam tunnel inscription. You remember that in the Bible, when King Hezekiah was on the throne, the Assyrians were coming against the city of Jerusalem. And they were going to surround the city, besiege the city, and so basically what Hezekiah wanted to do was he wanted to make sure that they had water inside the city walls. for this preparing for this siege because you have to have water in order to live. There was one big water source for the city of Jerusalem. It's called the Gaion Spring. It's just an underground spring that springs up and it it would supply the city of Jerusalem with water. So what he did was he dug a tunnel underneath the city of Jerusalem Jerusalem from the Gaihan Spring to a place called the Pool Siloam. This is kind of a picture of it right here. So you see from the very uh from the the Gaihan Spring here And how the tunnel goes around and then empties out into the pool of Siloam. And notice it's on the inside of the walls of the city because it had to have the water on the inside. Now the Bible speaks about this very specifically. uh in the in the in the uh in the book of second kings verse twenty and the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and all his might And how he made a pool and a conduit and brought water into the city. Are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of the Judges? It's also recorded in 2 Chronicles 3230 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper course of the Gihon and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David, and Hezekiah prospered in all his works. Well, in 1838 A biblical scholar by the name of Edward Robinson discovered Hezekiah's tunnel. And today, if you go over to Israel, You can walk through this tunnel. It's a distance of 1,750 feet. It's about, again, 100 feet below the surface of the city of Jerusalem. And so you can walk down in through that tunnel. Now I've been through that tunnel before. I've checked that off the bucket list so I don't have to do it again. Uh it kind of it got, I'll be honest with you, I'm kind of a big guy, and it got a little bit tight at certain spots. So I just imagine the Jerusalem post saying Baptist preacher stuck in Jerusalem. Stuck in tunnel. But I did I did go through the tunnel. You could see the scared look on my face as I'm going down and through the getting down the walk through the Hezekiah's tunnel. Going down the steps and so on. So I got a flashlight and I'm walking through and it's water all the way through. But it's just fascinating to me that there, right there, you can see this is exactly what the Bible says. Uh it again it's not a made-up story. And uh it's an engineering marvel really because it has a slight decline and how the engineers did that is just incredible. Even today we're not really sure they Hezekiah had one team started to pool Siloam and one team started to Guyhan Spring and they began to dig and they met in the middle That's how he dug it. Now, that's again it's an engineering marvel how they were able to do it so precisely with the the slight decline so that the water will flow down into the pool of siloem. But they also found there an inscription Two boys discovered this Hebrew inscription carved in stone along the wall of a tunnel as they were wading through the tunnel's waters in 1880. And uh the the inscription comes from King Hezekiah in 1701. That's a picture of the uh of the inscription that they found there. And it's You can see here at the bottom it reads, this is the translation of what it says, the tunneling was completed while the hewers wielded the axe, and each man toward his fellow. There was heard a man's voice calling to his fellow, the hewers, hat towards the other, axe against axe, and the water flowed from the spring to the pool, a distance of twelve hundred cubits. So again, this find or these finds supports exactly what the scripture says. So if someone were going to ask me, how do you know the Bible is the Word of God? I would say, how can you account for the fact that all the history that the Bible gives has been proven to be exactly true? The Bible is accurate with respect to science. It's not a science book, but when it mentions science, it's accurate about it. The Bible has fulfilled prophecies. How do you explain those fulfilled prophecies? How do you explain the incredible historical accuracy of the scripture? We can go on David's Palace, they found again I was there. Ascalon, the Philistine city, they found that in excavations there. That's there. Again, it supports what the Bible says about the Philistines there. And um and again on we can go. I can give you fact after fact of all of these things. Norman Geisler says this. While many have doubted the accuracy of the Bible, time and continued research have consistently demonstrated that the Word of God is better informed than its critics. Henry Moore said this, not one unquestionable find in archaeology that proves the Bible to be an error at any point. Not one. There's not one find in archaeology That goes against what the scripture says. They find to be in harmony with the Word of God. So scientific accuracy. Fulfilled prophecy, historical accuracy. And let me just give you one more, we'll spend a few more minutes on this. If I were going to talk about why I believe the Bible is the Word of God, I would talk about the overall unity of the Scripture. The overall unity. What do I mean by that? Well, think about it. How many men were involved in the writing of Scripture? A lot. There were over 40 different authors. How long did it take to put together? What's the time span from the beginning, from the very first book that was written until Revelation was written? You have a time span of a long time there. So you're talking about 40 different authors written over a long span of time. These were authors that were written that were from three different continents, Asia, Europe, Africa. Written in different languages, Hebrew and Aramaic in the Old Testament and Greek in the New Testament. And these men, many of them, they never met each other. They didn't know each other. And they were all very different from very very different walks of life. For example, Moses was a prince in Egypt who became a shepherd. David was a shepherd who became a king. Jonah preached repentance to an enemy nation. Jeremiah preached repentance to his own nation, and they rejected him. Daniel was a government official Ezra was a priest, Isaiah was a prophet, Matthew was a tax collector, Paul, a former Pharisee, Luke was a Gentile physician, Peter was a fisherman. And yet, here are all these different men who are the writers of Scripture, and yet the Bible has an incredible unity about it. It's amazing that they don't contradict each other in their writings. In fact, they complement each other. There's an incredible unity there in the scripture. This diverse group coming together and speaking, and by the way, there's different genres of scripture. You have poetry, you have didactic literature. You have narrative and so on. And yet all of this diversity yet expresses a unity of thought. A unity of theme in the Bible. So much so that F. F. Bruce, a great New Testament professor, said this: the Bible is not simply an anthology. There is a unity which binds the whole together. An anthology is compiled by an anthologist, but no anthologist compiled the Bible. So I would say if you look at the unity of the scripture That is evidence that it's a book inspired by God. The men who wrote it were inspired by God. And what's the one central theme of the Bible? You know what it is? It's Jesus. Jesus at all speaks about Christ. There's so much unity that we can write systematic theologies. You could take any one topic and see what the whole Bible says about that topic. And it doesn't contradict. It complements. It just brings it all together. How could that happen? Man can't do that. That's impossible for men to do that It has to be because of what God did and giving us the scripture, the word of God. And so Here's a quote from the handbook of theology, Moody Handbook of Theology. Basically in this quote he basically says if you compare this to other holy books. You're not going to find that same kind of unity. In fact, the the uh Islam and those who were uh trying to bring unity to the Quran they did it on purpose They they got rid of all of the the copies of the Quran or sections of the Quran that contradicted and then they They kind of brought a forced unity, but we don't see that in the Bible. Arceus Frohl said this: one way in which the Bible substantiates its own authority is its amazing coherency and symmetry. Its consistency over centuries, through the pens of multiple authors, is nothing less than astonishing. And he's absolutely right. The remarkable continuity of Scripture, in spite of its diverse composition, points to the fact that God must be the overall author of Scripture. There's no other no other explanation for that. And again, on we could go with respect to this. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to move forward here on this. And uh let me talk about moral superiority. What do we mean by moral superiority And this would be reason number five, and that is because of its it's unsurpassed in its moral and social impact. And what I mean by that is we get our morals in society today from what the scripture says. It has had an incredible impact on society today. And so, now I see that I'm out of time here today. So we'll actually we'll pick this up next week and we'll talk about a few other reasons about the Bible, but um I'm out of time today, so we're gonna stop right here. Let's all stand together and we'll have a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the word of God that we do have. Thank you, Lord, that we know that it's inspired Scripture. And Lord, help us to be able to give an answer to those who would try to attack it. Lord, may our faith be increased. May our confidence in the Scripture be bolstered by all these things that we're learning to know that we have in our hands the very word of God And it is our source of life, our source of conduct. It is the book that comforts us, Lord. You speak to us through the scripture. Thank you for the Word of God and help us, Lord, to be willing and able to give an answer to the world today that would try to take it from us or criticize it. And Lord, may we be able apologists in this area. Now, Father, bless the service to follow. Thank you for all that you're doing in hearts and lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.