But I want us to look at it again today. And look in verse number one. It's a beautiful passage of Scripture, Genesis 1, 1. And it says this: In the beginning, God Created the heavens and the earth. Very straightforward. It presupposes that there is a God. God doesn't bother to explain his existence. It just says, in the beginning, God And uh how many of you have heard the expression, I believe it, and that settles it? God said it, I believe it, that settles it. But the truth of the matter is, um, you know, it's it's settled whether we believe it or not, right? So I want to talk today about um how how do we know that God exists. Now we all know here, we're here today, we're obviously here to worship God. I know you know the Lord and you're believers and you already know that God exists, but we're talking about apologetics and uh the defense of our faith. And so I want to talk about, you know, how do we uh argue for the existence of God to someone, an unbeliever who doesn't believe in God? Or maybe they need evidence about God. Now remember we told you that in apologetics, if you've been with us in our study, there are four different approaches to this. And you remember that the presuppositional approach basically already presupposes there is a God. So if a a presupp a presuppositional apologist would not bother to get into arguments about God. He would just simply say there is a God. The Bible says it. It's the most logical starting point. And uh and the very fact that you can even reason yourself or use logic uh implies that there is a God. The very fact that you can think and reason, uh where did you get that from? Uh I like uh the c the apologist Cornelius the Antill, he likes to use the illustration of a uh of a man uh sitting on a chair. And he and he takes his little daughter and puts his daughter on his lap and she begins to you know to slap him and smack him. And and his whole point is she wouldn't be able to do that unless he had placed her on his lap. You know, and what he was saying is is that there is people that use reason and logic to attack God, but they wouldn't even be able to do that had not God given them the ability to use reason and logic. The very fact that they have that ability, says Van Till, is a implication that there is a God. And so a presuppositionalist wouldn't bother to argue that point. He would just say that there is a God and he would start from there. That would be his approach. But the classical apologists would uh he would use uh philosophical reasoning to support the idea that there is a God. And so what I want to do this morning is just kind of show you some of the arguments that classical apologists will use to prove the existence of God. This is what a classical apologist will do. How do they argue for the existence of God? Why is there something rather than nothing, some would say. Martin Heydeger, why do we have something rather than nothing at Oh. Why are we even here? Why is there something? That's that philosophical question they like to entertain. And basically you have four possible options for reality. Four possible options about all of reality. Number one, a classical apologist will argue this way, say, number one, these are the four options. Here's one. Reality is an illusion. Uh, you know, there's really it's just there's no ri reality, it's just all kind of an illusion. What you're seeing here this morning is an illusion All right. Then number two, reality is self-created. Everything that we see is uh we created it. It was self-created. Or there's a third possible option, that is, reality is self-existent, that is, it just has existed over time. It's you could say, you know, matter and things are eternal. And then number four, reality was created by something that is self. Those are really, they would say, the four options that you have. And so what we have to do then is we have to examine these options about reality. Okay, and what is the most logical? What is the most reasonable? And so number one, reality is an illusion. Let's entertain that idea here first. Look at the Caption below where it's a student says, Professor, I'm not sure I even exist. And the professor says, who then may I say is asking. You must exist to deny your own existence. Does that make sense? It is self-defeating to the claim that you don't exist and are just an illusion Alright? And illusions require something, experiencing the illusion. Alright? And again, this is philosophical, but you can understand and see the logic behind that. In other words, reality is not an illusion. And so I think that we can probably cross that one off the list. Everybody here agree with that? That reality is an illusion. Okay? Number two, the other possibility would be reality is self-created. Everything, think about that expression, that idea. Reality is self-created. So we're talking about self-creation. So the big question is this: how do you create yourself? How does self-creation work? You know, the brilliant scientist Stephen Hawking said this, because there is a law like gravity. The universe can and will create itself from nothing. Now think about that. This guy's brilliant too, by the way, supposedly Which he is, but think about that statement there. Because there is the a law like gravity, the universe can and will create itself from nothing. So says Stephen Hawking. But my question would be, where does the law of gravity come from? Right? We would have to go back a step farther than that, okay? You have to start with what? Nothing You have to start with nothing. You don't have the luxury of having in the beginning the law of gravity. Where did that law come from? Okay? So you have to start with nothing. This is the first problem with self-creation Okay? These things in that circle are uh these are not, I know this is a double negative, not nothing. All right Uh all these things are something. Alright? So you can't start with any of these things. You can't start with gravity. You can't start with motion. You can't start with matter and any of these things. Nothing is nothing. I want everyone here this morning to Close your mind. Think about nothing. Can you do that? You really can't because when you think about nothing, you're thinking about something. Alright? It's hard to think about nothing. But That is nothing right there in the middle there. That's nothing. And you have to start with nothing. Alright. And Aristotle said this: he said, nothing is what rocks dream about. Okay. Thank you, sir. I think he was trying to be funny there. But you guys obviously didn't agree. So the second problem was self-creation. And this is John Lennox who said this. He said, Hawkins' argument appears to me even more illogical when he says the existence of gravity means the creation of the universe was inevitable. But how did gravity exist in the first place? Right. Who put it there? And why was the creative force uh what was the creative force behind its birth? Similarly, when Hawking argues in support of his theory of spontaneous creation that it was only necessary for the what he called what Hawking called the blue touch paper to be lit. To set the universe going. The question must be, where did this blue touch paper come from and who lit it, if not God? Okay? And so that's the other problem. You know, you that a thing cannot be ontologically prior to itself. Okay? You have to, in order to, you know, you understand the point there. To create yourself, you must have existed prior to yourself. And there's no possible way for that to happen. And so therefore self-creation fails as an explanation because it is analytically false. So how many of you would like to cross self-creation off the list here? That's not a possibility either. Now, for those of you just coming in, what we're doing is we're considering some of the arguments used by classical apologists. to prove the existence of God. So I'm going to sound a little bit philosophical this morning, all right, because I'm really just giving their arguments. We'll go to the scripture, uh, but but we're just thinking about the arguments they get they're giving here So we have two options down, and we have two to go. Jonathan Edwards said this something exists. Nothing cannot create something. Therefore, a necessary and eternal being exists. And that is absolutely true. And so uh so really we have two options. We have an eternal universe Like Carl Sagan says, the universe is all there ever will be. There are some people that actually believe that the universe is eternal, that matter is eternal. It was just always there Okay? Or the other thing would then be the other option is an eternal creator. And we just read the passage, Genesis 1. 1. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And so um so we move on from there. So which is it? Um However concrete physical reality is a section of the result will be a state of affairs which owes its being to something other than itself. And so that's the truth. And so is it an eternal universe or is it an eternal being who is at the beginning of all things? All current scientific evidence points to a beginning of the universe. And so follow the logic here. If the universe had a beginning. Then it then that means logically, then, that it did not always exist. Would you agree with that? If the universe had a beginning, we would have to logically conclude that it wasn't always there That means the universe is not eternal. Okay? And this is what is called then. What I'm giving you here then is the argument that is used called the cosmological argument And this is an argument that is used by classical apologists. It's also used by systematic theologians if you ever pick up a systematic theology, begin reading at the beginning, when they begin talking about God, they'll basically give out these basic arguments, the cosmological argument, the teleological argument, ontological, and so on. These are philosophical arguments that argue for the existence of God. So what does the cosmological argument say? It says that everything that begins to exist has a cause. Everything that begins to exist has a cause. The universe began to exist, therefore, the universe has a cause. There has to be a cause because it had a beginning. Now, why think that the universe had a beginning? Someone would ask. You know, what is the evidence behind that? And I'm not going to give you a science class here today, but there are several things that that classical apologists will point to. to let people know that ask this question, uh the evidence for the universe having a beginning. One of them would be the second law of thermodynamics or it's the law of entropy, which basically states that thermal energy or heat cannot be transferred from a body at a lower temperature to a body at a at a higher temperature without the addition of energy. In other words, heat will always move from hotter areas to colder areas. We we know that, right? You're sitting in a bathtub in hot water, if you sit there long enough, what's going to happen to the water? It's going to get cold Unless you put more hot water in, or unless you have something heating up that water, it's just going to get cold. And so the idea is that things are running down. And that thus then the universe in itself is running down. And if it's running down, what does that mean? Again, that there had to be a beginning. There had to be a beginning if it's running down And so they'll point to this one law, second uh the second law of thermodynamics. Another thing that they'll point to to talk about the fact that the universe has a beginning is the expanding universe. The universe is expanding Astrophysicists and scientists will tell you this, and this was confirmed through the Hubble telescope. By the way, you can write down Isaiah 40, 22. Which really the uh the Bible supports this idea of an expanding universe because what does it say in Isaiah 40, 22? It says that God stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. Isn't that an amazing verse when you think about it? That's totally in harmony with science, which says that the universe is expanding, and this would suggest that the universe uh actually increased in its size since its creation And again, if if the universe is expanding, what does that again suggest? That it had to have a what? A beginning. There had to be a beginning then. if the universe is expanding. So not only the second law of thermodynamics supports the beginning of a universe, the expanding universe supports the idea of a beginning, but also radiation echoes And what is that? That is just electromagnetic radiation as a remnant from an early stage of the universe, also known as relic radiation. And again, what that suggests, and I don't have time to get into all the science, you can kind of look that up later on, but again, it it it it this is really according to Big Bang cosmology, and it again it suggests at a beginning point The fact that this radiation is echoing, it suggests a beginning point. Also, along with that, again, according to Big Bang cosmology, there's what is called galaxy seed. What are galaxy seeds? These are really just variations in radiation and temperature that are just perfect For the beginning of another universe. They call these this phenomenon is what they call galaxy seeds. In other words, they're new galaxies. that are forming, which again supports the idea of an expanding universe. Again, all of that argues for the idea that the universe had a beginning. And then there's another argument which is Einstein's theory of relativity. Very difficult concept. You know, I I've heard that there are only twelve men in the world that really understand the r theory of relativity, and I I can't speak for that. I don't know that because I don't know who the other eleven are. Just kidding. But this whole theory here uh again proves the universe has a beginning that it's not eternal. The theory of general relativity demands an absolute beginning for time and space and matter, showing that all three are interdependent. And so um and so we we're gonna have to say that that we can't agree with the idea that the universe was always there, that the universe is eternal because all of science suggests that that is simply not the case. Okay? And so why think something needs a cause? Things popping into existence from nothing, never observed Why think the tiger just won't pop into existence right now next to you? I mean, do things just pop into existence? Does that ever happen? You know, just something, bam, all of a sudden something's there. It just came into existence. Like, oh, by the way, wow, here's an iPad. It just popped into existence Right here. That's not even logical to assume that. And so we can't, we have we believe then that there has to be a cause. That is the again, this is the argument of a classical apologist I'm using. They'll say there has to be a cause because things just don't come into existence on their own. Well, why would someone deny the possibility of a God? Stephen Hawking, here's a quote from him again. Many people do not like the idea that time has a beginning, probably because it smacks of divine intervention. Here's a moment of honesty. Yeah, it smacks of divine intervention. Here's another quote from a Scientists, a biologist, a Nobel Prize-winning biologist who said this. He said, Hope you can see that, it's kind of hard. But there are only two possibilities as to how life arose. One is spontaneous generation arising to evolution, and the other is a supernatural creative act of God. There's no third possibility Spontaneous generation that life arose from non-living matter was scientifically disproved 120 years ago by Louis Pasteur and others. That leaves us with only one possible conclusion: that life arose as a creative act of God. Now listen to what he says next. I will not accept that philosophically because I do not want to believe in God. Therefore, I choose to believe in that which I know is scientifically impossible. Can you believe that? I can believe that. You know why? Because what does it say in Romans 1? That what is man doing? That the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness and ungodliness of men, who what? Who Hold back the truth or suppress the truth in unrighteousness. They don't want to acknowledge God, so what are they doing? They're pushing truth away. They don't want to acknowledge it. And here's a confession from a Harvard biologist of that very thing. I mean, this is Romans 1:18, if I've ever seen it. Here's a guy that's pushing away. He says, look, there's really only one option that's really logical. That is there was everything came about as a creative act of God, but I just refuse to believe that. I'm just not going to believe it. So such is the stubbornness of man, which then leads us to then logically. So you see again, this is how classical apologists will argue. They're arguing logically, philosophically, to the beginning that there has to the only rational uh choice here is that there's a creator. And so we go then with the option of a creator And why God is the best explanation for reality. Everything that came about came about because of God. And here's another quote. But why anything at all is or exists, science knows not, precisely because it cannot even ask the question. To this supreme question, the only conceivable answer is that each and every particular existential energy Can uh each and every particle existing particular existing thing depends for its existence upon a pure act. And what he's referring here to a creative act, a pure act of existence. And so again, we're going back to our four possible options. For reality. And we have to cross the first three off. Reality was created by something that is self-existence. We would have to logically go there Everything came about, therefore, by an eternal, self-existent being. Alright? Now the typical skeptical objection to this is a self-existent, eternal God? Are you serious? Give me a break. That's impossible. What's our response to that? It should be, says the classical apologists, a self-exist existent eternal universe? Give me a break. That's impossible. Which one is the more probable here? And that is, of course, the more probable is there is a self-existent eternal creator, not a self-existent existent eternal universe because we already logically showed how that that just simply cannot be. So you have to go back to this one idea then And if you deny a self-existent, necessary, and eternal creator, you must automatically embrace a self-existent, necessary, and eternal universe, or a combination of the two, which is pantheism Every drop of scientific data points to the conclusion that the universe had a beginning and it's not eternal. Why is an eternal creator, a classical apologist would argue, why is an eternal creator preposterous and an eternal universe not? Perhaps because an eternal universe is an amoral entity who doesn't hold anyone accountable. And again, we would have to get back to the idea that in the heart of man there is just this desire that he doesn't want to answer to God. By the way, logically we'd have to assume that if he's the creator, that means he's also the what? He's the judge. Because the one who made everything in the beginning, guess what? He gets to call the shots. He's the one who gets to be in charge. If he's the one from the beginning, he created everything. He makes up the rules. What does that make me? It makes me accountable to him. It means I have to submit to his authority. But in the heart of man, man is so stubborn and rebellious and sinful he doesn't want to submit to that authority. And so a lot of this then is because he's trying to reason his way out of it. So just to go through go through this, you know, what kind of first cause are we talking about? Well, uh getting back to our our logical um conclusion that there has to be a first cause someone self-existent, what would they have to be supernatural nature. There would have to be supernatural. It created the natural, so it has to be above the natural to create the natural. So it has to be supernatural. This creative power has to be powerful, or we could say person, must be eternal. The cause must be omnipresent. It created space and it's not limited, therefore, by space. It must be timeless and changeless since it created time. It must be immaterial because it must transcend space and the physical. Personal Because it has an intent. You don't just create something with no purpose in mind. And then necessary, as everything else depends on it, infinite and singular. You cannot have two infinites, diverse, yet have unity, intelligent, purposeful, moral, caring, and so on Would have to have all these characteristics where you could say, do you know anyone that has all these characteristics to it? Do you happen to know anyone like that? behave now. Alright. Uh I think I do. That would be God, right? God in the according to the scripture, according to the Bible, right? He's supernatural. He's powerful. He's eternal. He's omnipresent. The Bible makes that very clear in Psalm 139. I can't go anywhere where God doesn't already exist. He's fully everywhere. God's not partly in places. He's fully everywhere at the same time. Can you wrap your mind around that? He's absolutely fully everywhere. He's fully here, but at the same time, he's fully on the other side of the world in a place over there. Just incredible when you think about it. David said in Psalm 139, if I got up in the morning and was able to ride the wings of the morning, that is the talk about this the uh the the uh first sun rays that peek out over the horizon. It's talking about riding one of those sunbeams, traveling at the speed of light. When I got to my destination, God would be waiting for me there. He's everywhere. He is timeless. He exists outside of time. He's changeless. He's immaterial. He is personal. He's necessary. He's infinite and singular. These are verses of scripture that support all these ideas. diverse yet with unity, he's intelligent, purposeful, moral, caring, all of these things. And so the most logical conclusion that we must come to For the explanation of reality is that there was an eternal creator that has all of these attributes, and guess what? The Bible supports all of this. You see. And also the Bible, I would say this, even gives credence to a big bang of sorts. You say, what was the big bang? Very simply this. God spoke, and bang, it happened. It just happened because God spoken, it was done. That's the power of God's creative word. He spoke the world into existence. Scientifically, you can't test that. You just have to believe that because the Bible says it. Again, here's a quote from a NASA scientist. Former NASA scientist Robert Jestrow observes, the essential elements in the astronomical and biblical accounts of Genesis are the same. He says the chain of events leading to man commenced suddenly and sharply at a defining moment in time in a flash of light and energy. He goes on to say, in a moment of remarkable honesty, for the scientists who has lived by his faith in the power of reason, the story ends like a bad dream. He has scaled the mountain of ignorance. He's about to conquer the highest peak. As he pulls himself over the final rock, he is greeted by a band of theologians who have been sitting there for centuries. So very true. We say to the science that finally arrives with us in Genesis, welcome. We're glad you're here. We've been here for a while. He goes on to say this again. Astronomers now find that they have painted themselves into a corner because they have proven by their own methods that the world began abruptly. in an act of creation to which you can trace the seeds of every star, every planet, every living thing in this cosmos and on the earth. And they have found that all this happened as a product of forces they cannot hope to discover. That they are what I or anyone else would call supernatural forces at work is now, I think, a scientifically proven fact. So again, we're getting back to we're reasoning, using logical reasoning and philosophical arguments for the existence of God. And this is what they are uh a c a uh classical apologist will conclude with those who he's trying to show that there is a God. So a concl in conclusion then to this argument, um Of the four options for reality, we would have to say God is the best explanation. Which is more reasonable to believe? That an impersonal, non-conscious, meaningless, purposeless, and non-moral universe that had its own beginning accidentally created personal, conscious, moral beings who are obsessed with meaning and purpose, or that a personal, conscious, purposeful, intelligent, moral, eternal God created beings in his likeness and established the universe and its laws to govern their existence. So I would ask you which one is more reasonable and logical? Which one is the better explanation? Of course we would have to admit that the explanation is that there was a personal God, an eternal God, who created all that we have here. Again, quoting from a Nobel Prize winner, the best data we have concerning the origin of the universe are exactly what I would have predicted had I nothing to go on but the five books of Moses, the Psalms, and the Bible as a whole. Okay? So So again, these are the classical arguments for the existence of God. Now I know I've been doing a lot of talking, remember I wanted to make our class somewhat you know, intimate, personal. Any any questions or thoughts based on this one argument? What are we talking about here? We're talking about the cosmological argument for the existence of God used by classical apologists. Everything that begins to exist has a cause. Alright? Any any thoughts or comments or questions from anybody here? Anybody here? care to uh nobody here. So I must be really doing a good job debating all this here with you. No questions or anything. Okay. We'll go on to the next argument then. which would be the teleological argument. And what does this argument, this is the next logical argument used, And this argument simply states this that behind every complex design is a designer. You don't have a design without a designer, right? The universe has a complex design. So therefore there must be a designer. And so that's the argument that's used here. And so let's talk about this. And first question is Do we recognize intelligence when we see it? In other words, we could say it like this. Do we recognize something that was perhaps created by natural forces? Um I mean we we understand that. We we we we see things that we say, oh the wind caused that or the rain caused that or the sun caused that. We know the difference between natural forces that do something And an intelligent force that designs and creates or does something. Isn't that true? Don't we all know the difference there? How many of you believe that wind, time, and rain cause that Okay? You think wind, time, and rain cause those four faces there on those rocks? And uh and they just happen to look like people that we know in history Happen to be some great presidents here. We can look at that and we can say, we know that that was not caused by natural forces, uh natural causes. Um what about what about if you found something like this Do you think that maybe water and erosion perhaps created these things here? Or would there have to be a designer behind that? Um we again we know the difference. It might be hard to see, but these are drawings on a cave wall. I don't know if you can see those uh there, but You can look and see, you know, when you see uh you know someone drawing on a wall, you know that that wasn't created by any natural force, but that was something an intelligent force behind that. And so the bottom line is, we would say this, that we instinctively recognize marks of intelligence, do we not? Of course we do. No reasonable person would conclude Mount Rushmore, an arrowhead, or a cave painting happen by natural means alone. We would look at that, we would know that that's simply not the case. We know how to differentiate an intelligent cause versus a natural cause. And then we would say, how do we recognize intelligence? And a central principle in forensic science is called the principle of uniformity. The principle states that causes and effects in the past are like causes and effects observed today. By the principle of uniformity, we assume that an intelligent effect is the result of and intelligent cause. And that hasn't changed. That's the way it's been since the very beginning. And the way it continues on today. Now Thomas Aquinas would state it like this. He said Every agent acts for an N, even natural agents. Now what acts for an N manifests intelligence. But natural agents have no intelligence of their own. Therefore, they are directed to their end by some intelligence. If you see something natural, that has had some kind of purposeful thing happen to it, you have to assume that behind that There was some intelligent cause. Let me give you an example. Yesterday my wife and I, we were walking on the trolley trail Anybody ever walked the trolley trail? All right. We were walking down the trolley trail, and there was a square white post, okay? Square white post, and I was walking to it. When I came upon the post, what I found was that there were two rocks stacked up one side up on top of that post Okay? Now I can say, you know what? The wind did that. What would would you conclude that if you're walking, you see a square wooden post, obviously some man made and painted it, put that post there, and you see two rocks. stacked on it, you would have to say you would have to conclude that those rocks did not get there by themselves. There had to be behind it, what, an intelligent cause that put those rocks there So me being the brilliant person that I am knew immediately when I saw that white post with rocks on it, somebody has done this Those rocks did not get there by themselves. All right. And that's all Aquinas is saying right here. He's saying that natural agents have no intelligence of their own. Therefore, they are directed to their end by some intelligence. You know, and again, this is what we're talking about. There's a difference between natural and intelligent agents. Now, an arrow has no intelligence of its own. An arrow didn't didn't just decide to fly through the air and hit a bullseye. An arrow has no ability to do that. But if I see an arrow in a bullseye, I have to re recognize what? That there was some intelligent force behind that. That put that arrow where it is. Alright? This Aquinas' first premise is simply the self-evident Principle, what he called the principle of finality. The second premise states that all things move to some end And the third premise says whatever lacks intelligence must be directed by intelligence, just as an arrow is towards a target. The conclusion follows that all things are directed by some intelligence. And again, we understand that. We know that. Um is a fully robotic auto assembly line not a work of intelligence simply because there are no humans present? I mean if you walk on this and say, hey, there's no human beings around here Therefore, we can't assume that humans had anything to do with this. No, we would not say that. The intelligence is simply one step removed. We don't see it We don't see any people there. If you walked upon this robotic assembly line and not see any human beings there, you wouldn't rationally conclude that this just happened on its own. No, we would have to say that this was designed and put in motion by incredibly intelligent people who put all this together, although we don't see the people there. We know that that has to be the logical conclusion. And the same can be said of the many biological micro machines present in life. Do you understand that all of creation has in it incredible mechanisms that are working continually and constantly to keep our world, our universe as it is. Just so many intricate things that take place. and our creation in our world. And this again, this is called the design argument. The teleological argument Isn't another way we could say it, but really the design argument for every design there has to be behind that intelligent designer. It just didn't happen on its own. It just doesn't come about without that intelligence behind it. And this again is a teleological argument for God. By the way, the word teleological comes from the Greek word teleos. And it simply means design. It also could mean an end, is the word there. It simply again means that everything that is designed has a designer behind it. Every complex design is a designer again the universe has a complex design therefore the universe has a designer behind it So, key question to be answered. Does the universe and life exhibit design then? I think I've already answered that, but how many would agree that the universe and the life that we see around it does manifest incredible design. Anybody everybody agree with that? Sure it does. Now again, this is how a classical apologist would argue his point. If we're trying to approve to someone that God exists, we would use this argument of design. How do you explain then? If there is no God, How do you explain the intricate design that we see all around us that manifests an incredibly wise designer? Now there are some atheists that will admit that. They will admit design. But they'll say yes, but for instance, here's Richard Dawkins, an atheistic biologist. This is what he said. Living objects look designed. They look overwhelmingly as though they're designed. Biology is the study of complicated things which give the impression of having been designed for a purpose. Now they'll admit that. Absolutely. Now, biologists, I don't see how you could not admit that. That everything shows this incredible design. He'll say, Yeah, it all shows design, but I don't believe in God He'll still not, you know, admit that there is a God. Again, I think this is Romans 118. that he's suppressing the truth. He's pushing away the truth uh with this. Um Anthony Flew was an atheist who wa was uh converted, he actually turned away from being an atheist and now believes in God who was converted. But he basically says that Richard there's a lot of things that Richard Dawkins is simply willingly overlooking. That's what he's saying there in that quote He said, he goes on to say at the bottom of this, he said, it now seems to me that the findings of more than 50 years of DNA research have proven materials Excuse me, provided materials for a new and enormously powerful argument to design. Here's another um scientist, one of the co-discoverers of DNA He says biologists must constantly keep in mind that what they see was not designed, but rather evolved. Get what he's saying there, we have to constantly keep in mind that this wasn't designed. You know why they have to constantly remind themselves of that? Because all the evidence shows the contrary. And again, this is Romans 1. 18, man suppressing the truth, pushing away the truth of there being a God. Here's Philip Johnson, a law professor at Berkeley. Darwinian biologists must keep repeating that reminder to themselves because otherwise they might become conscious of the reality that is staring them in the face and trying to get their attention. That's so very true. What when we look at the world around us, when we look at creation, when we see these things, we see a butterfly fluttering along and see the beautiful wings. What is that telling us? There is a God. That didn't just happen. There was an incredibly wise designer that designed everything that we see here in our world, in our universe. Now there are two pieces of evidence for an intelligent designer. One is the fine-tuning argument. And now you've heard me give this argument here before when I was talking about why I reject evolution. And I gave this argument called the anthropic principle. And this word anthropic comes from the Greek word anthropos, which is the Greek word for man. And the principle is simply this, that if you look around in the universe and you look and see our world, that everything was designed to support man and man's life here on earth as we know it Everything in the universe was so finely tuned so that we can have life here on Earth. And science has proven this one principle, which by the way is stated in scripture in Isaiah where it says that God created this earth to be inhabited. The reason we can live here is because God finally tuned everything so that we can have life here on this earth as we know it. And then the other principle is called specified complexity. And we'll talk about these two things here as we talk about this argument. Talking about fine the argument of fine-tuning. And this argument here uh simply states that if these constants and quantities were altered, in other words, let me just go back, everything, the uh purposes that fundamental that uh that the fundamental constants and quantities of nature fall into a exquisively narrow range of values which render our universe life permitting. Otherwise what they're basically saying there is If anything, the way God's created this earth is so finely tuned that if it were altered just a little bit, it would make things here unlivable on earth. Okay? If they were altered, even by a hair's breadth, the delicate balance would be upset and life could not exist. This is not the product of something evolving This again shows incredible design by a great designer. This argues that the naturalist proposal of time plus matter plus chance is insufficient To explain the conditions we find here. It didn't happen just by chance and time and matter, which is what an evolutionist will tell you And so examples of fine-tuning, I've got to do this before so I won't go over too much, but oxygen currently makes up twenty-one percent of the atmosphere. Were it twenty-five percent, fires would erupt everywhere. If it were fifteen percent, humans would suffocate If gravity was altered by, you see all those zeros there? Oh zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. 1%, the sun would not exist and the moon would crash into the earth if gravity was altered by that much, just that little bit. The moon would crash into the earth. Okay? If the cent centrifugal force of planetary movements did not precisely balance the gravitational forces, nothing could be held in orbit around the sun. If the universe was expanding at a rate one millionth more slowly than it is, the temperature on Earth would be 10,000 degrees. If Jupiter was not exactly where it is, Earth would be bombarded by space material that would threaten life on the planet. Imagine that. You ever see these movies where the Earth is going to be destroyed by some great meteor? Or asteroid or something like that. You know what? That'll never happen. You know why? Because God put Jupiter out there for us. And you know what Jupiter is? It's a giant cosmic vacuum. It vacuums anything that would pelt the earth, that would overthrow life here on earth as we know it. That didn't just happen. That was something designed by God. And again, there are more here. I don't want to take all the rest of our time just talking about that. But you can you get the idea here that there's all these things show a finely tuned creation, a designer What are the odds of these things happening just on their own? Astrophysicist Hugh Ross has calculated that the odds of all these anthropic constants and quantities, 122 at last count, To be in place for any planet in the universe by luck alone would be one chance in ten with 138 zeros after it. That would be the odds of it happening by chance or by luck. This number becomes even more incredible when one realizes that there are only 10 to the 70th atoms in the entire universe. Mathematicians point out that anything which exceeds 10 to the 50th power is the exact same thing as zero chance. So simply put, there's zero chance that all of that happened by luck or by chance. It's just impossible. Um you know some arguments they give, well, physical necessity. Physical necessity It's not possible as the cosmological constants exist outside of the environment. The constants and quantities could be different. They don't have to be what they are. And then of course some people use the argument of chance. Well again that's that's not even logical to go there to say all this chance is probably a good explanation. It's just not. We already saw the mathematical probability. The best answer would be what? An intelligent designer That's the only logical answer to all of these things. And it's only ruled out by atheists because of the anti-supernatural worldview. They just don't want to acknowledge that there is a God. Even Stephen Hawking says the initial configuration of the universe appears to have been very carefully chosen. And again, from a Nobel Prize winner, in the absence of an absurd and probable accident, the observations of modern science seem to suggest an underlying, one might say, supernatural. plan. And again, that is exactly the case. That's exactly right. And so um And so, you know, really that's all we have time for. We're going to talk about the argument for specified complexity, but just uh to kind of sum that up, um basically argues that nature and life contain the imprint of an intelligent cause with the evidence of DNA bearing the marks of a designer. And very quickly, um atheists like uh Richard Dawkins um admit that the message found in just The cell nucleus of an amoeba is more than all 30 volumes of the Encyclopdia Britannica. The entire amoeba itself has as much information in its DNA as 1,000 complete sets. of the Encyclopedia Britannica. So think about that. These cells that have these DNA in it, again, what that is, is that is that is kind of like a software code. that that basically communicates uh to that cell the way things should be. And that, again, is just incredible when you think about it We don't have any more time. We're out of time now. So we're gonna have to we'll pick this up next week. But what if what if I show you, just in summary, what if I show you today? Remember we said that in apologetics There's the classical approach, which argues philosophically, logically, reasonably for Basically two things. What we've considered here today is the existence of God. They also argue this way for the Bible, the Word of God. And what I've shown you here today are just two basic arguments used by classical apologists. to prove the existence of God. One, the cosmological argument that there's a cause behind all reality, and that cause is God. And the teleological argument that everything designed must have a designer. And that designer, of course, we know is God. Now next week I want to pick up here, and what I want to do is I want to kind of give you some of the presuppositionalist arguments that would uh that they would use for what the classical apologists say here. I hope that you're benefiting from this. I hope that you're learning from this. I will give a final exam in a few weeks for all of them. all of my students here. Anyway, let's have a word of prayer together. Father, thank you for uh this time that we've had and Lord we praise you for who you are And Lord, we acknowledge that you are God, and beside you there is none else. And we give you praise and honor and glory for all that you have created. Because Lord, you're worthy, for you have created all things. Lord, bless our service to follow, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.