And we're going to be continuing to deal with the uh topic of apologetics, and we're talking about uh reasons we know and believe that the Bible is the inspired word of God. Because we've told you before that the Bible is under attack, and of course that's nothing new. It's always been under attack, but it seems like as we get closer to the time of the coming of the Lord, that these attacks are a bit more fierce. And the Bible has called all of us to be apologists. We've told you this before. 1 Peter 3. 15 says that we need to be ready to give an answer to any man who asks us of the of the hope that is in us And so we're just considering this one major pillar of our Christian faith, which is the Bible, and how would you answer someone If they came to you and said, hey, let me ask you a question. How do you know the Bible is the inspired word of God? What would you say to them? Well, we've considered some arguments, and you remember that we talked about number one was the scientific accuracy of the scripture. Because where the Bible speaks on issues relating to science, it is scientifically accurate. And we gave you a lot of different illustrations of that very thing. The God who created the universe wrote a book, and those and science and the Bible are not out of harmony where science has been proven to be scientific fact, that they're in perfect harmony together. We also said fulfilled prophecy is another reason. If someone came to me and said, hey, how do you know the Bible is the Word of God? I would say, well, have you considered this one fact? It's a Bible. The prophecies that it's made have been 100% accurate a test for a false prophet in the Old Testament was everything that he said had to be fulfilled. And that same standard has to be used with the Word of God. Can you point to me a prophecy? Now, of course, there are still future prophecies yet to be fulfilled, but the ones that have been fulfilled have been fulfilled with 100% accuracy. And we applied the principle of probability that to show that that's not just coincidence. That's the work of God. It was just a martyr that said To say a thing will come to pass long before it comes to pass, and then to bring it to pass, this or nothing is the work of God. And we would agree with that. And if a person said, hey, you know the Bible is the Word of God, I would say, well, would you consider the historical accuracy of the Scripture? That the Bible is just not a book about fables and untrue stories, it is historical fact. And every time uh archaeologists dig in Israel, uh it just seems like the Bible gets more and more historical credibility. And we gave you A lot of illustrations in archaeology. In fact, we could just keep giving you more and more. And every week it just seems like I read something new on the internet, a discovery over in Israel, that supports the Bible Uh and you didn't see them on you know CNN news recently. I I read yesterday, put out a report where it said um new historical facts come to light to show that uh Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians, just like the Bible says And when the world reads something like that, they go, oh wow, but we as Christians, we've been there already, right? That doesn't surprise us. And so the historical accuracy of the scripture. And then we talked about last week the overall unity, because it's marked by a clear and consistent message. Think about the fact that the Bible was written by over 40 different authors over a period of 1600 uh more than sixteen hundred years and people from different walks of life, different backgrounds, different uh cultures, different nationalities. And yet the Bible has one unified theme to it. How do you explain that? How can you describe that? Other than to say that the Bible was inspired by God. And then I want to talk to you a little bit more today about the moral superiority of the Bible. And in this argument, what I want you to see is that the Bible is unsurpassed in its moral and social impact. The Bible has made an incredible impact on the lives of people in our society today. And I think we talked a little bit about this, so I'm going to fast forward just a little bit here and just give and continue on with this idea. that the that our civilization today has been influenced more by Judeo-Christian scriptures than any other book or series of books in the world Now I know that there's a lot of people that would want to deny this, but it really is undeniable that the Bible has had more of an impact on our society than any other book. Even the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights, they were highly influenced by biblical Christianity. In fact, many of the principles that we see in the Bill of Rights, in the Constitution come directly from Scripture, from the Word of God. One writer writes this, he said, of the 55 people drafting the Constitution, 52 were Christians. Of the 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence, 27 had Bible seminary degrees. 94% of all quotes by the Founding Fathers were based on the Bible. That's impressive, if you ask me. And that shows you again the influence of God's Word. The Bible's superior moral ethic. is heightened even more when you compare it to other religious texts. For example, again, a quote here from William Shedd. He said this, the moral character produced by New Testament Christianity is higher than produced by other religions. And he goes on to say the Vedas, the Quran, and still better writings of Plato and Aristotle do not Do not transform human nature as do the scriptures. And that's so very true It's also true that in the times of the Old Testament, after an extensive study of how ancient pagan religions compared to the Bible, Gary Brantley concludes that the Bible's ethical and spiritual Concepts are unparalleled in pagan religion. And so again, we we see that the Bible has a A great moral superiority. R. C. Sprill said this. He said, the departure from divine revelation has brought our culture to chaos in the era of ethics. And that is so true. In a postmodern world, the Bible remains the only real answer for the moral problems of our day. So the foundation of our morals comes, it's in the Word of God. And it is morally superior in the way it teaches ethics and moral principles than any other book. Now let me give you another Argument. If someone said, why do you believe the Bible is the Word of God? I would also add this to the argument because of its life-changing ability. Because of its life-changing ability. Because it changes lives through the power of the Holy Spirit. There's no other religious book that changes lives like the Bible. The Bible has real power. The Bible we see this in the scripture. It transforms lives through its power. It changes people. You we know the verse in Hebrews, the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. It can just uh dissect a person inwardly How many of you have seen the Bible change somebody's life? Raise your hand. I think all of us can probably say that. You know, I think about my own father. I mean the reason I'm here preaching today is because of the life-transforming power of the gospel. And I you've probably heard me say this story before, you know, my dad. Um I've only seen him I only s saw him when I was fifteen years old dress up in a suit twice, once to go to a funeral. A second time, he came to Grace Bible Baptist Church on a Sunday night in nineteen seventy eight. And I I saw him in a suit getting ready to go. I didn't know he was going to church. I thought somebody else had died. And then he told me he was going to church and I thought, what what's going on? What's happening? And of course he came to church and Pastor Johnson preached the gospel. He and my mother got saved. And I want to tell you that changed the whole Harmon household. I mean I saw the grace of God. You know, I saw my father in the evening times uh walk by his bedroom. He'd be on his knees with the Bible open. Totally different person. I saw the power of the gospel. I saw it change his life. The Bible has that ability to change lives. We know that it's through the Word of God that men and women find true life True spiritual life comes through the word of God. Psalm 119, verse 50. This is my comfort in my affliction. Thy word has quickened me. And the word for quicken here simply means to make alive God's word makes us alive. Psalm 119, verse 93, I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou hast Quicken me. I'm not going to forget your word, Lord, because it's through your word that I get life. It's giving me life. And then of course in John 20. But these things are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you you might have life through his name. The Bible is life-giving. It sanctifies those who embrace it. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. The Bible has this sanctifying impact on our life. It makes us more and more righteous. It makes us more and more like Christ the more we're in the Word of God. That's why we tell you, you know, listen, church on Sunday is not enough. You need to be reading your Bible all week long. You need to be studying all week long. You need to seek the Lord. Through it. You need to meditate on it because that's the sanctifying influence of the Word of God. For those who embrace the Bible, it has a incredible sanctifying influence on it. That's why it's such a privilege to be a pastor. You know, there are challenges with that, but there's also great, great privileges. And one of the privileges I have is that I get to study the Bible all through the week. And so I praise God for that because there's a sanctifying influence that the Scripture will have for those who embrace it. Ephesians 5. 246 That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the Word. Again, that's what God's Word does. It washes us inwardly, it cleanses us, it has that sanctifying influence in our life, it illuminates our path. We know this verse, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Psalm 119, 130, the entrance of thy words giveth light, it giveth understanding unto the simple God's word just gives us light on what we should do, the path that we should go. And David was describing a lamp that they used back then that would kind of shine a kind of a little beam of light down on the path and one out in a general direction of where you're going And that's what God's Word is. It helps us to take the next step, and it gives us a general light in the direction of life that we ought to go. But then also it gives hope. God's word is our source of hope. Whatsoever things were written before time were written for our learning, that through patience and comfort of the scriptures we might have hope. And so it also it motivates obedience. God's word motivates our obedience, and that's so very true. When you get the law of God in your heart, it's going to make you want to do those things that God has written in the Scripture It motivates obedience, also it purifies us. Again, this goes along with sanctification, but it purifies the heart. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word If you want to have a pure heart, then you have to embrace the scripture because it'll do that for you. It'll clean your heart inwardly, but also it protects us. Keeps us from off the wrong path off the wrong path. Concerning the work of men, by the word of thy lips, I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer. God, it's your word that's kept me in the right path It's kept me from making bad decisions going the wrong way. It's your word that protects us. The Bible says when we keep God's word There's great reward. And then also it nourishes us. We know this. Jesus said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. What food is to the body, God's word is to the soul. And if you're starving spiritually, it's because you haven't been eating. And it's nobody's fault but your own. Sometimes people say, Well, you know, I'm gonna get fed at that church. Well That church should feed you, but grant you you also have the the the meal right in front of you all week long. You can just read it and study it for yourself And so God's word is our spiritual food. As newborn babes, we should desire the sincere milk of the word that you might grow thereby. Your spiritual growth is directly related to the intake that you have of Scripture, God's word in your life. And then of course it comforts us God's word is a continual comfort. And the psalmist said this, you know, it causes the rejoicing of the hearts. Psalm 198, Psalm 119, 76. Let I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort according to thy word unto thy servant. And then also God's word encourages faith in us. Now the things that happened unto them for for examples and are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. It encourages us when we see those who have gone before us this path of faith. It encourages us to also walk that same path of faith. And so it can transform the worst sinner It is has that power, as we said, the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. And again, we can talk about one example after another after another of people's Lives who were changed. Josh McDowell tells a dramatic story about how his alcoholic father was changed by the gospel. And listen to what he says. He said it was like someone reached down and switched on a light inside him He touched alcohol only once after that. He got to drink only as far as his lips, and that was it. After 40 years of drinking, he didn't need it anymore Fourteen months later, he died from complications of his alcoholism. But in that fourteen-month period, over a hundred people in the area around my tiny hometown committed their lives to Jesus Christ Because of the change they saw in the town drunk, my dad. It's incredible, isn't it? And again, we've seen that. We've seen the power of the Word of God change hearts and lives. The Apostle Paul, in writing to the Corinthians, he named a lot of sins there sexual immorality, idolatry, adultery, homosexuality, theft, greed, drunkenness. And then he said this, such were some of you. This is what you were before, but now you've been washed. You've been justified. You've been sanctified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what you were. It's not what you are now. Now I know there are certain branches of the church that say, well, you know, you can still practice those sins and be a Christian. Not if you practice them continually in your life. You might lapse into sin. You know the difference between a believer and an unbeliever? An unbeliever will leap into sin and will love it. A believer will lapse into sin and he will loathe. You don't live in this pattern of sin. You might slip and fall, but you'll confess it, you'll get right. Anyone who lives in an unbroken pattern of these sins mentioned, the Apostle Paul made it clear, you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. You can't live in an unbroken pattern of sin like this and call yourself a Christian. Because the power of the gospel does not allow for that. That's why I have a problem with uh, I'll just be honest with you, I have a problem with this this classification of carnal, a carnal Christian. We say we have a natural man, the carnal man, and a spiritual man. Well, I think that a Christian can lapse into carnality. I have no question about that. But I don't think a true believer lives in carnality. I think we've kind of made up a classification there and I think it's very dangerous for some people because some people who think that they're saved they say, Oh, I'm just a carnal Christian. No, you just need to get saved. You just need to get saved. The Bible says in 1 John 2 3, hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that says, I know him, I'm saved. And keepeth not his commandments is a what? Is a liar. And the truth is not in him. I didn't write that. John wrote that. And there are a lot of people that are self-deceived. They say, oh, you know, I'm saved. I'm just not living like a Christian. I'm living like a lost person, but I'm truly saved. No, if you're saved, you're going to live like a Christian. And you're going to confess your sins. And you're going to want to get right with God. I'm not saying you can't lapse into sin. Any believer can lapse into any sin. But that believer is not going to live in that sin, in the continual unbroken pattern of carnality, and say, oh, well, you know, I'm just a carnal Christian. No, Paul said, such were some of you, not are some of you But you know, you got saved. You're still that, but you're saved now, but thank God for that. No, such were some of you, he said. The Bible changes lives, it has life-changing power. The story is told of by uh uh of uh Harry Ironside, the pastor and the theologian. And uh he was in San Francisco preaching the gospel, and one man shouted, Atheism has done more for the world than Christianity. And uh W. A. Christwell is the one who actually tells this story, and this is what he says. Uh the chat the atheists challenged Ironside to a debate, and Dr. Ironside said to this man, I would be happy to debate with you this this time, this hour, this place, I will meet with you. Well the atheist said, well that's fine. I'll debate you And then Ironside said this, I have just one more thing here I wanted us to do. Tomorrow this very hour I'm going to bring with me one hundred men and women who have been saved out of the gutter, out of the darkness and despair of life who've been lifted up into the brightness of God. I'm going to bring 100 of them, and they will be here standing beside me tomorrow, this place, this time. And you, you bring 100 men and women who have been saved out of the gutter and out of the darkness of life by the gospel of infidelity. Needless to say, there was no debate Didn't happen. Because the gospel of infidelity doesn't change anybody. It's the gospel of God that changes lives. And so I would say to a person, how do you know that the Bible is God's word? I would just say, because it changes people's lives. And there is no argument against a changed life. You can't argue against that. You can't argue against what you see God's Word do. So again, we're considering why do we believe the Bible is God's Word? Because of the scientific accuracy of it? because of the fulfilled prophecy that we've seen, because of its historical accuracy, because of its overall unity, because of its moral superiority, it's unsurpassed and it's moral and social impact on our society because of its life-changing ability. The Bible has the power to change people's heart and life. But here's the seventh reason I would give a person, because of its textual superiority. And here in this argument, I just would point out it stands alone among books that claim to come from God. There's a lot of books out there that claim to be divine. But can they stand up to the to the claim? The Bible stands alone in this regard. If you ask me, if you want to compare. The Quran, for example, has internal contradictions. Um it such as urging religious tolerance in one place. And just like we can't have chapters in the Bible, the Quran has what is called a surah. And in Surah 2, 256, it's it's uh commanding Muslims to fight and kill those who do not believe. In one place, it's tolerance And then another place it commands to kill those who do not believe. That's in another section there that you see referenced here in your slide. In other places, the Quran claims that the earth was made in six days But in another surah, it teaches that eight days were needed to create the world. So it has internal contradictions to it. You know, I'll have people say, well, you know, the Bible has contradictions. You know what? The Bible can stand up to that scrutiny. It has no contradictions. There are no contradictions in the Bible. There are hidden blessings There are things that you just haven't looked into enough. And places where the people say, well, the Bible has a contradiction, we have studied and found that that's not true. It's in total harmony. And then also the Quran also purports certain scientific inaccuracies, claims that human beings are formed from a clot of blood. The Quran says the sun rests in a muddy spring in the west. I would like to ask universities now that are some university classes that are making studying the Quran a requirement and they've thrown out the Bible. Why don't you use the same scrutiny against the Quran that you use against the Bible? You criticize and say the Bible is scientifically inaccurate. Why don't you use that scrutiny on the Quran? The Quran says the sun rests in a muddy spring in the west. I would like an answer about that, you know. It says that the mountains were created to hold down the earth and prevent earthquakes. And these are the references that you see right here. Don't take my word for it. Just pick up a Quran and look at these references. It'll tell you that very clearly. That's what it's saying. The Quran says there were literally seven heavens. And that meteors are a form of divine retribution being hurled at devils who might try to spy on them on the heavenly council. It also says there are seven earths stacked above each other. The Quran and Hadith claim that the moon was miraculously split in two pieces and then presumably put back together. I guess it was put back together. It never really said that, but since we look at it now and it's together. We would assume that it got back together. There's no scientific evidence whatsoever that the moon has ever been split into two since You know, of course the moon is visible from uh from us. We can see that. And we would expect to see if that actually ever happened to some Accounts in different parts of the world of that kind of a phenomena in the heavens taking place. We don't read of that anywhere. The Romans, the Greeks, the Egyptians, the Persians. Chinese and Indians who are avid astronomers, surely they would have seen this event, surely they would have recorded it somewhere, but they that it's nowhere recorded in any place in civilization. And that's a strong indication, of course, that this thing never happened. And then the common myth at the time of the Quran's composition was that the sky or heavens was held up by pillars. Again, that's that's in the Quran. The sky and the heaven are hilled up by pillars. Many uh Bedouin people living in Arab Arabia. Imagine the sky as a large tent covering, similar to tents they use. And the author repeats this myth by describing the sky as being raised above the earth. The Quran contains historical errors as well. For example, here's one. At Sirah 4038, the Quran mistakenly identifies Haman. And we know the story of Esther in the book of Esther of Haman. He was a minister of the Persian king Ahashashuras. And it says in the Quran that he was a minister of the Pharaoh at the time of Moses. It's a pretty pretty big mistake there. Pretty glaring. The Quran confuses Mary, the mother of Jesus, with Mary, who was the sister of Moses and Aaron. These are big, again, historical inaccuracies. Now remember, I've been arguing that the Bible is God's word because of its scientific accuracy and its historical accuracy, and if we hold the Quran next to that, we see that it can't pass the same test. Because of the inaccuracies here. There's also at Sura two twelve of two four nine and two fifty There's obviously confusion between the story of Saul as told in it and of the account of Gideon in the book of Judges There's definitely confusion there. And the account of Alexander the Great in the Quran. There's an account of him in the Quran. And it's confused. Uh and it's facts historically about Alexander the Great, and it's based on a book called The Romance of Alexander, which has no historical reliability. At any rate, the Macedonian was not a Muslim, they said that Alexander the Great was a Muslim They said that he lived to an old age. History shows that he didn't live to an old age. How old was he when he died? He was 32 or 33. He was not a contemporary of Abraham. As it says in the Quran. All these things are glaring historical inaccuracies. And yet this is a book that claims to be from God. And so these examples undermine that claim that it is a book that is from God. But again, you compare the Bible. The Bible is scientifically It is accurate. Historically, it is accurate. It has fulfilled prophecy. You can't point to fulfilled prophecies in the Quran. You can't do that with that book there. And we could consider other religious texts, but again, we don't have time to go through all of them, and I don't want to bore you with all that. But you can investigate some of that for yourself. But in each case, we would find again that the supposedly inspired text falls far short of the Bible Far short of the scripture. Norman Geisler and Wayne, or excuse me, William Nicks said other books claim divine inspiration, such as the Quran and the Book of Mormon, and parts of the Hindu Vita But none of those books contains genuine predictive prophecy. And as a result, fulfilled prophecy is a strong indication of the unique divine authority of the Bible. So that would just argue then of textual superiority. You compare the Bible with other religious books, and it stands way, way far above any other religious books. The argument of scientific accuracy, fulfilled prophecy, historical accuracy, the overall unity, the moral superiority, the life-changing ability, and textual superiority I would argue all those, but here's another argument I would give about the Bible being the Word of God, and that is divine testimony. And what I mean by that is because Jesus affirmed the Bible as the Word of God. You know why I believe the Bible is God's word? Because Jesus said it was. And He treated it that way. He affirmed it. You look at the life of Christ in the Gospels. Jesus provides divine witness as to the inspiration and authority of the Scripture. It's appropriate that the incarnate Word of God should stand as our final authoritative witness to the written Word of God. The incarnate word affirms the written word of God. John Stott said this, the British theologian. He said the chief reason why the Christian believes in the divine origin of the Bible is that Jesus Christ himself taught it. Again, he's right. That's the that's the chief reason right there. I believe that the Bible is the word of God because that's what Jesus said. And that's the way he taught it. In fact, the greatest testimony to the authenticity of the Bible is God's inspired word is the Lord Jesus. And why is this testimony so important? Well, obviously, because he's God. And God in human flesh. And because God authenticated his claim of deity through what? Through the resurrection. The resurrection confirms that he's the Son of God. And Christ clearly confirmed the authority of the Old Testament, and he specifically promised the New Testament. Jesus spoke of the Old Testament like this, the word of God. He called it the word which cannot be broken. He promised that no part of the law would pass away until all of it was accomplished. I talk about word for word inspiration. Jesus said not one jot or one tittle is going to pass away. Jesus, you know, he was more letter than word. He said, not one letter. You know why? Because one letter can change the meaning of a word, and a word can change the meaning of a verse. God's going to preserve every, not one jot or one title. What's a jot? That's the smallest letter in Hebrew. It's like a little apostrophe, is what it looks like It's equivalent to our letter Y. What's a tittle? That's just a part of a letter. You know, a race in Hebrew is like a R. It's just kind of a little little bow shaped thing there. But a dollet has kind of a little cross to it. It has a little horn on the end of it. That's a tittle. And if you're reading Hebrew and you look at it, if you're not careful, you can mistake a raish for a dollar or a dollar for a raish because of that one little tittle there in the letter. And if you mistake a Dalit for a Raish, and then you misunderstand the word, and then that causes you to misunderstand the verse, then it might overturn some doctrine. But Jesus said he's not going to allow even one tittle to pass away. He's going to preserve his word, and the Bible is preserved. And he believes every word of God. And so just think about it. When he was tempted by Satan, Jesus could have used his own authority to rebuke Satan, but instead, what did he appeal to? God's word. The written word of God. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. He condemned the religious leaders of his day. Because of their distortion of God's words. He said they were making void the word of God by their tradition they had handed down to them. They were holding up man-made tradition and uh next to the word of God and they were making void the word of God. And again, there's Jesus strongly emphasizing that the law that they had though was the very word of God. Jesus said. And he continually undergirded his teaching with the phrase, it is written. It is written. Throughout his ministry, Jesus affirmed the Old Testament. He affirmed its historical reliability, and we can see these in these passages, and again, we don't have time to look at all of them. Prophetic accuracy. He affirmed the sufficiency of the Word of God, the unity of Scripture, the inerrancy, the infallibility, the divine authorship of it, the authority of it. Jesus believed all of that. Charles Ryrie, the theologian, said this: Our Lord used historical incidents in the Old Testament in a manner that uh evinced his total confidence in their factual historicity. Obviously our Lord felt he had a reliable Bible, historically true, and every word trustworthy. Every word trustworthy. So friend, you want to ask me why do I believe the Bible is the Word of God? Because that's exactly what Jesus believed. It's what he taught. It's what he held to. Now let me give you one more argument, and that is because of its textual reliability. It's textual reliability. That is to say, because the Old and New Testaments have been reliably preserved and handed down to us. The same God that inspired the Word of God has preserved his word and has handed his word down to us And because of that, that's an argument that we can use as to the Word of God. Again, God promised not only to give us his word, but also to preserve it. What good would it do if God gave us the word in the originals but didn't preserve it to us and hand it down to us? And so God has promised to preserve his word. Again, Jesus said, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. In Luke 16, 17, he said, it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than for one tittle of the law to fail, or to fail there. And so God has preserved his word. Do you realize that throughout history there have been those who have tried to stamp out the Bible? To rid us of the word of God. There's an example in Jewish history of an intense effort to destroy it. In 175 BC, the king of Syria, Antiochus Epiphany, he ordered the Jews on on on the pain of death to destroy their scriptures and worship the Greek gods. We've heard stories of the monstrous attacks of Antiochus Epiphanes against God's people. And there's one of them. He ordered them on the pain of death. If you don't destroy the scriptures, you will die. And there was a man by the name of Judas Maccabeas who saved the books and led a revolt that won the independence for the Jewish nation. And of course, today Jews celebrate this event as Hanukkah But he actually prevented that very thing. God had the right man in the right place at the right time to keep this from happening. But this has also happened in the New Testament era. Another example was the Roman Emperor Diocletian. Diocletian ordered Christianity outlawed during his reign. He ordered the leaders to be killed. He ordered their Bibles to be burned. At one place, Diocletian erected a pillar over a ash pile. of what had been Bibles that were burned, and on that ash pile he erected this pillar, and on the pillar he wrote in Latin, Extincton Nomine Christorium, which is the name of Christianity is distinct. He thought that he had burned all the Bibles. He thought that he had brought an extinction to Christianity. And right after he died, you know what happened? Bibles started appearing everywhere. All over the place. The only thing that was extinct was not the Bible but Diocletian. And as a sign of God's providence, the next emperor, Constantine, legalized Christianity. and paid for 50 new handwritten copies of the Bible. God, again, has preserved his word And so the Bible has not only been preserved, but translated into over 2,000 languages, both ancient and modern. It would be impossible for anyone practically to destroy God's Word today. It's been disseminated through so many different ways and means. God has preserved his word. Many of the earliest surviving manuscripts, including translations in the Syriac version, showing that God's Word was spreading from the very beginning, and the words of this message have been preserved in many languages. And then we know again according to the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1947, it confirmed that we still have the same Old Testament that they had at at Jesus Day. It's it was just it's been preserved. And again, that's another benefit of the Dead Sea Scrolls discovery. We can see that The survival of thousands of New Testament manuscripts confirms that the New Testament writings were also providentially preserved The question among textual scholars is not whether some words are missing, but which variant readings in a few minor cases are the correct ones. And that's the challenge of New Testament textual criticism Well it's not that we don't have the word of God. We have the word of God. We have all of it. We have even more than that. We said, what do you mean by that? Well because if back in that day, before the inventing of printing presses and so on People would hand copy the scripture. And of course, when you have handwritten copies of the Bible, there's going to be a little bit of human error that works into that, right? And so what's the science of textual criticism? The science of textual criticism is comparing all of these manuscripts and then finding out what the original said. And what's a variant? A variant is a difference between two manuscripts. For example, some manuscripts might say, I can do all things through what? Christ that strengthened me. But there are other manuscripts that say, I can do all things through him that strengthens me. So the question of the textual scholar is which one is the original? Is it all things through Christ, or is it all things through him? And what they do is they compare all the handwritten manuscripts and they make a a scientific uh really um uh I would say guess, but guess isn't the right word. It would be more of a scientific conclusion And they would say, we believe that the original said this. I can do all things through Christ that strengthens me. And again, it's not that they don't have the Word of God, it's just that in the very Small areas, there are little variants, and some of those variants are word order. Is it Christ Jesus our Lord, or is it our Lord Jesus Christ? That doesn't really change the meaning of the verse any, does it? The word order So it might be word order, it might be spelling sometimes, it might be a pronoun instead of the antecedent. These are all different, and all these things are called variants And let me just say this. 99. 5% of what we have is without question. It's just in this small area. Did the writer say this or did he say that? And let me just also say that in none of those areas does it ever overturn any major doctrine of Scripture. And so God has preserved His Word. We have His Word. In fact, we have more than that. We just have to discern where we have to You know, edit out some of the human uh manuscript errors that sweep their way in as people were copying and making copies of copies and so on. And that's the science of textual criticism. And I know that there are a lot of people out there that might think, well, you know, textual criticism, they're trying to take the Bible away from us. No, they're not. They're just trying to give you what was in the original. All right. Some people think that there's a hostile agenda with certain textual critics of trying to take the word of God away. Friend, I I don't think that that's academically um True to say that. Now grant you there might be some of those guys that don't hold the Bible in high esteem, but one person can't overturn the Word of God God has preserved his word and he will continue to preserve it. He has preserved it. And all of the many manuscripts that we have. Of God's Word. He's preserved it through those thousands and thousands and thousands of manuscripts of God's Word. And it's handed down to us reliably. How is the Old Testament scripture so well preserved? Let me give you some basic facts on how the Jewish scribes would, when they were copying the Old Testament scriptures, some of their practices to let you know how well It was preserved. For example, only clean animal skins were used to write on and even bind the manuscripts. Each column of writing could ha have no less than 48 and no more than 60 lines. The ink must be black and of a special recipe that a special ink which was guaranteed not to fade They must say each word aloud while they're writing. Every word that they write, they had to say it out loud. That was to keep from making a mistake. It sounds like a punishment on a homework assignment, doesn't it? Say each word aloud when you're writing it. That's what they would have to do. Scribes must wipe the pen and wash their entire bodies before writing the word Jehovah. Every time they wrote it. Every time they came to the word Jehovah, which is actually the Hebrew word is Yahweh, the actual consonants are are the Yahweh, the vowel points The word Jehovah really came about. It's a long story, but anyway, it was the divine name of God. Whenever they came to the divine name, They would have to wipe the pen, they would have to take a bath, wash their entire body, and then write down in a very reverent manner the name Yahweh or Jehovah. That's how sacred that name was to them. They required review within 30 days, and it's as if as many as three pages required corrections, the entire manuscript had to be redone. The letters, words, and paragraphs were counted, and the document became invalid if two letters touched each other The middle paragraph, word, and letter must correspond to those of the original document. The documents could be stored only in sacred places. And so you know when a manuscript wasn't being used, it was stored in a sacred place. And when it became it came to the point where it wasn't used anymore, they didn't just discard it. They didn't burn it. They would bury it. Or they would put it in some kind of a storage place there, usually kept in a synagogue, sometimes in a Jewish cemetery That's the reason we have no original manuscripts. Josephus said this. He said, We have given practical proof of our reverence for our own scriptures, for although such long ages have now passed No one has ventured either to add or to remove or to alter a syllable. And it is an instinct with every Jew to regard them as the decrees of God, to abide by them, and if need be, cheerfully, to die for them. Now you know who Josephus was, right? He was a f he was a Jewish historian. Who lived somewhere around the time of Christ, and he has been proven to be a meticulous historian, as people have scrutinized his writings later on. And so he is just again affirming the fact that the Old Testament scriptures had been reliably passed down to the next generation that we can say, what we have is the Word of God. We have the same Word of God that Jesus had in his day. It's been reliably passed down. And again, the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls affirms that. It proves that. What about the New Testament manuscripts? That Old Testament is one thing. What about the New Testament? Well, to quote the New Testament scholar F. F. Bruce, he said, there is no body of ancient literature in the world which enjoys such a wealth of good textual attestation as the New Testament. Sir Frederick Kenyon said, in no case is the interval of time between the composition of the book In other words, he's saying that the time of the actual event and the composition, there's such a short time in between That we don't really see that much in ancient history. But the Bible enjoys that. And how do we judge the reliability of the text? Actually, there are three tests. that are given. There's the bibliographical test. How reliable are the manuscripts? How early is the dating? That's one test. Another test is Internal evidence test. Are there multiple attestations? Is the document free of contradictions? And do the accounts match in the document? And then there's a third test, and that is the external evidence test. Is there external evidence that corroborates the document's testimony? And so we would have to look at it from those, we could look at the New Testament manuscripts from those three tests. In fact, there's another man by the name of Hume Who said this, the criteria for witness believability is number one, are the witnesses many in number? Do we have a lot of witnesses? Number two, are the witnesses truthful? Number three, are the witnesses or or do the witnesses contradict? And then number four, are the witnesses non-prejudicial? And those are the those are the guidelines that he would use. And if we Gave God's word based on this that would pass all of these. And I'm kind of running out of time because you guys aren't listening fast enough again. And uh the biographical test Why care about early dating? Early dating means accounts were written close to the actual events. Early dating is important because eyewitnesses can refute written error. If someone else writes something different, a eyewitness can come along and say, hey, wait a minute, that's not what happened. So that's why early dating is important. Dr. White, professor of ancient history, has shown, via the writings of Herodotus, that it takes more than two generations to pass before legend can corrupt a historical account. When Professor Sherwin White turns to the Gospels, he states that for the Gospels to be legends, the rate of legendary accumulation would have to be unbelievable. And so if you look at the dating of the Gospels, you're going to find that they were dated very early, Matthew A. D. 42. Now remember, you know, Jesus um you know he died somewhere around AD thirty-three, okay? So right after that, in AD forty-two, you have the you have Matthew, you have Luke, that was written in AD fifty-eight to sixty, you have Mark written A. D. 66 to 67, probably earlier. And then John, written to Christian believers, dated before A. D. 90. So these are all written very early. Okay? Albright, the great archaeologist, said this. We can already say emphatically that there is no longer any solid basis for dating any book of the New Testament after AD 80. In my opinion, every book of the New Testament was written by a baptized Jew between the forties and the eighties of the first century, very probably sometime between eighty fifty and seventy-five. And so, you know, again, just some cruise need to go through this, just have a few minutes left. We see citations from the early church fathers that proves early dating. This is just a list of some of the early church fathers and the books that they cited. We see citings from early apologists that prove early dating. And then there's more evidences that we can go over that I don't have time to. Luke does not record the destruction of Jerusalem, which happened in 8070. Surely if Luke wrote after that, he would have said something about that in his gospel. We don't read anything about that. Paul was martyred by Nero in A. D. 65 to 66, so his letters had to come earlier than that. And so again, there's more evidence is about early dating, and again, we don't have time to go through all that. What about internal The internal evidence test. Is the New Testament consistent? If you compare the gospel, you're going to find out they're consistent. All of those witnesses are consistent with each other. On all these things that are listed here, they're all consistent. And we can go on about that. What about external evidence? Again, Josephus, the Jewish historian, he affirms what is written in the New Testament Gospels in many places. Again, I don't have time to go over all of this. He mentions the death of John the Baptist and his writings. Again, these are extra-biblical, and he is affirming what is written in the Gospels, the death of John the Baptist. He even mentions Jesus. And this is what he says. Again, this is a historical record. At this time there was a wise man who's who was called Jesus. And his conduct was good and was known to be virtuous. Many people among the Jews and other nations became his disciples. Pilate condemned them to be crucified and died. And those who had become his disciples did not abandon his discipleship. They reported that they had appeared uh that he had appeared to them three days after his crucifixion, and that he was alive according accordingly. He was perhaps the Messiah concerning whom the prophets have recounted wonders. That's an extra biblical historical reference about the life of Christ from this Jewish historian Josephus, which totally harmonizes with what the gospel says. We can also quote from uh Tacitus, who is a Roman uh uh senator And he talks about Jesus standing before Pontius Pilate in his writings. There's also the evidence of Pliny the Younger. He has a historical reference about the Christians and worshiping Jesus as Christ. Lucian is another Greek writer who in a historical reference refers to what the gospels say about the Lord Jesus Christ. Celsus is another, and on we can go. The Talmud also talks about the same thing. There's all these external evidences that prove, again, the reliability of what we have as the Word of God. That it's that what it says is true. And then of course we already talked about archaeology, so I'm not going to continue to bore you about that Again, David Hume's test of witnesses, are the witnesses many in number? More than any other writing from antiquity, we would answer. Are the witnesses truthful? The authors were personally committed to the highest ethical standard of truthfulness and died for what they wrote versus refuted Many of them did die for what they wrote. Do the witnesses contradict? No. They agree. Are the witnesses non uh prejudicial? Some apostles actually disbelieved at first in Jesus and were converted They were not prejudicial. And so we would say that the Bible passes all of these tests of witnesses and that we have We have a book that was reliably handed down to us. All right, I rest my case You're the jury, so you're gonna have to decide what you believe about God's word. Let's all stand together. We're out of time. Let's pray and then we'll have Our service. Father, thank you that we do have your inspired word. It does give us hope. It nourishes us. It inspires us. It comforts us. And we know that when we open up to read it, Lord, you speak to us. Thank you for your word and all it teaches us about our Savior Christ. Bless us today as we look into it. May we see Jesus. May we love him more. Speak to hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.