Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 25? And we're going to look at the first ten verses of Matthew chapter 25 this morning. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word as I read a few of these verses with you? Matthew chapter 25. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were wise, and five were foolish. And they that were foolish took their their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps, and while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so Lest there be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves. And while they went to buy The bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. And afterward came also the other virgin saying, Lord, Lord, open to us But he answered, and he said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the privilege of worshiping you through the Word of God. And Lord, I pray that today as we look at this wonderful parable solemn parable that Lord we would be duly warned from the words of our Savior Jesus Christ. Give us instruction and Lord help us to walk in a way that's pleasing to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In all my years of ministry, I've done many weddings. I've yet to conduct a wedding where everything goes exactly as planned. In fact, I have yet to conduct a wedding where we get started on time, where it's advertised. There's always something that happens that is unexpected. Perhaps that's why Jesus uses the story of a wedding to teach us the basic idea to be ready for the unexpected. Here in this parable that we just read, it's the story of a wedding where everything goes wrong. The groom shows up very late. In fact he's so late that the bridal party falls asleep by the side of the road. When the groom finally arrives at midnight, half of the bridesmaids have forgotten to bring enough oil for their lamps And they end up being banned from the celebration. And as the story concludes, the rejected bridesmaids are standing outside the door asking for admission, but to no avail. The door's been shut. They missed out on the privilege of being a part of this joyous celebration. It's a kind of a sad and strange ending to a wedding that's supposed to be a time of great joy. Other than that, it was a perfectly normal wedding. But Jesus is teaching to us a very important lesson in this parable. And the lesson is this, be ready. It's really a warning. In fact, of all the parables that Jesus gave, I think this parable is perhaps the most solemn and it's perhaps the most fearful. It's designed to wake us up. So let's take a closer look at this parable. Notice the context first. Look at the first word of verse 1. Then, then shall the kingdom of heaven be liken unto ten virgins. The word then kind of points back, it reminds us to what Jesus already said in chapter twenty-four. Now what did Jesus talk about in chapter twenty-four? Well that was the great Mount Olivet Discourse where Jesus is explaining to his disciples all the things about his second coming. And so chapter 25 really is a continuation of Jesus' teaching. This chapter really is a climax of all that Jesus had to say about his second coming. And really the chapters just consist of three parables. There's the parables here of the ten virgins, and there's the parables of the talents, and the parables of the sheep and goats. And again, all of these are designed to warn us And to tell us you better be ready. You say, I'm ready. Are you sure? Are you sure you're ready? Because that's what these these parables are designed. to get us to do, to uh self-evaluate, to make sure that we are ready. So I'm going to break the sermon down in two parts today. First the parable. We're going to talk about the parable. And then number two, I want to talk about the principles that we learn and we apply from the parable. Fair enough? Here's number one, the parable. And under that I want to talk about the distinctions of the virgins. Again in verse number one. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. What an honor it is to be asked to participate in a wedding To be invited to be a bridesmaid at a wedding like this, this would be the the desire and dream of every young girl that lived that day in Palestine. So we open up this story with ten bridesmaids. All ten were invited by the bride herself. Now, obviously in this parable It's speaking about the coming bridegroom. And of course the bridegroom represents Jesus, the master, who is the Son of God. Jesus, the bridegroom, who will one day come for his bride. And so it's it's really all about the celebration that should take place with the coming of the bridegroom to receive his bride. And did you know that salvation in many places in Scripture is pictured as a wedding? The Bible tells us the redeemed, when we're gathered together, one day Jesus will come back, he'll receive his bride. We're gathered together there in heaven. You know the first thing written about what we're going to do? In Revelation 19, it's the marriage supper of the Lamb, the Bible says. We're going to have a marriage supper there in heaven, Revelation 19. Let us rejoice. And exude and give him the glory for the marriage of the Lamb has come and his bride has made herself ready. That's Revelation 19, 7. So Jesus compares those who have accepted the gospel invitation, those who have accepted the invitation to the wedding, as those who have been saved, those who have received the gospel. Now, again, in order to understand all that goes on here, we have to understand the concept and the custom of a Jewish wedding. Now you've heard me talk to you about this before because the background of this It's really helpful in so many passages in the New Testament. There are three stages of a Hebrew marriage. First of all, there's the covenant stage, where the bridegroom and the prospective bride, they establish a marriage covenant. The prospective bridegroom goes from his father's house to the bridegroom's father, and he negotiates a purchase price. That speaks about Jesus leaving heaven, the father's house, coming to earth. And we know that the purchase price for his bride was his own precious blood that he shed on the cross. And then the young man would give the woman some token, some sign of their marriage covenant. And uh By the way, what does the Bible say is our token that we are part of the bride? It is the earnest of the Spirit, right? We have the Holy Spirit. That's the token that we are saved. Now at this point, the covenant was established. And all this is a picture of salvation. The bridegroom paid the purchase price. The marriage covenant was established And right after and then at that point they're called being espoused, they're espoused together, even though they have not come together to consummate the marriage And what the bridegroom will do is he'll go back to his father's house. He will prepare a place for his bride, and he will come to receive her. She doesn't know when he's going to come. She has to be ready at all times for him to come. But he's separated from her. He is going to come back for her and receive her to himself. And again, when that happens, when he does come back, Um he'll come with his attendants. Normally it would be at midnight, it'd be at some late hour at night. The bridegroom with her bridesmaids had to be ready. They had to have their lamps and oils trimmed and ready And there would be this grand procession from he would the the bride would meet the bridegroom when he called out, and they would all go back together to the father's house where there was a banquet. room, a banquet house there, and they would have the marriage supper together. There'll be a celebration. Normally that lasted for seven days. I mean I thought I paid a lot for my daughter's uh reception, but seven days Can you imagine a banquet for seven days? And so now when Jesus that was the covenant stage, the claiming stage, let me clarify, is when he would come back together. That would be the claiming stage. And then he would take her back to the banquet house where they would celebrate. That's the celebration stage. Now, in this parable that we give here, by the way, whenever we see a wedding used in the Bible. Normally Jesus in his parables would emphasize a different aspect of that wedding. Sometimes he would emphasize the covenant, the betrothal. Sometimes he would emphasize the celebrating. Here, what Jesus is really focusing on in this wedding celebration is the when the bridegroom comes to claim his bride. And then takes her back to the banquet house. And then there is the celebrating. By the way, that's going to happen. Jesus will come one day. The Bible says he'll come with a shout. And the church, the bride will go out to meet him. That's called the rapture. And he will take us through the father's house where we'll have the Mary Supper of the Lamb. All this fits perfectly with what the Bible has to say about end time events. And that that's when the celebration will start. But what's focused on here in this parable is the procession. The procession that goes back to the Father's house. When it was announced that the bridegroom was coming, The bride would go out, again the bridegrooms would the bridesmaids would go out and they would have their uh lamps ready. Why did they need lamps? Well, because normally it would take place at night No one was absolutely sure when it would happen. They had to be watchful. So we see here the distinction of the ten virgins. But then the next thing would be the description of the ten virgins. Look in verse number two. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. They that were foolish took their own lamps and took no oil with them, but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But the why and so we see here how Jesus describes these ten virgins. Five were wise Five were foolish. Why were they foolish? Well, because they didn't take enough oil for their lamps. They didn't have enough foresight to Understand that the bridegroom may tarry long. He might tarry longer than before or what they're accustomed to. So and there's two other points to understand about this. First of all In that day, no one is allowed in the streets at night without a lamp. You had to have a lamp or you wouldn't be allowed in the street. Secondly, once the procession goes back to the father's house in the banquet room, the door is shut. You can't get in The door when it's shut, it is locked. Why? This is to prevent party crashers and uninvited guests. Latecomers to the ceremony were not admitted. This is why it's important to be ready. You had to be ready. And so Jesus describes these bridesmaids, five foolish, five wise. Now they're alike in many ways as we look at this. Uh all had been invited to the banquet, all had r uh responded positively, all ten went out to wait for the bridegroom, all of them had lamps with them, all of them were in the right place at the right time For the right reason. All of them wanted to see the bridegroom. All of them wanted to go to the wedding banquet. All of them had some oil in their lamps at the beginning. All of them fell asleep while waiting for the bridegroom. All were awakened by the midnight cry. Behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet him. All ten virgins got up to prepare their lamps. But there's one difference that we see here. They're different in one way. The problem is half of these women who are in this inner circle. Forgot to bring enough oil. And that's the reason they are foolish. They are unprepared. Now we need to stop for a minute here and emphasize the kind of people that are being described here. In this parable, I think the kind of people that Jesus is describing are people in the church. People that are all part of the congregation, the people of God. In order to be a member of a church, a person had to make two professions of faith in Christ. And so all ten of these women had to make their profession of faith in Christ. You know, we make a profession when we get saved, then we make a profession when we are baptized, and so on. And so I think these women represent those who have made a profession of faith in the Lord Jesus. Christ. So we're talking about professed Christians inside the church. And again, the basic differences between the two groups is that the wise virgins brought not only oil or excuse me, brought their lamps, but they brought enough oil for the occasion. And the others did not. Nothing more useless than lamps without oil. And as it turns out The wedding was delayed. You see the wise virgins, they made sure to bring enough oil in case it was delayed to make sure they had plenty enough. And the foolish did not. That's the dis the description. But then the discussion. Look out at verse number five. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a crymaid, Behold, the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil For our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves Again, it's late while they're waiting. They fall asleep. There's the midnight cry. They all get up They trim their lamps. Suddenly the five foolish versions say, we don't have enough oil. So they say to the wise, hey, give us some of your oil. And they say, no, we're not going to do that. You say, well they were stingy. No, it's not that. They realized if they gave them their oil, then they would soon run out themselves. And all ten of them would run out of oil. And the responsibility of the bridesmaids was to light the way in the procession to the father's house. They had to attend to the bride and light the way. That was their responsibility. For all of them to have insufficient oil, that would have been unthinkable. And so the five Y said, no, we can't do that. Um and by the way, it was normally they would take the longest road. to the Father's house. Why would they do that? Well because more people would come out and celebrate with them during a wedding processional in that time. There's a Jewish saying everyone from six to sixty will follow the marriage drum The rabbis said that they would abandon the study of law to share the joy of a wedding feast. So there would be a long procession back. And uh many would come out. And so when the five say, give us some of your oil, the wise would say, No, no, we can't do that. What you need to do is you need to go to the marketplace and go buy your oil, buy more oil Now you might say, well now wait a minute, it's midnight. I mean, where are they gonna find a Walmart open that late? Well you have to remember that day the merchants would stay open when there was a that when there was a wedding because they knew more people would be out, more opportunities for sales, so they would stay open late. And so the five foolish, they go to try to buy more oil. Hopefully they can go and buy the oil and get back before the procession is done, before it's too late, and be a part of it. And so they go to the marketplace to buy oil for their lamps. Now, what does the oil represent? There's all kind of interpretations as to what the oil may speak of here in this parable, but by far the most predominant interpretation of what the oil is is the Holy Spirit. They m I've read many where it says the oil here represents the Holy Spirit. After all, oil in the Bible is often symbolized by the Holy Spirit. But let me just say that I don't think that the oil here in this parable represents the Holy Spirit. Why? Well, for two reasons. Number one, because all ten have oil in the beginning, and five run out. If you're a believer, you don't run out of the Holy Spirit. Okay? You're not going to run out of the Holy Spirit. Once you're saved, you're sealed by the Holy Spirit. You don't run out of him. Secondly, they go and buy oil. This is another thing. You can't buy the Holy Spirit. Right? Remember Peter rebuked Simon the sorcerer in Acts 8. 20 because Simon the Sorcerer felt like he could buy the Spirit's power? And Peter said, Your money perish with you. You can't buy the Holy Spirit. So what then does the oil represent? I'll get back to that. Hang in here. Notice the next part, the division of the ten virgins, look at verse ten. And while they went to buy The bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. Afterward came also the other virgin saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and he said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. So the foolish virgins return from purchasing the oil or they go to buy the oil And during that time the bridegroom came had come, he had received his bride, he was in the the long procession with his bride and the five wise virgins, lighting the way in the procession all the way back to the father's house where they went to the banquet hall there, the banquet room, the door, they went in and the door was shut. It was shut. And here come the five foolish virgins. They realize that they had missed the procession. So they go to the door. And they start tugging at the door, but the door was locked. They were knocking on the door. I mean, they were supposed to be a part of this joyous celebration. I mean, they were part of the in-group. They were, you know, part of the bridesmaids after all, but they were locked out And they were shouting through the door, Lord, Lord, open unto us. And by the way, in the Bible, whenever you see, there's about 15 times in Scripture. Where you see somebody addressed by the repetition of their name. It always kind of stands out to me. Jacob, Jacob, or Abraham, Abraham, when God called out to Abraham, or my father, my father. Elisha said to Elijah. Or when Jesus said, Martha, Martha, you're coming about with many things. So when the name is repeated, it was kind of a Jewish idiom to express personal intimacy. And so they're there and they're saying, Lord, Lord, you know us, Lord, open unto us. And you know what? There's a sad response. In verse twelve, but he answered, and he said, Verily, I say unto you, I know you not. So, I know you not. Now what is again the bridegroom here in this story obviously represents Jesus, right? So when the bridegroom says to these five foolish, I know you not. When he says know you not, he doesn't know, he doesn't mean no in a cognitive sense. What he really is saying here is, I do not know you personally. I don't have an intimate knowledge of you In other words, we could say it like this, I do not know you in a saving way. I don't know you in that way. Now we can compare this to an earlier passage in Matthew's Gospel in Matthew 7. 21, where Jesus said, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord Shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. And then Jesus said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, and in your name done all these wonderful works And then Jesus said, And them I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. What's scary about that verse is not few that will say, Lord, Lord, but it'll be many. Many that think that they are going to be part of that wedding celebration will be locked out And they'll say, Lord, Lord, open unto us. And the Lord will say, I never knew you. I never knew you. The bridegroom does not know them. And again, this is in a saving way. in a personal salvation way. What was missing? What was missing in the lives of the virgins It was salvation. It was saving faith. Again, this parable is not about pagans. It's about those who make a profession of faith in Christ. All of these Bridesmaids, they all made the same profession. They all were supposedly it looked like at that point on equal territory, on equal ground. But when it got right down to it, half of them were not didn't really have saving faith. And Jesus said, there's going to be many like that in that day. Many. So notice the declaration given in verse thirteen, where it says this, watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. That's the whole point of the parable. You better be ready. You don't know when the Son of Man is going to come. I do know this, I know He's coming. He's coming. I don't know when he's going to come. I'm not exactly sure. I don't know how long it's going to be, but you know what? I I've got to be ready. And you have to be ready. So that's the parable. Now let me give you the principles that we can learn from this. Number one, the coming of the Lord might be delayed. The coming of Christ might be delayed. Verse 5, the bridegroom tarried. The word tarry, Krana Zontas, tarried a long time. And why did he linger? Well, because the bridegroom comes whenever. Things are ready. I mean that we don't know the time. You say, how come Jesus hasn't come back yet? I don't know. But I know this he's coming and you better be ready. He'll come at a time when you think not. Someone says that's Sunday morning going to worship service because nobody thinks during that time. Just kidding. You're thinking with me, aren't you? He's gonna come? We know he's gonna come. And he's waiting. You know, I uh all kind of people like to make fun of believers when they say, Oh, you talk about the second coming, second coming, where is he? Where is he? How come he hasn't come back? I mean we look to the world like crazy people because we talk about the coming of the the Lord Jesus Christ, but beloved, just as surely as he came the first time, he's coming again. You know why he waits? He waits because he's waiting for people to come to know Christ and be saved. Remember in Peter's day, Peter talked about those who scoffed. about the Lord's coming. And then Peter said this, that um the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness, but his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God's waiting because he wants people to come to know Jesus Christ. He wants you to come to repentance and to know for sure. Reminds me in Noah's day when God told Noah, you know, I'm going to send rain, a flood on the earth. And uh and Noah, you better build this ark. But before that, Noah's great-grandfather, Enoch, God said to Enoch, remember, God just took Enoch to heaven. That's a picture of the church. God's going to take the church out of the world. But God said to Enoch, you know, Enoch's wife was going to have a baby, and God said, You need to name this child Methuselah, because Methuselah means when he is dead, it shall be sent. And that means when this child that your wife's going to have dies, then I'm going to send a flood. By the way, did you know that Methuselah is on record in the Bible for being the longest living human being? You know how long he lived? 969 years. 969 years. And according to Jewish tradition, the week that he died, the flood came. I can imagine Noah, while he's building York, would go over and visit Grandpa Methuselah. Say, how are you feeling, Grandpa? How are you doing today? Because Noah knew that when Grandpa died, the flood was coming. And Methuselah to us is a symbol of the long-suffering of God. God waited a long time before judgment finally came. And I want to tell you, he's waiting, but he's waiting because he's patient and he wants people to come to know Jesus Christ. There's another thing about this parable. Being prepared is not transferable. It's not transferable. One of the striking features about the parable is when the foolish virgins ask for oil from the wise. And they s again it seems selfish that they wouldn't share, but they really can't share. It's impossible to do that. And this is the whole point here. You can't borrow somebody else's oil. You can't faith is not transferable in the sense that I can borrow somebody else's faith to help me be prepared for when the Lord comes. And so when you stand before the Lord and He says, Why should I let you into heaven? You can't say, Well, you know, my grandmother, she was a godly woman. God says, Oh, yes, she was. And she's here because she trusted Jesus. But I'm asking about you. Because you can't transfer your grandmother's oil into your lamp. What about you? Well, I went to Grace Bible Baptist Church. Yeah, many godly people did. But what about you? I went to thus and such seminary You can't get oil from educational institutions or just being a part of something. You have to come to know Jesus yourself. Amen. I can't transfer my oil to your lamp. You can't get it from bu anybody else's. You have to get it for yourself. Being prepared is not transferable. Salvation is always a personal affair. You're not going to get to heaven hanging on to someone else's coattails. But here's the third thing. True saving faith is demonstrated in continual obedience and good works. So getting back to the question, what does the oil represent? The oil doesn't represent the Holy Spirit. I believe the oil represents true faith demonstrated by obedience and continual good works, not just for a little while. But for all your life. While you're waiting for the Lord Jesus, you don't stop doing your obedient, obeying Christ and doing good works. This is why I always wonder about some Christians after they've been in the church for say 30 years, they suddenly drop out of everything and say, almost as if they say, Well, I've done my time. Really? Do you run out of oil? True saving faith doesn't drop out on God, doesn't quit doing obeying the Lord and doing good works. Because that is the sign of true faith. Hear me out clear. I'm not saying that those works make you saved. I'm saying that those works reveal that you do have true salvation. It is not the root of your salvation. It's the fruit of your salvation. And if you're the kind of person that just, you know, you run out of oil. You get tired of obeying the Lord and doing the thing that you should do. You know, the problem is that you didn't have the real thing to begin with. The the faith that fizzles before the finish had a flaw from the first. And so this is the idea here. Good works reveal true saving faith. In Matthew five fifteen, Jesus kind of gave an analogy. He said, Neither do men light a candle and put under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all men that are in the house. So let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father which is in heaven. I think the same idea is right here in this parable works. Does not save you, but salvation results in a life of continual obedience and continual good works. You're not going to run out of oil. You're going to continue to obey the Lord. And that's the whole idea here. Obedience is one of those fruits of genuine salvation. Remember the earlier parable Jesus gave about the builders? They one builds on the sand, the other builds on a rock, a storm comes. The foolish man who built on the sand, when the storm came, there was great destruction. And the wise men who built upon the rock when the storm came, it stood. What was the difference between the foolish builder and the wise builder? Both heard the sayings of Jesus, but the foolish builder he only heard the sayings. He didn't do anything about it The wise builder heard the sayings of Jesus and he did them and he obeyed. That's the contrast. False profession, true profession. False professors, they run out of works. They don't really apply what Jesus says. True believers continue to obey Jesus. They obey what He said. And so that's the whole point here. When they ran out of oil, they revealed that their faith was not a genuine faith. Here's the last thing here. The Lord's coming will be a separation. There's going to be a separation. This is what we see here, right? When the Lord comes, and by the way, the five foolish and the five wives, separated forever. When the Lord comes, he will separate the wise from the foolish. He'll separate the sheep from the goats. He'll separate the wheats from the tares. And this is a very solemn thought. I can't bear the thought of being separated from my loved ones for eternity, or being separated from my friends for eternity That's why we need to get serious about praying for our loved ones, our family, our friends, that they truly know Jesus Christ in a saving way. That they have true repentance and faith in Christ, and that the oil of their faith does not run out. Oh, may God save our loved ones, our friends. We need to get serious about praying for them. And then I said one final point, but I mean at this time, but many will find the value of salvation too late. The finality of this parable is the door was shut. It was shut. The opportunity is lost. The foolish version sought salvation too late. It was too late. So in the time I have left, I want to ask you, which group do you identify with? And if you're not sure about your salvation, the door isn't shut yet. And the bridegroom has not yet returned. You can go get some oil. Make sure your lamp is filled. And that you don't run out. True faith in Jesus Christ. Do you have that? This is a warning that Jesus gives us. And he's and it's a very solemn warning. Now the Lord may not come this year. He might. He might come before we finish this Sunday. Or he may come a year from now, or maybe twenty may I don't know. He may not. But I know this, we're all going to meet him. And if the Lord delays his coming for thirty years or longer Then each of us will have our own private judgment as we appear before him, because the Bible says it's appointed unto man once to die, and after that the judgment. So the question is, when you close your eyes in death, you breathe your last breath here on earth, the next face you see is that of the Lord Jesus. Will he say? Welcome, my child? Or will he say, I never knew you. I never knew you Are you prepared for his coming? Are you ready? I would just say, don't let another day go by. Until you get this matter settled in your heart. And if you have it settled, you need to really pray that God will use you to bring others to true, genuine faith in Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this warning that you give us. A fearful, solemn parable reminds us of a future day when we all must stand before you, that we need to be prepared, we need to be ready To have our lamps trimmed and ready, filled with oil, knowing that our faith is a genuine faith. That we've truly turned to you and you and no one else. You and true salvation with true repentance. And Lord, even in that we need your help. Grant to those here today true faith and repentance if they don't already have it. So that they can get the oil needed, so that one day they will be a part of that wedding celebration and not be locked out. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you to do a little self-evaluation there where you are. It's okay to do that. Paul said that we're to examine ourselves, make sure that we're in the faith, examine our hearts. It's not a careless thing, beloved. It's the most important issue in all the world. And if you have any doubt, would you just right now, would you just reach out to the Lord in prayer and say, Lord, please save me? I don't want I don't want to be deceived, self-deceived. Yeah, I'm I'm part of a wonderful congregation, but am I truly a believer? I got the invitation to the wedding, I accepted it, but Do I have real faith? Has my lamp run dry? God save me. I reach out to you in faith. Lord, save me. Friend, just pray that. And you know what the Bible says? If you come then, he won't cast you out. But are you really coming? You don't barter with God when you come to salvation. You repent of your sin, you turn to Christ and submit to His Lordship. Father, bless this word to every hearing heart here today for your honor and your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen