Now the Book of Malachi, chapter one, we're going to deal tonight with verses six down to verse fourteen. And while you're finding that, George Malone tells the story of a big Gothic cathedral in his hometown of Vancouver, British Columbia The cathedral has colorful stained glass windows in it that were donated uh because of the Second World War, and in it they honored the men and women who fought in that war, fought and died in the service of the country. And those windows illustrate pictures of soldiers. And one day he overheard a little boy asking his mother, Mommy, who are those people? And those windows? And she said, Well, these are people who died in the service. He said, Mommy, was it the Sunday morning service or the Sunday evening service? Now, there are some services in churches around the country, unfortunately. that are so mechanical and so dry that people are dying in those services. But the problem is not the people. They the uh sorry the problem is not the word of God I should say But the problem is the people. They had the same problem that the people of Malachi's day have. Many still have it today. And that's simply that they're going through the worship service, they're going to the service, but they're just going through the motions. There's no enthusiasm, there's no excitement, there's no heart in their worship. And the Jews living in Jerusalem in Malachi's day were just going through the motions when Malachi came on the scene. Now last week we look, we looked at Malachi and we see that we really don't know that much about him. He's a man who's shrouded in mystery. We do know that his name Malachi means my messenger. Some think this might be a title. But he's a man who is very strong in his message. And he was against anyone who would treat the things of God with indifference. Now remember that he's preaching to the exiles that had returned from Babylon after 70 years in exile And they had rebuilt the temple, they had restored the worship, at least outwardly, but there was something wrong with them. They had the cancer of complacency in their heart and they lacked commitment. So Malachi comes on the scene To basically challenge the people of God to stop going through the motions and worship God with a sincere heart. Now the Book of Malachi, the structure of it is really a seven-cycle argument type structure. And the argument is really between God, God speaking, and the people speaking back to God. Some scholars call this a dialogue or they call it an argument type structure through the book. But there are cycles of argument, cycles of dialogue. that God has with the people. God will state something, the people will answer back, and God will expand upon what he has said. Now with that in mind, look at verse number 6 of Malachi chapter 1. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear? Saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests that despise my name, and ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? And drop down to verse number thirteen Ye say also, behold, what a weariness it is. And ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of hosts, and ye brought that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick. And thus she brought an offering. Should I accept this of your hand, saith the Lord? And so these people were despising the name of God. They were saying, Oh, how tedious! And tasteless the hour of going to the house of God and worshiping all this worship that we're doing. Oh, we're just tired of it. And then in verse 13, God says, you snuffed at it. What does that mean? One scholar paraphrased that, they turned up their nose at it. And so they were simply going through the outward motions of worship and they did not have a true heart. I suppose one of the greatest sicknesses in the church Today is not the lack of worship, but the lack of true worship. Where people are truly thrilled, where they're excited. Where they have that zest and the zeal and the joy of serving the Lord and worshiping the Lord. And so if you're in in that predicament tonight, If you're here and you're just going through the motions, I want you to know that that is a dangerous place to be. And so we need to examine our hearts to make sure that we're not just going through the motions. You say, how do we do that? Well, I want you to see several indicators from our text here tonight that reveal when people are just going through the motions. Here's the first one. Number one, when we lack due reverence. Just write that down when we lack due reverence. Look at verse 6. A son honors his father and a servant his master. If that I be a father, where is mine honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name? Now, first, the priests and the people were not giving God his due reverence or his due respect. Again, they were frivolous in the way they came to the house of God. And by the way, there are many people that come to God's house that way today. They don't treat coming to God's house as something that is unique or different or special. Now, beloved, do you realize that every time we come to the house of God, that is unique, that is special? It shouldn't be just something that is just you know something that we're so accustomed to that it gets to be old hat We should be excited every time we have the opportunity to go to God's house. We should say like the psalmist, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house. of the Lord. So there are some people, do they they go to church this with the same attitude that they go to the shopping mall or they go to a ball game. And God is saying, where is your respect? And the worst part about it is it wasn't necessarily the people that were showing this lack of reverence. It was the priests. Look again in verse 6 at the latter phrase, O priests that despise my name And ye say, wherein have we despised thy name? God directs this to the priests. He's saying to the leaders, to the spiritual leaders. You're lacking reverence. Now, how do we show reverence? Well, first of all, as a father, God is to be honored. Look again in verse 6: a son honors his father and a servant his master. If I then be a father, where is my honor? Now the nature of God is first of all the nature of a father. God is our father. And if God is a father, what does that make us with that makes us his sons and daughters, right? And what does a son and daughter owe to a father? Honor. The Bible teaches that. Doesn't the Bible say we're to honor our father and mother? Now the word honor here is an interesting word. It's the Hebrew word kebed, and it literally means to be heavy. And it has the idea of attaching weight to something. Something that is weighty, or we would say it like this, something that is serious. Something that is that we treat very seriously, very weighty. In other words, you treat this person as a heavyweight, someone of extreme importance, of great significance. You treat them as a VIP. That's the idea behind the word honor. Now the Bible says that we are to honor our father and mother and friend. When we honor our father and mother, it's not just obeying them, but it's respecting them and it's treating them as truly significant. And that's what it means to honor God, to treat Him as truly, truly important and significant. The writer of Hebrews said it like this, Hebrews 12, 9, we had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much more be in subjection unto the Father of Spirits and live? That is, if we reverence our earthly Father, how much more reverence should we give to our Heavenly Father? And yet here's God, and he's saying, Where, if I'm your father, where is my honor? Why aren't you honoring me? Remember what Jesus taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer? Our Father, which art in heaven, what's the rest of it? Holloweth be thy name. That's not a request. Some people think that's a request. That's not a request. That's a verb, an imperative verb. That's a command. The command is: you hallow the name of God. You count God your Father as holy. You honor Him. And when we refuse to give him the the rightful honor, that's called being lukewarm. And it's not giving God his due. As a father, he is to be honored, but also as a master, he is to be feared. Look again in verse 6. A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If I then be a father, where is my honor? If I be a master, where is my fear? That's another thing lacking that was lacking in Malachi's day, and it seems to be lacking in our day, and that's the fear of the Lord. A true fear of God. Again, sometimes people come to the house of the Lord so indifferent with such a lackadaisical attitude, and God says, you ought to be fearing me. Let me show you something. Hold your place in Malachi. Look in Exodus chapter 20. We'll come right back here, but I want you to see this. Remember what goes on in Exodus chapter 20? This is when God is giving the Ten Commandments And there's a great demonstration that takes place in Exodus 20 in verse number 18. Notice where it says, and all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet Again, Exodus 20, 18, and the mountains smoking. And when the people saw it, they removed it and stood afar off. And verse 19, and they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us. And we will hear, but let not God speak lest we die. And notice verse 20. And Moses said unto people, Fear not! That's interesting. Malachi just said, you ought to fear God Here Moses says fear not. What did he mean by that? Well keep reading. For God is come to prove you, listen to this, that ye may that ye that uh and that ye his excuse me that his fear May be before your faces that you sin not. Here, first Moses says, fear not, and then he says, God's testing you to make sure that you have a fear of God. And what's that verse tell me? There's two different kind of fears here, isn't there? There's the outward fear of circumstances. When they saw these great manifestations, they were afraid. There was an outward terror of the circumstances, but then there's a different kind of fear now that Moses is describing. And this is an inward fear of God. It is a reverential awe Of who he is, of what he can do. And that's the idea here. And what Moses is saying is: listen, if you have the right kind of fear, the fear of God, you don't need to fear anything else. If you have a fear of God, listen, if you fear God on your knees, you don't need to fear man. And that's what he's saying here. The right kind of fear Banishes all other kinds of fears. And the most important thing is that we fear God. What is the fear of the Lord? It is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. A reverential attitude that leads to right actions. And God is saying to the people in Malachi's day, where is my fear? Where is the fear of the Lord? You know, people come to church for so many different reasons. Rather than coming to honor the Lord and to reverence him. I heard about a lady after church, she said to her husband, did you see Mrs. Smith's new hat? He said, no. Did you see Mrs. Jones' new dress? He said no. You see Mrs. Green's new shoes? He said no. She said, well I don't know why you go to church and never get anything out of it. There's a lot of people that come to church for a lot of different reasons. The most important reason we come is to reverence God. To honor him, to praise his name. And he is the important one, not us, God. God is the one that we focus upon. Henry Ward Beecher was a great preacher in America. People from all over the nation came to hear him preach. And one day when the people got to church they found out that Henry Ward breach uh uh uh breacher was not preaching, uh, but there was another man, and when he got up to preach, a lot of people got up and they started walking out And this man was very quick. He said, All those who have come to worship Henry Ward Beecher can leave. All those who want to worship God can stay. And that was pretty strong, but that's exactly right. Worship is honoring God. It's fearing the Lord. It is reverencing God. It is honoring Him. So first of all, you say, how do I know I'm going through the motions? When we lack due reverence, do we have the due reverence towards God that we ought to give? Do we honor Him as a father? Do we fear Him? as our master. But then secondly, here's another indicator that that is given when we give God our second best. We're going through the motions when we lack two reverence, and we're going through the motions when we give God our second best. Look look in verse number seven. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And that ye say the table of the Lord is contemptible. And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Offer it now unto thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee? Or accept thy person, saith the Lord, and now I pray you beseech God that He will be gracious unto us. This hath been by your means, will he regard your person, saith the Lord of hosts You see, here's the problem. The people were bringing to God their leftovers instead of bringing to God their best. And that's not honoring the Lord. And so the priests were offering upon God's altar polluted bread, it says there in verse number seven. Now what does it mean polluted bread? Any sacrifice, whether it was an animal or perhaps a a first fruit offering, a vegetable offering. Any sacrifice was called bread in the Old Testament. And so they were bringing to the Lord what was called polluted bread, megaol, corrupted. Polluted bread. Their offerings were rejected as unfit, according to God, or unqualified. They were not in accordance to the word of God. You say, what was the problem? They were bringing they were bringing animals that were blemished. In fact, and the priest recognized in verse 7 that when they were bringing polluted offerings It was tantamount to polluting God Himself because look in verse 7, where it says, Wherein have we polluted thee? They said, Wherein have we polluted you, Lord? Because to bring God a corrupted offering is tantamount to saying God is polluted. That's terrible. And they say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In verse 7, wherein ye say the table of the Lord is contemptible. Now they weren't saying this audibly. They weren't saying to bring us a gift to the altar, boy, that's just a contemptible. We hate doing that. They weren't saying that audibly. They were saying it by their attitude, by their actions. They were bringing the second best. Look in verse 8. If ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? That is, they were bringing lambs that were blind. They were bringing lambs that were sick, that were blemished. Look at verse number 13. He said, Also, behold, what a weariness is it. And ye have snuffed that it saith the Lord of hosts. Ye have brought that which was torn and the lame and the sick. So here they are. They're offering these sick animals. Instead of giving God their best They were giving God their worst. What a terrible thing. And by the way, the priests were involved in this. Remember, Malachi is speaking to the priests, and the priests were actually encouraging it. The priest would say something like this, well it doesn't make sense to offer a perfectly good lamb. It's only going to burn on the altar. Why don't you just sell that unblemished land? Get one that's a little blemished, and we'll sacrifice him. That's good stewardship, by the way, to do that. Or when the people would bring an animal that was less than perfect, the priest would say, Oh don't worry about that. It was sick anyway. You can't risk eating a sick lamb. And so it's just going to go up in smoke So sacrificing actually will help you to get rid of the animal. You don't need it, and it helps us, and it keeps the fires burning on the altar. Just bring it. Everybody wins. Everybody except God. And they were dishonoring the Lord. And Malachi was confronting the priests and the people about this. And look in verse number 8, he calls it evil. And if you offer the blind for sacrifice, look at this. Is it not evil, he says? And if you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? God calls it evil. You ever thought that by giving God less than your best, it's evil? But that's what God calls it. He said, Oh, I'm giving God my second best. Yeah, that's evil. God deserves your first best. And God says it's evil. And then he says in verse number 8, try that with your governor. Look in verse 8, offer it now unto thy governor. Will he be pleased with it? Or accept by a person, saith the Lord. Try this with try this with your government. I want you to have just try this. When April 15th comes, I want you to write a letter to the IRS and just say, you know Dear IRS, dear friends, we we've had a bad year. You know, I've been out of work, the kids have been sick. We've had a lot of extra expenses. So we're not going to send any income tax this year. But now, by the way, it's not because we don't love you, because we do love you. And we're very concerned about you But we're not going to be able to send you any other taxes. See if that works. See if the IRS will accept that. See if they'll write a letter back and say, hey, no problem. Don't worry about it. We'll just write it off. Anyone willing to try that experiment? That's what Malachi is saying. Try this with your governor. And see how he responds. See if he will accept this kind of offering. And people do this all the time in church. They come to the Lord and say, oh look, Lord, I know I'm supposed to give, but we've had this, this, and this happen, and we've had all these things. And so they'll never do anything. And so here in the Book of Malachi, they're offering these sick animals, these flea-bidden leftovers. It's like saying to God, God, I'm going to eat the cake, but I'm going to give you the crumbs. But you're still my Lord and I still love you. And I still want to honor you. God is insulted. with that kind of worship. He's insulted with that kind of giving. And so Malachite reproves then. Look at verse number nine. And now I pray you beseech that God he would be gracious unto us This has been by your means? Will he regard your person, saith the Lord of hosts? And in essence what Malachi is saying in verse 9 is, do you expect God to be satisfied with this? You're asking me to entreat God on your behalf? And you're asking God to be favorable to you when you're giving him these kind of gifts? And you're giving him this kind of worship? God's not going to be favorable to you on this. So again, we have to ask, what about the church today? What kind of offering do we bring to God? Are we bringing God our second best? Now today in church we don't bring animals to an altar. That's not the way we worship here in the New Testament. God the Father already gave his lamb, his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for our sins So how do we worship here in the New Testament? We bring God our worship with the sacrifice of our lips. With the Bible says in Romans 12, by bringing ourselves and making ourselves a living sacrifice. unto him, by giving him our all, by rendering our service unto God. Did you know the service that we do, that is an act of worship? The things that we do for the Lord, all of that is worship. You know what God is saying? If you're not going to give me your best, then it would be better just to close the doors of the church and just nail it shut. Don't even come. Look at verse number 10. Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for naught? Neither do ye kindle a fire upon mine altar for naught. I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts Neither will I accept an offering at your hand. And what God is saying is, look, it would just be better for you to shut the doors than to continue to worship in vain Because your worship is unacceptable, your worship is not real, it is worthless worship You see, if you're going to worship God, God has to be present. And here, God is basically saying, you know, Ichabod is written over that whole place. God is not there. And Malachi is saying, you may as well shut the doors. You're just playing at worship. You're just playing church. Better to have no worship than empty worship. Better to have no religion than vain religion. Let me tell you something, America would be much better off to have fewer churches that truly worship God and are on fire for God than to have all these other churches that are dead. And their worship is vain and it's empty because it sends a wrong signal about who God is. We would be better off to have a smaller number of churches that truly worship God the way He's worthy to be worshipped. And so God says, you may not as well even kindle a fire. Don't even light the altar, because your sacrifices are vain. They are worthless. I have no pleasure in your worship. Again, we have to ask ourselves this question: does God take pleasure in my worship? You ever ask yourself that question when you come to church at any service, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night? And by the way, I know I'm preaching to the cream to the crop when I preach to Wednesday night, folks. You're here And by the way, I'll preach this again on Sunday morning. Y'all hang in there. I'll hit then, all right? One of these days I'll bring this one back out. But this is good for all of us, isn't it? You ever ask God, Lord, is my worship acceptable? What is God looking for? What is he looking for? Well, there are several standards that the Bible gives, and I want to give them to you very quickly here. First of all We are to give God the best. The best. That's one standard. God wants the best of the flock, not the worst. When God gave you his lamb, he gave you his best lamb. He gave you Jesus Christ. He is the sinless, spotless lamb of God. How dare us ever bring to God a sick lamb. Or something less than our best. You know what the Bible says about these kind of offerings? Just we don't we won't turn there, but jot down Exodus 22 verse 31. You know what it says? It says, Ye shall be holy men unto me, neither shall ye eat any flesh that is torn or beast in the field. Listen to this. Ye shall cast it to the dogs God says, whenever you have an animal that is torn in the field by perhaps a predator, a wolf, or a lion, and you find that animal in the field, give it to the dogs. You know, you don't bring that animal. You know what they were doing? They're one they were finding. They were torn animals and they were bringing them to God. That's what they were doing. And God says, you can't offer that. Don't even eat it. So what were they doing? And God says, just give that to the dogs. You know what they were doing to God? They were bringing to God dog food. For a sacrifice. They were bringing to God dog food, maimed the sick, blind animals. They were giving their worst. And God says, I want your best. Look at verse 14. Very strong words. But cursed be the deceiver which has in his flock a male and boweth and sacrificed unto the Lord a corrupt thing. What is he saying there? God gives a curse to the one who holds back the best and offers the worst. Cursed be the cheat, God says, who has a male in his flock and vows to give that animal instead of giving the best. He holds that back, and then he gives the worst or the second best. And you know what God does? God pronounces a curse upon that kind of spirit, that kind of giving. We're to give God our best. You know another standard? We're to give to God first. Give to God first. Write down Proverbs 3. 9. Honor the Lord with thy substance and with the first fruit of all thine increase. Now every harvest there was always three stages, the first fruits. These were the fruits that got right first. Then there was the may harvest and then there was the green each. And God says when it comes to give bringing to me and giving to me, you give me the first fruits. You give me the fruits that get ripe. First. And so what they would do is they would take a sheaf of first fruits, take it to the Lord's house, lay it on the altar. That was giving to God first, rather than giving to God the leftovers, the gleanings. Now you give them the first fruits. Give them the best. I remember when we uh accepted a position as a pastor of a church, a smaller church. Uh my wife and I, my k our kids were real small then. When we went to the first day to the park stage, they had given us a pounding. You know what a pounding is? It doesn't mean they pounded us with their fists You know what a pounding is? When they bring you all kind of food and everything, they give you a pound of flour and a pound of sugar and a pound of, you know, whatever else, you know of beans or a pound of this and a pound of that and they give you groceries and that sort of thing so we went in it was really pretty neat. You feel very, very grateful to see all that. But then my wife and I we started putting away some of that stuff. And you know what we found out some of those cans were expired. Some of them were even rusty. I mean it was no good. It was it was ready for goodwill. It wasn't even ready for goodwill, actually, it was bad will. You just throw it away Now some of the gifts were very nice. They were very new and store-bought. That made us feel very special. But when we got to the cans that were expired, we didn't feel very special You see, I wonder sometimes if God feels that way. Give to God the best, give to God first. But then here's the third principle of how we give. We give to God what costs us. What cost us. Let me show you another passage. Just hold your place here in Malachi. Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 24. 2 Samuel chapter 24. David, in this chapter, he wants to make an offering to the Lord in 2 Samuel 24. Why? What had happened? Well, there was a terrible thing that happened. A plague had broken out It was something that David had done, and the Lord was punishing Israel. And so David wants to make an offering to the Lord in 2 Samuel 24, because David knew that that would stop the plague. But he knew that the only way it would be stopped if he was to offer a truly worshipful offering. To worship the Lord truly. So look in chapter 24. We'll pick it up in verse 20 And Aruna said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer up, or excuse me, verse twenty I'm in twenty-two. And Aruna looked and saw the king and his servants coming on towards him. And Aruna went out and bowed himself before the king on his face upon the ground. Verse 21. And Runa said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? And David said to buy the threshing floor of thee, to build an altar unto the Lord, that the plague may be stayed from the people And Aruna said unto David, Let my Lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him. Behold, here be oxen for the sap burnt sacrifice, and threshing instruments and other instruments of the ox for wood And all these things did Aruna as the king give unto the king. And Aruna said unto the king, Thy Lord thy God be accept thy God accept thee. So here's David. He comes to this man, Aruna, and he wants to buy the threshing floor. He wants to build an altar there. He wants to make an offering unto the Lord. And he says, I want to buy this plot of ground from you. And Aruna says, my king, you don't have to buy this from me. You can just have it. I'll just give it to you. In fact, not only will I give you the land, the threshing floor, I will also give you the oxen for the burnt sacrifice, and I will give you the instruments to do the work, and I'll give you the wood I'll give you everything that you need. And the Bible says he acted like a king towards his king by giving so freely to him. Now most of us we would have said, whoa, thanks. Boy, that's great. But that's not what David said. Look at verse number 24. And the king said unto Aruna, Nay, but I will surely buy it of thee at a price Now watch this next phrase. Neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the Lord my God of that which doth cost me nothing. What does David say? He says, I'm not going to give to God any offering that costs me nothing. Because that's not really a worthy sacrifice. You see, God doesn't measure the worthiness of a gift by its expense, but by its personal cost. And sacrifice. You see, if it doesn't mean anything to you, it won't mean anything to God. And so David says, I'm not going to offer anything to the Lord that doesn't cost me something. That was the spirit of a worshiper. That was a spirit of giving. I remember the greatest gift perhaps I'd ever received. was one time when I was preaching in Honduras at a at a conference and when it was over people were coming up and greeting me and I had a translator there because I didn't speak the language And there was one elderly woman, it was very obvious that she was impoverished, very poor woman, who came up and she gave me fifty Lampira in Honduran money, which was about two American dollars, the equivalent of two dollars. And she handed it out to me. Now I didn't want to take it Because I obvious obviously this was a big gift for this woman. And it was very obvious that she needed it. She was very poor. And I try to say through the translator, I have everything I need. I appreciate your love. I receive your love, but I just don't want this. I want you to have this. I don't want you to give this to me. But she would not allow me to not receive it. She insisted and she gave me that. I was just so touched by that. Because I knew this was sacrificial. Yes. She was giving sacrificially to me. That's an expression of love. I was so deeply touched by that. And I remember I went back to our church and I told the church about it and I got on the radio and told the radio about it. I said what I'd like to do is take the gift that she gave me and give it back to the people of Honduras And let's just let's just fill up a a tractor trailer full of clothes and shoes and blankets and whatnot. And we were able to do that. We called it the Widow's Mite Fund because it reminded me of the Widow's Might, where she gave her last two mites. And God was able we were able to ship down a whole tractor, trailer, load full of clothes for the children in that area. But I'll never forget that was to me the most Beautiful gift given by this woman because of her sacrifice. Again, God measures our gifts by what it cost us We're to give God the best, we're to give God the first, we are to give God what cost us. But then here's the last principle I see in Scripture of how we're to give or worship, and that is we are to give God ourselves We give God ourselves. That's what God wants. Worship is not a one-day of the week thing, it's everyday. Worship is just not in one place, it's in every place. I mean if we worship in just one place, we limit worship, and when you leave that place, you leave your attitude of worship behind. No, it's everywhere we go. We carry it with us. It's part of who we are. It's not just a part of us, it's all of us. That's what worship is. God wants all of us. You know, ultimately, God does not want your material wealth. He wants you. You know why? Because he already owns it all. He said, Well I have a card. No, that's God's. See, I got money in the bank. No, that's God's. It's all his. You might not realize it, but it's all his. The Bible says in the book of Haggai, the silver and the gold, they are mine, says the Lord. It's all his already. And so when you give to the Lord, you're not making God rich. Giving is an expression of giving our heart to God And God wants all of us. And that is simplified in the way in which we give. Are we giving Him all of us? I've said this before, but I'll use it here. It's a good illustration. The greatest lesson I ever received on giving was given to me by my son Jeremiah when he was two years old. He was laying on the carpet, he was eating some Cheetos, a little bag of Cheetos when he was two years old. I lay down next to him and I opened my mouth and I'm like, man, give me some You know, you know sometimes kids are like, uh, you know, they don't want to give, they kind of shrink back. And I know what you're thinking, shame on you for eating that little boy's Cheetos. But I wasn't hungry. I'd already eaten. Actually they were already my Cheetos, I bought 'em And uh Cheetos was not the point if I wanted to, I could bury him in Cheetos. Alright? Cheetos was not the issue. I wanted to see what he would do. And he smiled and he laughed and he reached into the bag and then he pushed one in my mouth, started laughing, then he reached in and he pushed another one in, and he kept pushing Cheetos into my mouth and laughing. And I had to say, stop, stop Every time he reached into the bag, he was giving me a little bit of his heart. You know, I wasn't wanting Cheetos, I was wanting his heart. And you know what? God doesn't want your material goods. They're already his. He wants your heart. And so worship is giving us or giving to God ourselves. Giving God ourselves. The Bible says of the Macedonians, they first gave their own selves unto the Lord Now let me give you the last point. How do we know that we're going through the motions when we lack due reverence, when we give God second best? But here's the third way. When we forget whom we serve. When we forget whom we serve. Go back to Malachi, look in chapter 1, look in verse number 14, and notice what God says. Verse 11, rather, first of all. From the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. And in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering, for my name shall be great among the heathen, says the Lord of hosts. And look at verse 14. But curse be the deceiver which hath in his flock a male and boweth, and sacrifices unto the Lord are corrupt thing. Listen, for I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts. And my name is dreadful among the heathen. Notice several times where God mentions my name. My name. That's a key phrase in the whole book. We see it throughout this book. And another key word is great. Two times verse 11, for my name shall be great. And then in verse 14 he says, I am a great king. Let me tell you something. The reason sometimes we go through the motions is because we forget who we are serving. Our God is a great God. He has a great name. And he is a great king. They forgot that. And I wonder sometimes if we don't forget that. When you come to church, you're coming to a great king, a great God, who has a great name. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. His grace and power are such that none could ever ask too much. He's a great God. And don't forget that. And what he says in verse eleven is, he says, From the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. In other words, the whole reason for Israel is so that they can make God's name great. And that's the by the way, that's the reason for the church today. You know one of the reasons the church exists today is so that we can make his name great. Amen. We can exalt his name. This is kind of an Old Testament Great Commission. We are here to proclaim the greatness of God and to promote God's glory among the nations, and in order to do that, we must honor him by giving him our very best. And the world sees that. So when you come to God's house, you better realize you're coming to the King of Kings. He is present here. I read that when Jimmy Carter was president, on several occasions he spent the night in the homes of just common Americans He would just pick at random a home, a family, and he would go to that family and stay with them Can you imagine that? Can you imagine you getting a call from the White House and saying the president's going to come and have dinner with you? Just imagine. Just just imagine this. Just suppose the president and his wife decide to come to your home. The big evening arrives. There's a big limousine with a secret service that pull up many cars. There are crowds there that are in front of your house, police and motorcycles and so on in the secret service. And the president and his wife emerge from the limousine and they wave at the crowds and they come to the front door of your house. And when you open the door, you've got on jeans and a t-shirt And your and your t-shirt is torn and dirty. You say, Oh, Mr. President, I've been working in the garden. Come on in. Oh well, sorry about the living room. We know it's messy, but you know what my wife and I we got engrossed in this television program and we couldn't turn it off Sorry about the messy house, but don't worry, dinner's almost ready. The wife just put it in the microwave. We're having leftovers. And I hope you don't mind eating off a paper plate. You say that would be absurd. Someone of that importance would deserve better treatment. And that's very true. If he were coming to our house we would make sure to clean it up, be wearing our best, the best China and silverware, the best meal that we could give, because a person of that importance deserves more than just leftovers. But I want to tell you something, friend. We have someone that we meet with weekly who's far, far more important than any earthly king. It is our great King God. And you know what? Don't give him leftovers. Don't give him leftovers. So ask yourself tonight, am I going through the motions? We go through the motions when we lack due reverence, when we give our second best, when we forget whom we serve. And that's what Malachi is saying. So Would you ask God is tonight if if you've been half-hearted and just going through the motions, would you say, God, forgive me? And from here on out. I'm going to give you my very best because you are a great king and a great God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you for this challenge that we received here from your prophet Malachi. He preached and prophesied at the end of an age. And Father, we're living today at the end of an age. But what Malachi said to those people so very long ago applies to us today. Sometimes, Lord, we are just going through the motions. Sometimes we we lack the due reverence that we should have. And sometimes we don't give you our very best. Sometimes we've we've committed the evil of giving to you the leftovers. Our second best. And sometimes, Lord, we've forgotten who we serve. We've forgotten how great you are. So, Lord, forgive us for this. And Lord, help us to never underestimate or devalue you in any way. And again, if you're here tonight, you say my prayer is from this day forward, from this moment on It's my determination by the grace of God to give to God my very best. I don't ever want to go through the motions. That's my prayer tonight. Before God, would you lift your hand and say, God, my. . Pledge to you is I will give you my best. My best. Not the leftovers. Give you my best. Father, you see the hearts of these worshipers. Accept, I pray, Lord, their pledge And may we all together say, Lord, you are a great King, you are a great God. And we will not offer anything to you that costs us nothing. We will give you first our best. We'll give you our all. May this be our prayer. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.