You know, we're studying the life of David on Wednesday evenings and we're learning from this Old Testament character. You know, uh it's funny how when we read the Old Testament we see the lives of people, how they mirror our lives, it seems like some of the problems and the crisis that they face, we now face. And we can learn a lot of lessons from looking at a biographical study in the Old Testament. And that's hopefully what is happening here. You're learning Some principles for living a godly life, and specifically how to have a heart after God's own heart, because that's how David is characterized here in the Old Testament. Now, 1 Samuel chapter 20, while you're finding that Uh how many NFL fans do we have here? Anybody? Okay, a few of you. Not a lot of ladies raising your hand tonight. That's a few. You probably haven't heard of the pro football running back named Tony Richardson That's probably because his primary role throughout his NFL career hasn't been really to run the ball. Even though he's a running back, he's in the backfield. He would run the ball very rarely But what he was good at was blocking for other runners. And that's really what he did. Over the 17 seasons he played in the NFL, he was in the backfield with some of the best running backs in the league And yet he didn't run the ball a lot. In 2001 he he was slated to be the main running back, which meant he would get to finally run the ball a lot himself. But instead he said to his teammate, Priest Holmes, He said to him, he said, you know, it's time for me to step out of the way. You need to get the ball, and I'm going to do everything I can to help you And so what he did was he began to block for Priest Holmes. Now that year Priest Holmes led the league in rushing. And you hear a lot about Priest Holmes, but you hear very little about Tony Richardson, the man who blocked for Priest Holmes And Holmes would later say, you know, he would call me up and say, hey man, I saw you on Sports Center. He was happier for me than I was for myself. He never thought about himself. In a recent interview, Tony Richardson said this, he said, I can't even explain it, but it just means more to me to help someone else achieve glory. There's something about it that feels right to me That's pretty unique, isn't it? There's not a lot of people around like Tony Richardson. And what he does is he demonstrates really a characteristic of true friendship. He has a willingness in his heart to put others ahead of himself He wants to put his friend ahead of himself. And when I think about that, I think about the character of Jonathan in 1 Samuel chapter 20. Now we're studying the life of David, but really 1 Samuel chapter 20 is more about Jonathan. And he's going to kind of shine like a diamond here in this chapter. You know why? Because he's willing to block for David. He's willing to let David have the ball, and he run interference And you know what? It's hard to find Jonathan's in our in in the world today. It's hard to find people like that. In fact, let me ask you a question and don't answer it, don't raise your hand, but do you have anybody blocking for you Anybody out there helping you, running interference for you? Or let me ask you another question. Are you blocking for someone else Are you the one out there that's taking the hard hits so that others can succeed ahead of you? Uh are you that type of a person? So, and how do we recognize somebody like that? And how can we become somebody like that? That's really what 1 Samuel 20 is really all about. Now let me give you again a little context we're studying the life of David. And remember one thing that when we when we're going through this narrative of 1 Samuel Part of his primary purpose is to defend David from his critics. You can imagine David having a lot of criticism because now he is he's going to be the next king And many times uh the the writer is almost, I think, looking back after David has become king, and he is writing to defend some of the criticisms that he's heard from people. You can imagine The criticism. You know, David, he was out there plotting for himself. He was disloyal to Saul. He was really just trying to feather his own nest and he he he was plotting against Saul the whole time he was in Saul's court And not only that, David ran away from Saul. David was absent without leave. That's called what? Awol, right? David went AWOL And and he was disloyal to Saul when he went AWAL. And so the narrative here is defending David against that charge because what you're going to find is that David, not only does it go AWOL, He runs out of Gibeah, he runs out of his hometown, and he lives as a fugitive, as an outlaw on the run. But not only that, eventually he's going to go over to the Philistines And he's going to end up fighting in the Philistine army. So not only does he go AWOL, but he ends up fighting for the enemy. And then he's going to come back and be the king of Israel? I mean kind of put that in our day today. What if a soldier for the United States Army went AWOL, he got out of the country, he ended up somewhere in Syria fighting for ISIS How many guys would vote for him for president? You say, man, that's there's something fishy about a guy that would do that. Why did he do that? Why did David run from Saul? Why did he go AWAL Why did David do this? He was just being disloyal. And again, this this narrative here, this chapter kind of defends David against that charge. In fact, the whole narrative, as I said, of 1 Samuel is constantly defending David against charges. And really, if you look at the story, and we've seen it up to this point, that David really is just being carried along by Providence Well he's really a passive character in all of the stories that we've studied so far. I mean he was just out there in the field minding his own business. What was he doing? He was guarding the sheep, right? All of a sudden he's called to go to his father's house. Some old guy puts oil in his head and says, You're going to be the next king. I mean that wasn't David's initiative. I mean he was just a passive player. And then his father says to him one day, take lunch to your brothers who are down there in the Valley of Elam. And David takes the lunch down. He sees a big giant there. He hears God's name cursed. He doesn't like that. He does take initiative and say, I'll fight the giant. But that was it. Next thing you know, women are singing about him. Everybody loves him. Saul says, you're going to live in my court now. And and then what happens to David? He's ended up dodging javelins. I mean again he's a kind of a passive player. And the next thing you know now Saul wants to kill David. And David now has to run. And again, this narrative again is defending David against the charge that he is a runaway, that he is an outlaw. Now how does the writer do that? He he offers one piece of evidence that is a very crucial piece of evidence It's very substantial, and what it is, it's the testimony of Jonathan Saul's son. He points to the friendship that Jonathan had with David as evidence to say David is not a rebellious, disloyal, AWOL runaway. He had no choice but to run from Saul. And the evidence is Saul's own son, Jonathan, is blocking for David as David runs. Saul's own son can testify. In fact, chapter 20 really, and it's 42 verses, and we need to get into it here pretty soon and we run out of time. But The bottom line is, these 42 verses are mostly Jonathan doing all the talking. It's really just a series of long dialogues, and most of it is Jonathan as he's giving testimony about what's going on in the life of David. And so really there's a second thing that this chapter does. Not only does it defend David against the charges that he's a disloyal soldier that went Awal, but it also exalts the loyal covenant friendship of Jonathan. It shows just what a great friend that he is If you want to know what a real friend looks like, read the story of Jonathan. If you want to know what how they act, read the story of Jonathan. It's right there in front of us. This passage not only teaches us what real friendship looked like looks like, but it also teaches us that such a person is rare. And that's why Jonathan, I think, stands out And all the narratives here in 1 Samuel. I mean, think about it. Jonathan lays aside his own personal ambitions and his own desire for gain, any gain that he desire for gain he had, he lays all that aside to help. One commentator wrote this, Richard Phillips said it like this. He said, Jonathan finds himself trapped in what many people would consider a terrible vice. With his faith and godliness competing against ambition and personal gain. And you know what? Jonathan's faith and godliness wins out. in this story. So now with all that in mind, what I want you to see here are just three marks of true friendship. You say, why do we need to learn this? Well because we need to be true friends. We need to be like Jonathan. There's character traits here that we need to emulate in our own personal life. There's things about Jonathan we should admire and say, I want to be like that in my life. So here's the first one. Number one, a friend is someone you can consult with during a time of confusion. Someone you can consult with during a time of confusion. In the first four verses, David is confused. You might even say he's having a panic attack. Look at verse number one. And David fled from Naoth in Ramath, and he came and said before or said before Jonathan, What have I done? What is mine iniquity? What is my sin before thy father that he seeks my life? So you can just there's these rapid-fire questions that he gives. What have I done? Now he leaves Naoth in Ramah. Remember that was the school of the prophets? He's leaving there. He comes, he finds Jonathan. And he just he's consulting Jonathan. He's really confused right now. What have I done? Why does your father want to kill me? I mean I don't get it So he's kind of having an attack. His faith is wavering here. He's acting more in fear now than in faith. Now he killed the giant called Goliath, but he's struggling with the giant called Saul. You know, Goliath died and that was over with. Saul, he's got to deal with all the time. You know, those stubborn giants in our life that, you know, we can't kill? Those are kind of the ones that are hard to deal with. And David, he's having a time where his faith is wavering. But I want you to notice Jonathan's personal assurance in verse 2. And he said unto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die. Behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me. And why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so. Now Jonathan tries to reassure David, oh my father's not trying to kill you Now that might sound strange to us, especially in light of the fact that in chapter 19, Jonathan was rebuking his father for trying to kill David. So the question is, why in chapter 20 is he saying, Oh, my dad's not trying to kill you Well keep in mind Saul is constantly changing his mind and also remember that in the end of chapter 19, Saul was humiliated by God. Remember, the Spirit of God came upon Saul, stripped him of his royal robe, he lay humiliated and humbled day and night. before the prophets. And I think at that moment the w the wind was taken out of his sails, and all desires he had to kill David were gone. I think he went back and I think he said, you know what, that venture is over with And since that time, Jonathan knew of no other plot from his father to kill David. Now David, he was not convinced. Because he knew the character of Saul. And so David, notice the phrase in verse 3. And David swore him over and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I found grace in thine eyes. And he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved But truly as the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. So he says, you know, I think that your father probably wouldn't tell you if he wanted to kill me Probably because he knows how much you like me, that I found favor in your eyes. He said, but I believe that there is a step between me and death. That's a very poetic way to say, if I take the wrong step, I'm dead Death is right nipping at my heels. And death is just right there. And so I need to be careful. Now again, David's faith is weak at this moment. Remember, God promised David Day that you're going to be the next king. How's he going to be the next king if he dies? So here he's wavering And the truth of the matter is, all of us are just a step away from death all the time. We don't know what the next day is going to bring. There's nobody here tonight. You can promise me that you're going to be okay by the end of this week. None of us know what a day is going to bring. There's a step between us and death for for everyone. And so, however, this is a time when David was confused. And he needed a friend to confide in. Again, these are hard to find. You know, according to one study in 2006, it says our circle of close friends is getting smaller They did this research and they said over the past 20 years the number of people we can discuss important matters with dropped for people. There's not a lot of people out there that had a lot of confidence that they can share with things with other people. They say, according to this other statistic, that are important matters that we can talk with others, the confidence is down. With that nearly 25%. Now this article went on to say that, you know, when you the older you get it, the harder it is to find true friends. You know, because when you get to middle age, you just don't meet as many. It's a very pessimistic article. I'm not going to share any more with you That's not true for the Christian. When you come to God's house you have all kinds of friends, or at least it should be that way, right? But however, it is hard to find someone That you can confide in in a time of confusion. We should be people that are trustworthy That a person can come to and can confide in, and we should be able to give them godly counsel. Someone said a friend is someone who walks into the room when everyone else walks out on you. And that's what Jonathan is here. He walks in when everyone else walks out on David. And look at verse number 4. Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desires. I will even do it for thee. That's the words of a true friend. Whatever your soul desires, I'll do it for you, David. I'll do it. Whatever you need, I'll make whatever sacrifice I have to make. But I'll help you through this. I just want you to know. Isn't that wonderful to know that there's someone there like that? That you can have a friend like that. We ought to try to be that kind of a friend to others. So we see a friend is someone that you can consult with during a time of confusion, but write down number two. A friend is someone you can count on. During a time of crisis. Someone you can count on during a time of crisis. So what happens? Well, David is going to ask the favor of Jonathan because of this kind of panic attack he's having, this moment of fear and doubt and dread. He needs help, and so he's going to ask a favor. And so I want you to see David's proposal. I call this the new moon test. Look at verse 5. And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meal. At meat, rather, but let me go that I may hide myself in the field until the third day at even. And if thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city. For there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family. And if he say thus it is well, thy servant shall have peace. But if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him. Now, so what is this test? This is the the new moon is gonna happen. Well you say what's the new moon? That was a Sabbath rest day each month? Every month there was kind of a new moon and in the Old Testament law special sacrifices were prescribed for that time. It was a religious festival. It was customary to celebrate this with friends. It was a sacrificial meal, and so family and friends would get together. And Saul would be expecting all of his family to be there. He would also be expecting everyone from his court, his royal court, to be there for this special meal time, this festive time together. And so David basically says, look, Saul's reaction to my absence at the new moon feast will be a test to see whether or not he wants to kill me. And David says to Jonathan, Jonathan, you just tell him you gave me permission to be gone to be with my own family during this time. And if your father is at peace with that, then I'll know, and you'll know, that he doesn't want to kill me. There's no problem. But if he gets angry, then we'll know for sure, as he said in verse number eight, that he wants to he wants to do evil. against me. Or verse 7, rather, be sure that evil is determined by him. And so in this moment of fear, David asked Jonathan to do this with him. to give this test to his father. Now some commentators say, well, you know, David is asking Jonathan to lie. This is a falsehood. And so there's a lot of ink spilled over this by a lot of commentaries about, you know, whether this was right or not. We're going to not going to get into that tonight. There are some that say, well, David was fighting fire with fire, and this was okay. Nevertheless, this was the test that was proposed. But then I want you to see not only David's proposal, but notice Jonathan's plan. Look at verse 10. Then David said to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? And what if thy father answer thee roughly? In other words, David says, how am I going to know? If I'm out in the field, how am I going to know what your father's response was? How are you going to get word to me? And so Jonathan then comes up with a plan on how he's going to do that. Now in verses 11 to 13, Jonathan swears an oath. He swears an oath. He says, basically, David, as the Lord is my God, as the Lord lives, I'm going to tell you exactly how my father feels. And verse 13, notice, the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan, but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee. And send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and the Lord be with thee as he has been with my Father. He basically swears an oath, I will tell you, I will be honest with you. I won't deceive you. And then in verses 14 to 17, Jonathan causes David to swear an oath. And then he says, okay, now based on this, David. Here's what I want from you. One day you're going to be king. You're going to put down all of your enemies. And I want you to swear by the covenant that we made. I want you to give me an oath that when that happens, you'll be good to my family. You'll be good to my house. Why did Jonathan ask her to do that? Because you know the custom was back then, when a new dynasty took the throne, what would the new king do to the old king's family He would just kill them all, right? All the old king's family and friends, anyone that had loyalty to the old king, the new king would just wipe them out. And Jonathan says, David, swear to me that that won't happen. That you will be show kindness to my family. Look in verse 16. So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord even require it at the hand of David's enemies And Jonathan caused David to swear again because he loved him, for he loved them as his own soul. So they make this agreement. Hey, I'm going to be loyal to you. David, and I want you in return to be loyal to me. And they make this agreement. Again, this is an incredible act on Jonathan's part. One commentator wrote, the voluntary commitment to sacrificial love is rare and deeply moving, and that's what we see here in this scene. So Jonathan goes on with his plan. He says, you know, you'll be missed, verse 18. And he says in verse 19, when you go to the field, go by a certain stone there in the field. Look at verse 19. And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place where thou dost hide thyself. when the business was at hand and shall remain by the stone easel. And so there was a certain specific location in the field by a stone called easel. And by the way, that means stone of departure. And it's kind of appropriately named here. It was, I'm sure, previously named to this event, but it's appropriately named because we're going to see later on that at this stone Jonathan and David will depart from one another. But he says, stay by this stone. And here's what will happen. I'll talk to my father, and if he gets angry, and it's not safe for you to come back, Then what I'll do is I'll fire three arrows, and they will go past the stone where you are. They'll go over your head. But now if everything is good, if the coast is clear, if my father doesn't have evil against you, then I'll fire some arrows, and rather than going over the stone, they'll come short of the stone They'll come right before you rather than go over the stone. So if they come before you, that's a sign, come on in. Everything's alright in my father's house. But if they go over you That means you better go. And I like the way he says it in verse 22. But if I say thus to the young men, Behold, the errors are beyond thee, go thy way. Notice how he says this, for the Lord has sent thee away. Now, if he gets angry and I fire the arrows past the stone, this is the Lord's providence, David. And this is the Lord sending you away. This is the Lord saying, it's time for you to get away from all of this for a while. And that's how we will know And look at verse 23. And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the Lord be between thee and me forever. David, the agreement that we made together The Lord be between us in that. That is, this sounds like Laban and Jacob in Genesis 31. It means that the Lord Himself will avenge either one of us. If either one of us breaks this covenant that we have made here today. So we see David's plan, we see John or David's proposal, Jonathan's plan. But notice the next thing, there's Saul's profanity. Look in verse 24. So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon was come, the king sat down to eat meat. And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall, It's interesting that the writer points out that this scene was by the wall. Why? Well, because it was opposite of the entrance. That way Saul could watch everybody coming in the entrance And also by the wall protected him from what? Assassination. You know, it's that old Westerner thing you don't sit with your back towards the, you know, the door. You always keep your you know your back against the wall. You don't want someone coming in and shooting you in the back. I think it's the idea here. It kind of gives you an idea of how Saul was thinking. And it's no accident that the writer points that out. His back was against the wall. It was also a place of prominence. And right next to him was his Abner, or excuse me, was his General Abner, who I was going to say was probably his Secret Service agent at the time. He's probably the guy that's willing to say, I'll take a arrow for you, you know, King Saul, if something happens. So Abner's right next to him. And he's watching. And what does he notice? Well, David's not there. In verse 25, and the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty. Nevertheless, Saul spake not anything that day, for he thought something hath befallen him. Maybe he was hopefully thinking, yeah, maybe he's already gone. Or he said he's not clean. Maybe that's it. Surely he's not clean. Or he's thinking maybe he's ceremonially not cleaner ritually there's uncleanness and you say what does that mean? That means that at a festival like this at the new moon that a person couldn't participate in this if he was um according to the Old Testament law Ritually unclean. Now how does a person get ritually unclean? Well, if they touch a dead body. If a person was out hunting and they just were bringing home the game from their hunt, they touched a dead animal, or even a uh a dead human body, and of course David was a warrior, he's a soldier. It wouldn't be unlikely that he would be in battle or something like that or he touched a dead animal. And Leviticus gives a whole list of things that you can do to make yourself ritually unclean for a feast like this. And so Saul's thinking, well maybe he's just unclean Maybe he just can't come because of that. He understood David's heart. He knew that David was a man who obeyed the laws of God. So that's what he was thinking. But David's still not there on the second day. Look at verse 27. And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to me, neither yesterday nor today, so now he's suspicious. And so now he engages Jonathan. He asks him, Where is David? How come he wasn't here yesterday? How come he's not here today? And of course, Jonathan gives him the answer that they he and David agreed on. Well, you know, David went back home to Bethlehem. He wanted to be with his family. He asked me to leave, and I gave him permission. And what happens? Saul explodes with anger. Look at verse 30. Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan. And he said unto him, Thou son of a perverse, rebellious woman. Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion, unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness? Now he utters a profanity at Jonathan, son of a perverse rebellious woman. Now, the fact that the writer slows down here and it gives you exactly what Saul said. There's a reason for that. Again, nothing in the Bible insignificant. Because what is he revealing? In these narratives, words a lot of times reveal what? Character. The dialogue reveals the character of the individual. And the writer again is showing how that Saul is not a godly man. He's not worthy of this royalty that he's been given. And the proof of it is, look, look how he curses his own son. Look look look how he talks to him. What does Jonathan do with David? He makes a covenant. What is Saul doing against Jonathan? He's cursing. And so there's a comparison there again. David makes a covenant with Jonathan. Saul curses Jonathan. And then he tries to shame them. He says, you know, in verse number 31, or verse 30, where he talks about the word confusion there, that's the Hebrew word for shame. He says, you know what, you're bringing a lot of shame to your mother. Now he had just cursed his mother, and yet now he's accusing Jonathan of shaming her. Saul's the one who just shamed her in the way that he uttered that curse. And this shows you how irrational, how angry that he is. And so when Jonathan tries to defend David and he tries to say, look, why are you want to kill him? David's been a loyal servant. Saul's anger gets even more explosive. And what does he do? Look down in verse number 33. And Saul cast a javelin at him. To smite him, whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David. He's so explosive in his anger that he takes that javelin. Saw it in his javelin, and he throws it at his own son. And Jonathan knows this is it. And he's grieved in his heart. He's grieved because, first of all, he shamed his mother. He shamed the family by how he was acting, but also he shamed David, his friend, and Jonathan is so grieved by the actions. Then in verse 34, he fasts. In verse 34, look at it. So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger and did eat no meat the second day of the month. For he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame. And so now this whole ordeal It's really brought a crisis on for Jonathan. You say why? Well, because now Jonathan needs to make a decision. Is he going to side with his father and his family? Or is he going to side with David? Is he going to side with protecting the Father's dynasty and even his own personal gain? You know, you think about it, Jonathan has enough information where David, he could he could kill David if he wanted. I mean he knows where David's going to be. And he knows that he can probably get some men there and and kill David and all the problems be gone. And so there's a crisis here about what he's going to do. You mark this down. A crisis is a t will test your friendship. A crisis will test, first of all, what kind of friend you are, and it'll test what kind of friends you have. And that's the crisis right here. And really, this is kind of the climax of the story. What is Jonathan going to do? Is he going to fire the arrows short of the stone and tell David, come on in, it's okay? And then David be captured and killed by his father? Or is he going to fire the arrows beyond the stone and tell David, just go. Just go. It's not safe. And so this is really the crisis of the whole story. What's going to happen here? But again, what we're going to see is that Jonathan is loyal. He would not, he will not betray his friend. Even at his own personal cost. Even though it's gonna hurt him with his father and that relationship. And there's probably gonna be all kind of other collateral damage that maybe we're not even reading or is going to be in the background of this whole thing if Jonathan chooses to side with his father uh Saul. And yet he's loyal. You say, what's the key? The key are the words that we see here. We kind of passed them over, but it's the word kindness, which is the Hebrew word tesed We see that over and over again in verse 8. David says, Show me kindness. In verse 14, Jonathan said, Yes, you show me kindness is kessed. That's a covenant word between friends. You know remember they made a covenant in chapter 18. Jonathan cut his wrist, David his, they mingled their blood, they made a covenant together. Those two words, covenant and bereit and kessed loving kindness, they are together a lot of times in the Bible because when a covenant is made, kessed is the actions that come out of that covenant relationship. Many times this word Kesid is used to talk about God's loyal love to us. And did you know that this Hebrew word Kethid is a word that we don't have an English equivalent for? When the writers of the King James Version came upon the Hebrew word Tesid, they searched for an equivalent English word, and they couldn't find one. And what they found out was there was one English translator, a man by the name of Miles Coverdale, who he translated the Bible from Hebrew to English. And when Miles Coverdale got to this Hebrew word Kessid He also had trouble finding an English equivalent, so you know what he did? He made up a word to try to try to really encapsulate everything that this word meant. And what was the word that he came up with? Loving kindness. Loving kindness. That was the word that he coined. And the King James Translator said, yeah, that's the word we'll use. Loving kindness. And sometimes it is kindness. Sometimes loving kindness. But this word talks about a loyal love. A love that will not let another go. Reminds me of that hymn that the hymn writer wrote, O love that will not let me go. And a lot of times in the Old Testament, that's the word used about God's love towards us. But in a covenant relationship, that was the action that one friend had towards another. And that's why Jonathan was so loyal, because friendships back then were so very sacred. And that's what I think means in the book of Proverbs, where it says, A man that has friends must show himself friendly. We could translate it like this: a man that has bereit Covenant friends must show himself kessed. His actions toward his covenant friend should be kessed all the time. That's the way it's supposed to be. There's a certain expectation that you had of your covenant friend. You should be able to count on him or her at any time. And that's the lesson we learn here. Jonathan demonstrates, Kesses, he demonstrates this kind of loyal love. to David. So a friend is someone you can consult with during a time of confusion. Number two, a friend is someone you can count on during a time of crisis. But here's the last thing, number three, a friend is someone you can cry with during a time of change. You can cry with during a time of change. Look at verse 35. Comes time for the signal. And it came to pass in the morning. But Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him, and he said unto his lad, run and find now the arrows which I shoot. So what does Jonathan do here? And here's again the climax. What does he do? He shoots the arrow beyond the stone. Shoots the arrow over David's head beyond the stone. And when Jonathan did that, when he shoots the arrow far beyond the stone, that was a testimony to the fact that Jonathan was a loyal friend. He was a man of his word. Thank God for the people that shoot arrows over our head. They are people that we can trust. They shoot the arrow beyond the stone for us. They're willing to block for us. That's the kind of person Jonathan was. That's the kind of people that we need to be. So in verse 39, Jonathan basically says to the lad, you know, here take my bow and my arrow, and and he sends them home. And now it's just Jonathan and David in the field. And David comes out from hiding. Look at verse 41. And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south. And fell on his face to the ground and bowed himself three times, and they kissed one another, and wept one with another until David exceeded Now, just think about, here's this incredible scene here now. Jonathan and David, they weep together. Here are two mighty warriors, two great soldiers of Israel. Two men? These are men's men and they're crying. In case you don't know, there are some certain man laws that we have to follow, guys, right? Certain man laws, you know, you guys are aware of these? Let me give you a few. You never refer to your clothing as an outfit. Alright? We don't do that guys. You never share an umbrella with another man no matter how hard it's raining. It's better just to get wet. Okay? You never watch ice skating or men's gymnastics. We don't do that. We never, under any circumstances, when you're driving and you're lost, ask for directions. We even turn Siri off We don't do it. It's a man law. If you have a cat, you can't have feelings for it. Now, there are certain man laws about crying. I don't know if you knew this or not, men. One of them is it's okay to cry if you're in extreme pain, like about an eight on a scale of one to ten, like if a piano drops fifty feet out of the air and lands on your foot. It's okay to cry on something like that. Alright? It's okay to cry at certain films, alright? Toy Story 3. If you don't cry at the end of that, you're a monster. Alright? There are others, you know, when you hold your baby for the first time, it's okay to cry. Your baby or your grandbaby in my case. It's okay to mess up and cry there. You got our permission. But here in this and here's another circumstance. It's okay to cry if you are not sure when you're going to see your best friend ever again Or someone that you love, a family member, someone that is very dear to your heart. It's okay to cry in a case like that. That's exactly the case that we have here with Jonathan and David. They're not sure when If ever they will see one another again. They've been loyal friends. And you know what? In fact, this is the last time that they will see each other. We don't read about them ever being together again. Later on, Jonathan will die in battle. And so they weep together. And David becomes an and after this David's whole life is going to change. You say, why is he crying? He's crying because he's got to leave. He's grieved. He becomes a fugitive, he'll live from cave to cage, he'll live in the wilderness like an animal. Saul will hunt him, he'll be away from his home, all the things that he loves, he'll be away from the friendship of Jonathan, all these things kind of come out And you know, Jonathan, just being a good friend, he just weeps with them. You know, sometimes the best thing that you can do for someone is just cry with them. Just weep with them. You know, I used to think that when a person was going through a major sorrow in their life, And they were just crying. I thought it was my job at times as a pastor to give them some theological reason for what's going on in their life. And you know what I found? That was an incredible burden. Because a lot of times I didn't have an answer. I didn't have a reason. I don't know. And you know what? It was a great day in my life when I realized that sorrow is not healed with logic. Sorrow is healed with love. And rather than trying to give a logical reason for everything, the best thing to do is just be quiet and cry with them. And just be there with them and go through it with them. And that's exactly what we find here about Jonathan. This is a major change that's going to happen. You know why a lot of times we cry, we have sorrow? Because of the changes that happen in life. Now granted, there are some changes in life that are good. But there are a lot of changes in life that are not good. There are a lot of changes that bring us sorrow when there's going to be a separation. And things like that that happen. It brings sorrow into our life. You know, um you ever been to an airport terminal and watch people as they Depart, the tears that go there. It's a lot of times that change that brings pain. And you know what? It's good just to have a friend that will cry with you during times like that. And so that's exactly what Jonathan does. And that's what we need to do. The Bible says we are to rejoice with those that rejoice. We're to weep with those who weep. Now in verse 42, they remind themselves of their covenant obligations, and then David departs. Look in verse 42, and Jonathan said to David, Go in peace. For as much as we have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed forever. And he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city. This was a I in the words that they spoke one to another, I think prophetic that they knew that they probably weren't going to see each other again. So what is a friend? Now by the way, God gave David a friend when he needed it the most. We should be grateful for the friends that God gives us. At the times that we need that. So a friend is someone you can consult with during a time of confusion. A friend is someone that you can count on during a time of crisis. A friend is someone that you can cry with. During a time of change. Now let me say this one word and we'll be done. You know what I see in this whole chapter? I see Jesus in it. Because I want to tell you Jesus is that friend to us. Just like Jonathan initiated a covenant with David, you know what? Jesus initiates a covenant with us. And just like Jonathan shed his blood to enter into that covenant with David, Jesus shed his blood so that he can enter into a covenant relationship with us. And Jesus is the friend that sticks closer than a brother. He's the one that will cry with you. You know salvation is a covenant relationship? And all the blessings that we have are because of Jesus, His faithfulness in the covenant relationship that we have together. And so what do we learn from this story? We learn That we need to try to be Jonathan-like to all of our friends. And let's be grateful for the Jonathans that God puts in our life. And also remember that our greatest friend is the Lord Jesus Christ. And he will be with you through every sorrow, through every change. He changeless will remain. He will be the one that we can cling to during those difficult times in life. Let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we thank you for the reminder that we have in this beautiful narrative. May it speak to our hearts tonight. May it remind us about our Savior. And the covenant that he made with us when he shed his blood on the cross for our sins. We're grateful that we can be a friend. Jesus said, you are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you. And so Lord, I pray that everyone here tonight, first of all, they'll make sure that they're Jesus' friend first. That they're saved, that they realize that the covenant that Jesus made on the cross when he shed his blood is available for anyone who wants to enter into that relationship. And Lord, may those of us who know you, may we look at this story and not only are we reminded of our Lord Jesus, but may it also inspire in us to be a loyal, loving friend. This is what we are in the body of Christ. People that will weep with one another. People that can we can we can confide in that will help us through the difficulties of life. Lord, may we be friends in the body of Christ. Help us, Lord, to exhibit the same character that we see in Jonathan. May we all be Jonathan like In all of our friendships, and we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen