All right. Thank you, praise team. Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. We're going to pick up where we left off. I don't know how long ago it was we left off there. Seems like a while. But go to Zechariah chapter 10 tonight is what we're going to be dealing with. Zechariah chapter 10. And the title of my sermon tonight is Asking for Rain. Kind of a subtitle is Claiming God's Prayer Promises. And that's really, I think, the theme here of Zechariah chapter 10. Look at verse number one. Ask ye of the Lord reign in the time of the latter rain. I remember I was going through seminary and I was pastoring a church in a rural county. And uh I think I told you a story before of a farmer who came to me kind of desperate saying, you know, uh we need rain. We want you to pray for rain. He he kind of phrased it like, Are you in touch with God? Well I I like to think that I am He said, Well, I've asked all these other ministers around here to pray for rain. I've asked Christians to pray for rain. We need rain and we're going to lose the crop, so we'll find out whether you're in touch with God. No pressure or anything. So I prayed and um the next day we had a Noah-like flood that came. And uh that was probably because of all the prayers that other men had prayed before me. But for some reason he kind of gave me a little bit of credit for that. But uh I think about that story when uh I read this verse here, verse one of Zechariah chapter ten. There's one command in this chapter and it's found in verse number one. And God is commanding the people to pray for rain. Again, verse one, ask ye of the Lord rain in the time of the latter rain. Now God meant this to be taken both literally and spiritually. They were to ask God for spring rain for their crops, but they were also to ask God to pour out his spiritual rain, his blessings on uh his parched people, you could say, spiritually parched people. So reigning this text can stand for blessings that God promises to give. We are to pray for God to fulfill those promises. Now in this chapter, we will see that God makes a lot of promises to his people. In fact, we see them expressed through this one phrase, I will. I will. Look at verse number six. We'll just go over this quick. In verse six he says, I will strengthen. And then he also says in verse six, I will save uh the house of Joseph, and then I will bring them again. Um and also I will have mercy upon them. And I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them. In verse eight, he says, I will hiss. That's a Hebrew word which means whistle. I'll whistle for them and gather them. In verse ten, I will bring them again out of the land of Egypt. I will bring them into the land of Gilead. And then again in verse number 12 we see the expression, I will strengthen them in the Lord. And so the lesson here is that God promises to give blessings, and he wants his people to claim those promises. He wants people to claim them in prayer. At the historic Battle of Waterloo, the Duke of Wellington led the British forces against the mighty Napoleon. And news of the battle's outcome traveled by sailing vessel to the south coast of England, and there was a signaled uh semaphore. What's a semi-phore? That's kind of a series of flags or hand signals you know, stationed every once in a while until it makes its way all the way back to uh London. Uh this system uh was signalling what took place in the battle and on the on the top of Winchester Cathedral the signalman began to spell out The eagerly awaited message that people wanted to hear. And the words came across, Wellington defeated, but at that point a fog had settled in and people couldn't see the rest of it. The semaphore could no longer be seen. And discouraging news spread that Wellington was defeated. But later the fog lifted and again the signaling came, and on top of the cathedral it became much more visible the whole signal Which read, Wellington defeated the enemy. Well, that changed things. It wasn't a defeat, it was actually a victory Now, if you have known the Lord for any time at all, then you've experienced something like that in your praying. Perhaps you pray for something earnestly, something important to you, for God to answer that prayer. And it seemed as if God was not answering. Even worse, it seemed like the reverse was happening. Instead of there being victory, it seemed like to you that there was defeat. Perhaps you're stuck cut still in the fog and uh don't understand why God seemed to do the opposite of what you prayed. Uh I I felt that way about several long-term prayer requests that I've had. Sometimes, you know, you get that feeling. At times you may wonder if God's promises are really true. But the Bible promises that the fog will lift and we will see that all God's promises in Christ Jesus are yes. And God will always fulfill his promises. From our limit limited vantage point, it might not seem so. But seeing from the perspective of God's plan, prophetic plan for history, we can see that God always fulfills his promises. for his people. God is always with his people. It might not be in our time or in our way, but God always keeps his promises. And this is the thing that should encourage us to pray. Now, in the context of this, in chapter 9 and 10 of Zechariah's prophecy, the prophet is basically seeking to encourage this fearful remnant of people, these weak and fearful, trembling people. He wants to encourage them. And in chapter 9, if you remember, he gives a great promise about God's protection over Jerusalem. And the promise that one day the King of Kings will come riding into Jerusalem. He gives promises about the coming Messiah. These promises include the first coming, the first advent and also the second advent of Christ. At his first advent, he provides salvation. At the second advent, he will bring peace to the nations and blessings to all of his people. Now in chapter 10, he's kind of continuing on that theme by reminding God's people of promised blessings. So Zechariah exhorts the people to ask for those promises. God's saying, look, I've promised you blessings. And so here's Zachariah saying that you need to ask God to send these reins to fulfill his promises. And so that's really the idea in this whole sermon. If you can boil it down to one idea, it would be God's abundant promises for his people should motivate us to pray for their fulfillment. Now you might be thinking, if God has promised to do something, then why do we need to ask him to do what he's already promised to do? I mean if God's promised to do it Uh it just seems like you know we wouldn't need to ask. But here's a principle we need to learn in the Christian life. Even though God has promised something, He doesn't do it automatically apart from our participation in that process That's just the way that God has ordained it. God's appointed means of bringing down showers of blessings is through the prayers of his people. So we need to pray God's promises into reality. You with me? We need to be participants in this. We need to pray. So let me give you two big thoughts here tonight, two points here in the sermon. Number one, the promise of God's abundant blessings. This is what we see in the first part of this chapter. For Zachariah's audience, these promises might have seemed so far removed from their circumstance and situation. But what might seem far off from man's view is nothing to God. You know, God can change things immediately. God can change your circumstances immediately. God can answer immediately. But when you hear of God's abundant promises, you might think, well, yeah, no way. The reality gap between where you're living and what God has promised to do is so great that you have trouble believing that could it could ever happen. You ever been there? If you can identify that when then then this text is for you. Again, chapter ten, we can divide it into two sections, verses one to five. God promises For deliverance from enemies. Verses 6 to 12, God's promises of restoration and strength for his people. Now we can apply these verses spiritually to the church. Now we have to remember that this was written to the people of Israel, and I agree with Charles Simeon, who wrote over a hundred years before Israel became a nation. He asked, if the Jews regathering to the land is segretive, how could God say anything literal in any plainer language than he uses here. And I would agree with that. This is primarily to the people of Israel, but we could also apply these principles to us today. These principles apply to us, his people, the church, as well. And God promises deliverance from enemies, first of all. Look in verse number two. For the idols that have spoken vainly, and the diviners have seen a lie. And so what we're going to see here for verses two down to verse number five are just two enemies that he mentions. and then the deliver the deliverance. Now here's the thing, is God's people, you need to be aware of your enemies. You might be thinking, I don't have any enemies. Well if you're a child of God, you do. Whether you realize it or not, you're in a spiritual battle. And Napoleon said, knowing your hen your enemy is half the battle. So who are the enemies that he names here? Well, two enemies. First of all, false gods and prophets. These false gods presented by false prophets, and then also selfish domineering leaders. Again, look at verse 2. For the idols have spoken vainly, and the diviners have seen a lie and have told false dreams. They comfort in vain, therefore they went their way as a flock. Now, before God put Israel in exile, Israel was steeped in idolatry. In fact, that's one of the reasons why God punished them. God said, You like idols? I'm going to send you to a land where there's idols all over the place. And they spent all those years in Babylon. By the time they got were ready to leave Babylon, they were so fed up with idolatry, they were never polytheistic ever again. They were always monotheistic. Nevertheless, God gives a warning through Zechariah. When the Lord did not seem to answer their prayers for rain, there's the temptation for the people to go back into looking into these idols that are presented by these false prophets. There's always going to be those other alternatives out there that are pushed when God doesn't seem to answer our prayers immediately. And idolatry involves a reversal of our proper position before God. Instead of us submitting to Him and saying, God, let your will be done and I'm submitting to you, what is an idol? An idol is something that we can manipulate. Where we become in control and we tell the idol what we want and the idol serves us. That's really the essence of idolatry. If the living and true God won't cooperate, we'll just use other spiritual means to get what we want. Israel often did this in the past, you know, with their Karaphem, which were household gods. They were used by pagans, you know, these household gods. They would ask things, you know, these gods as if they could actually do anything. Israel began to use the same. They were used to determine God's will through magic or occult means. And how would that apply today? Well, Christians can do the same thing by trying to find God's will outside of the God ordained sources and resources that God has given us, the Word of God in prayer. And waiting on the Lord and submitting to his providence and all of that. If things don't happen the way you want it to, Christians can go outside of those spiritual means. And they can g gain some kind of temporary comfort through worldly or even uh spiritual things that are not of God. As they're not of God, what does that mean that what does that mean? Well it means if it's not of God, where is it coming from It's coming from the devil, right? Zechariah says that even though people may gain temporary comfort through such methods, it's false and empty comfort because it does not cause them to rely on the living God. And so the warning is this whenever God puts you on hold You're susceptible to turning to false gods or false teachers for help. Don't do that. I've heard of Christians turning to astrology or fortune tellers for guidance. You know, as if there's something good in that. I read of a pastor who wrote of a woman in his church that was in chronic pain and she started going to a s uh a science of mind healer. And when the pastor pointed out to her husband that that's dangerous, that's a false cult, the husband's response was, Well, my wife is in pain and this relieves her pain, so If it helps her, we're going to keep doing it. And eventually they dropped out of church. They stopped seeking the Lord. You see, there are many false teachers that prey upon God's people who are suffering And they teach that it is God's will to heal everyone and make us all wealthy. Desperate people flock to these godless men only to be disappointed because They find comfort in vain, just like Zechariah said, they comfort in vain, therefore they went their way as a flock. And so there's these false gods, given by false teachers, and that is still prevalent in the world today. And I would say that even in the church, Christians, rather than looking to Christ and His Word for all they need, they're going outside of that To trying to find their comfort. But then there's another warning about selfish domineering leaders, verse 3. the flock of Judah. The word shepherd in the ancient Near East was used to designate any kind of leadership position where people were in over the fi uh over uh God's people, the sheep, there could this could be a teacher, prophet, priest, judges, kings, governors. They were all called shepherds. In Zechariah's time, the leaders had turned their positions of privilege into occasions for abuse. And God is angry about this. And so God calls these leaders goats in verse 3. Notice where he says, and I punish the goats. Uh this is again as a way to refer into these selfish leaders, you know, just like goats headbutt their way into dominance over the flock. You know, sheep submit and goats are always butting. You tell a goat to do something, he'll say, yeah, but Yeah, but yeah, but yeah, but they're always butting. They headbutt their way into dominance. There's a stubbornness there. And Israel suffered from these false shepherds who took advantage of the flock for their own gain. False shepherds are still around Jesus said to beware of wolves in sheep's clothing. The New Testament is filled with warnings about that. But God promises to deliver his people from these enemies. But so notice the deliverance again in verse 3 at the end. For the Lord of hosts has visited his flock, the house of Judah, and has made them as his goodly horses in the battle. And the ultimate leader and deliverer for his people is the Messiah. So in these verses, Zachariah points to the coming Messiah. And notice that God promises to visit his flock and to make them like his majestic horse in battle, as goodly horses in battle. In other words, the Messiah will turn sheep into war horses. In verse 4, the hymn is referring to Judah. From Judah will come. And then what we see in the rest of uh verse number 4 is these beautiful, I think, pictures of the Messiah. Now some commentators interpret the terms in verse 4 as referring to God raising up strong leaders But the ultimate leader for Israel is the is the Messiah. And I think that these are messianic terms. And also these terms are used in the Jewish Targum. That's an Aramaic paraphrase or commentary on the scripture. In that Targum, all of these are messianic that's referring to the Messiah. And that's the way this was seen here. So what are the terms? Look at verse 4. The word corner. Out of him came forth the corner. We could translate that cornerstone. Does that sound familiar? Christ is the cornerstone. That's used in both the Old and New Testaments. Isaiah 28, 16. Therefore thus says the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tribe stone. A precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. And this is referred to and quoted in the New Testament, in the book of Acts, and also in Ephesians. And so in Zechariah it speaks of Christ as the leader whom the government will rest upon and hold together. And Christ is the cornerstone of his church, as we know. the Bible presents in Ephesians. But also Christ is the tenth peg. Also out of him the nail. And that word there refers to a peg, a tenth peg, an oriental tent on which the resonance hung many valuables. Uh going into a um you know uh their tent, the peg would often be a place where they would hang things when they once they entered in, there would be a peg there and they would just hang it on there Um, you know, now we use our treadmill to hang stuff, but back then it was a ten peg, you know. Um and and so It was then, this is the idea. It refers to Christ as the one whom the glory of the Father dwells. Everything of value is upon Christ. Hangs from Christ. That's the idea there. But also Christ is the battle bow. Out of him the battle bow. He's the coming conqueror who will banish all of God's enemies. when he returns. But then he's the ultimate warrior in verse verse 4. Out of him every oppressor together And so, you know, and also verse five, and they shall be as mighty men which tread down their enemies in the mire of the streets in the battle. They shall fight because the Lord is with them. Now again some commentators take the first three terms to refer to Christ, but then they look at this other idea of this this ruler or tyrannical ruler and they say, well that can't apply to Christ because this word's used in a negative way. Yeah, but it's not always. Sometimes in Bible in the Bible it's used in a s sense of a strong leader in a good sense And I think in later verse 5, that pictures him trampling down the enemies of the people of God. That's the idea. Now, we can apply these promises for deliverance in two ways. Here's the first way we can apply this. Alright? All that we have in Christ and his promised presence with us is sufficient for victory over every foe. That's really the way we need to see this. All that we have in Christ and His promised presence with us is sufficient over every foe. We need to see Christ as being sufficient over every foe that we face. In other words, Jesus Christ is our all in all Remember, like I said on Sunday morning talking about the treasures we have in Christ. In him is hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. We've been rooted in Christ. We are built in Christ. In him all the fullness of the deity dwells in bodily form. We have victory over every spiritual foe in Christ. That's the idea. If we're defeated by our sins or some problem, it is because we haven't learned to lay hold of the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. Have you learned to do that? To lay hold of the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. Uh John MacArthur wrote a book years ago called Our Sufficiency in Christ. I really commend you to read it because it really deals with this whole topic. And he shows how human Humanistic psychology and pragmatism have invaded the church and replaced the need to totally rely on the riches of Christ with other things. We're replacing that with other things. He says this the clear message That is of Christian psychology, is that simply pointing the Christians, pointing Christians to their spiritual sufficiency in Christ is inane and is maybe even dangerous. But on the contrary, he says, it is inane and dangerous to believe that any problem is beyond the scope of Scripture or unmet by our spiritual riches in Christ. And I think that's absolutely right. The way to be strong is to realize our weakness and to feel that Christ must be all. He is all. Here's a second way we apply this. Trusting in the sufficiency of Christ does not imply passivity on our part. Because notice the balance in verse number five. Notice the second part of verse five. It says, And they shall fight. Why? Because the Lord is with them. The Lord's presence and strength does not imply that we sit back and do nothing. You know, it's that old idea of let go and let God. Here I am, God, do it all for me. Well, we do depend completely on Christ, but that doesn't mean that we sit back and do nothing. No, we have to engage. We have to do our part. Like Paul says in Philippians, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God that works in you. This is the reason I'm working so hard to work out what God has put in me, because the Lord is. w with me because God is working and his doing his part. I need to do my part. So victory is our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. We have to do our part. And so the theme of verses 2 to 5 is that God promises deliverance from our enemies, and as we learn to do battle. in Christ depending on the Lord. But here's the next thing. God's promises to restore and strengthen. And we see this in verses six down to verse twelve. And again, I don't go I don't want to need to go over it again with you, but we see that I will expressions. I will strengthen, I will save, I will bring them again, I will have mercy on them. So on in verse eight, I will hiss or whistle for them and gather them. I will bring them, verse 10, out of the land of Egypt. I will bring them into the land of Gilead, verse 12. I will strengthen them. God is very definitive about what He's going to do. He's not dependent on the so-called free will of people. It's not that God forces human will, but rather after he converts us, by his grace, he enables us to freely choose to do what is spiritually good on our part. So the balance of scripture is on the one hand, God sovereignly does his part. He saves, he strengthens, he sustains his people. On the other hand, we have to actively do our part. We have to rely upon God's strength and take action and walk in his name. We have to return to the Lord, but we can only do that in his strength, you see. Again, just two practical things here. First of all God sometimes scatters his people in weakness so that they will look to him alone to save. We see this in verse 9. Look in verse 9. Notice what it says. And I will sow them among the people. That is, God says, I'm going to scatter these people among the nations, among the people. And they shall remember me in far countries. When they get into these difficult situations in far countries, he's referring here to Egypt and Assyria, and these are all representative of places around the globe where God has dispersed his disobedient people And then in verse 8 he says, I'm going to whistle and gather them back. Refers to a shepherd blowing a pipe-like whistle to call his flock back to the fold. Just prior to the Messiah's return return, God is going to bring back the Jewish people to the land from around the globe. And God's already doing that. We can see God doing that. God sows his people, he scathers them abroad, and then like seed scattered abroad. But like a good farmer, he doesn't forget the seed that he's sown, that he's scattered. He's going to bring it all back together. He's waiting for the harvest. He's going to bring it all back together. That's the idea here. F. B. Meyer preached a helpful sermon on this. He called it God Sowing. And he shows that sowing implies death and darkness. And loneliness, as the seed is planted in the ground. He says, But God does not forget the seed any more than a farmer would forget the crop that he's planted. In due time that seed that falls into the ground and dies will bear much fruit. God often has to plan us in situations of overwhelming despair so that we will look to him alone. That's the idea there. God's taking his disobedient people. He's putting them in situations of despair and darkness and loneliness. Why? So that they'll look to God alone. They'll look to the Lord. Remember, Paul was so burdened beyond his strength. He was so strung out. He was so at the end of himself that he despaired of even life And remember, I quoted this on Sunday morning if you were here, 2 Corinthians 1, 8 and 9. Paul said, you know, we despaired even of our life. You know, sometimes I hear people say, well, God's not going to put you in a situation that you can't handle. Really? I I believe that we really be in situations that are beyond us, but God in His grace gives us the strength in those situations. God will be there. That's what Paul said. Why did God put Paul in that situation? That we should not trust in ourselves, Paul said, but in God who raises the dead. If God has power to raise the dead, surely He can give you grace and strength in whatever situation you're in. That's the whole idea. He will put us in a difficulty, in a severe trial. So that we will look to him. That's the whole point of it. That's the whole point. Hudson Taylor said this all of God's giants have been weak men who did great things for God because they reckon on God being with them. He also said that when God wanted to open inland China to the gospel, he had to look around for a man weak enough for the task. And he found one finally, and that was me. And that's and that is so very true. The second thing, when weak people experience God's strength, great joy results. She said, why does God do that? Why does God put us in such a difficult, despairing situation where we're at the end of ourself and we're at the end of our rope? And then we finally look to God and we are infused with strength from God because that whole experience brings incredible joy to the believer. An exhilarating joy at the end. Notice verse 7 where it says this, and their heart will be glad as if from wine. Indeed, their children will see it and be glad. Their hearts will rejoice in the Lord. When God has brought us to the end of ourselves where we are to focus, or we're forced, I should say, to rely. on him alone. Not only do we experience great joy, but even our children also enter into that joy. That's what it says in verse seven. The way to bring great joy to your children is not to give them all the junk that the world says is going to make them happy. Rather, but by your example of faith and prayer, teach your children the reality of your weakness, but the strength and the sufficiency of God and his grace. And his power. That's the whole point. Read them stories of great men like George Mueller or Hudson Taylor or Adnar and Judson or John Patton. And let your family hear you pray and present your needs to the Lord and rejoice when He provides all those needs. That leads to the means that God has ordained for us to lay hold of those promises. So we see not only the promise Of God's abundant blessings. You guys still with me? Alright, here's number two. Just checking. Just checking. Number two. We're almost done. We've got six minutes according to the clock. But who's paying attention to that? Not me. Anyway, number two, the participation in God's abundant blessings. And I just want to make a few things here. You might again you might wonder why pray if God's promised to do it? Well, won't it happen anyway? And there are four good reasons to pray that I see here in this chapter. First of all, because God commands us to pray. Is that enough? Because God says pray. He commands us to do it. Again, we go all the way back to verse one. God says, Look, pray for rain. Pray for rain, the spring rains. God has ordained that his purposes be fulfilled through the prayers of his people. That's just the way God's ordained it. God wants you to participate. This is why Jesus taught us to pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Isn't God kingdom going to come in it? Yeah, it's going to come. It will come. The question is, will you be a part of the process by praying for it? So God commands us to pray. That's one reason we pray, but here's another thing, because prayer is a way to acknowledge our dependence on God. We don't inform God of things that he doesn't already know. You understand that, right? God already knows what you need before you ask. Jesus said that in Matthew 6, 8. Your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. Then he went on to tell us how we are to pray. In prayer, what we do is we confess our total dependency on God Prayer is a matter of humbling ourselves and confessing our complete, total dependence on God in all things. And saying, God, I need you. You know, the song, you ever hear the song I need you every hour? What's incorrect? You need them every second. Not every hour, every second. You need them to help you breathe. Daniel said, you know, that in whose hand my very breath is. God, everything about me is in your hand. And prayer is us acknowledging that we are absolutely, completely, totally dependent upon God. It is humbling ourselves before God. And so not praying is really uh an outgrowth of pride, isn't it? We could do this on our own. We got this, God. Really? You think so? That's why God has to humble us and put us in these situations where we can't do it. Because we need to be completely dependent upon God. That's the place to be. But here's the next reason, because prayer reminds us that God alone is the source of our blessings. God commands them to ask for rain. You know, scientists can explain the process of rain. Rain is kind of a natural phenomenon. They like to explain it without mentioning God. And when they can't figure it out, they say, Oh, good old Mother Nature. Mother who? Mother Nature, I just don't want to give God any credit, right? Don't let them fool you. It is God who sends the rain It's all of God. If the crops grow, it's because God makes them grow. If you sit down to eat a meal that you bought with money you earned, it is God who provided that meal and you need to give them thanks. He is the one who provides all of these things. He is the blesser of every blessing, the source of every blessing. But here's another reason, because prayer is asking God to fulfill his purposes. When God tells his people to ask him, ask me for the spring rains, God says. Ask me for the rain. They need to be praying literally for the rain. But also they need to ask him to fulfill the promises that he gave here in this chapter, but also all throughout a scripture. This is God saying, look, I've given you promises. Now ask me to fulfill them. Get involved in the process. Ask for rain. Your kingdom come, your will be done. That will happen, but it will happen through God's people asking him to send his reign. Did Zechariah's audience realize the fulfillment of these messianic promises? No. Did their children? No. It's been 2,500 years and these things are still not fulfilled. The Jews are back in the land, but they're not walking with God. And they're many are going back. They have not yet looked on him whom they've pierced. That's coming up in Zechariah twelve. As God's redeemed people, we should be praying for the conversion of Jews and all of God's people from every nation. So, just in wrapping this up, we see then The promise of God's abundant blessings. God gives so many promises here. And the participation, God says, I want you to ask me. Ask me for the rain. Claim my promises. John Playfer has often pointed out that the church is engaged in spiritual warfare, but that most believers have a peacetime mentality. He says that having this mindset, we use prayer as a domestic intercom rather than as a wartime walkie-talkie. And he pictures Jesus Don't put the quote up yet, I'm not ready. Sorry. He pictures Jesus, the field commander, issuing each of his troops a walkie-talkie tuned in to the general's headquarters. If they have any need on the battlefront, they can call for help. And then he writes, Okay, put it up. This is what he writes, quote. But what have millions of Christians done? They have stopped believing that we are in a war. No urgency, no watching, no vigilance, no strategic planning. Just easy, peacetime, and prosperity. And what do they do with the walkie-talkie? They try to rig it up as an intercom in their cushy houses and cabins and boats and cars. Not to call in firepower for conflict with a mortal enemy, but they asked the maid to bring another pillow to the den. Ouch. Pretty strong. The Lord did instruct us to pray for our personal needs, our daily bread, but only after we pray first to hallow his name. His kingdom to come, his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. So we ought to pray for rain to end the drought. I'm talking about spiritual drought That is all over in our country. We need to pray for rain. But first and foremost, we ought to be praying. For God to work that in our own heart. Is there any drought spiritually in our own life? Pray for the reign of his spirit to bring revival. Not only in the earth heart, but also into nations. And it will happen. God will answer. He will bring the rain when God's people ask. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you for this reminder from Zechariah. In every chapter we learn how faithful and true you are. And your word can be dependent on, Lord. And you have promises here that you've given us that you want us to claim. Command us to come to you and ask for rain. So Lord, I pray you'll do it. You'll pour out your blessing on us. Lord, we need the rain. And Lord, we want to respond. We want to pray just because we realize that Lord without you we can do nothing. We're just completely dependent on you, Lord, and all things. We know that if anything happens, it's you're you're the source of it, Lord. It's all of you. And we want you to get the glory for it. So Lord, help us to be faithful to pray, to pray in the promises, the promises that you gave us, to rely on them, to find all of our strength. In you, that you would deliver us from our enemies. And that, Lord, we would learn that you are the source of our strength and our life. And be fully trusting and dependent on you. So bless these words, Lord, to our hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.