So would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of First Corinthians, chapter seven. First Corinthians chapter seven. As you know, on Sunday nights we've been doing this series about the Puritans. And I want to continue in that. And tonight I want to talk about a uh a Puritan by the name of Nathaniel Vincent And the title of the message, of course, is from the book that he wrote called Attending Upon God Without Distraction. And we're going to look at 1 Corinthians 7, verse number 35. Now, one of the greatest hindrances and threats to the believer is distraction. We probably never have had think of it that way. But If we're going to grow in our sanctification, if we're going to grow in our worship and our intimacy with the Lord, that requires a holy focus on our part. We have to have the same spirit that uh the Apostle Paul described in Philippians chapter three, verse thirteen, when he said, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, what, forgetting those things which are behind And reaching forth under those things which are before. And in that verse there, Paul is using an athletic metaphor where that he's a runner in a race, and if a runner is going to win the race or finish the race He can't look down at his feet and be distracted by his feet or be distracted by other runners or be distracted by what's behind him. He has to constantly look forward and focus. It requires a focus. And that's what Paul is referring to here. If you want to grow in Christ, then it requires a diligent focus on your part. Now unfortunately, many Christians are so distracted by the past that they don't really focus too much on the things that they need to focus on. And so we need to have this focus that the Apostle Paul talks about. In order to worship, in order to grow, and to be more Christ-like, that's what it's going to require of us. Now, one of the great Puritan classics is a book that deals with this issue of distraction. And this was written by the Puritan Nathaniel Vincent And uh he has a section in the book, uh, at the very beginning of the book that is that he titles To the Reader. And let me just read a little excerpt of what he wrote here. Listen to what he said Distraction of the mind keeps the heart away from God and from the duty that seems to be performed to him. It hinders the stirrings of holy affections. and the actions of saving grace. And it turns religion into a mere bodily exercise. Now remember, he's writing those words to people in the 17th century. Because he saw that there are many people that were so distracted in their walk with the Lord. They weren't given that that holy focus in worship and so on. So I would just propose to you that if it was true back in the 17th century How much more so is it true today that people are so distracted when it comes to their spiritual walk? I mean, we have all these distractions in our world today. Uh think about the modern distractions that we have. I mean when I was growing up we had three channels. Uh now we have hundreds of channels that people can choose from Uh we have the internet, we have YouTube, we have all these other things. We have our phones. Our phones are constantly distracting us. Phones used to be just phones, but they're not just phones anymore It's our whole window to the world. And while I'm preaching, I know some of you out there are on your phone, you're looking on the internet, you're checking sources and so on. You know, I but there's this distraction that is constantly going on. And that's why this book and the message of it is really so needed in our modern day God calls upon his people to attend him with an undivided heart. He wants our focus. He wants our attention. And to have a divided heart, and this is what uh Nathaniel Vincent will say to have a divided heart is a spiritual danger. It exposes us spiritually to danger. So, and by the way, this is convicting in my own heart. I mean I I was convicted reading this. I I read it years ago and then I reread it. Some actually s skimmed it more this next time through, just kind of trying to pick out some of the things that um that were memorable were I'd underlined before. And you know how you read a book and sometimes you'll forget things and go back through and go, ooh wow, some of the things that were underlined. And so this is convicting to me because I have to say there are many times when I've gone to the Lord in prayer only to allow thoughts and anxieties to overwhelm me to where I'm not really focused in prayer the way I should be. It never fails. I think I've told you this for before that when I set my heart to pray, um that's when the emails come and the text messages come and all these other things come and and the devil reminds me of my to-do list and things that I need to get done. And so I'm just distracted and I feel like that my prayer time in itself is an offense to Almighty God. I also see this in church, you know, when I'm preaching and there's sometimes people are half listening They're checking their phones again, sending messages back and forth. When's the password going to be done? I don't know. Meet you at McDonald's. They're searching the internet. Now if you're convicted, don't just pretend like you're not. We need to take prayer, the prayer of the psalmist, seriously. In Psalm 86, verse 11, he said this, unite my heart to fear thy name. Unite my heart to fear thy name. And we live in such a noisy a crowded, hurried, restless world that this is a message that we again need so very much. Now the the version of the book that I have is a reprint from Solido Gloria, which reprints a lot of these Puritan works. It has about 18 chapters and 200 pages in it But I want to summarize what Vincent has to say on this subject under three of my own headings, but this is really all of his ideas of material, but I'm kind of headed it up under three general headings. And the first one is the cond the condition of a divided heart. the condition of a divided heart. Now I want you to look in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse number 35, because this is really the the verse that he uses as his springboard verse in this whole idea. Look at verse 35. And this I speak for your own profit. Not that I may cast the snare upon you, but that for that which is comely, and that ye may attend upon God without distraction. See that expression there? That ye may attend upon God without distraction distraction. And that is the line, the verse, that Vincent uses as the basis for this whole series that he did on this whole idea. Now, before we get into some of Vincent's thoughts, I think it's fair that we look at the context of 1 Corinthians 7. 35 and find out what does the Apostle Paul mean by that verse. Now really in chapter seven, what is the Apostle Paul doing? He's dealing with the issue of singleness or marriage. He's answering the question, should I get married? Some single people in the Church of Corinth was questioning that There was the idea going around that everyone should be married, and if you're single and you're not married, you must have some kind of a problem. And of course that's simply not true. God calls some people to marriage and God calls some people to be single There's just the way it is. There's nothing wrong with being single, and that's exactly what Paul is speaking about in the concept in the context of 1 Corinthians In fact, look at chapter 7. Look down in verse number 1 and notice what Paul says. Now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. And the touch here is kind of a Jewish euphemism for an intimate relationship. And Paul is really referring to someone about being married. He's saying it's it's it's for someone to remain single It's good for a man not to touch a woman. That is to say that it's possible for a person to remain single. It has great advantages to it And later on, Paul, look, look down in verse number 7. Look in verse 7. For I would that all men were even as I myself. Now, what was Paul referring to there, his singleness? Paul said, I would that every man were like me No, no, by the way, that's not to be taken as, you know, every man's calling. Because if every man were like Paul and every man were single, then the human race would die out, right? So when Paul says, I would that every man uh were like me, he's using hyperbole here to make the point that there's nothing wrong with being single. Sometimes I hear people when they talk about songs where Paul said in 1 Corinthians 14 Where Paul said, I would that all men talk in tongues like me. And they take that as a prescription that everyone should speak in tongues. No. Paul's using a hyperbole to say there's nothing wrong with a legitimate gift. And here Paul is saying the same idea. There's nothing wrong with being single and he uses hyperbole to say that It's a gift. Again, we see in verse 7, every man hath his proper gift. But every man has his proper gift of God. God gifts certain people with singleness. And so he's saying, however, if you want to get married, there's nothing wrong with that either. If you desire to be married, but there's a few things that you should consider. Number one is the danger of the time. Look down in verse number twenty-five where Paul says this. Now concerning virgins I have no command of the Lord, yet I give my judgment as one that has I suppose therefore that it is good for the present distress, I say, that it is good for man to be so. In other words, again, he's referring to single people and he's saying, look, you know, if if you're single, it's it's not a bad thing. In fact, it's good because of the present distress. And the word there means calamity. He's talking about what was going on at that time, and at that time in certain parts of the world, the church was suffering a lot of persecution. And Paul says, well, because of all the persecution going on, it's better to be single. Why? Because you don't have to really have the concerns and the worries about a wife and children in this time of danger. So if you're going to get married, you should consider the danger that's all around. And countless Christians at that time were being beaten and imprisoned and arrested and even killed for the gospel of Paul. So that's something that you should consider Whatever ministry you might have, you might go into, think about that, think about bringing a family into that. But then he gives another idea, and that is the dysfunction of the flesh. Look at verse number 28, where Paul says again But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned, and if a virgin marry, she has not sinned, nevertheless, such shall have trouble in the flesh. But I spare you Paul says again, there's nothing wrong. If a single person wants to get married, that's okay. Marriage is a legitimate option, but just know this, you're going to have trouble in the flesh. That's not a good verse to bring up in a marriage seminar, is it I mean we just had a good marriage seminar, but here the Apostle Paul is being realistic. He's saying, look, if you're going to get married, just realize that it's not going to be easy at times. There's going to be trouble that comes with that. There's going to be difficulty that comes with marriage. Why is that? Well, because marriage is two sinners trying to live together and trying to learn each other. And there are challenges with that. And and so he's saying, you know, there's going to be trouble in the flesh because of our sin nature. It's hard enough for a sinner to live with himself by himself alone. But to to be together with two people with a sin nature, there's always going to be some trouble. So remember that. But also he talks about the discontinuation of the system. Look down at verse number twenty-nine. But this I say, brethren, the time is short. And it remaineth that both they that have wise be as though they have none, and they that weep as though they weep not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoice not, and they that buy as though they possess not So what is Paul talking about here? The main section of this, the main verse here, the idea, is the phrase, the fashion of this world passes away. He's talking about the temporary nature of things here in this world. The word for fashion here, schema, where we get the word scheme, talks about manner of life. The way that we do things here on earth, in this time, the scheme of this world, it's a temporary thing. It's not going to be that way after we die. So the system of things here on this earthly existence is passing away. It's temporary. And God has designed it that way. And so God's designed that marriage will only be here in this life and not in the life to come. And then he says in verse 29, he says, you know, that the time is short. Literally the time has been shortened. And the word for time there is kairos, uh, you know, a fixed period of time. And this time is really short. Things are passing away quickly. You need to remember that And he says, Therefore the things of this world are passing away. And in verse twenty-nine he says, They that have wives as though they have none. In other words, he's saying that all these gifts that God gives us here in this earthly existence, they are temporary, and you shouldn't hold on to them too hard. Because they are passing away, and therefore they that have wives as though they have none. This doesn't mean that you need to neglect your spouse and act as if you're not married. It just means that you need to keep your marriage in proper perspective You don't put your spouse ahead of the Lord, the love that you have for God. And in fact, you know, in marriages, sometimes a spouse can be a distraction from the Lord. So don't let the love for your spouse become an idol where it means more to you than your walk with Christ. You need to remain free from the bondage of the things, the elements of this world And that's the whole idea that he's giving here. You have to hold loosely to the things of this world. That includes emotions. In verse number thirty. Notice again what he says in verse thirty. And they that weep as though they weep not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoice. Not. And Paul's hear is that our emotions can overwhelm us and become we can become controlled by our emotions. Something terrible Hurtful can happen in your life, and you could be so consumed with that that it dominates you, and that in itself is a distraction away from God and the things of God You could be so overwhelmed by your sorrow that you indulge in that. And you're overwhelmed by that and you're distracted by that. And it's the same with rejoicing. So if your emotions carry you away, it's a sign that you have lost biblical perspective, or you've lost the eternal perspective. And you're being distracted by those things. And possessions, and they that buy as though they possess not. The accumulation of money and things. It's a preoccupation with a lot of people. It shouldn't be the preoccupation of the child of God. It's nice to have these things that God provides for us. We're grateful for that. We view these things as gifts from God, and in that we worship God that He gives us so much. But there's a sense in which we can become consumed with possessions. And that can in itself can become an idol. The accumulation of money The accumulation of things can preoccupy and it can be a distraction. And then he mentions pleasure in verse number thirty-one. And they that use this world not as not as abusing it, for the fashion of this world passes away. All these things are temporary, they're all going away. And then he talks about the distraction of the relationship. And this is where you get down to verse 32, down to verse 35. And again, Paul's whole point here is that the single person has fewer distractions than the married person. They have a potential to have a real undivided devotion to the Lord. And that's why he says in verse 32, I would have you without carefulness, that is without anxieties, without obligations, that consume you and distract you. And then we get down to the verse that Vincent really keys in on in verse 35 where he says, that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction. without distraction. And Vincent wrote this, quote, in 1 Corinthians, the apostle admonishes the Corinthians of the transitoriness of this present world. And then informs them what kind of attendance upon himself God requires. So it's a warning about the passing nature of the world. And the kind of focus and attention that God requires. He went on to say He would have He would have all observed that God called them to, and in every condition to abide with God, and to attend upon the Lord without distraction. And again, this is the basis of this whole idea. And Vincent goes on to develop this whole thing. And he gives a chapter on what is it to attend upon God. And And so really throughout his whole book, what he what he does is he makes a contrast between the divided heart and the heart that truly attends upon the Lord. He gives that contrast. That's really the central theme of the whole book But let's let's first of all think about what Vincent means by a divided heart. What does he mean by a divided heart? It's not merely just distraction in the mind in the temporary sense. Let's face it, we all get distracted from time to time. But it goes deeper than that, Vincent says. It's more of a spiritual condition. It's really a d uh a uh an issue of loyalty in your heart. The divided heart, he says, really is an attempt to kind of it has two different loves. It's an attempt to hold on to the things of the world as an attempt to hold on to the Lord. And Vincent sees this as one of the great diseases of falling humanity, that you that you have this divided loyalty, that you're focusing not only on the things of the world, the vanities of the world, but also you're focusing, trying to focus on God. So he says this. Number one, a divided heart has competing masters. What is it to have a divided heart? It has competing masters. It wants to have both. It wants to he he writes this That the divided heart wants enough religion to really just quiet the conscience, but also enough worldliness to satisfy the flesh. And what did Jesus say? You can't serve two masters You can't serve two masters. But also he says, number two, a divided heart is unstable and wandering. Vincent describes it as being unfixed. Your heart is just restless. It's inconsistent. The heart was created to rest in God, but it just seems like the divided heart has no rest. It's shattered by sin. It's pulled away easily by the glitter of the world. And again, we where is the evidence of this? When we're when we're in worship, sometimes sometimes folks can't really focus on worship because their mind is scattered. They're thinking too much about the things of the world. Your lips may move to pray, but your mind is not really engaged. And so there's this lack of concentration. But also number three, he says a divided heart values earthly things too highly. It runs towards those things. It's thinking more about business and money and its reputation and worldly desires. And it's because he says the heart secretly esteems these things above communion with God. So he says the divided heart has one eye towards heaven and one that is on earth. But number four, he says, a divided heart cannot fully delight in God. It can't fully delight in God. And so why? Well because prayer is kind of dull when your heart is not engaged into it. It's not exciting to go into prayer. Sometimes you have to be dragged by the nap of the neck. to go into the prayer closet. And it it's hard really to focus and meditate on scripture when you're when you have a divided heart And so it becomes tedious. And you really can't enjoy that time with the Lord. It should be an unhindered focused time with the Lord. So you really can't delight in fellowship with God in this condition. But also he says a divided heart grieves God. A divided heart grieves God. Why? Well it's because you're not giving him your full attention. Do you think God deserves your full devotion, your full attention? The engagement of all of who you are in worship of Him? And if you can't do that, then he says it grieves the heart of God. But let me also tell you about what Vincent means by attending upon God. He also focuses on this. And there are several things that he says. Attending upon God means fixing the heart upon him. Again, focusing on him. Meditating on him, it's a will that submits to God. It is desires that long for the Lord. But also number two, attending upon God means engaging the whole inner man. Every part of you. It involves your your your your heart, your will It's the way in which you pray. It's the way in which you listen to God's word being preached in the way that you pray. Number three, attending upon God means communion, not just performance. You don't just come and perform, you don't just go through the motions of worship, but it means that your heart is completely engaged Your soul is occupied with the Lord. It also means attending upon God he says attending upon God requires holy diligence. And I've kind of already made this point. He says it's going to require all of you Every part of you. You have to fully engage. And why is that? Well, because we are fallen creatures and we have this sin nature. And you don't have to raise your hand, but I think we all go through this. There are times when it's, you know, you have your time to pray and you just don't want to pray. You don't feel like praying. You know, maybe it's just me. You guys look like you're okay with that. Sometimes I just feel I you know, I know it's my time and I I feel like I have to confess the fact that I'm not in it in into prayer in my heart the way I should be. And why is that? That's because of the weakness of my flesh. That's because of my sin nature and and the things that I have already that are on my mind. And a lot of that is satanic opposition as well. Satan does not want you to pray. He doesn't want you to fellowship with God So what we have to do is we have to bring our wandering heart to the Lord. And we'll talk about the cure that he gives in a minute here. But he also says attending upon God is ultimately an act of love. It's an act of love. The soul that treasures God will delight in him, will think often of him, it will return to him when it wanders, he says. And one of the things that's really good about the book is that Vincent understands that this is a genuine struggle with all Christians. And so therefore, while it's convicting when he talks about the distractions, he also says it's understandable. We all have we all go through this. And he says he makes a distinction between a divided heart And it's reigning con as a reigning a divided heart that's temporary, and then a divided heart that is the continual condition of a Christian. In other words, all of us at times have been distracted All of us have wandering thoughts that we have to deal with. But when that thought comes, what do we do? We immediately put it away and we we crucify that and we we focus our attention upon the Lord He says there's a difference between a temporary dealing with these wandering thoughts and someone who has accepted this as a condition. This is just the way they live. And they're not really grieved by the distractions when they come. They are that that person is a person that's in a difficult position. So that's the condition. But let me talk to you number two about the causes, and I'm going to have to go through this quickly here. What is the causes of it? And and uh again, I was uh You know, he has a lot of chapters in this book, but I'm gonna really I'm focusing here on what he says in chapter 11, if you ever get the book, Sol the Day of Gloria. Chapter 11 is where he talks about how the heart is divided. And he gives what he calls in there seven particulars. Seven particulars. And so let me just give these to you real quick. These is what he says causes it. It's how the heart is divided. Number one, the heart is distracted when the thoughts wander away from God and the duty being performed. A person, you might be outwardly praying, but inwardly you're thinking about other things. Distraction occurs whenever the mind, he says, ceases to attend to God. And the spiritual duty that is at hand. Number two, the heart is distracted when it wanders far from God. And he goes on to explain that there are degrees in which your heart can wander away. There's a slight wandering. And then there is uh the serious distractions that just pull you away. What he b basically the idea is that not all distractions are equal. And some are momentary intrusions, others are a deep departure from the Lord in your mind and in your heart. Number three, the heart is distracted when the wandering continues for a long time And again, he distinguishes between a sudden thought that you just don't you don't you don't allow it to continue to distract you, and then where there's a prolonged distraction and you willingly entertain it There's a big difference, he says, between those two things. And so the idea here is to, when the distraction comes, dismiss it quickly. And bring your mind back to the Lord quickly. Don't entertain that. And then number four, the heart is distracted when distractions are ordinarily allowed and tolerated. When you allow it, when you tolerate it, when you just accept it, you don't fight against it. And again, what is he describing here really and essentially? In the bottom line, it's really a war with the flesh, isn't it? With the old sin nature. It's constantly pulling you aside, pulling your mind aside. Don't allow that. Don't let that be normal in your life. Have a disciplined mind is the idea here. And then number five, the heart is distracted when the judgment is corrupted and values earthly things above spiritual things. And uh again we've hit on that and we don't need to uh to to to stay there too long. But number six, the heart is distracted when the will and affections fasten themselves upon vanity instead of upon God. And uh Vincent says this is one of the worst forms of distraction. It turns the the will away from God. And he cites the passage, the heart goes after covetousness. And then number seven, the heart is distracted when Satan injects blasphemous, corrupt, or disturbing thoughts into the mind. And he says this can happen when you're praying. You could be in your private prayer time, and Satan can give you the most horrible thought. This can happen when you are in the worship service in public with God's people and you're enjoying that, and suddenly Satan can just place into your mind the most horrible thing. Spurgeon, the great preacher, I'm reading him one time where he said that there have been times when he's standing on the pulpit getting ready to preach, and there will be times when Satan will plant into his heart and his mind the most horrible thoughts. And he immediately has to uh go to the cross and think about Jesus. Because what's the idea? Satan actively seeks to distract worshipers. And so uh these are the causes. But let me get to you number three, the cure. That that he gives. And this is really a lot of the material from his the sixteenth chapter of the book, where he calls it remedies. I love the the Puritans often use that word, remedies. Satan or remedies against Satan's devices. Here he talks about remedies for distractions. And his goal here is just, again, to teach believers how to bring the heart into God's presence and keep it there during the times of fellowship and worship, especially And so he says, first of all, get a deep sense of God's presence before duty begins. This it says, wondering hearts come largely from forgetting whom we approach and worship. We're forgetting who we're. You remember who you're you're approaching? The awesome God, the great God, the majestic God. Think about who you are talking to, our God who has all authority. He says the soul must realize it is appearing before the King of Heaven. He says this, think with thyself, I am now going to speak unto that God who searches the heart and understands afar off every thought. And that's a great uh sentence there from from him. Great quote from Vincent. And you know, um We've talked about the Lord's Prayer, and that's kind of the pattern that I use when I pray every day. I go through the Lord's Prayer and the first part when I go into it where it talks about, you know, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. And the first thing that I do is I, and this is purposeful on my part, I'm praying, but I go through a systematic theology book, kind of have that on hand, and I just go to one of the attributes of God, and I just try to meditate on one of those attributes. Because it reminds me, and I need to be reminded of the greatness of God. This is the one that I am approaching. And I want to hallow his name in the manner in which I come to him. So He says, remember then, get a deep sense of God's presence, of who he is. But also he says, prepare the heart before worship. He argues that many distractions arise because people rush into worship carelessly without preparing. You ever think about preparing before you worship God? Getting yourself ready for that? Getting your mind and your heart ready. He said the heart should be fixed before the duty begins. The heart should be fixed before the duty begins. And he compares careless worshippers to people entering battle unarmed. You don't want to go into battle without your sword, do you? You don't want to go into battle unarmed. So pre preparation, he would say, includes self-examination, and includes repenting, making sure you've repented, meditating on God, asking for God's help. God, please help me, my weak mind, help me to be focused on who you are. But also he says, labor to understand the greatness and weight of spiritual duties. And he says here that the reason people are distracted is because they think lightly of worship. They don't really value the experience of worship. They think so lightly of it that they're so easily distracted when it's time to do it. And this he says is a great sin. All other business uh must look trivial to this awesome privilege of worshiping God. The more highly we esteem worship, the less we'll be distracted, he says. And then he also says, watch carefully over thoughts, over the thoughts. So you have to be vigilant. And he says, as soon as vain thoughts arise, presently check and suppress them. As soon as they arise, suppress it. And then also pray specifically against distractions. I love this. He says, this beg heart of God that thy heart may be kept close unto him. Beg the Lord to keep your heart close to you. He says God alone can cast down these imaginations and these vain things. And then he also says resist Satan's attempt to interrupt worship. The devil is busiest when the soul is nearest to God, he says. And that is so true. The nearer you get to the Lord The greater you're experiencing worship, the busier Satan's going to be to try to distract your mind away from God and away from that experience of worship But also mortify worldly uh worldly mindedness, he says. And he basically says a worldly heart has the tendency to continue to wander towards money and business and reputation and pleasures and all those other things. And so a carnal heart will be thinking about carnal things. So mortify that, put it to death. And then he says, stir up holy affections during worship. Cold religion, he says, can be easily distracted. But you should stir up your heart when it comes to worship. And he encourages that by focusing again on who God is. And then also he says this be much in meditation outside of public worship. We should be focusing on God continually in our mind. When we're outside of the public worship service, we need to keep our attention and focus on God, meditate on who he is, meditate on what the scripture teaches us about him. And then he says this, do not become discouraged because of distractions. And again, here is where he's again encouraging He says that to be troubled because thou canst attend no better argues that there is some attendance. If you're discouraged about it, that's a good sign because it means that you want to be attentive and you have been attentive But he says again, the the dislike of distractions is no small sign of sincerity. And so he tries to comfort believers. Look, if it happens, don't let it discourage you because the fact that you want to give God your full devotion and intention, that's a good, good sign. That's a good thing. And so don't get discouraged about it. But he says, frequently bring the mind back to God during worship. He says, though the heart slip away a thousand times, labor to bring it back again. Victory is found in continually coming back to God. continually coming back to God. When you think about it, the society today trains us to not have a long attention span. Because that's just the way our world is today. I mean if you're watching TV, you get something new in front of you every two seconds. There's a new picture. You know, there's things flashing constantly. And TV today and all this visual attractions that we have, it it really doesn't lend itself to focus and attention. And so this is something that you have to work at. And if your mind slip away a thousand times, he says, labor to bring it back again to the Lord. And then finally look to Christ for acceptance despite imperfect worship. I would love for my worship to be perfect. Unfortunately, it's not. We should labor to make it as perfect as we can. Vincent said that um even his best worship of his life remains imperfect. And I could say the same. But we want it to be as perfect as we can. But we need to look to Christ to remember that He knows our frame, He remembers that we're dust, He knows that We're not perfect in the way that we worship, and look to acceptance from Christ and understand that He He knows the desires of our heart. And Christ intercedes for us in this, in our imperfect worship And his righteousness covers what uh he says is our defective duties. Now, he's not excusing distraction But he doesn't want to leave the reader with a feeling of hopelessness, like I'll never attain this. And so this is why he kind of gives this note here So then we see the condition, the causes and the cure of a divided heart. So I recommend the book to you It's just a real quick go going through that. It's something that you need to read and meditate upon. But I pray that all of us will have the prayer of the psalmists who prayed in Psalm 86, verse eleven, Unite my heart. to fear your name. Unite my heart to fear your name. And by the way, let me just say one word about Nathaniel Vincent. He's really to be admired as a Puritan because he was a man that suffered a lot. I mean you could argue that his whole life was filled with a whole lot of distractions. Uh he was imprisoned several times for preaching the truth And he lived during that time of the great expulsion. I've told you about that before when the uh the the state in England expelled preachers from the pulpit who refused to conform to the the common book of prayer and they felt they wanted to lead their worship more according to the word of God than some tradition. And because they refused to conform, they were expelled from their pulpits. And many Puritan pastors suffered because of that And and Nathaniel Vinson was certainly one of them. He was imprisoned many times, and he lived under suspicion continually being falsely accused He faced all kind of uh difficulty and sickness and hardship and pr pressures from all over. And uh you could argue there are a lot of things that could distract him. But he kept his heart focused on the Lord. And he really lived out what he wrote here in this book. Suffering didn't distract him from God. Imprisonment, false accusations, weariness, sickness. He died when he was just 58 years old Just 58 years old, but he had a life that was not shaken, but was fully devoted to the Lord. And so may we take to heart the great truth that He's passed on to us through His written words, and may we have the ability to focus on the Lord, to attend upon God without distraction. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for this wonderful reminder to all of us. And I know that I need it in my own life. How easy that, Lord, we can allow our minds to wander from you. And Lord, you are worthy of all of our mind, our heart, all of our affection. Lord, may we love you with all of our mind. In the way that we focus on you and we attend upon you, Lord, without distraction. There's nothing in this world that measures up to your worth. to your value, to your greatness. And so Lord, remove from us vain thoughts, empty thoughts, the distractions that Satan would bring to us. That keeps us from having our attention focused on you. Lord, we know the source of our joy is fellowship with you and knowing you. And Lord, help us not to be distracted from that in any way. But Lord, as this almost prayed, unite my heart to fear your name. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.