Take your Bibles. Open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter 3. We're going to continue our study in 1 Corinthians that we've been doing here on Sunday evening. Now let me just say this has been a very busy week here at Grace. Actually every week here at Grace is pretty busy, but this one has been unusually busy on uh on Thursday, Pastor Johnson. had a funeral and a wedding on that one day. He spoke at a funeral and then he conducted a wedding on Thursday and then on Friday we had our Good Friday service and we had a wonderful time at the Good Friday service. And then on Saturday, the spring spectacular, uh there were so many people here, and Pastor Earl preached the gospel. Uh and in the gym, they were all lined up on the bleachers And it was just completely full, and Pastor Earl preached the gospel to them there. And then this morning we had our Easter service and it was a a good service And the Lord blessed us, and there were so many people here, and we're grateful for that. And now here we are Sunday night. And you all look very tired tonight And uh but you know what? I can't uh think of a better way to end uh Easter Sunday than being in God's house with the people of God And so I want to share with you something out of 1 Corinthians. Look in chapter 3. And tonight we're going to deal with verse 16 down to verse 23. When I was over in London back in January, I went to worship at the Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle there in London. That is the church that was pastored for so many years. by Charles Spurgeon, one of my heroes, one of my favorite preachers. And his sermons are still out there. They're still available for you to read. And if you ever read one, you're going to be really blessed by it. And so it was a real treat for me to be able to worship there in that church. And uh I went there for two Sundays. On the second Sunday, the pastor of the church who's there now, Dr. Peter Masters, who's been there for a long time now And has done a wonderful job there. Just a packed church, probably I know over a thousand people, twelve hundred people, and uh very good expositor of the word. Well he invited me back to his study after the church, after church on Sunday morning, and uh just to have conversation and fellowship a bit. And so I I enjoyed doing that. He invited me back and we sat down there in his study and I looked to my right and there was an old pulpit And he saw me look at it and he said, yeah, that's it. He said, that's the pulpit that Charles had the Spursion preach from for all those years here in the Metropolitan Tabernacle. It was kind of an unusual thing. It was on wheels because he said that he would like to push the pulpit to the left side actually on wheels and there's a little clock on there and so he can keep time And uh he he said that he would like to push it to the side so he could be kind of front and center. And he had a few notes here that he would refer to, but that's how he preached And so it was a very special treat for me to just see that. To see that. You know, f you know, we preachers, those kind of things mean something to us, you know, when we see things like that, to know that this is a place From this piece of furniture, the Word of God was faithfully preached for so many years. And the thing that it really emphasized to me over and over again about Spurgeon was his absolute total commitment. to the truth of God's word. He was absolutely committed to giving the word of God to the people. And that's the heart that we have here at Grace. That's the heart that our founding pastor had and has as he preaches the word. That's the heart that we here on pastoral staff have. That's my heart that we are committed, absolutely committed to. to the truth of the Word of God. And what I want to do is I want to just read you a parable that Spurgeon used when he confronted other clergymen of his day When he was preaching. And that let me just tell you what the parable was. I'm going to kind of read this because I don't want to mess it up. This is Spurgeon speaking here And this is the parable that he gave. He said, In the days of Nero, there was a great shortness of food in the city of Rome, although there was an abundance of corn to be purchased at Alexandria. A certain man who owned a vessel went down to the sea coast. And there he noticed some hungry people straining their eyes toward the sea, watching for vessels that were to come from Alexandria with corn. And while these vessels came to shore, one by one the poor people wrung their hands in bitter disappointment. For on the board the galleys was nothing but sand Which the tyrant emperor had compelled them to bring for use in the arena. It was infamous cruelty when men were dying of hunger, to command trading vessels to go to and fro and bring nothing else but sand for gladiatorial shows, when wheat was so greatly needed. Then the merchant, whose vessel was moored to the dock, said to the shipmaster, Take good heed that you bring nothing back from Alexandria but corn. And whereas before you brought in a vessel a measure of two of sand Bring not so much as would lie upon a penny this time. I say, bring wheat, for these people are dying. And now we must keep our vessels for this one business of bringing food for them. And then Spurgeon added this. after the parable. He said, Alas, I have seen certain mighty galleys of late loaded with nothing but mere stand of philosophy and speculation. And I have said within myself, Nay, but I will bear nothing in my ship but the revealed truth of God, the bread of life so greatly needed by the people. And that was Spurgeon. That was the heart of Spurgeon. And that captures my feeling. And that certainly captures the feeling of the Apostle Paul here in 1 Corinthians. Now remember what we've been talking about here. The Corinthians had been feasting on the sand of human wisdom. They were starving for the bread of light. They may not have realized it, but they were, and you know, that's what I think of when I think of this world today. They might not realize it, but they're starving in their soul. And they're starving for the living word of God, the living bread of life, and they're feeding upon sand And the Corinthians had traded in the wisdom of God for the wisdom of man. Now again I say that this is the condition in many places in the church today. People are starving. for the word of God, for the wisdom of God. And many ministries out there are loading down their ships with the sand of opinion and the sand of philosophy and the sand of the wisdom of men. And the churches today are loaded with men who stand behind the pulpits and who are giving the sand of their own philosophy and opinion rather than giving people the word of God. And this is what Paul is dealing with here in 1 Corinthians. You remember that was the issue. And you remember that the Corinthians' love of human wisdom was really the foundational thing that was dividing the church. Because there were many people that were lining up behind philosophies. And it was causing great division. And that whole idea, that mindset, was coming into the church And Paul was dealing with this issue then in the first three chapters of unity in the church, of forsaking human wisdom, and understanding that the wisdom of God is superior than any wisdom of man. And the wisdom of God begins where? It begins at the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul, in a way, here in verses 16 down to verse 23 really is kind of summing up everything he's already said that we've already really looked at From chapter 1 through chapter 2 and then part of chapter 3, verses 16 down to verse 23 are really a summation. And the way he's repeating to us in these verses, in a summary form, things that he has already said in the previous verses. Now, but what he's going to point out here, I think what stands out to me as I study these verses is that he's referring to really the attitudes that we must maintain If we are to be the people of God that God wants us to be, if we're to see unity in the body of Christ, the way God designed it to be, the way God wants it to be, these are attitudes that we must maintain if we're to see that. And this is what Paul's revealing to us. It all begins in the mind, in the attitude, of the of the heart, we could say. Now so let me just show you here in this passage of scripture then four attitudes that maintain uh unity in the church. And this is what these are what they are. Number one, Paul speaks about reverence To reverence the church of God. Have a reverence for the church. Look at verse 16 of chapter 3. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? And if any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. And this is very clear the point and the argument that Paul is making here. Every believer is the temple of God. Now Paul will later return to this argument because he's going to use this same argument when he's going to talk about purity and living a pure life free from immorality. Remember, the city of Caribbean was a very immoral city And some of that was seeping into the church as well. And Paul will use the same argument about the believer being the temple of God individually But there's a sense in which in this verse he's referring to all of the people that are together. You are the temple of God collectively. Did you know that? You are God's temple Here. That's the point that Paul's making. A composite temple. A temple is not a building, but rather it's the people in the church. All of you here tonight. I know we have a few bricks missing in the temple tonight But all of you here, you are the temple of God. And the Bible says that it is holy unto God. You are Holy in his sight. You are precious in his sight. In the Old Testament, God had a temple for his people, but in the New Testament, God has a people for his temple And Paul had just mentioned that. In fact, back up to chapter 3 and verse 9, notice what Paul said, therefore we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's what? You are God's building. You're God's temple. So he's speaking of all the people that you all together collectively make up the temple of God. And God's temple is holy. God's temple is precious. If anyone tries to defile that which is holy, you're in grave danger. That's the point here. God jealously guards that which is holy. And the church is holy. Now again, let's keep it in the context. Remember, he's writing to Corinthians there, and some of the Corinthians, were they doing damage to the church? Yes, they were Were they a problem in the church? Yeah, we read about some of the problems that were taking place in the church. Was there immorality? Yes, there was. There were some people that were doing damage to the church, and Paul is reminding them that when if you did that you're not to destroy Or to defile the temple of God. Because look again in verse 17. He uses strong words. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God what? Destroy. That's a strong word there. You mess with God's temple. You defile or hurt that which is holy. Paul says, God will destroy you. If you mess with his temple, that which is holy. And when I think of this, I think of many illustrations. You remember in the Old Testament when Uzziah touched the ark of God And immediately God took his life. You remember in the Old Testament when Nadab and Abidu, they were the sons of Aaron, and they were priests ministering in the tabernacle and they were specifically given orders about how to burn fire on the altar of incense. They were not to take fire from any other source other than the brazen altar. Why? Because the fire on the brazen altar was holy fire, it was sanctified. And to use fire from another source and burn it on the altar of incense was a serious crime. And that's what they did. They got careless and they took fire from another source other than the brazen altar and they burned that fire on the altar of incense and God immediately took Both of their lives. Why? Because when you defile something that is holy in God's sight God takes that very, very serious. So don't hurt God's holy thing. And in the context here, what is that holy thing? It is the church. It is the temple of God. And so God hates it when there's any that would bring damage to the church. Now I have been in ministry a while and I've seen people in churches. that have done this. And I want to tell you, dear friend, God has not been very good to people when I've seen that. I've seen God punish and chastise And do serious injury to people that have hurt the work of God. God will not tolerate that. And this is a strong warning. That the Apostle Paul is giving to the Corinthians here. In a way, he's kind of taking off the gloves here in these verses when he's talking about those that were bringing division in the church and those that were embracing human wisdom. And Paul is saying, you better be careful. That you don't hurt the church of God. So there has to be, number one, reverence for the church of God. You know, that's why I can't stand when I hear people criticizing the church. You better be careful, dear friend You better be careful. Now the church is not perfect. The church has problems. Every church does. You know why? Because it's filled with sinners And it's filled with people who are being sanctified. We're not there yet, but it's the direction. It's not perfection, but it's direction, right? And it's the direction that we're headed. But I sometimes hear people that criticize the church and they say, oh, this and that. Listen, the church is God's. And they are the people of God. That's why it's an honor to serve the people of God. And we're careful in the manner in which we do it because we realize that we are doing a holy service unto the Lord. So there has to be a reverence. for the church of God. But here's the second thing. Another attitude that Paul talks about. Secondly, receive the wisdom of God. Not only reverence the Church of God But secondly, receive the wisdom of God. Look in verse 18. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seem to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise. Now, again, Paul is referencing this idea of embracing human wisdom. And again, this was the source of much of the division going on in the church And you can eliminate division in the church by embracing the wisdom of God, Paul says, and by shunning human wisdom. And this is what he means when he says, let no man, notice where it says that in verse 18, let no man deceive himself. We see that let no man use twice. It's used in verse 18 and then again in verse 21. Notice verse 21. Therefore let no man glory in men. That phrase there Not to get too technical with you, but that phrase there is what Greek scholars call a prohibition imperative. In other words, it stops an action that has already begun. So we understand it like this. They were already being deceived. They were already drinking the Kool-Aid, you could say. And Paul was saying, listen, stop being deceived. about this area of human wisdom. You're already deceived about it. You already think that it can do much for you. And there are certain people in the church that they think themselves wise. There were people in the very church at Corinth where Paul says, um, again uh about this, let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seem to be wise in this world. In other words, if you have people among you that think that they're wise, but they're embracing the wisdom of this world They need to stop being deceived about this one issue. You know, again, I I look around sometimes today And I think the same thing is going on. There are many that promote themselves as being experts in certain fields But when you get right down to it when you really figure out what they're saying, they're not really giving you the truth of God's word. They're giving you human wisdom And they think themselves to be very wise about it. Not too long ago, years ago I really I should say, I um went to a a big conference And there's a speaker of this conference who had a large church, a huge church, and he was preaching to the pastors about church principles, how to minister in a church. Now in this whole session, we never opened the Bible up one time. We never went to the scripture at all. In fact, what he did the whole time was he gave illustrations of secular businesses and how they're run. And how that we should do that in the church. Now I'll grant you that good s good principles of of doing things sometimes do translate. And sometimes they are they they do apply. But you know what I found? If it's a good principle of how to operate, it's already in the Bible. It's already there. And people really are taking things out of the Bible. They're kind of ripping it from the foundation of Scripture and using it in the secular world. I would just rather go to the Bible And see what the Bible has to say about it. And so we learned all these principles, and really a lot of it was not the wisdom of God. And you know the danger in that is that you teach people to go to outside sources Rather than to depend upon the Word of God. Now, I don't know about you, but I believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. I believe the Word of God gives us what we need to live the kind of life that God wants us to live and to sanctify the children of God and to make you like the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you remember what Paul said about human wisdom? It cannot save you. It can't save you. Go back to chapter 1 and look at verse number 21. Let's preview this. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Human wisdom cannot save you. It is not God's way. of bringing salvation, but also human wisdom cannot sanctify you. Look in chapter one, look down to verse thirty again. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. It can't save you. It can't sanctify you. It can do nothing for you spiritually in your life. I've had some pose to me this issue. They said, you know, sanctification They say can't begin unless some people get under the care of some counselor who will dig up traumatic hidden things in the past, and only when that person is free from these matters of the past Can they go on in the present and in the future? I let people pose that to me. You know what my response has been, show me that in the Bible Show me that in the Bible. Show me that in the Bible that you have to go to the past and drudge up all these traumatic experiences and go over all these things before you're free to go forward. That's not in the scripture That's not in the Word of God. What did the Apostle Paul say? Forgetting those things which are behind, I press towards the mark. What's the mark that he's talking about in there, beloved? He's talking about the mark of Christ-likeness. of sanctification. And we have to forget those things that are behind. We are not dependent upon the past to help us in the present or get to the future. It's our present activity that determines our future, not our drudging up the past. You know, there was an article Now by the way, let me just say this. Some people say, well, I I come from a dysfunctional family. Well, welcome to the human race. Because we're all from a dysfunctional family. His name was Adam in the garden, and he messed it up for all of us. All of us are not functioning the way God originally intended. But again, I want to reference an article here. There was a fascinating article in a magazine. This magazine is sent out to millions of people And these are people that do some real cutting-edge journalism. And uh I'm only mentioning this and referencing this because I want you to see how this idea is out there in the world today where you have to go back, this is human wisdom, you have to drudge up the past in order to go forward into the future. And this article tells the story of a girl in her twenties in a certain city in our country. And she tried to bring an indictment against her parents. She wanted to indict them. And she said she made some serious accusations against them. She said that her parents had abused her And she wanted something brought against them in the courts for it. Now let me tell you about her pet her parents. Her father was a Baptist minister. who had been faithfully serving the Lord with his wife and their children, just faithful servants of the Lord. They had a very normal Christian home A very joyful home, a very positive home. This man had been faithful serving the Lord in several churches. And now here's his daughter bringing him into court. And he was just completely shocked and devastated by some of the accusations made. She accused her father of molesting her. She accused her brothers of molesting her. She said that her that she bore a baby from her father, and that her father had offered that baby on an altar, a satanic altar that was in the home. These are some of the crazy things that she was bringing up. The parents were absolutely traumatized by this, devastated. And of course it led to him being dismissed out of ministry. Because he could not defend himself against these accusations. And so what happened was there was an investigation about all of these accusations, a lot of tests that was given to this young lady, and it was found out through a series of intense investigations, medical investigations all kind of investigations, they determined that not one word of what she said was true. Nothing. Nothing that she said was true. And she had made all of this up. And then they found out why did she make all of these things up? And the upshot was simply this, that this girl was having some problems with her self-esteem. She was feeling bad about herself. And so she went to a counselor A Freudian counselor who basically through months began to pull out of her all of these things that supposedly she had repressed inside of her That she had forgotten about. But with the help of this Freudian counselor, he was able to bring out all these things out of her quote-unquote id, as Sigmund Freud would call it this this subconscious part of a person that sometimes you can you can repress things down there according to this certain idea. And all these things began to come out in the counseling sessions, and that's where she began to make indictments against her parents. And so the magazine decided to investigate further to see if it was even possible for a person to suppress things like this in their subconscious and forget it because we hear about that happening all the time, you know, all these things happen, but I forgot about it. It was repressed in my subconscious And through a series of investigation and talking to many, many experts on this, they finally came to the bottom line that it's impossible to repress anything like that. You just can't do it If something like this happened, you could never forget those things. And so all of this had done tremendous damage, all under the guise of human wisdom. Oh, how we need to go to the past and drudge up the past and get rid of these things so that we can move on. Let me tell you something, friend. That is the sand of human wisdom. And you know what the Bible says? When you come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, you forget all of those things. Because now that you're a Christian, you are new And the Lord Jesus Christ. And all these things are behind you. You don't need to go back to those things. And some of those things that didn't even happen in this case, that were just lies. How much damage that can do And this is what Paul is referring to when he says, listen, if anybody think, or among you seem to be wise in this world. Oh, how there are so many counselors out there and philosophers out there that strut around thinking themselves to be wise. Well, actually they're not wise at all. This is what Paul is saying. And he says, if there's anyone in a church like that, look again in verse 18. If any man among you seem to be wise in this world, let him become a fool. That he may be wise. Paul said you need to become a fool. What does he mean by that? He means you need to shun all that human wisdom and may become a fool in the eyes of the world. You know, I realize that because of what I believe, I believe this Bible is the inspired word of God. I believe every part of it. And because of that, that determines my worldview. It determines my beliefs. But you know if you stand strong on the Word of God in today's world, the world is going to look at you as if you're a fool. They're going to think you a fool, even scientists today. Oh, you're a creationist? You believe in that creation idea? Absolutely. Because that's what the Word of God says. And you know what people are going to say about that today? They're going to say that you're foolish. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. Paul's saying that we need to become fools. in the eyes of the world. And hang on to the wisdom of the Word of God. Listen, that he might be wise. Listen, the only way you're really going to truly be wise is to shun human wisdom. is to forget what the world thinks. Become a fool for Christ, as the saying goes. I'm sure you heard of the man who was wearing a sign on the front uh in the back. You've heard this before. The front of it said, I'm a fool for Christ. People would read that. They would laugh. They would scoff. And as they walked away, they noticed on the back where it said, Whose fool are you? Now, we know that story, but there's a lot of truth to it. You're a fool to someone or something, we could say. You're either a fool for Christ or you're a fool in the wisdom of this world. And friend, I just want you to know, just count me as a fool for Christ, because I trust Jesus and I believe in the Word of God so that we can have real, true wisdom. So, now look in verse number uh 20, verse 19, for the wisdom of this world is foolishness. with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise and their own craftiness. Now here Paul, quoting from the Old Testament, he's quoting Job 5, verses 12 to 14. This is where Eliphaz says that God is like a hunter catching Job in his own craftiness. And Paul is referencing this here as uh as the idea of God is working against human wisdom and the counsel of Man. Human wisdom backfires. Why? Because God's ways are not man's ways, is what he's saying here. And then he look in verse number 20. And again, he's quoting from another verse in the Old Testament. The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise. That they are vain. This is Psalm 94, verse 11, and Paul quotes from this verse to show again the futility of human wisdom. He's going back again, one more time, to a theme that he's hit on several times in this whole section. The futility of human wisdom. So what attitude must we have? We have to reverence the Church of God We have to receive the wisdom of God. And in doing so, we shun the wisdom of the world. But here's the third thing: respect the servants of God. Look at verse 21. Therefore, let no man glory in men, for all things are yours. When he says, let no man glory in men, Again, this is a prohibition imperative. Paul's commanding an action to stop that's already begun. The Corinthians were already glorying in men. And you remember this. Remember, this is where Paul said, you know, some said, I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, and so on. Paul said, you're glorying in men, and this is not good. They were holding singularly to one teacher. Now let's be specific. What does he mean by glory and then? They were holding specifically, singularly to one teacher. And they were Putting down, they were promoting the deficiencies of any other teacher. There was a singular loyalty to one teacher And they wouldn't listen to anyone else. That was going on again in the city. And again, this was going on somewhat in the church. But Paul says, look, all things are yours You don't have to listen to just one spiritual teacher. God's given many teachers to the church. You don't have to have one singular loyalty to one and criticize all the others. Again, that's what was going on there. And by the way, you are to honor and respect those who are servants of the Lord. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to honor them and respect them, but you don't, there's no hero worship that should go on. There's no there's no no no such thing as holding on to one and elevating just one and having a blind loyalty to one to where it perverts your relationships to all the others That's again what the Apostle Paul is referring to here. They were elevating man above that which is healthy. Now, let me just qualify this and say, again, there is such a thing as honoring and being grateful for faithful servants of the Lord. Look in chapter 4, verse 15, because Paul even kind of mentions it. I mentioned this last week. Look at chapter 4, verse 15. For though you have 10,000 instructors in Christ, ye have not many fathers. Paul said, you have a lot of teachers, but I'm your spiritual father, and you only have one spiritual father. And so in a sense, what Paul was saying, that you should have a respect for me because of my relationship to you and how I, the Lord used me to bring you about, there should be a certain amount of honor and respect. Because of that, and when I think of that honestly, I think of Pastor Johnson. He's been my spiritual father since the moment I got saved. And so I have a special honor and respect and love for him and his ministry. I have one spiritual father, but I want to tell you I've learned from a lot of teachers. I've learned from a lot of good men of God. When I was in seminary, I had many wonderful professors who taught me the word of God. And this is what Paul is saying. He's saying, look, all things are yours. All things are yours. You can honor God's servants, but you don't want to elevate one and then criticize all the others. You don't just have Paul, you have Apollos. And Apollos is a good preacher. You can learn and listen to things from him. You have Cethas, you have Peter, he's a good preacher as well. You have all these. Look in verse 22. Therefore, again in verse 21, therefore let no man glory in man, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas. These also, these men are also gifts from the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, there's a danger in it If you have only one loyalty to one servant of God and you don't learn anything from any others, there's a sense in which you're limiting your own spiritual growth and blessedness because God again has gifted many servants of the Lord to benefit you that are in the church, that are that are out there that you can learn from. And Paul's saying they're all yours Now, let me also again qualify that by saying, Now, if you're going to listen to others, make sure that they're teaching you the Word of God You know, what did Paul commended uh the uh or excuse me the Bible and Acts commended there are Christians in Berea because they searched the scriptures daily to make sure these things are so. And I encourage you to do that. You know, when you hear a sermon from me, you know what? You should do your spiritual homework and go and read it and study it. Make sure that what I'm telling you is the right thing Keep me accountable. I don't mind that. And uh you say, well, there's sometimes I don't I don't agree with you. That's right. And when you go home and study, you're gonna find out just how wrong you really are. Actually, there are times when I'm not on the way I can be. Uh, you know, and you know, I don't have a problem by coming back and saying, you know what, there's something here I missed. Because I'm not perfect. What matters is that I correctly give you the Word of God. And that I'm correct in the way that I teach it. But having men like that Take advantage of that. Take advantage of the many servants of the Lord that God has given to the church that uh That you can learn from. That's what Paul's saying. All things are yours. And he mentions these other servants here. And then he goes on to mention other blessings. that we have from God. So we can we respect the servants of God, but also beyond that, we res recognize the blessings of God. Because look again in verse 22, the latter part, when he says, or the or the world, or life Or death, or things present, or things to come, all things are yours. In other words, he's saying You know, not only are all godly leaders ours, or gifts to us, that God's given to help us grow in Christ, but he says, all things are yours. Now, this phrase, all things are yours, this is a stoic expression. It was sort of a motto that they had back then. Now, what Paul's doing here now is he's kind of, again, he does this several times throughout 1 Corinthians. He'll take a phrase that's used among Greek philosophers And he will sanctify it. He'll pull it out of Greek philosophy and say, let me just tell you what this really means and how this is true for a believer. And this is one of the phrases where he does that with. This is a stoic philosophy. All things are yours. They would hear that. If you walked in the city of Corinth back in this day, you would hear someone say this expression, all things are yours. And Paul lifts that out, and he says, you know what? This is only true of the believer who is trusting in God's wisdom. That's when this is true. All things are yours. If you're stage, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, if you're walking in his wisdom, the wisdom of his word. If that's true of you, then all things are yours. You had so many blessings because you're a Christian that you can enjoy And he named some. The world. We literally have all the world. Paul's saying, I have the millennial kingdom and the new heaven and the new earth. We're going to own all these things to me shall inherit the earth. All these things are ours. We have all these blessings. We have the world, we have life. He's referring to spiritual life, eternal life, great quality of life Isn't it wonderful to know the Lord Jesus? That's real life. We have, do you realize that in Christ we have a great quality of life, a great joy in life that other people just don't know? They don't get it. They won't until they come to know the Lord. You have real life. You experience true life in the Lord is what Paul is saying, whether life or death. Notice he mentions death there. How can death be a gift or a blessing? That is only true if you're a Christian. That can't be true of anyone else. Oh, if you have a wonderful gift, what is it, death? Say that to someone who doesn't know the Lord. They say, well, death is not a gift. It is if you're a believer. Because we know that through the Lord Jesus Christ, He's conquered death. And we say, Oh death, where is thy stain? And there's eternal life. There's blessed life, greater life. after this life here. And so there's a sense in which death is a gift. And then he says things present or things to come All things are yours. And again, this is speaking about the blessings God has yet to give us. Things to come. Everything I have here in this life, God has given this to me. And I want to tell you something, friend. God has been so good to me. So good to me. I couldn't ask for anything more Than God has given me. All these things here, all these blessings, they're from God. But you know what? There sure is a whole lot more laid up. Things to come. Man, you want to know blessings? Wait till you get to heaven You understand how much God has laid up for you in heaven? Paul said, all these things are yours, things to come. It makes me think of Psalm 23. I and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You know, and that Psalm David just lists one blessing after another from following the leading of the Lord. You know, we have provision and peace and purity and protection and pleasantness. And then after that We're going to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. All things to come. And then look in verse 23. He says kind of the best, the last here. And ye are Christ. And Christ is God. Here's the greatest gift of all. We have Jesus. What more can be said? What greater blessing? There is no greater blessing. We have more than the blessings. We have the blesser. We have Jesus himself. It reminds me of the psalmist in Psalm 73, where he says, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there's none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. And so here's the point. The greatest reason to eliminate division is because we belong to Christ. We're one with Christ. Christ is one with God. That oneness that we have there. And that's again the point, the major point that Paul's getting at. And so these are the attitudes that we're to have. Paul says, we are to reverence. The church of God. We are to receive the wisdom of God. We are to respect the servants of God, all the servants that the Lord has given the church. And we're to recognize the blessings of God. All these blessings that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for all these blessings, Lord. They're overwhelming. They really are. We just thank you for your goodness to us, Lord. Our cup, truly, it runs over. When we think about all you've given us here in this life, all that we have. And then, Lord, all the blessings you have laid up for us, the things to come. Lord, we just thank you and we praise you and we worship you. And Lord, I pray that you'll help us to truly latch on to the wisdom of God. May we become fools. That we become truly wise, because we know that all wisdom is found in Christ and in your word. And so, Lord, make these attitudes of our own heart a true reverence for your temple. A desire for your wisdom, a respect for all those gifts that you give us servants and blessings. And we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Mr. Girl.