Well, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Zechariah. As you know, we're studying Zechariah. We're in chapter 4 tonight of this great Old Testament book. Zechariah chapter 4. And tonight I want to talk about avoiding spiritual burnout. Look at Zechariah chapter 4. Look down at verse number 1. And the angel that talked with me came again and waked me as a man that is awakened out of his sleep, and said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and behold a candlestick, or we could say a lampstand. All of gold with a bowl on top upon the top of it, and there's seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps which are upon the t top thereof. The Greeks had a race in their Olympic Games that was very unique. The winner was not the runner who finished first. It was the runner who finished with his torch still lit. I don't know about you, but I by the time we finish this race of life, I want the torch, my torch that God's given me, to be still lit for the Lord Jesus. Many believers seem to burn out spiritually, and they uh basically have let down in their Christian life. This is a very real problem. Spiritual burnout is a term that you know we hear a lot. What does it mean? What does burnout mean? I was interested to research this term. Where did it come from? It was coined in 1974 by a psychologist named Herbert Freudenberger Uh he saw volunteer workers at a clinic in New York lose motivation and become emotionally depleted and he coined the term burnout. And so burnout really if you apply it to the spiritual life or maybe people that serve the Lord for a time and then for some reason they got tired and uh they were exhausted. Maybe it was re the repeated stress of whatever ministry they had Something was sapping their energy and uh they they lost the passion and the fire and the flame that they had for the Lord and and they just kind of burned out and fizzled out. Um, you know, everybody I think at some time in the work of the Lord will come to a point where we get weary in well-doing, right? But we don't want to burn out for God. And so what we want to learn from this passage is how to avoid being burnt out. Now in Zechariah chapter 4, Zechariah has a vision of a golden lampstand. This is his fifth vision. You remember that Zechariah has eight visions in the night. All of these in some way communicate hope. to the remnants or the exiles that had returned back to Israel and they were rebuilding the temple there. But they were discouraged a lot. They had many reasons to be discouraged. And some of them probably burnt out. It wouldn't work. They they actually when they came back laid the foundation of the temple and then stopped. After sixteen years the temple didn't have anything happening to it But in this vision here, like I said, in each of the visions there's encouragement, but in this vision here, in this fifth vision, Zachariah sees a lampstand that is a glorious That has a glorious light and it also has an endless supply of oil that will never burn out. And really that is a picture of what we are to be for God. We are to be lights in the world. Our lights should always be burning bright and never burn out. And how can we avoid burnout? So let me give you the sermon in one sentence, but you have to listen for another half hour, all right? Here's a sermon. Basically, to avoid spiritual burnout, we must continually remember the importance of God's work. We must continually rely upon the supply of God's Spirit. And we must look to the work of our Savior Jesus. That's really the whole point here in this vision. The only way we can fulfill the task is by depending upon that supply of oil provided to us by God's Spirit. And that way we will burn for God without burning out. Now you might remember that Zechariah's fourth vision in chapter 3 encouraged the high priest with the message, God will cleanse his people. And uh his Messiah will use them in service for him. God will cleanse them and God will use them in service. And this fifth vision Zerubbabel is the one who's being encouraged. In the fourth vision, it was Joshua the high priest that was receiving encouragement. Here it's the rubbable who is the civic leader of this group of people. He's the one who's being encouraged here And God is basically saying, look, the temple that you have begun, the foundation that was laid, it's going to be completed. God will give you through his spirit the power to finish all that he's called you to do. And Israel will be a light to the nations. The Messiah that will come will also accomplish all of that. He will be the light to the nations. So in the fourth vision we saw the cleansing that is necessary for all of God's people before we can serve God. And in this fifth vision, we see the testimony that results from a cleanse spirit-filled life and how God uses that. Now, our text here, when Zechariah wrote this, this will ultimately be fulfilled with Israel in the millennium. It will also apply to however to God's people in Zechariah's day. But it also applies to us today. And I want us to see how it applies to us. Zechariah, in this vision, he sees the lampstand of gold with seven lamps. and a bowl at the top, which kind of served as a reservoir for the the oil. If you'll notice there on either side of the of the golden candlestick, um there will be an olive tree, one on the right side and one on the left side. That's what he's describing seeing in verse number two, the verse that we read. So we see two olive trees, each with a branch that stood beside the lampstand. The golden pipes extend from each branch to the bowl, so that the golden olive oil is poured from the tree into the bowl. And out of that reservoir or bold came pipes to the seven lamps on the lampstand. And this is really similar to a manora that would be in the temple. Now remember a lot of this has a has the idea has the temple in view because the temple is being rebuilt. The high priest was cleansed. And now here's this vision of this menorah, this seven golden candlesticks. that were part of Israel's temple. And this isn't nort that kind of a menorah. However, it's different. It's unique in that, first of all, it has a bowl on the top of it And it has seven plates to each lamp, and it has the two olive trees that are constantly supplying the oil to this bowl, which supplies it to the lamp. Now you have to remember that in the temple the priests had to keep the lamps full of oil. They had to constantly go be pouring oil into the lamps to keep the light flowing. But here, in this vision, the supply of oil flowed constantly without any help from men. The lampstand signifies the important task that God gives his people to be a light to the nations The oil that flows in continual abundance supply lights the lamp and and that really um that lamp can go on burning and that symbolizes that oil symbolizes the Holy Spirit of God The Holy Spirit of God just keeps giving the supply. The two olive trees that that Zechariah sees in this vision, they represent the priestly and kingly offices of Uh Joshua, Joshua who was a high priest, and Rubuel who was a king. We could say a king. He went he didn't officially reign as a king, but he was a leader of the people and thus by default, you know, the king, the one who was leading. And so they represented these two anointed offices of priest and king, which would be fulfilled in the Messiah, Jesus Christ, who would come one day. He would unite both of those offices together. And so that is, those two men and their offices are a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Lord encourages the rubbable by assuring him that in spite of all the mountain of problems that he is facing as he's trying to rebuild the temple and rebuild the city of Jerusalem, that God was going to be with him. And he would finish the task, but it wasn't going to be by his own power or his own money. It was going to be by the Spirit of the Lord. That's the whole point of this vision here. This would confirm to all of God's people that he had sent his Messiah, servant, in the person of the angel Lord, to his people. And so this was just an encouraging vision to Zechariah. Now out of this vision, I want us to look at it in a few of the details, and I want us to draw three principles that will help us to avoid spiritual burnout. Here's the first one. To avoid spiritual burnout, number one, we must continually reflect on the importance of God's work. We have to reflect on the importance of God's work. And we see this in verses 1 and 2 that we just read. Here is again this amazing and self-sustaining golden lampstand. And remember, Zachariah and the people are building the temple. And this all points to the uh everything in the temple pointed people to God. It pointed to uh what the Lord was going to do. Um and really, what is the big picture here with this lampstand? And the whole point it was communicating is that God's people, Israel, was to be a light to who? All the nations. They were to be a light that would shine. Corporately, they were to be a light. Individually, they were to carry the light. And by the way, isn't that true of us, the church, today too? Is that not true? Are we to be the light? Of course we are. Do you remember in the book of Revelation when John saw the risen glorified Lord? And what was Jesus where did he see him? What was Jesus doing when John saw him in the vision? He was walking among what? Seven Candlesticks, right? And what did the candlesticks represent? It represented the church. Why? Because the church is to be that light. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew? He said, Ye are the light of the world. Matthew 5. 14 The you there is emphatic. You, even you, you are the light of the world. Jesus talking to his people. R is present, tense, in uh continual light. You are to be the continual light of the world And that's the thing that we need to focus on continually. Our task, our job, as corporately as a church, individually as a person, is to be the light in a dark world. And and that is our call. And you know, something about light, you know, I'm not a physicist, but I know a few things about light. When the when the light comes, it banishes the darkness, right? The light dispels the darkness The Bible says in John 1 5, the light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not, or as we could say, was not able to overcome it, because when there's light, the darkness shatters, the darkness is gone. And that is true of sp spiritual light as well. Our world today is living in darkness. And where are they going to find the light? Where are they actually going to see the light? They're going to see it in the church. They're going to see it in the people of God. And so light repels, but another thing about light, light reflects. You know, the light that we have is not our own light. It's not our own source, right? It is from Jesus Christ. We reflect Christ. All we do is a reflection of the light of Christ. And so that's what saints are for. During a sermon, a pastor asks a question to the congregation: what is a saint? And one little boy looked at the stained glass windows of the apostles and blurted out, a saying is people who let the light shine through. And that's a good answer. And that's what we are to do. Ephesians 5. 8. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light. in the Lord, walk as children of light. Again, we don't have any light of our own. We simply reflect the light of Jesus Christ. And that is a huge calling, especially because we live in a world where Satan is blinding the minds of them that believe not. And so our task is to shine that glorious light of Christ. But then also light rejoices Something about light, it brings joy to the heart. Proverbs 15, 30. The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. In Ecclesiastes 11:7, light is pleasant, and it is good for the eyes to see the sun. Did you realize I've said this before, there's a physical disorder caused by a lack of light. It's called with the acrostic sad, seasonal affective disorder It's caused by a lack of exposure to sunlight. When you don't have enough sunlight, it alters a person's brain chemistry. You're not getting enough serotonin. which is uh an important chemical and it could cause depression, also maybe not enough melatonin which kinda keeps you up on your sleep cycle. And uh of course the American Medical Association they prescribe a a uh a you know a way to get over this this ailment of sad how do they do it it's called light therapy Light therapy. We would just call it getting out into the sunlight. Light therapy. Just go outside, get into the sun. You know, get under the light. It's light that that the body needs. It's actually good vitamin D. It's actually healthy And if you get enough light, that's that it rejoices the heart. The human heart is dark without Christ. What a difference. The spiritual light uh that Jesus Christ makes. Missionary E. Stanley Jones said, when I met Christ I felt like I swallowed sunshine. Light repels, light reflects, light rejoices, but light rescues. It rescues. Remember that parable of the woman lost the lost coin? And she was trying to find that coin. She lit a candle. She held it down and she was able to find the coin. That coin represents the lost soul, the light of course is the light of Christ. When we present the light of Christ in this l lost world, people are rescued from the darkness and depth of sin. And so that is our task. And we have to not forget how how important that is. And when we you know some the reason sometimes people burn out is because they lack motivation. And the reason they lack motivation is because they lack perspective The reason they lack perspective is they forget the great thing that God has called them to do. And God has called us all to be light in this world. So, to avoid spiritual burnout, we must continually reflect on the importance of God's work. But here's number two that we can learn from this vision. We must continually rely on the supply of God's Spirit. We have to rely on the supply of God's Spirit. Look at verse 3. And two olive trees by it, that is by the golden lampstand, one upon the right side of the bowl. and the other upon the left side thereof. And so I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, What are these, my Lord? Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord. And then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto the rubbable, saying, Not by my Nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Now, as God's people, we have access to a continual supply. of God's Spirit. And we have to continually depend upon the Spirit of God. And this is the vital truth that God is communicating to Zerubbabel in the symbolism of the olive trees and then the declaration of the word of the Lord. Remember, the olive trees are supplying the continual flow of oil into the bowl, which supplies it to the lamps. And the oil never runs dry because it's being supplied by these olive trees. And so it's a continual supply And this is meant to communicate very clearly to the rubbable, just like these olive trees are supplying the continual flow of oil so that the lamp can burn bright, even so When you do a work for God, it's not going to be by your own strength, by your own power, it's going to be by the Spirit of God. Because we know that the oil here symbolically represents who? The Holy Spirit of God, right? Oil represents the Holy Spirit of God, a symbol of the Holy Spirit, not by might. That refers to military power. Israel didn't have a military anyway. Power refers to the strength of an individual. Derubbable, if you're going to get the job done for me, it's not going to be by your own my military strength. It's not going to be by your own power, your individual ability and wisdom to lead and to do anything. Zerubabul could depend on human strength or political power to rebuild the temple. But if he did, this group of exiles would fail. They would never be able to get the work done. Relying on human resources and human wisdom and human effort, that would all be worthless. The community tried to do that before, remember? They came back and they started to rebuild the temple and they got the foundation done, but after that they all burned out. You know why? They were all dependent upon human strength. And they couldn't get the job done. But here God is saying you have to depend upon the power of the Holy Spirit. And so we have we must make a conscious choice. to depend upon God's Spirit. You know, there's three ways we can attempt to do the work of God. We can trust our own strength and wisdom. We can borrow the resources of the world, or we can depend upon the power of God. The first two approaches might appear successful, but in the end, they fail. Only work done through the power of the Spirit will glorify God and will endure the fires of judgment. One day all of our works will be judged by fire, whether those works are wood, hay, and stuff, or gold, gold, silver, and precious stones. Only work done by the power of the Spirit will survive the judgment of heaven. You know, we as Christians, we're not going to hell. I don't fear the fire of hell. I fear the fire of heaven. And when heaven judges my works, will there be anything left? Only that which is done in God's strength and power will survive that judgment. That's why we don't want to depend upon our own strength. But the choice is really yours. And the difference is burning the wick or burning the oil. You know, lance would have a little wick in it and you know of course that wick would be s you know, put on fire, but it w it's actually the w not the wick that is burning, it is the oil that is burning through that wick. And so, but if there's no oil or if the oil runs out, the wick will burn out So it's a matter of burning the wick or burning the oil. And if we use our own human strength, we're burning the wick, and we will be depleted, and we will burn out, no question But if we're dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God, that continual flow of power that He gives to us, then we will not burn out. We have to make a conscious choice, but we also have to make a continual choice to depend upon God's Spirit. A woman asked E. L. Moody once, why do you talk so often about the Holy Spirit? You talk about being filled with Spirit over and over again. How come once isn't enough? And D. L. Moody said, because I leak. I leak. And you know what? As Christians, guess what? We leak. Yeah, we receive the Holy Spirit as salvation, thank God for that, but we have to learn to walk by means of the Spirit continually, repeatedly, and this is a daily thing. We have to daily yield ourselves to the Holy Spirit of God. We have to daily depend upon him. The Bible says, be filled with the spirit, Ephesians 5. 18. Literally in the Greek, be being filled. Present imperative. Keep on continuing to be filled with the Spirit. It's you you say, well, I'm filled with the Spirit today. Well that doesn't guarantee you're going to be filled tomorrow. You know why? Because you leak. And we need to every day depend upon the Holy Spirit of God. And be filled, be constantly be filled with the Spirit day after day. Later, Zechariah will twice ask the question of the meaning of the two olive trees. And again, the angel will tell him, you know, these trees provide a continual flow of golden oil to the lamps so that they did not burn out. And those extra features on the lamps that we saw that are unique to these lamps in the vision show us that we must depend upon God alone and that we must do so continually. F. B. Meyer observed that the WIC is dependent on the source of oil moment by moment. He says it has no storehouse or backup supply. It is always on the edge of bankruptcy, but always supplied. And so we have to continually depend upon that. Now why? Well, because of obstacles demanded, because we face so many obstacles. Look down at verse number seven. Look at verse seven. Who art thou, O great mountain? Before Zerubabo, thou shalt become a plain. And he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shouting with shouting. Crying grace, grace unto it. You know, we face so many obstacles in the Lord's work. And here in verse number seven This mountain that we see here is really a metaphor. It refers to the mountain of difficulties that Zerubbabel faced as he was trying to complete this task for God. And by the way, let me just say that anytime you set out to do something for God, there's always going to be challenges and obstacles in front of you If it's worth doing for God, the devil's going to make sure that you have m mountains in front of you or challenges in front of you. And so if we handle those obstacles again in our own strength We will fail. We will burn out. We need to depend upon the Holy Spirit because He's the one who gives us the ability to overcome any mountain or any obstacle. That is in front of us. And here God says to Zerubble, well, these mountain of problems and obstacles will be flattened out. They'll be like a plane. God can turn mountains into highways. And that's what God said he's going to do here, verse 7. And they shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, Grace unto it. That is to say that this refers to the completing of the temple. One day this temple will be complete, and you'll see them bring the capstone, which is the final piece put in place to that temple, and it will be complete, and while that is happening, you'll hear all the people around say, Grace, grace unto it, or that is rejoice It's beautiful, praise God. That's the whole idea that the job will be done. Why? Because again, he depended upon the Holy Spirit of God to overcome To work in him to overcome the obstacles. But also obligations demand it. Look at verse number eight. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, The hands of the rubbable have laid the foundation of this house His hands shall also finish it, and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto you. Here God is saying, Zerubbable, you laid the foundation of this temple. Guess what? You have an obligation to finish it What you start, you must finish. And I, if you depend upon me, if you depend upon the power of the Spirit, you'll finish it. You'll be able to finish it. You know what? I found in the Christian life there's a lot of obligations we have. And I've also found that I can't do any of that. You know, I can't live the Christian life, but you know what? Christian the Christian life can be lived through me and in me if I allow God through Christ to live in me. And do it through me. You know, the Christian life is not imitation, it's incarnation. It's allowing Christ to reign in us and live through us the Christian life In the power of the Holy Spirit. And here he had an obligation that he could not fulfill without the help of God. There are many things we cannot do. on our own. We have to have God. David Livingstein, the missionary to Africa, once asked Spurgeon, how can you accomplish so much in one day? And Spurgeon said, You forget, Mr. Livingston, there are two of us working. There's two of us working here. And so we need to remember that. And then also opposition demands it. Look at verse 10. For who hath despised the day of small things? For they shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of the rebbable with those seven. And here what this verse is referring to is that, and by the way, this is also recorded in Ezra 3, that when the old timers saw the new temple being built, they wept. Why? Because they were still comparing this temple to the glory of Solomon's temple. And here these people of God that should have been an encouragement to Zerubbabel and the other people, they were actually a discouragement. They were despising the day of small things. We must look at God's work through God's eyes, not through the eyes of other people. These people should have been rejoicing, but they were not. You know, sometimes the greatest opposition you face will be from other so-called Christians. or people in the church that are not seeing things the way God sees it. And we still have people like this today that judge everything by size. Because that's what motivates them for you know fleshly self-glory. They're like boasting about accomplishment and that lacks spiritual perspective. But I want to tell you something, when God does things, He often does through He often does his greatest works through the smallest things. And the Bible records that constantly. And God often starts great endeavors very slowly with just a small beginning. Remember Jesus what he told his disciples who were kind of discouraged saying, Lord, You know, are there going to be many that are going to go into the kingdom? They're looking around and they're not seeing too many people following. They're going with Jesus from village to village and not a lot of people are really, you know, following Christ and converting and they're saying and they're saying, Lord, is there going to be many? Or few and you remember Jesus on the heels of that gave him a parable about the mustard seed. Remember the mustard seeds, the smallest of all seeds? But in the end, it it grows through the greatest of shrubs or herbs. And that's the way the kingdom is going to be. It might start out small, but in time God is going to do something great. And this mustard seed will grow into a tree so large that all the birds of the field will lodge into it. And here Jesus was speaking about the future of the kingdom and how it was going to spread, so much so that people from all the nations all over will be able to lodge in the kingdom. And so God often does things through small means. And so God, you know, says, you know, don't despise the day of small things. As a matter of fact, Rubable, guess what? They shall rejoice and they shall see the plummet in the handles of Rubable with the seven That is, one day these people that are despising, they're going to rejoice. They're going to see you out there with that plumb line in your hand. Zerubba will be on the job with that plumb line and he will be measuring. He will be doing the work of God with excellent despite what those people who are despising the quote-unquote Deus Mall things are doing. And you know what? Zerubabo will do it. Why? Because notice in the end of verse number 10 where it says With those seven. What are the seven? Look at the read the rest. They are the eyes of the Lord, which run to and fro through the whole earth. Those seven eyes, of course that's not literal. That is metaphorical, and what it speaks about is the omniscience of God. And God sees everything. You know why we serve and we don't burn out? You know why we shouldn't burn out? Because we have the right perspective about the importance of the work. We're dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God. And as we're working, guess what we know? That God is watching everything that we do. He knows all, he knows our heart, he sees all, he's watching it all. That will prevent us from burning out. And here's the rubber boy out there. And God says, the people are going to see you out there leading them and you'll have the plumb line in your hand, making sure those walls are straight, making sure everything's right. And people will rejoice to see that and doing the work with excellence, utterly dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God to get the work done. So to avoid spiritual burnout, let me give you the last principle. Number one, I said, reflect on the importance of God's work. We are lights in a dark world. We must continually rely on the supply of God's Spirit. These two olive trees are constantly giving this flow of oil, which represents the Holy Spirit, to this lampstand. But here's number three. We must continually rest in the work of God's Son. Look at verse eleven. Then answered I and said unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof? And I answered again and said unto him, What be these two olive branches, which through the two golden plates empty the golden oil out of themselves? And he answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? I'm glad I'm not Zachariah. That angel keeps asking that question. Don't you know? Don't you know what this is? No. Here's the interpreting angel. Don't you know what these are? Verse 13, and he answered me and said, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my Lord. And then he gives the answer, verse 14. Then said he, these are the two anointed ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth. Now again, Zachariah studies the vision. He sees two olive trees, sees the branches in the place coming out, filling the bowl with oil. And he's asking, you know, what is this? What are these two olive trees? What about these these branches and these pipes and so on? And the angel says, Oh, you don't know what this is? Well, these are the anointed ones, verse 14, the two anointed ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth. Now, anointed ones literally in Hebrew is sons of oil. So we know then by that that these refer to living people, human beings. These are the sons of oil, literally. And who are they who are they? Commentators agreed that this represents Joshua the high priest and Zerubbabel the king. Although again, Zerubabul never ruled as a king. He was the leader for all practical purposes. He was the king at that time. the the governor of these people. And the high priests and the king were offices that were anointed with oil. These are two offices. In Old Testament Israel, that required anointing with oil before that person could step into that office. Prophets were never anointed with oil in the Old Testament. Only priests and only kings. And so the anointed ones in Zechariah's vision represent these two men and more importantly these two offices of high priest and king. And they both are vital in fulfilling the what we could say the theology of the lampstand by mediating the presence of God to his people. You see, think about this. By God's design, no single person in Israel could be both king and priest. No one could do that. You know why? First of all, the priest came from what tribe? Levi, right? And the kings, where did they come from? Well, they came from the tribe of Judah. So God never designed that one person could be both priest and king. In fact, in the Old Testament, you'll find many times when a king tried to exercise the office of a high priest and actually tried to burn incense on an altar, what did God do to him? He judged them severely for it, right? Because that was a violation of God's order. Several times we see kings trying to do that and God punishing them severely. Because no one man could hold both roles of representing God to man and man to God. And also we see that Israel's history was marked by a litany of kings and priests that failed. And they're God-given responsibilities. That's part of the problem with Israel. Their kings all failed. We went through the study of 1 2 Kings on Wednesday night. We see how all those kings fell short. There were only two really that had relatively little marks on their character, that's Hezekiah and Josiah. All the rest of the kings, both northern kingdom and southern kingdom, had fallen and failed. And then we also see the priest failing. So Israel's past was marked by the failure of kings and priests. But you know what? The Old Testament holds out hope that there would come one who would be the perfect high priest. And the faultless, glorious king. There would be no failure in this one who could occupy both offices. No one else could do it. But there is one coming that can do that. And who would that be? He would merge these two offices together perfectly, and that of course would be the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. And just as the f the the oil flowed from two branches in place into one lampstand, so that these two anointed roles would come together in one, that points to the fact that these two offices and roles will all come together in one person. That is the Messiah Jesus Christ. He would be the one. He's able and worthy to unite these roles together as Lord of the whole earth, as we see there in verse number 14, that stand by the Lord of the whole earth. Now, let me give you the application for this to us. We are to look to Christ. If you want to be successful, we have to constantly keep our eyes on Christ. Sounds like we've heard that before, right? Isn't that all through the Bible? You know, the secret of the Christian life is not really a secret. It's keep your eyes on Christ and look to Christ and depend upon Christ. And so we notice that these two anointed ones are they stand by the Lord of the whole earth, standing by the Lord. In the last vision, Joshua stood before the angel of the Lord, depending on him for his intercession and righteousness. In this fifth vision, the interpreting angel explained that here these are standing by the Lord. That is the idea of utter reliance. On him, trusting him that he would accomplish and do what they could not do. And again, that's Jesus Christ You know what? You know why we should not burn out? Because we have Jesus Christ, who is both our our high priest, our great high priest, and he's our king. And you know what we have? We have the sympathy of a high priest. He comes to our aid. It may be that you're going through a difficult time. I want to tell you something, God knows all about it And your hurts and your trials and your pains, the Lord knows all about it. Hebrews 4, 15, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. As you know, I was reading this was very interesting. Um So there's a musical term that the Oxford Company to music calls sympathetic resonance. You ever heard of this? I haven't. I'm not a music person, but It's a term that's used to describe how if you have two pianos in the same room, you can play a note on one of them, like you can hit middle C, and on one piano, and the strings on the other piano gently respond with that same note. I think that's amazing. That's awesome. You know, be in one room, you play a note on one piano and you s and you hear it on the other too. You know what I'd do if I heard that? I'd get out of there. But this is called, musicians they call this sympathetic resonance. And when I th read that I thought, you know, this reminds me of Jesus our high priest, because when we go through a trial down here We have our high priest in heaven in heaven resonating with us. When the chords, the dark chords play in our heart Jesus feels that same note, those same chords. He resonates with us. We have a high priest. We have the sympathy of a high priest who prays for us. But also we have the sovereignty of a king. Jesus is our sovereign king. And that means that nothing that comes into your life is By accident. He has a purpose for it. That's why we can say Romans 8. 28, and we know that all things work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. So, how do we avoid spiritual burnout? How can we be lights on a lampstand that never go out? We continually reflect on the importance of what we're doing, God's work. We rely on the supply of God's Spirit continually. We continually rest in the work of God's Messiah, God's Son. And friend, if you do that, you know what? You can finish the race with your torchlet and not burn out. Not burn out. The church has enough saints that burn out. We need saints that will finish and be faithful. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for this awesome vision that Zechariah had that encouraged him and the remnant of people that were doing your work there, building that temple. And in the world's eyes it didn't look like much to that day, but Lord you had future plans for it. May have started small, but you have big plans. For that temple, those people, that nation. And Lord, they could not do what they did without your help. And Lord, the same is true of us. Well, you have called us to be lights. You've called us to shine forth. And Lord, may we never burn out in this dark world. Lord, how we need to be your light and reflect your glory. To a lost world. So help us, Lord, to keep our eyes on the importance of what we do, to be constantly yielded to the Holy Spirit of God, how we need the power of the Holy Spirit. And then, Lord, to look to Christ constantly, to look to Christ, our great high priest, our sovereign king. Lord, we thank you and we praise you for all of this. We pray in Jesus' name