Right. So good to see you here tonight. We uh be looking tonight at uh an old testament passage of scripture. Second. Kings chapter 19, if you just turn your Bibles there, and uh Second Kings Chapter 19 And I titled this uh sermon, actually I'm borrowing a title from another guy. I kind of like the title, but it's called Bad News Prayers 2 Kings chapter 19. And this is an amazing story here in the Old Testament of God's answer to a prayer from King Hezekiah. Back in uh nineteen fifty-seven, the National Association of Fire Chiefs c recommended that we come up with a single number for all fire emergency calls. Ten years later in 1967 the President's Commission on Law Enforcement also recommended that they just come up with one number for all emergency calls. And of course we know that was the beginning of uh what we now know as 911. They got with ATT and they recommended a simple number that everyone could remember. And so 911 became that emergency number, those three digits. The first 911 call was made in Haleyville, Alabama in 1968. And since that time those n uh let those uh digits, those numbers have been uh ingrained in our mind. We know that if you're in trouble, if you have an emergency, that you can just dial that number and get help. It's ingrained into us. But in the same way for the believer Our 911 call is God in prayer. When there's a crisis that comes, when there's bad news that comes in our life, What needs to be ingrained in us is the 911 of prayer. The first thing that we should do is to go to God whenever bad news or a crisis hits us. Prayer should be the first thing that we do. And so this story here today that we're going to look at in 1 Kings chapter 19. Is kind of illustrates that very thing. This is the story of King Hezekiah's 911 call to heaven, I guess you could say. And what he teaches us is how to respond to bad news. uh how do we seek God in times of crisis? We need to respond to bad news by getting alone with God and um And by just humbly pouring out our heart to him in prayer. So I want you to see this story in three acts tonight. First of all, I want you to see Act 1. I'm going to call this the enemy's intimidation. And then we're going to look at Act 2, the King's Intercession. And then Act 3, we're going to look at the Lord's intervention. So look at this story with us tonight. Look at let God's word speak to your heart. Act 1, the enemy's intimidation. Now actually this story begins in chapter 18. Sennacherib was laying siege to the city of Lakish and defeated it. Who is Sennacherib? He's the evil king of Assyria. He was ruthless. He was going through the world systematically conquering the world at that time He went through the land of Israel and he conquered the buffer city, Lakish. That was the city that was really there to be a military strategic place to uh guard the city of Jerusalem. But he took over that city. This is the second most important city in Judah. And now he is threatening to destroy the city of Jerusalem. I mean the Assyrians basically had conquered every nation that they had come to at that time. They were the undefeated champions of the world that time you could say And Sennacherib sends one of his military leaders with a threatening message to King Hezekiah about the impending doom that's about to happen. And we see this in chapter 18 and verse number 26, where a man by the name of Rabshaka begins to give this message. Notice what it said in verse 26 of chapter 18. Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah and Shebnah and Joah under Rabshaka, Speak I pray thee to thy servants in the Syrian language. For we understand it and talk not with us in the Jews' language in the ears of the people that are on the wall. In other words, these diplomats of King Hezekiah said to this messenger, look, just speak in Syrian. We understand Syrian. We don't want everyone else to hear what you're saying. But that's not what he did. In fact, in verse number 27 and verse 28, he basically says, look, did my king send me just so you can hear? So he speaks very loudly in the Hebrew tongue, and he makes all these threats so that all could hear. All those that were, you know, kind of picturing your mind, he's standing before the The gate of Jerusalem, people on the walls are listening to him. He's shouting out with a loud voice, making all these threats. He mocks Hezekiah. He mocks God. He mocks the weak army of Judah. He's doing everything he can to tear down the people's confidence in the king and in God. And so he said to the people also that were listening, look, just surrender. It would be better for you just to surrender. Um, you know, that way, even though you'll be carried off into exile, at least you'll have Um waters to drink from your own cistern you'll have your own vine and fig tree. Basically what he's saying there So he's saying, you know, just if you just surrender to us, then all will be well. You don't have to worry about anything. And that's exactly what Satan tries to do, doesn't he? He makes threats to the child of God, and he offers peace, and he says, everything will be fine if you just do what I tell you to do. But what this messenger hid from the people is the truth. The truth w is that these people would be prisoners of a cruel, evil king. Assyrian cruelty was legendary. In fact, archaeological discoveries have shed light on it. The Assyrians created tablets that showed them torturing their enemies to let the next city know what was coming These tablets basically show them skinning their victims alive, blinding them, and impaling them on stakes One Assyrian king left a whole series of these tablets behind, and he on those tablets he put his descriptions of what he what took place. He wrote this, I flayed many right through my land and draped their skins over the walls And then he went on the boast, I burned their adolescent boys and girls. A pillar of heads I erected in front of the city. And so basically, this was what was awaiting these people here. And knowing the cruelty of the Assyrians, many of the people in places where they were conquering just basically committed suicide rather than fall into the hands of the Assyrians. In fact, the king of Aratu, upon hearing the Assyrian army approaching, stabbed himself in the chest rather than face them. And so the reality is if these people surrender to this evil tyrant, then they're going to be treated in the same way. This is why history accords mass suicides when they were threatened with uh the Assyrian invasion. So we see the messenger just trying to bring peace, lying to the people And then we also see the mockery of this messenger. He says, look, don't listen to King Hezekiah. He's going to try to tell you to trust God, but that's foolish talk. Look in chapter 19. Look down at verse number 10. And thus shall ye speak to King to Hik Hezekiah King of Judah, saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria. Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands by destroying them utterly. Shalt thou be delivered? Have the gods of nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed? You hear what he's saying there? Oh, you know, all these other kings promised that their gods would deliver them from us, but what happened to them? Where are they now? Can't you see how that they're also destroyed? Where are they? Look at verse thirteen. Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad? the king of uh seraph arvaim or hinah or ivah and hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messenger so here he mocks uh King Hezekiah trying to tell the people to trust in God. And then he gives he's given a letter. Now Rabshekah not only gives the message to the King Hezekiah's diplomats verbally, but he also has a letter of all these threats in it that he hands to them. In fact, 2 Chronicles tells us that he wrote letters, not just one letter, but he wrote many letters and got them to spread to spread throughout the citizens of the city. Uh he's basically again just trying to strike fear and terror into the hearts of the people. This was basically psychological warfare. And when King Hezekiah's diplomats come to him, the Bible says they ripped their clothes, and they were in grief, mourning And can you imagine King Hezekiah getting that letter? Hey King, we have a message for you. And they're w and they're crying and their clothes are rent. That's not good news. And they give them this letter. And it's bad news. Very bad news. You know, at some point in our life, all of us are going to receive news that we don't want to hear. We're going to receive news that strikes fear into our heart. News that crushes us. The question is, at that moment, how do we respond when bad news comes? Hezekiah here, as we're going to see, is an example to all of us on how we should respond. So we see, first of all, Act 1, the enemy's intimidation, but I want you to see number two, Act 2, the king's intercession. In this crisis, Hezekiah turned to God for help. And I want you to notice his actions. First of all, what does he do? He got along with God. Look in chapter 19, look in verse number 1. It came to pass when King Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloths and went into the house of the Lord. So here's this first thing. Also look in verse 14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord. Here's the first thing that he does after he rents his clothes as a sign of great sorrow and humility. He went straight into the temple. the house of God, and he went there for the purpose of praying, for the purpose of seeking God's face. He doesn't wallow in despair. He doesn't try to come up with his own solutions to the problem, a problem that was too big for him to handle anyway. He goes to God. In going to the temple, Hezekiah is following the wise advice of King Solomon, who wrote in Proverbs 18:10, The name of the Lord is a strong tower. the righteous run into it and are safe. He's also following the advice of King Solomon when Solomon dedicated the temple in 1 Kings chapter 8. He prayed that it would be a house of prayer in times of disaster, in times of crisis. And Hezekiah knows that So he goes to the temple. This was definitely a time of crisis. A disaster was impending for the city of Jerusalem. So he goes to get alone with God. That's a good decision. When a crisis comes, when bad news comes, get alone with the Lord. But here's the second thing he does. He sought a word from God Look in chapter 19, look at verse 2. And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloths to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amaz. And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, of rebuke and blasphemy, for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth It may be that the Lord thy God will hear all the words of Rabshaka, whom the king of Assyria, his master, has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the Lord thy God hath heard. Wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left. So Hezekiah seeks a word from the Lord by sending his diplomats. to the prophet has uh to the prophet Isaiah. He reveals this whole crisis to Isaiah. To use today's expression, he basically tells Isaiah, look, we're at the end of our rope here The analogy he uses is a mother who's been in labor for days and has no strength left to deliver her child. He said, that's what it's like for us. He was desperate to hear a word from the Lord. I like that he did not isolate himself like many people do in a time of distress. Instead He wanted prayer. He asked for prayer from other people. He seeks a word from the Lord. He asked all of those people to pray together. What's interesting here in this whole scenario is you see the three offices working together. Only time we really see that in the Old Testament, prophet, priests that he sent there, and king, all working together for a solution from God. But his main thing is he wanted to get a word from God. And that's another good decision. When a crisis or bad news comes, Get alone with God. Get your Bible and seek God. You know what? The way we get a word from God today is through the Word of God. It's through reading the scripture. It's through maybe hearing a sermon. Open the Bible, read it, and let God speak to your heart. God's word is a source of peace. It's a source of encouragement. It's a source of comfort. But then he does a third thing here. He got alone with God. He sought a word from God. But notice what else he does. He laid out the problem before God. Look at chapter 19, look at verse number 14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. I love that. What does he do? He takes this letter and he spreads it out before God. I kind of imagined in my mind it was a scroll, and so he kind of unrolls it before the Lord, as if to say, Lord, have you read this? Lord, have you have you seen this letter? I read where Brother Andrew, the famous Bible smuggler, told a story about Corey Tenboom. We know Cory Tenboom. She's the um helped r rescue many Jews from the hands of the Nazis. And then survive the Nazi concentration camp. But according to Brother Andrew, Corey sometimes lifted up her Bible when she prayed and would point to the promise that God had in his word as if to say, Lord, you wrote this Didn't you write this? This is what I'm claiming right here. I think as Hezekiah is kind of using the same boldness right here. With equal boldness, he he spreads out this letter and he says, Lord, have you read this letter? Have you read what they're saying about you in this letter? And notice what he says while he's seeking God. First of all, he acknowledged truth about God. Look at verse 15. And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubims, Thou art God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. I love that. First of all, he acknowledges who God is. When you have a big problem or a crisis, remember who God is. Remember that God is the creator of the heavens and the earth, and there's no problem too big for God. We need to learn to see our problems through the greatness of our God. Lord, you made the heaven and the earth. You created all the universe, so surely this can't be a big problem for you And then he asked God to look at the letter. In fact, in verse 16 implies that he read the letter out loud to God. Verse 16, Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open thine eyes and see. Lord, here's this letter. Do you see? And then when he says again he says, and hear the words of Sennacherib Which has sent him to reproach the living God. I get the impression that maybe he's reading that letter out loud to God. Two times he said, God, listen to this. Listen to this letter. You know, you know what he does here? He t he basically um takes this letter and he sends it by way of email, not email, but ne mail. He's kneeling before God and he says, God, I want you to see this letter here. You know, I hate when I have to explain my jokes, but anyway. But anyway, um, you got it. But He says, Lord, you know, hear this. What he's saying about you. But then he does another thing. He acknowledges the truth about the situation. Look at verse seventeen. Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stones. Therefore they have destroyed them. Now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou, save thou us out of his hand. So he acknowledges, yeah, these Assyrians, they're tough Yeah, they've won all their battles. They've defeated the most mighty countries and armies. They've defeated everyone else. They've destroyed their gods, but of course their gods are nothing but the creation of man's hands. And so Hezekiah's description of his whole crisis was perfectly realistic. I like the fact that he wasn't in denial. He doesn't minimize his problem, but neither does he exaggerate it. And what Sennacherib had said was true, and Hezekiah knew it. The Assyrians, they had laid waste to everyone. They had destroyed lands. But Hezekiah also knew that Sennacherib had not faced the living God of Israel. That's what he had not done. So in acknowledging the truth about the situation, he is confessing, God, this challenge is too great for me. I can't handle it. This king is too mighty for me, and I know it. Their army is too great, there's nothing we can do. He placed the whole crisis in God's hands. I love that. This is a beautiful illustration. of what Peter said in 1 Peter 5, 7, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. Psalm 55, verse 22, cast thy burden upon the Lord. He shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. You know what God wants? He wants you to come to him today with your heavy heart. He wants you to bring your problem to him. He desires that you cast all of your burdens, all of your cares upon him. He invites you to do that He said, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things. In Psalm 50, verse 15, call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee. And thou shalt glorify me. And so God will allow us to go through these t type of emergencies, these type of crises where we get bad news, because perhaps maybe he wants us to turn to him. He wants us to learn to depend Totally upon him. Then finally what he does as he lays all this out before God, he directly asks for God's help. Look again in verse 19. Now therefore O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of His hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth might know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. So he pleads for God to save him and the people from this dangerous, evil king. And I want you to notice that the basis of his request. Is that all the kingdoms of the earth might know that thou art God, you and you and no one else God, even thou alone Last week we studied the subject of hindrances to prayer, and we said that one of the things that hinders prayer is selfish motives. Remember what James says, you ask and receive not because you ask amiss. that you might consume it upon your lusts. Hezekiah's motive behind asking this was not so that he could brag to the world that He defeated one of the greatest empires on earth. It was not so that he could enrich himself with the spoils battle from the Assyrians. Surely they had great riches from all their previous conquests His motive was for the honor and the glory of God alone, that all the kingdoms of the earth might know that you are God. So all the people will know that there's none like you, God. That was the whole reason behind his request. So here Hezekiah is such a great example of what to do when you receive bad news. He got along with God. He sought the word of God. He laid out the problem before God, acknowledging the truth about God. He had God look at that letter. He acknowledged the reality of the situation, and he asked God for help So what happened? Well notice Act 3. We see Act 1, the enemy's intimidation, Act 2, the King's intercession, but Act 3, the Lord's intervention. Now as a result Of turning this situation over to God, the Lord sends Hezekiah a message through the prophet Isaiah. I mean, this situation didn't take long for God to answer. Look at verse 20. Then Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, that which thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, I have heard. But I love that. A quick response from God. Now you might read that and say, Man, I wish my prayers would get answered that quickly. I wish when I prayed God would send me a prophet saying, God heard your prayers. You know, God might not confirm his answer to us in that way, but we can see the hand of God just as clearly when God answers. God can confirm his answer. And then God decided to dictate a letter of his own to Sennacherib. And so this is what we see here in the rest of this. This is God's word to Sennacherib through the prophet Isaiah. And the answer of God was threefold. First of all, God said, I will deliver Jerusalem. Look at verse 21. This is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning him. The virgin of the the virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee and laughed thee to scorn. The daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee. In other words, Sennacherib had blasphemed God, and the response is the daughter of Zion, I should say daughter of Zion, and that is the city of Jerusalem. Will basically turn her head in disdain. God's using a metaphor here. He's using the image of a virgin because when the Assyrians attacked the city, they would normally take the um take the women away and violate them and treat them horribly. But here God calls Jerusalem a city of virgin. And God was saying, you know, you're not going to touch this woman. You're not going to touch this virgin. In fact, she's going to shake her head at you And the Lord is going to lead you away like cattle. Look in chapter 19, look in verse 32 and verse 34. Thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith the Lord. So God made it very clear. He would not so much as fire an arrow against the city of Jerusalem. God said, I'm going to deliver the city. But here's the second thing God says. God would defeat the Assyrian army and they would depart. We just read that they're going to go the way they came. But go back to chapter 19. Look at verse number 23. Look what God says here. Verse 23. By thy messengers thou hast reproached the Lord, and hast said, With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of the mountains. to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedars, trees thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof, and I will enter into the lodgings of his borders, and into the forests of his Carmel. I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places. And so here is Rabshaka and Sennacherib, and what they're doing here in these verses is they're boasting of their conquests. And this is really the Lord quoting back to Rabshaka. And to Sennacherib, the very words they used in boasting about their victories. They basically said, you know, ch our chariots, chariots were made for the flat land, but our chariots went up into the high mountains. The dry lands and the deserts didn't stop us. We were able to cross all the rivers. Other kings used barges to cross rivers. But we we dried up rivers, we dried up the Nile, we walked across on dry land. But by the way, there's no evidence of that. But these kings that didn't matter to them. They love to boast about things anyway, you know They cut down cities the way the farmer mows grass. Nothing stood in their way. This is them bragging. Oh, we did all of this and we did all of that. But notice God's response in verse 25. Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it? You think you did all of this? You think that was you? God says, no, I did all of this The Assyrian nation was a weapon in God's hand to judge Israel and the other nations and to chasten Judah. How foolish for the axe to boast against the woodman. How foolish for Sennacherib to take credit for the things that the Lord has done. Instead of giving God honor for what God did, he turns around and takes the credit and boasts for himself So notice what God will do. Look at verse number 28. Because thy rage against me and thy tumult has come up into mine ears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose. And my bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way which thou camest. God's going to treat the Assyrian army like cattle. He's going to put hooks in their noses, and he's going to lead them away. And by the way, that's exactly the way the Assyrians would treat their prisoners when they led them away after conquering the city. But now they, the Assyrians, would be the prisoners of war. They would be the victims because God was going to judge them. Again, looking Verse 33, by the way that he came, by the same shall he return. God's going to send them out. But then there's a third thing that God promised to do in response to Hezekiah's prayer. God promised to care for the people so that they will not starve. Look at verse number 29. Notice what it says there. And this shall be a sign unto thee. Ye shall eat this year such things as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which springeth of the same And in the third year sow ye and reap and plant vineyards and eat the fruits thereof. And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall ye again take root downward and bear fruit upward. In other words, what is he saying here? Well when the Assyrians had taken possession of Judah, they pillaged the land, and they came right at harvest time. That wasn't an accident because right at harvest time they confiscated all of what the farmers had sown. They took it all for themselves They they they basically wanted the people to be desperate for food. That was part of their plan. And so They confiscated all food and now because the city was shut up and no one could do anything, the farmers couldn't plant anything Uh and so it was a desperate situation. Even if the city of Jerusalem was delivered, they wouldn't have anything to eat because the farmers couldn't plow, they couldn't sow. With the Assyrians in the land and Jerusalem under siege, the people just simply couldn't work their farms. And so even if Sennacherib left the land, they still faced starvation. But in the face of that, God made this promise. You know what God said? God said, look, when the Assyrians, when I get done with them and the Assyrians leave. . You won't have to plow your fields and you won't have to sow seed because the land will produce fruit of itself . This would be the hand of God. God said, I'll take care of planting this year. I'll take care of the crops this year. This will be something I will do. And in the next and in the following year then, when everything is calm again, you can sow your your seeds again, and then you'll have a harvest. And so God would not permit his people to starve. By the way, did you know that this whole setting is the story behind Psalm 126. You ever read Psalm 126? Read it with this setting In Psalm 126, verse 1, it says this, When the Lord turned again to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed. Zion was captive, and God turned to captivity, and they were saying in the Psalm Man, when God did that, it was like a dream come true. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, our tongue was singing, then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. And then listen to this, they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goes forth weeping bare in precious seed shall doubtless Come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with them. The farmer who sowed in tears, knowing his harvest was confiscated, would one day come again reaping with joy because of what God was going to do. God did turn the captivity of Zion. It was like a dream come true. One morning the people of Jerusalem woke up and you know what the army of the Assyrians was absolutely completely decimated. You say, what happened? Look down at chapter 19, look in verse number 35. And it came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord went out. And smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred fourscore and five thousand. And when they arose early, behold, they were all dead corpses. The antecedent there is a little awkward. They woke up and they were all dead, you know. But you get the idea. When they woke up in the morning, that is the Israelites, they, the Assyrians, were dead. Alright? They were all gone. All God had to do was just send one angel. One angel took care of all of it. This God's angel killed 185,000 Assyrian soldiers. This was a humiliating defeat for the Assyrians. And this brought great glory and honor to God. And Sennacherib left that scene and went home. And the Bible tells us that one of his sons killed him. Look at verse 37. Verse 36 tells us that he left. He went to Nineveh. Verse 37, it came to pass as he was worshiping in the house of Nishrach, his God. that uh Adram Malek and Shazal, Razer, excuse me, his son, smote him with a sword, and they escaped into the land of Armenia. And so here his gods were unable to give him victory in Judah, and they couldn't protect him from his own family and his own homeland. This was a disgrace for the king Sennacherib I always uh love the poem that Lord Byron wrote, The Destruction of Sennacharib, because in that poem he kind of depicts this whole scene. Let me just Read it to you here. The Assyrians came down like a wolf on the fold, and his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold And the shear of their sheen of their spheres was like the star on the sea when the blue waves rolled nightly on Deep Galilee. Like the leaves of the forest when summer is green, that host with their banners at sunset were seen. But like the leaves of the forest when autumn hath blown, That host on the morrow lay withered and strone. for the death angel spread his wings on the blast, And breathed in the face of the foe as he passed, And the eyes of the sleepers waxed deadly and chill, And their hearts but once heathed and forever grew still. And there lay the steed with his nostrils all wide. But through it there rolled not the breath of his pride. The foam of his gasping lay white on the turf, as cold as the spray as a rock beaten surf. And there lay the rider, distorted and pale, with the dew on his brow and the rust on his mail, and the tents were all silent, the banners alone, the lances unlifted, the trumpets unblown. And the widows of Asher are loud in their wail, and the idols are smote in the temple of Baal, for the might of the Gentile. unsmote by the sword, has withered like snow at the glance of the Lord. The psalmist in Psalm 46, which again is a chapter written on this occasion, Said it like this in Psalm 46. He said, He said this, come behold the works of the Lord. What desolations he hath made. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh a bow and cutteth a spear in sunder. He burneth a chariot in fire. Be still and know that I am God I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. What an incredible answer that Hezekiah got from his prayer. How different this story could have been if Hezekiah tried to take this matter into his own hands, if he tried in his own wisdom to figure out how to work through this crisis. Perhaps Jerusalem would have fallen, thousands of people would have been killed, and God would have received no glory. But he was a man of prayer. And Hezekiah is an example to us on how to respond in a crisis and what to do when bad news comes our way. He got alone with God. He sought a word from God. He laid the problem out before God. He just put the whole thing into God's hands. And then he waited on the Lord for his response. I pray that we'll follow that example. There was another king that got bad news. He was King Jesus. And the bad news was our sins that he had to die for on the cross. The bad news he received was the letter. It was all of our sins written out, our sin debt. And you know what Jesus did with our sin debt? He spread it out before the Father. And on the cross, he took all of those sins upon himself, and he paid our sin debt with his own death on the cross. And in fact, he spread out the letter. That reported the dead of our sins when he prayed, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And he died for us. And of course, three days later, he rose again and defeated the evil king. called death. His prayer was answered and because his prayer was answered all of our bad news prayers will be answered. Because of what Jesus did. If we bring those things to God in Jesus' name. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, I just pray for some here tonight who may be in the middle of a crisis right now. Maybe they received news that wasn't so good. They're not exactly sure how to respond. I pray, Father, that we'll learn from the example of Hezekiah. That Lord, there's no problem too big for you. There's no crisis that you can't handle. And rather than, Lord, try our own solutions. Or to just basically isolate ourselves in distress, that Lord, we would run to you That we would come to you. We would seek your face, seek a word from you, and lay out our whole problem before you to cast our burden on you, Lord. Because you will sustain the righteous. You will sustain your people. So, Father, may we practice this in our own life. May we realize the value of prayer. It is our 911. It is the place we turn when the crisis comes. Lord, I pray that you will use this in every heart here tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.