Good to see you here in God's house. Always good to be here in the middle of the week to kind of re encourage one another, refresh ourselves in the Word of God. So take your Bibles open to the book of Habakkuk, please, the book of Habakkuk, chapter 1. We're going to look tonight at verses 5 down to verse 17. As we're kind of looking into this little epistle, or epistle, I say epistle, it's a minor prophet. Habakkuk chapter 1, verse number 5. Now have you ever heard the expression God moves in mysterious ways? Yeah, we've heard that. That's a line from a hymn. And it was a hymn that was written by William Cooper. William Cooper was a contemporary of John Wesley and George Whitfield. And John Newton actually the one who wrote Amazing Grace was his pastor. But did you know that William Cooper was a man that struggled with deep dark depression all of his life? He had a very painful childhood. When he was six years old, his mother died Uh later three children in the family died. And then William's father sent him to a boarding school, so he had a very unhappy childhood. And so he struggled with depression. When he was twenty-one He sank into his first paralyzing depression. It was so bad that he would just sit and stare out the window for weeks at a time. And uh finally he decided that he was going to take his own life. So he took laudum, uh poison, trying to take his life. It didn't work. Uh he tried to hang himself with a garter. Three times he tried to do that, and it broke each time. Uh he hired a carriage driver to take him to the Thames River so he could jump in. But Because of the thick London fog, the driver couldn't find his way to the river. And so he took him back to his home. Later, he was finally put into an asylum and he was there for six months, and he happened to see a Bible, and he picked up the Bible and he read John 11 of the story of where Jesus resurrected Lazarus And in that story, he found hope for himself. If Jesus could resurrect a man from the dead, perhaps Jesus had the power to resurrect him out of his depression. And he continued to read the Bible until he read Romans 3. 25, where he read where God set forth his son to be a propitiation. And if we got we can get saved through faith in the blood, and he wrote this, immediately I receive strength to believe it. And the full beams of the Son of Righteousness shone upon me. I saw the sufficiency of the atonement, and he had made a pardon and sealed in his blood. All the fullness and completeness of his justification. In a moment, I believed. I received the gospel. And whereas before there was depression, now there was joy in his soul because he knew the Lord. You know, God used that bitter circumstance And that brokenness to cause them really to be a blessing to others because he became a hymn writer. He wrote some of our great hymns. He wrote one of my favorites, There is a fountain filled with blood. And he also wrote the words God moves in mysterious ways, his wonders to perform. He plants his footstep on the sea, he rides upon the storm. There's one stanza that says this, judge not the Lord by feeble sense. We shouldn't judge God by our own feeble senses, our own reason, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. And so William Cooper knew the mysterious ways of God, how that God used all of that, but brought him the faith. Well Habakkuk is kind of a man who's introduced to the mysterious ways of God. We're going to see that here at the end of chapter one. Now remember who was Habakkuk? He was a prophet that lived about 600 BC, he was a contemporary of Jeremiah. You remember that his name actually means to wrestle. Or someone said to embrace. Could mean both of those things. And it seems like he's wrestling with some problems here. Someone said that Habakkuk was the doubting Thomas of the Old Testament. He had a big question mark for a brain. And he basically asked two questions, if you remember, why, Lord, why are these things happening and how long? Those are the two questions that he seems to ask over and over again. But God is about to answer Habakkuk's questions by giving him a revelation of how he works. And what we're going to see here in the end of chapter one is there's got a lot of theology in it here. It describes the way and the work of God. It describes God's character and how God works. And really the whole idea, if you want a discernment in one sentence, but again, you have to stay for the rest of it. The mysterious works of God should deepen our worship of Him. That's really the whole idea that we see here. God does work in mysterious ways. And those mysterious ways shouldn't cause us to turn away from them in frustration. It should actually deepen our worship of God. And that's what Habakkuk does here. So in wrestling with some of these problems, and one of the big problems he's going to be wrestling with is a problem of evil, Habakkuk is going to make three affirmations here in this chapter, and I want you to see what they are. Here's the first one. Number one God's works are marvelous. Look in verse number one, or excuse me, verse five of chapter one. Behold ye among the heathen and regard and wonder marvelously For I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though it be told you. Now don't ever get the idea that God is not working. God is always working. He's not inactive. There are some people that believe that God's kind of like they have this deist idea of God. What is that? You know, the deist believes that God just created the world and then he has nothing more to do with it. Kind of like a clock uh maker who makes the clock and then after he makes the clock he winds it up, sets it down, walks away from it, and he no longer has anything to do with it Friend, that's not how the Bible portrays God. God is the creator and he relates to his creation. In fact, the Bible says that God is exhaustively sovereign over his creation, he's constantly at work. His sovereign providence runs through the Bible like a strong river. It runs through the scripture. And it carries God's plans to fulfillment the way God has ordained them. And when we talk about sovereignty, what are we talking about? We're talking about really three ideas: ownership. Authority and control. God created it all, God owns it all, and He is in control of it all That's the idea. We see these in the Psalms. Listen to Psalm 24, 1 and 2. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and those that dwell in it, for he has founded it upon the seas. He has established it upon the river. Psalm 103, verse 19, the Lord has established his throne in the heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. And then in Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in the heaven, he does whatever he pleases. I like that verse. That's what sovereignty means. Sovereignty means God is on his throne, he's in heaven, he created it all, and guess what? He does whatever he pleases. That's the sovereignty of God. And so when we look around, and sometimes we might get the sense that Things are out of control in the world or things in our lives are out of control, they're not. Even when things in our life look like they've jumped off track and we're headed over a cliff Actually, everything is moving according to God's plan and purpose in our life. That's the sovereignty of God. And providence is kind of the other side of the coin. What is providence? Providence is God's execution of his plan. Sovereignty makes the plan. Providence executes the plan God will always accomplish his plan. Listen to Isaiah 46, verse 10. God says, the Bible says, I am God, there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from the ancient times, things not yet done, saying My counsel shall stand. I will accomplish all my purpose. Friend, God's going to accomplish his purpose. Proverbs 16, 9. The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. Go ahead and plan your way, but just know this: God's going to accomplish his purpose. And man's plans can't overrule the eternal purposes of God. Job said this in Job 24:14. He performs what is appointed for me. John Murray, the theologian, summed it up like this. He said, The plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive. The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. God hides it from me until it happens. I discover it day by day as it unfolds. And that's very true. And so God is saying to Habakkuk, Habakkuk, I have a plan. You think I'm inactive? I'm not an active. I have a plan. I'm working my plan. And it's a marvelous plan. Look again in verse 5. Behold ye among the heathen and regard and wonder marvelously. For I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though it be told you. I have a marvelous plan, and I'm working that plan And it's going to be good for everyone. In the end, you're not going to believe it, even though I tell you this. So even though Habakkuk cannot see it, God is working. His wisdom developed the plan. His sovereignty decreed the plan. His providence directs the plan. And God says, it is a marvelous marvelous. Actually, that's from the Hebrew word, wonder or be amazed You should be amazed at what God is doing. God again said, look, if I tried to describe it to you, Habakkuk, you wouldn't really believe it. And really the idea there is you wouldn't understand it. This is the reason why God doesn't always come around and try to explain himself. First of all, he doesn't have to, he's God. And secondly, even if he did try to explain himself, we wouldn't get it. It's too far beyond us God tells us as much as we can take and as much as we can understand. Jesus said to his disciples, I had many things to say to you, but you can't bear them now. I can't tell you everything. You can't bear it. Each of us is at a different spiritual level, and God knows where we are, and God knows what we can take. And so that's what he tells us. You know, as parents, we don't tell our children certain things, right? Because they can't bear some things And so as in wisdom, we just don't tell them. And the Bible says this. God says in Isaiah 55. 8, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. God's ways are so high, they're so beyond us. that we can't fathom them. So God says to Habakkuk, I've got a plan. My work is a marvelous work. And you have to trust me. But here's the second thing. God's works are marvelous. But write down number two, here's the next thing. God's works are meticulous. God's works are meticulous. Look again in verse number five where he says, For I will work a work. Look at the word work there. This is a word that's used to speak of the diligent careful, meticulous work of a man at his trade. It's a word used for a carpenter who is carefully making a piece of furniture, or it's used of a potter who is carefully molding a jar. Paying attention especially to the details because part of the artistry and the craft is in the what? It's in the details, right? And this is the idea here. Just like the worker is careful in the details, even so, God is careful even in the details of his marvelous plan. He's meticulous. That's why we can quote Romans 8. 28 with confidence. And we know that some things, all things, work together for good to them that love God. God's working in all things, not just some things. He's meticulous in his work. And what he's going to describe from verses 6 on down to verse 11 is what he's doing. Look at verse 6, for lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, which shall march through the breath of the land. To possess the dwelling places that are not theirs. And notice here, the emphasis is on I. God says, look, this is what I'm doing. I'm raising up the Chaldeans I'm responsible for Babylon, raising them up. Now Nebuchadnezzar, he thought he was responsible. If you remember reading in Daniel chapter 4, where he was on an ego trip and he said, Oh, this is the Babylon that I built. And God had to humble him until he realized that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he's the one who gives it to whomsoever he will, and he sets it up even over the basis of men The Bible says. And here God says, I'm arranging this. On another occasion in Scripture, Isaiah described another invading army that was coming to judge Israel. They would be responding to God's summoning whistle coming to do God's work, and they would come swiftly and speedily. And that passage says, none of them will grow tired, talking about this invading army. They will not grow tired, they will not stumble, they will not sleep. And then Isaiah makes this amazing statement, neither shall the girdle of their loins be loose Nor the laxet of their shoes be broken. God says, when that army goes in to judge and do my work, not even one shoelace of theirs is going to be broken. Say, now wait a minute, is God sovereign over shoelaces? Well, yeah. That's what he said here. When that army goes in, not one shoelace is going to be broken. You see, we have a tendency to think that you know God is sovereign over the big things, but he allows us to be in control of the little things. I mean, God makes broad strokes and he lets us color in the picture. You know, kind of like a coloring book. You know, the picture's there, we get to color it in. That's what we think about with God's sovereignty. God makes the broad strokes, but we determine all the details. Friend, that's just not what the Bible says. God is in charge of the details. Not one shoelace is going to be broken. You ever hear the expression the devil is in the details? Well that's not true. God's in the details. The devil has nothing to do with that. It's God. You say why? Well, because just like big doors swing on small hinges, big events swing on small details. God says, look, in my plan that I'm providentially putting into place, that my sovereignty decreed, and my wisdom I developed it, and my sovereignty I decreed it, in my providence, I'm going to make sure that it's developed correctly. So I'm not going to leave anything a chance, not even one shoelatchet. We all know the saying. You remember the saying for one of a nail, uh the uh Yeah, you guys know it. For one of the shoes the horse was lost. For one of the horse, the rider was lost. For one of the rider, the battle was lost. All for the one of a nail. You know, for one of the nails, actually the shoe was lost. Right? For one of the shoe the horse was lost. You guys are gonna be thinking about this all night. For one of the horse the rider was lost. For one of the rider the battle was lost. All because the guy couldn't find a nail for his horseshoe. That's the idea there. And so really it's really reminding us that details are important. And Jesus said, just look, the very hairs of your head are numbers. Each hair is important to God. So there's no such thing as chance or luck or coincidence. I like to say there are no accidents, only acts of providence. God is a micromanager. He plans everything out. And here from verses 6 down to verse 11, he's describing the battle-ready conditions of this invading army that he has raised up as an instrument of punishment to Israel. And he's describing it. Look at verse 6. For lo I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation which shall march through the breath of the land. to possess the dwelling places that are not theirs. They are terrible and dreadful. Their judgment and their dignity shall proceed of themselves. Their horses also are swifter than the leopards and are more fierce than the evening wolves, and their horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far They shall fly as the eagle that hastens to eat. What he's describing here, first of all, he's describing their infantry They're bitter, they're they're hasty, that is, they're angry and ruthless, they're terrible and dreadful, and the idea they're terrible is uh it's used elsewhere the same word in Song Asylum uh chapter six verse four where it describes the awe-inspiring character of an army with banners. This is an awesome army. This is their infantry. Then their cavalry in verse 8. Their horses, swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves. Evening wolves are very hungry. In the evening time, they're ravenous. They're ready to destroy. And also he describes their leader in verse ten, where he says, And they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be a scorn unto them, and they shall derive every stronghold. For they shall heap dust and take it. When it says heap dust, that means they're going to build siege works and they're going to capture every fortress. They laugh at other royal kings who think they can stop 'em Tiny Judah can expect no help from any quarter in verse eleven. Their particular sin is self-deification in verse eleven. Then shall he change his mind, and he shall pass over and offend, imputing with His power under his God. In other words, his God is his power. He worships his own power. This is self-deification. This is idolatry. And so these Babylonians are the instrument of the or rot rod of God's chastisement. They are ruthless, they are cruel, they are proud, they are merciless, they are swift in conquest, they are thorough in their destruction. They're like animals, they're like leopards, they're swift, they're like wolves, they're ravenous. In fact, in Daniel 7 4, Daniel describes them as a lion with wings, right? That's another image of this ruthless, thorough army that's going to come. And God was saying to Habakkuk, this is my work. They're my rod of chastisement to the nation of Israel. So God's works are marvelous. God's works are meticulous. But here's the third thing, third and final point. But God's works are mysterious. Mysterious because look at verse 12. Now here his Habakkuk hears this revelation, but it leads to another question, verse 12. Art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? We shall not die, O Lord. Thou hast ordained them for judgment. O mighty God, thou hast established them for correction. And thou art of pure eyes than to behold evil and canst not look on iniquity. Wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thy tongue with when the wicked devoureth the man that is more righteous than he Now I want you to see two things here from these verses. First of all, what I see is Habakkuk's confidence. Because what he does is he starts out affirming some things that he knows about God that's absolutely true. Now he has a question here. But even before that, he's affirming some things that he already knows about God. I like the way he does this. Lord, I know this about you, and I know this. But I still have a question about this. So what does he affirm about God? First of all, God is eternal. Verse 12, thou art from everlasting. God, I know you're eternal. The idea here is you look at things from eternity, we see things from here in time. So you have an eternal perspective, we have an earthly perspective. God, I understand that. You see differently. It's kind of like the old illustration, the little boy that's looking up at his grandmother as she's doing her embroidery work, and he sees all these strands mingled together. It looks like a mess. From his perspective, it's a mess. But then she picks him up, puts him on her knee, and then he's looking down, and what does he see? A beautiful, beautiful picture. According to a beautiful plan. And there's a sense in which God's looking down from eternity, we are looking up from the earth. And so Habakkuk understands that. He says, God, I know that you are eternal. And you see things from that perspective. But also he affirms God is holy. Look again in verse 12. Oh Lord, my God, my holy one. He affirms God is holy. Look at verse 13. Thou art of pure eyes than to behold evil and canst not look on iniquity. Habakkuk knows that God is absolutely, utterly holy. Therefore, it is impossible for God to ever do anything wrong. Because he's holy. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. He is absolutely holy. And then he says this: God, you're faithful. Look again in verse 12. We shall not die. Art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? We shall not die, O Lord. What does he mean by that? We're not going to die. Well, God is a God of promise. And God made a promise to Israel that he would never destroy Israel. God made a promise to Abraham, an unconditional, unilateral Covenant with Abraham that he was going to do what? He was going to raise up out of Abraham the seed and he was going to bless the world through Abraham's family, Israel. So, Habakkuk knows this. God made a promise to Israel. God is not going to break that promise. So Habakkuk is saying, Lord, I know that we're not going to be completely annihilated here. I know that we're not all going to die. I know that you're faithful to your promises. God, you're eternal. God, you're holy. God, you're faithful. God, you are omnipotent. Look again in verse 12. Where he says, We shall not die, O Lord. Thou hast ordained them for judgment. And O mighty God, Thou hast established them for correction. And so here he's confessing that God is the mighty God. He's almighty. He's absolutely powerful. Nothing happens outside of his sovereign will. He's in total control. An omnipotent God can keep his uh Plan and purpose as he wants it to be. And he says, Lord, you're a mighty God and you've established them. I know that you're going to correct them. I know you're going to deal with them. You're mighty. I know that So what do we see here in his confidence? God, you're eternal. God, you're holy. God, you're faithful. God, you're omnipotent. I understand all of that. But I want you to see the next thing, Habacus confusion. Look at verse 13. Again, thou art a pure eyes than to behold evil and canst not look on iniquity. Wherefore Lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously and holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth the man that is more righteous than he. So here's the question God, how can you A holy God, use a wicked people to accomplish your purpose. You're using a wicked people to judge a people less wicked than they are. The Jews are bad, but they're not as bad as the Babylonians. In fact, Habakkuk gives his poetic description of the Babylonians. And that's from verses 14 on down to verse 17. He gives kind of four characteristics of the Childeans. They're cruel in verse 14. Notice where he says, and thou makest men as fishes of the sea, as creeping things that have no ruler over them. God created men in his image to have rule over the creation creatures of the world. The Babylonian oppressors would dehumanize people. They would reduce them to the level of a mess of fish. They're like insects. They'll treat us like insects. They'll just come in and squash us. They're so cruel, God. They're brutal, verse 15. They take up all them with the angle. The angle there is a fish hook. When the Chaldeans come, each one will take a captive and and hook them. You know, there are monuments from Mesopotamia that show That the Babylonians would take their captives and literally put a hook through their lower lip. That's how brutal they were. Long lines of captives with hooks through their lips. And they're being hauled off To Babylon. God, they're brutal. They treat us inhuman. They're idolatrous In verse 16. Therefore they sacrifice unto their net and burn incense unto their drag. The idea here is uh he worships his military ability, his instruments of torture And again, there's pitchers of Babylonians actually burning incense to their own weapons of war. They worship their own weapons. So he's saying, God, how can you tolerate this? And then finally they're relentless in verse 17. Shall they therefore empty their net and not spare continually to slay the nations? So God, they're just going to come and they're not going to spare anyone. And the picture here is the Chaldeans dumping out the prey that he had captured in one conquest. in order to hurry forward to collect more victims. They're so relentless. And so the question is, Lord Why would you use these people? Why would you use evil, sinful man? to do this to your people. And I think here Habakkuk is learning a theological lesson about one of the mysterious ways of God. And what is that? That God uses the sins and evil of man to accomplish his purposes. That's just a fact. Now you remember when I introduced this, I called this, this is what not I call it, but theology calls this a branch of study called theodicy Which seeks to defend the goodness and justice of God in the face of evil. And this is the thing again that Habakkuk is wrestling with. God, why do you allow this evil, this sin to take place? And there are some people that give different explanations. As I told you before, some people say, well, there's no such thing as evil. That's the Christian scientist. It's all a figment of your imagination, of course, which is ridiculous. And some people say when they're trying to defend God, they say, well, God is not omnipotent. There's just things that he can't stop. He can't, he's trying his best. You know, he can't stop everything. This is what Greg Boyd wrote in his book Satan and the Problem of Evil, that there's a constant cosmic conflict and sometimes God wins and sometimes Satan wins, and the Rabbi Harold Kushner said this in his book that even God has a hard time keeping chaos in check. Well, friend, that denies the fact that God is omnipotent. Let me tell you something, friend. There's nothing hard for God. He's absolutely all-powerful. We don't believe that. The Bible doesn't say that. And some people say, well, God's just not omniscient, he just doesn't know anything or everything. Some things he doesn't see coming. He knows everything that can be known, but the future is still open. These are called open theists And so since so since he can't really know all the future, he doesn't see some things coming, and that's why things happen. But again, that's heresy. God knows everything, the beginning from the end. And then some people say, well, God's just not good. And we know that that's not true. Habakkuk affirm, God, you are holy. You are good, you are right. Well, if God is holy and God is omnipotent and God is omniscient and there is real evil, how do you explain this And this is again the thing that Habakkuk is wrestling with. But the bottom line is: God will use the evil intentions of evil men to accomplish his overall purpose. Now let me be very clear here. God in no sense causes sin, never. In no sense does he incite it or condone it or authorize it or approve it. Or otherwise consent unto it, but he only permits evil agents to do their deeds, then overrules the evil for his own wise and good end That's part of what he does. He allows free agents to do what is in their heart to do, but yet what they do, God uses for his own plan. And that's part of the mystery of theology. I often told students, theology is not a problem-solving venture. It's a mystery-discerning venture. We're not going to figure everything out We just know what the scripture says. By the way, what's the classic example of this principle? Joseph in the Old Testament, when Joseph's brothers came to him trembling after he was You know, Prime Minister of Egypt and their father died. They were afraid that Joseph would enact revenge. And what did they say? Joseph, you know, you've forgiven us, right? And Joseph said, But as for you, you meant this as evil. But God meant it for what? Good. Meaning God overruled all of your their evil intentions Whatever Joseph's brothers wanted to do, they did of their own free agency. They did what they wanted to do, and yet what they chose to do was part of God's ordained plan. And God overruled all of their evil and used it for his good. That's what God does. Let me just say this one of the uh greatest minds, greatest pastor theologians that America has ever produced is Jonathan Edwards. And Jonathan Edwards was wrestling with the same problem of how God could use evil And what he does is he pointed to the death of Christ. This really helped me when I read this. This is what Ed Edward said Because really in the death of Christ you see the the ultimate example of how God sovereignly uses sin to accomplish his good purposes. This is what he says. The crucifying of Christ was a great sin. And as man committed it, it was exceedingly hateful and highly provoking to God. Yet upon many great considerations it was the will of God that it should be done. Then he refers to Acts 4, 27, and 28 He says this, for of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together. For to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determine before to be done. In other words, all the sinful acts of Herod and Pilate and the Gentiles and the Jews, God Had determined that they would be done. Yet God was not the doer of them. They were responsible for their deeds and judged for their deeds And then Edwards pondered the same that he pondered that someone might say that only the suffering of Christ were planned by God, he says, not the sins against him, to which he responds, quote, I am Or excuse me, I answer, the sufferings could not come to pass but by sin. For contempt and disgrace was one thing he was to suffer. Therefore even the free acts of men are subject to God's disposal. And that is so very true. God is not the author of sin, but God will use the sin of man to accomplish his own purpose. And that purpose is always good. Again, quoting from the Westminster Confession, God from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass, yet so as thereby neither is God the author of sin, nor violence offered to the will of the creature. Nor is the liberty or contingency of the second causes taken away. God doesn't force anyone to do anything. God doesn't take away anyone's liberty or will. They do what they want to do. And yet, God will use those secondary causes to accomplish His will. Still with me? You're getting theology tonight. Sorry. So let me just let me just close with this. Why? Again, why why we've got Permit this. And I want to I want to close by looking Romans real quick. We'll close with looking at a few verses in Romans. Look in Romans chapter 3 and look at verse number 5. Romans 3. Verse five. The the key word here is commendeth or commend. Look at Romans 3. 5. But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? I speak as a man. Look at the word commend there is sinistomai, or we could say demonstrate. And so here's the idea. Would you really understand righteousness without unrighteousness? Would you really be able to understand righteousness without unrighteousness? Man's righteousness does not cancel out God's plan. It serves to establish God's righteousness. So if someone says, well, why does God allow evil? Why does God permit it? Number one, to demonstrate his righteousness. Because you won't really know righteousness unless there's the opposite. You won't really know righteousness unless there's unrighteousness. Israel's Unrighteousness does not cancel God's promise. It gives God opportunity to demonstrate his righteousness. That's the idea there. It's kind of like this, you know, like a jeweler puts a diamond in a black velvet setting to demonstrate its beauty. God allows sin and evil to demonstrate his own righteousness. That's the idea there. And that same word is used and again, look in chapter 5, verse 8. Same word is used there, chapter 5, verse 8. But God commendeth, again, sinistomai, same word. God demonstrates his love towards us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So here's another opportunity. Sin and evil is an opportunity for God to demonstrate his love, perfectly revealed on the cross. Sin and evil is an opportunity for God to demonstrate his righteousness. It's an opportunity for God to demonstrate his love. We really wouldn't know God's love unless there was sin. This was the most glorious demonstration of God's love ever at the cross. Let me show you another verse. Look in chapter 9, Romans 9, look at verse 22. Chapter 9, verse 22. What if God willing to show his wrath? And by the way, the word show there, same word demonstrate. What if God willing to demonstrate his wrath? And to make known his power endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath. You don't want to know God's role in all of this in sin. He endures it. God hates sin. He endures sin, but he endures it that he might demonstrate his wrath, his holy wrath. And he has as much right to put his wrath on display as he does to put his love on display. He's God. He allows it to demonstrate righteousness. He allows it to demonstrate his love, he allows it to demonstrate his wrath. And then in verse twenty three of chapter nine, and that he might make known the riches of his what? His glory On the vessels of mercy. Same word, same idea, to demonstrate his glory. All of those things are purposeful on God's part. We wouldn't know those glories, those wonderful things about God unless there was this. Now I can't figure it all out, but that's okay. I'm going to show you one more verse, I promise. And we're done. Looking at Romans 11. Look in verse. 33. Here's Paul. Here's the conclusion from him. O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments? And his ways what? You guys with me? His ways passed finding out. We're not going to figure it all out. I just know this. God knows what he's doing. And we can trust him. And like Paul, we should be in amazement. We should be in wonder. This is what God says to Habakkuk: Look, I've got a plan, it's a marvelous plan. You should be in wonder of it. You should be amazed. We're not going to figure everything out that God does. That's impossible. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. He reveals some things to us, he doesn't reveal all of it to us. And you can't always know all of God's ways or why. But what did what does God say to Habakkuk the just shall live by faith? You can trust him. Albert Einstein was a genius. He came up with a theory of relativity. They say only twelve men has ever been able to understand it. Only twelve men have ever been able to understand it. I don't know about that. I don't know who the other eleven are. I mean I got it, but no I'm just kidding. Just kidding. Somebody asked Mrs. Einstein, uh, to they asked her, um uh ma'am, do you understand the theory of relativity? She said, no, but I understand Dr. Einstein. I don't know the theory of relativity, but I know him. And friend, I can't figure out everything that God does, but I know this: I can know him. You can know God. And that's really what Habakkuk is getting at. The mystery, the mysterious ways of God. Should cause us to worship him all the more, to embrace him all the more, to know him all the more. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, we are amazed. And we say, like Paul, oh, the depth of the riches, of both the wisdom and the knowledge of God. Lord, how unsearchable are your ways. They're past finding out. But Lord, like Paul, we we praise you. We give you the glory. And I pray, Lord, that we will learn that your ways, though mysterious, are good. for all of us. In the end, ultimately, you work all things together for good. And may this be a bedrock foundational truth. That keeps us on firm ground, even in difficult days that come for all of us. May we learn to say, the just shall live by faith, faith in you. And we pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.