Would you take your Bible, please, and open to the book of Romans, chapter 13, and uh look down in verse number 8. Romans 13, 8. Well actually I want you to look down at verse number 11. And that knowing the time, that now is is it high time to awake out of our sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we believe. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Now tonight I title this sermon because the day is near. Now I heard about a farmer who had a grandfather clock and one night it would malfunction And it chimed thirteen times, fourteen, fifteen times, and the farmer jumped out of bed, he began to get dressed, and he said, It's later than it's ever been. And that's exactly what the Apostle Paul is trying to tell us here in this passage tonight. That it is later than it has ever been. The theme that Paul deals with in this these verses that we're going to look at is that it is late, the time is near, and because it is, there's a certain lifestyle that we ought to live. The whole theme of the passage is the lateness of the hour. I want you to look at verse 11 where it says, knowing the time. in verse 11. That word here for time is kairos, which does not refer to the normal passage of time, but to a certain moment of time. A special, significant time. It refers to an important, decisive moment in history. So let me ask you a question. What do you think the Apostle Paul is referring to here? I think he's referring to the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The time is near, and I believe, beloved, we are living in the last hours of the last days. And because the day is near, the Apostle Paul is going to give us some advice. Now, I've told you this before, but in the Capitol building in Washington, D. C. , there's an inscription in the dome of the building that few people know about And it reads this one far-off divine event towards which all of creation moves. And one guide said it was put there on purpose by one God-fearing official who said that it talks about the second coming of Christ and it's something that our nation ought to be concerned about. And in fact all of us should be concerned about this one event. Someone said we ought to live as if Jesus died yesterday, rose today, and is coming back tomorrow. And so we have to understand the time. That we're in. That's what Paul's saying. Understanding the time. Do you remember in Matthew 16 there were a group of leaders that came to Jesus and they said, Lord, give us a sign. A sign from heaven And what did Jesus say? He said, you've been given signs, signs all around you. And then Jesus kind of used the popular saying, the way we say it today is red sky at night, sailor's delight, red sky at morning Sailors take warning. And and Jesus was telling them, look, you know how to look at the sky and read the weather, but you don't know the times. Listen what Matthew 16 says, and he answered and said unto them, When it is evening ye say, it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red. And lowering, O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky But you cannot discern the signs of the time. And his point is they were ignorant of the times. And the Apostle Paul is telling us here Listen, we have to know the time, and we have to know that this one event, this coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, is near, and because of that, there's a certain way we ought to live. There's a certain lifestyle that we ought to adapt. Now, based on that, then I want to give you three exhortations that the Apostle Paul gives us here in these verses. Because the day is near, here's number one, pay up. Pay up, we are to practice love. Back up to verse number eight, because this is all in the context. Look at verse eight. Owe no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth hath fulfilled the law For this thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Now the Apostle Paul had just been talking about paying taxes And the Christians' obligation to pay their taxes in verse number seven. And so he continues for a moment talking about financial obligations. And one of the things Paul says is in verse number eight, owe no man anything. Now the big question that people ask when they come to this passage is, does this mean it's wrong for a Christian to borrow money? I've heard some argue that based on this verse here that it's wrong for a Christian to borrow money. And that's one interpretation of this. And this has caused some Christians to say, I'm going to pay everything in cash, and they don't buy a house or a car until they have cash. and they have no credit cards, and I've heard Christians argue this point. I don't think that's the interpretation of this, all right? I think the better interpretation is simply this. Once we have borrowed money, we have an obligation to pay our debts on time. And I think this is the proper interpretation. And let me tell you why. First of all, because there's no prohibition in the Bible against borrowing things from another. In fact, Jesus said this. He assumed the right to borrow in Matthew 5. 42 when he said this: give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you. So if it's wrong to borrow, then it must be wrong to lend. And here Jesus is saying, listen, give to the one who asks you, and don't turn away from the one. Who wants to borrow from you? I wish some banks would practice that, don't you? Uh if someone wants to borrow I'm just kidding, I don't know that for sure, but uh it's probably got us into trouble as it is, right? Uh but you you get the idea. There's nothing wrong with borrowing. There are other texts that say that. Exodus twenty-two twenty-five says this if you lend money to my people, to the poor among you ye are not to act as a creditor to him, ye shall not charge him interest. And so there was nothing wrong with lending. There's nothing wrong with borrowing. The only stipulation that God gave in the Bible was, when you lend out to someone, don't charge him interest. Don't act like a creditor. Just lend them without interest. Again, Leviticus 25. 37, ye shall not lend him money at interest. And so I think the point of verse 8 is not that a Christian should not borrow, but that they should never leave their debts unpaid. is imperative, continue present imperative, continuous force. Don't continue owing. Pay your debts is the idea there. Leon Morris, or excuse me, John Murray said this. This cannot be taken to mean that we never incur financial obligations. But it does condemn the looseness with which we contract debts and particularly the indifference, the indifference so often displayed in the discharging of them, end quote. So there's nothing wrong with borrowing Many businesses couldn't operate unless they borrowed some capital to make investments. Many farmers couldn't sow their seed in the ground unless they borrowed in order to sow the seed And many families couldn't afford to buy a home unless they had a mortgage and so on. There's nothing wrong with that, but the idea here is just pay. what what you owe. And the Greek is very strong. It's a double negative. No one, we can literally say it like this, no one, no one, twice it's a double negative. No one, no one owe anything. So it's very strong. But now having said that, let's move away from business and let's move on to relationships. Because I think the point Paul is making here is look again in verse 8. Owe no man anything, but watch this, but to love one another. For he that loveth another has fulfilled the law. And this is really the emphasis here. We must realize there's one debt that we will never pay off You realize tonight every one of you are in debt and you'll never be able to fully pay this debt? You say, what is it? It's the debt to love one another It's the debt to love others. We can never say I've done all the loving I need to do. You never meet someone like that. Someone that's kind of gruff and well I've already loved all I need to love. I don't know anyone else anything That's never true. You always owe it to others to love them, to love one another. And this is really the point that Paul is saying. You have a debt, pay up. And the debt is the debt of love. Notice what he says, for he that loveth another has fulfilled what? Has fulfilled the law. And the law is all about loving God and loving your fellow man. That's the whole focus of the law in the Old Testament. You know, when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, he had two tablets. On one side, the commandments had to do with loving God, and on the other tablet, it had to do with loving your neighbor So you love God vertically, you love your neighbor horizontally, and if you love God with all your heart and you love your neighbor as yourself, the Bible says you are fulfilling all of the requirements of the Old Testament law Jesus said this, right down Matthew 22, verse 35. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, saying, Master. Which is the great commandment in the law? And Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. This is the first and great commandment And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And listen to what Jesus said in verse 40. And on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. That is all of the Old Testament law. Is fulfill on these commandments. Love God with all your heart. Love your neighbor as yourself. And if you look in the Old Testament laws, what you'll find is that all of the laws are designed around those two things right there. Every little law that you might look at and say, well this seems a bit uh in inconsequential, if you'll trace it and look at it, you'll find that the core principle of that law is either about loving God or loving your neighbor. That's it. For example, the Apostle Paul refers to this in 1 Corinthians 9 9. He says, For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox which treads out the grain. And then Paul adds this little comment. Is it for oxen that God is concerned? In other words, Paul says that God put that law there, because he's concerned about oxen, thou shalt not muzzle the ox. that treads out the grain. No, that wasn't because God was concerned about oxen. It's all about treating your neighbor right. You see, because back in that day, a man sometimes would borrow another man's oxen He was w once to tread out the grain. He would have a place where the ox would tread out the grain. It would tread on the grain would separate the uh the grain from the chaff. and the chaff would blow away. And as the oxen would tread out the grain, normally they would let the oxen eat to keep up his strength. But sometimes a man would borrow another man's oxen and then he'd put a muzzle on it And you know what would happen? The oxen couldn't eat. And so he would send the ox back to his neighbor starving. And that ox would eat his neighbor's grain rather than his grain. He would eat his profits rather than the man who borrowed the ox his profits. And to kind of put it in our day today, that would be like, you know, borrowing someone's vehicle You go to someone and say, can I borrow your car? Sure. And you lend them the car on a full tank of gas and they return it to you on an empty tank. That's kind of the similar thing. You know, if you borrow a a car with a full tank of gas, give the car back with a full tank of gas. If you borrow someone's oxen fully fed, give the oxen back fully fed. Don't muzzle the oxen. You see, God wasn't so much concerned about oxen. God was concerned that you treat your neighbor with love. That's the whole point. That we love others. And then Paul continues on. Look in verse 9. For this, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love And there Paul is mentioning all the commandments on the second part of the tablet that Moses brought down, that all deal with loving your neighbor as yourself. He mentions adultery. Adultery is is comes from an impure lust, never from pure love. You remember when Joseph was tempted? By Potiphar's life, you remember what he said? He said, how can I do this to my master? He's given me all this. And how can I do this to my God How can I sing greatly against God and do this evil? And so he mentioned his love for his master and his love for God And that was the thing that kept him doing the right thing. But that's the fulfilling of the law, loving God and loving your neighbor. And look in verse 10. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law So here's the first exhortation. You know what? We're living in the last days, beloved, and because the day is near, you know what we've got to do? We have got to love one another like we never have before. Because we're living in difficult days. Put the pedal to the metal in loving one another. Pay up, Paul says. Now here's the second thing: wake up. Not only pay up, we're to practice love, but number two, wake up and cast off the darkness. Look at verse 11. And that, knowing the time. That now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. And so verse 11 really is the alarm clock verse of the New Testament. It sounds the alarm and it says, wake up. It's time to wake up. Now, I just got back from a trip to Israel, an archaeological excavation. I want you to know that we had to wake up 3 30 in the morning. That's not the way to visit Israel, I just want you to know And we had to get up and have breakfast at four uh at five o'clock. Uh we were at the site. We had to I had to climb a mile upward on a side of a hill uh with a backpack fully loaded and a gallon of water because it was hot. And I want to tell you, when that alarm clock went off, you talk about a resisting temptation. But the alarm clock went off and it was time to wake up, get up, get to work Some of you bless your hearts. You work early hours. You go to work. You have to get up early. This verse here is the alarm clock. But it's an alarm clock to a sleeping church, and Paul is saying, wake up, wake up. Now, the imagery that's used here, I believe, I think Paul is tapping into uh an imagery that was prevalent in that time. I think he's referring here to a Roman soldier. He's going to refer about referring to putting on the armor of light. And a Roman soldier who was drafted into the army, who served, had a very difficult task. Of course, he was committed to defending uh his country to warfare and laying his life on the line and sometimes and I think this is the image right here when a Roman soldier knew that the battle was the next day. Sometimes Roman soldiers would go out the night before and they would live it up. They would have a good time because they didn't know whether or not they were going to die the next day in battle. And I think here the Apostle Paul is giving this imagery And verse 11 and verse 12. Look at verse 12. For the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Paul is saying, listen, the dawn is coming, and that means battle, and it's time to wake up and cast off the works of darkness. And put on the armor of light. Did you know back in this day the Roman soldiers had three distinct trumpet sounds at the beginning of a new day? And the first sound meant wake up. The first time they heard the trumpet it meant wake up. The second trumpet sound meant pack up. And the third trumpet sound meant march away. And I think Paul is referring here to the first trumpet blast. It's time to get up And Paul is speaking to us here as believers. You see, whether you realize it or not, beloved, when you got saved, you joined God's army. Did you know that? You are spiritual soldiers. And this is in hostile territory in which we live. I hate to tell you that, but this world is not our home. We're just passing through. This is hostile territory. We are engaged in warfare. And Paul says, listen, it's time to get up It's time to wake up, shake off the clothes of darkness, and put on the armor of light. There are pressing things at hand. Look what he says in verse 11. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. What does Paul mean by that? Well our salvation, as you know, it comes in three stages. We are justified, we're being sanctified, and we will be glorified. Justification is an act where God makes us righteous. He declares us righteous. Sanctification is the process whereby He is making us more like Christ. Glorification will be the act when God makes us just like the Lord Jesus Christ when Jesus Christ returns. In justification, he delivered me from the punishment of sin. In my sanctification, he's delivering me from the power of sin. One day in my glorification, he's going to deliver me from the presence of sin. And I think what Paul is saying here is that the Lord is coming back, and when Jesus returns, our salvation will be complete The third stage of our salvation will be completed, so our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. And that should be true of every Christian here. We are getting close to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want to tell you something. If the coming of Christ was close in Paul's day, how much closer is it today? And the day in which we live. We are 2,000 years removed from the days of the Apostle Paul. And that's why we're seeing the things that we're seeing in this world today Some people are shaken by this friend. Don't be alarmed. Everything's right on course the way God said. Adrian Rogers used to say it's getting gloriously dark. Because it's always darkness just before the dawn. And so we have to get up, wake up. The Bible says, get out of your spiritual slumber, get out of your spiritual sleep, get out of your spiritual inactivity, get busy. is what he's saying. Write down 1 Corinthians 15, 34. Paul said, awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Ephesians 5. 14, wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light Now beloved, there are some believers that just they walk around as if they're they're half asleep, like they don't really are alert to what's going on. And there are some churches and some believers that need a spiritual awakening because the truth of the matter is they're acting as if they're dead spiritually, and they need to be awakened. I read this article several years ago. The Associated Press released a story about a man who was 20 years old. His name was Gene Tipps of Seymour, Texas. Listen to this. On May 21st, 1967, Mr. Tips was involved in a very serious automobile accident in which he suffered severe head injuries. And he was in a coma for three weeks, after which he remained in a state of unconsciousness for eight solid years. It says during that extended period of time, this was his daily routine. His parents would prop him up in bed, move him to a chair. Brace him up by putting pillows around him, and then feed him. They would usually have to open his mouth, help him move his jaw, so he could chew the food. He would then swallow, and while he finished eating, they would comb his hair They would talk to him for a while, then they would put him back to bed, and for eight long years, that was his daily experience. Then one day, after all those years of slumber, Gene Tipps woke up. His nurse was startled because she was trying to give him some medic medicine when he awakened. His parents ran in. They shouted for joy. They called the doctor. Everyone was thrilled and shocked that he had awakened Later someone asked him, what was it like to be asleep for eight years? And this is what Tiff said. He said it's all very strange. He said, My girlfriend is now married and has children. He said the war in Vietnam is over He said to everyone else, I'm 28, but in my mind I'm still only 20. He slept from 1967 until 1975 When he went to sleep, LBJ was president of the United States. When he woke up, Jimmy Carter was smiling in the White House. He slept right through Richard Nixon. I guess if you're going to sleep for someone, that would be a good one. But anyway, can you imagine being asleep for eight years? Eight years See, that's a long time. Well, friend, I know someone that's been asleep longer than that. And sadly, I think it's the church in America that needs to be awakened. You know, there are times in history when the church, the spiritual life of the church is at a low ebb, where God has to move in And awaken a seemingly dead people, a dead church. And when those times of revival come, you know what they're called? They're called awakenings. When the Lord spiritually does something to his church. There was a time in America, in the early stages of America, New England was in a state of moral and spiritual decline. Church attendance had dropped off. The morals of the young people had sunk to new lows. Worldly values infiltrated the church. The church needed an awakening, and you know what the Lord did? God sent great men like Jonathan Edwards and George Whitfield who preached, and a great awakening came to America. And God did a great revival in our country. And a historian wrote that one could have left a bag of gold on the streets and it would not have been stolen during that time of awakening. Such was the state of people's morals at that time. Sailors coming from Britain were known to have fallen on their knees in repentance before the ship ever reached the dock because such was the atmosphere of the power of God. In New England at that time when the spiritual awakening came. I want to tell you something different. That's what we need in America today. And who knows but that God will do that again if we get serious and we seek the face of God Well friend, if you're putting your hope in political office, stop putting your hope in that. I'm not saying don't go vote and don't get involved in those processes. Go ahead and do all that. Do what a Christian should do. Do what is your moral obligation to do, vote your conscience. But friend, let me tell you something. If you think The next election is going to change our country. You're sadly mistaken. The only hope for this nation is God and a spiritual awakening Where God's people seek the Lord. And so there needs to be an awakening. The Apostle Paul is saying the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Let's wake up, the Bible says. Wake up. And now let me give you the last thing here. Number one, I said, pay up, practice Christian love. Number two, wake up. It's time to cast off the works of darkness. But I want you to write down number three here, and that is dress up. Dress up. And that is put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what it says in verse 14. But put ye on the Lord Jesus, and make not provision for the flesh. We're to literally be clothed with him. Clothed with the Lord Jesus. Put on the Lord Jesus. And again, this comes with the idea of putting on the armor of light. What is putting on the armor of light? It is the same thing as putting on, literally be clothed with the Lord Jesus and notice what it says in verse 14 and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Now many times in the New Testament we're told to put off and put on Put off the old man. Put on the new man. This is the same exact thing that the Apostle Paul is telling us right here. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Wear the clothing of Christ. And that is simply an image that says we are to live and walk like the Lord Jesus When people see you, they should see Jesus Christ in you. They should see Christ in your life. And make no provision for the flesh. It is walking in purity, walking in righteousness, don't give occasion for the flesh. Someone said If you don't want to fall, then don't walk in slippery places. And that's so very true. Many times we fall because we have made provision for the flesh. I heard about a man who was on a diet, he was doing well, but every day he drove by Krispy Kreme, donuts. One day he said, Lord, if it's your will for me to have a donut, let there be a parking space in front of the store And he said sure enough after the t seventh time around the store there was a spot right in front of the door. You know that's called making provision for the flesh. If you're tempted with alcohol, then don't go buy a liquor store. If you're tempted with lust, get rid of your internet or put guards on it or watch or get rid of your TV if you can't control it Get rid of all those things. Make no provision for the flesh. In Australia, there was a pastor named Frank Borham. And once he preached an interesting sermon series called Texts That Made History. And his whole sermon series were verses of the Bible that had a huge impact in the life of certain people. For example, Martin Luther, you know what his verse was, Romans 1. 17, the just shall live by faith. David Livingston, his verse was, Lo, I am with you always, even until the end of the age, that great missionary to Africa. John Newton's verse was Deuteronomy 15, 15, Thou shalt remember that thou was a bondman in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God redeemed me. John Newton was the slave trader who was saved and wrote Amazing Grace. But Romans 13, these verses that we just read, verses 12 on down to verse 14, these became the verses that had an impact. And the life of a man by the name of Augustine. Now, in case you don't know, Augustine was one of the early church fathers. He's considered by some to be one of the greatest theologians in the history of the church. He was born on November 13, 354 A. D. His father was a pagan, but his mother, named Monica, was a godly Christian. And she prayed passionately that her son would be a Christian. Now his father, he wanted him to have the best education of the day, and so he sent them to the best schools of the day. And Augustine was educated in the city of Carthage, that corrupt city, and he became a brilliant, successful professor of rhetoric. He was considered one of the greatest professors of his day. He was appointed by the Roman government as the official professor of rhetoric. But there was a dark side to Augustine. And he wrote about it in his book, The Confessions. He was a very immoral man. He lived a wild and wasteful life. He committed fornication, had relationships with women that he didn't marry. And during those wild, immoral, loose living days, his mother continued to pray fervently. For her son to be saved. One day, Augustine was in Milan, Italy, visiting a friend. This friend was rich. He lived on a huge estate. And he took a stroll in his friend's garden. And from time to time his friend would read the scripture to Augustine. This only increased his torment and his distress over his condition. But one day Augustine was walking by himself in the garden. There was a bench there in the garden. He sat down on the bench. Next to him on the bench there happened to be a Bible. And it was open And there were children that were playing in the background. And you know as children play as they sometimes do, they sing while they play, and these children were playing a game and they were singing tolalege, tolalege, which means pick up and read, pick up and read. So here he is. Sitting on a bench, a Bible next to him, it's already open. He's hearing these children saying, pick it up and read. So that's what Augustine did. He reached down, he picked up the Bible. It was already open. And he read the first verses that were right there. You know what they were? Look again in Romans thirteen, twelve. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness. Not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. Those were the words. that he read, and it was like lightning that struck him. Those were the perfect verses for Augustine because those verses describe his lifestyle. And right there he decided to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And Augustine later wrote this in his confessions. No further would I read, nor did I mean. For instantly, as the sentence ended, by a light, as it were, it infused into my heart And all the gloom vanished away. And Augustine was converted at that moment. And you know the first thing he did? He went to his mother and he told his mother what God had done and she rejoiced that God had answered her prayers. Let me tell you something. There's power in a mother's prayers that aren't, didn't there? She rejoiced. She died not too long after that. But Augustine went on to become a pastor and a theologian, one of the greatest in the history of the church. And he later tells that one time after his conversion that he was walking down the street in the city of Rome when suddenly one of the women of his past life saw him. And she called out And she said, Augustine, Augustine. And he turned and he ran the other way. And he thought of this verse, make no provision for the flesh. So he ran. And she said, Augustine, it is I. And he said, Yes, but it is no longer I as he ran the other way. After he was saved for some time, he wrote his testimony about the grace of God. In his book called The Confession. Let me read to you. It's 13 short chapters, but on the first page of the book, he wrote this famous sentence that we all know. This is what he said. Thou hast formed us for thyself. And our hearts are restless until they find rest in thee. Isn't that so true? Our hearts are restless. until they find rest in thee. And this was the major testimony of his life. Augustine tried everything that the world could offer. And he came up empty and he realized that true peace and rest came through knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. And he put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he began to live for Christ. And this is what the Apostle Paul is telling us here. Because the day is near, pay up There's a debt that you'll never be able to fully pay, and that's the debt of love. We are to love one another because the day is near. We are to wake up, cast off the works of darkness And then we are to dress up, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. How many here can honestly say, I know that I know That I know the Lord Jesus. He's my Savior and I praise him tonight. Would you raise your hand? Say that's my testimony. I have found rest in him. Put your hand Maybe you're here tonight and you couldn't raise that hand with assurance. The call is to you tonight. The day is near. Christ is coming. You better put on the Lord Jesus Christ. You better come to Him tonight. If you don't know with absolute certainty, That Jesus is your Savior. Friend, I encourage you. If I were where you are, if I were sitting there, nothing would keep me from calling upon Jesus. He's the only hope this world has. And if you haven't made sure of your salvation, I want to invite you this very moment. Would you pray a prayer? Pray it right there where you are. Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner And I want to cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Save me today, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. Friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, you can be a child of God. And maybe there's some Christians here today, and maybe you have not been walking the way you should walk. Maybe you have been asleep, and you need a spiritual awakening in your life. You need revival. Would you just say right there where you are, Lord, bring revival right here, right to this spot, right to me. Help me to wake up Knowing that the day is near. And I want to live for you, Lord Jesus. I don't know about you, but I don't want to waste any days. I want to give every day to the Lord Father, bless these words to hearts. Use them to bless your people, we pray in His precious and matchless name. Amen.