Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of Ephesians, chapter five, and look at verse number fifteen. This is we've been going through Ephesians here on Sunday morning, and we're in chapter five. And we come now to verse fifteen. I want to speak about because the days are evil. Look at verse number fifteen. See then that you walk circumspectly not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil Have you ever noticed how dark it's getting in our land? When I say dark, I'm talking about moral and spiritual darkness. There was a time when Americans respected the Bible. There was a Gallup poll taken in 1963 where 65% of Americans believe the Bible was the Word of God. Today that number is only 32%. There was a time when Americans were familiar with Bible doctrine, and um at least somewhat reasonably familiar. You could say believe in Jesus and people would know what you mean. Now people seem to be mystified about that There was a time when Americans accepted absolute standards. Today, 70% of Americans reject moral absolutes. according to another poll that was taken. And another Barna poll says that many Americans believe that there are certain activities that are morally acceptable. including gambling, um, em immorality, abortion, um, and so on. I can just go down the list. You don't need me to give you all the details. You live in this world, you know We're living in an evil age. We're living in dark days. Sins that were once unspeakably bad, people now wear them as a badge of honor. Uh people march down the streets uh in rebellion against God, proud of their sinful lifestyle. Well this doesn't surprise us because the Bible tells us that this was going to happen in the last days, right? Paul said to Timothy, know this also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. To all of to all of us who are believers, we know that we're living in the last days because we see all these things happening. And before the time that our Lord comes, uh the Bible says it's going to get worse. It's going to get dark. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say it's getting gloriously dark because we know the darker it gets, we know the closer we are to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But the question is, how are we to live in these evil days? How are we as Christians to navigate through this world? This is what Paul's reminding us of here in this passage of Scripture. Again in verse fifteen, see then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Verse sixteen, redeeming the time because the days are evil. That word evil there is a word that means actively opposed to the things of God. How are we to live in these evil days? Now Paul is continuing an argument that he began in chapter four about how to live as believers a sanctified life. Now remember, with the book of Ephesians, you can divide into two sections. Chapters 1 through 3 speaks about our riches in Christ. Chapters 4 through 6 speaks about our responsibilities in Christ. Chapters 1 through 3 speak about our blessings. Chapter 4 through 6 speaks about our behavior. Chapter 1 through 3 speaks about our wealth and Christ. Chapter 4 through 6, our walk. in Christ. And despite the fact that we live in such an evil culture that is opposed to the things of God, Paul says we are to walk worthy of our calling. That was in chapter 4, verse 1. We're to walk differently, not as other Gentiles, Paul said, chapter 4, verse 17. We are to walk in love, chapter 5, verse number 1. And we saw last week we are to walk as children of light, chapter 5, verse 8. Now continuing in that same context, we are now to walk wisely. in these evil days. This is the whole thrust of what Paul is trying to tell us here in these verses that we read. And he gives us three clear commands on how we are to do that. Here's number one. Be careful with God's time. Again, verse sixteen, redeeming the time because the days are evil. This verse is a reminder to us that time is a precious gift that God has given, and we dare not waste any of it Psalm 118, verse 24 says, This is the day which the Lord has made. We shall rejoice and be glad in it. Now think about it. Each day is a unique gift that God has given us. And once the day passes, we'll never get it back. Today is a unique day. And once it's gone, it's over with. And so we must learn not to waste time. If we waste time, we're wasting a precious gift that God has given us, the thing that life is made up of. Think about the sin of murder. What does a murderer do? You say, well, a murderer takes another man's life. Well, no, they're going to die anyway. What they take is they take time from them. They take the precious gift of time. God has only given so much of it. All of us will run out of it eventually. God said to Adam in Genesis 3:19, For dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. I read about a man, an American man named Arthur Reed, who was 123 years old. And the facts about his life are really astounding. He married for the third time when he was 92. He took five-mile walks when he was one hundred. He rode a bicycle until he was 110. And he worked until he was 116. When they asked him the secret of his life, he said, they made me out of good dirt. Well, it must have been good dirt. But nevertheless, he did die. And it doesn't matter how good the dirt that you you were made out of, we're all going to die. And so God has given us a certain measure of time. And you know, time goes by so quickly. Moses had that in mind when he wrote Psalm 90. Remember Moses spent forty years as a prince of Egypt, then forty years as a shepherd in the Sinai uh by the uh Sinai Peninsula. And then he spent forty years leading the children of Israel out of Egypt. But while he was in that journey, ready to lead them over to the promised land, he wrote Psalm ninety, verse number twelve. He prayed, So teach us to number our days that we might apply our hearts unto wisdom. Maybe Paul was thinking about that verse when he wrote his advice to us in verse 15, when he says, verse 16, redeeming the time, and that you walk Circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Be wise in the way that you walk, redeeming the time the word wise here, Sophia, where we get uh the our word uh we hear it in the word philosophy, love of wisdom. But then in verse 17 he says, not as fools. That's a Sophia. Alpha negative negates it, the meaning of it, opposite, unwise. As fools, don't be unwise, be wise. Now, wisdom in the Bible is not a matter of your intellect. It's not a matter of your IQ. It's a matter of the decisions that you make. I've said it before, it's not your degrees, it's your decisions. It's practical, it's not abstract. Your wisdom is according to the decisions that you make, and those decisions should be decisions that please the Lord. You see, wisdom begins with what? The fear of the Lord, right? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. What is the fear of the Lord? It's a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. And a person who fears God is going to make decisions that show their reverence to God. It's a reverential attitude that leads to righteous decisions. And part of that is how you choose to live your life day by day. That's what walk means. Walk is a pattern of behavior. How we live day by day. And Paul said we need to walk wisely, not unwise. Well, how do we walk in wisdom? Well, Paul gives us some advice here. First of all, know your circumstances in verse, again, verse 15. See that you walk circumspectly. Not as fools, but as wise. Now circumspectly is not a word that we use a lot nowadays. In fact, other versions of the Bible, when they take they translate this Greek word here, they they translate it like this. Look carefully, how you will Or be very careful how you live. But I like the translation that the King James Translators use uses here in the word circumspectly, because I think it best reflects what the Greek word is. It's a combination of two words, this Greek word which means to look with a discerning eye, and also a word that means to to look accurately, to investigate all around. And circumspect has the idea of a circle looking in a circle, looking all around. That's the idea here. I remember the first time I ever went to London, I was coming back from a trip to Africa where I spoke to pastors there for about a week and I had a pastor friend in London who said, Man, stop over. Want you to sp spend a few days with me. So I got into London really late. And I got took a taxi to Westminster and it was really late, dark, I had jet lagged. Um I wasn't really uh thinking well at the time. And I got my things and I was going to cross the street and I looked One way, and but I forgot that in London they drive on the opposite side of the street. And I was about to step out into the road when a car just came whizzing by Had I stepped out a second earlier, it would have hit me. Would have really damaged that car. No, I'm just kidding. But uh And I you talk about waking me up. I mean it really woke me up. And then I remembered, man, I was foolish. Uh I was half asleep Uh didn't really uh think about my circumstances. You know, I wasn't walking wisely. And I'll tell you, since that day in London, I've never crossed the street the same ever again. Now when I step out, I look, you know how your mother used to say, look both ways? Well, I looked four ways five times. I mean my head's on a swivel. I'm looking all around before I step anywhere. That's the idea behind this word here, circumspect. It means to look all around. To be careful, to understand completely your circumstances. Because as believers now, you're walking in a dangerous world. Do you realize that You walk in a dark world, an evil world. Satan has planted spiritual landmines all over the place. And you need to be careful how you walk. You need to walk circumspectly, understanding your circumstances, and make sure that you make decisions that please the Lord as you consider your circumstances. Don't be foolish. And the way that you walk. Here's the second piece of advice. Sei your opportunities. Again, verse 16. Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. The word redeem, to buy back, literally. It's a middle-voiced verb which means to buy for yourself. to use for your own advantage. So it has the idea of making the best use of time. And the word for time here is is uh is not Kranas, which is clock time, it's really it's kairos, which is a certain period of time, and the fact that the the the article is in front of it, the time Suggested this is a special time. In other words, there are opportunities that come that you may not, you will never get again. The time, redeem me the time, buy up that time These opportunities, these special things that God presents at that time in your life, don't waste it There are opportunities there that you will not get again. You know, God will often give us divine appointments. He'll set things in our way, people that we meet. For a reason. These are strategic opportunities that God gives us. And the apostle is saying, look, we need to redeem the time. Use that time. Don't waste that time. In his biography, Billy Graham wrote called Just As I Am. He talks about a story where he met President John F. Kennedy. It was in nineteen sixty-three at the National Prayer Breakfast. And after it was over, President Kennedy said to Billy Graham, Billy, I really would like to talk to you. Would you mind coming back to the White House with me? I have some questions. And Billy Graham said, I remember I wasn't feeling well and I had the flu. And I he said, Mr. President, I really appreciate that, but I'm not feeling well right now. Whatever I have, I don't want to give it to you. So can we do this at another time? And he said the president politely said, of course. And then Billy Graham said, not long after that he was assassinated. And he says, that haunts me. What did he want to know? What did he want to talk about? He said it was a moment that I could never recover again. Listen, seize the opportunities that God will give you in this life. That's what Paul is referring to here. So be careful with God's time. But here's number two. Be committed to God's will. Look at verse 17. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Paul said, understand God's will. Again, this is a command. Understand the will of God. Now, we can divide the will of God into three categories. I'd like to do this, it simplifies it for me. There's God's sovereign will. And God's sovereign will we don't have to look for it because it's always done. The Bible says that He reigns, that our God is in the heavens, He does whatever He has pleased. That's called being sovereign. And anything that happens in this world, God has allowed it to happen because He sovereignly reigns, so we don't have to look for God's sovereign will. We know that whatever happens, whatever he allows to happen, God has a wise purpose behind it, and we can't understand that purpose. The Bible says, For who has known the mind of the Lord, who has been his counselor? Nobody, because God is all wise He has a reason for everything. But then there's God's standard will. And this is laid down in Scripture. Again, we don't have to look for this because if you want to know God's will, it's right here, sitting in your lap. Right there is the will of God God gives us his will and his word through his commands and through the principles that we get from the Word of God. If you want to know God's will, you have to know God's word. But then there's God's special will. And when I talk about God's special will, this is a where God has a plan for each and every life A special will. God's will for me is not the same as God's will is for you. God has a different plan for everyone. That is his special will, a course that I have to follow because God's laid it out for me, and then things that you have to do that God has laid out for you. And God desires, and I think this is what Paul's referring to here about understand the will of the Lord. God wants his people to know the will that he has for their life. What God has given you. Look in Ephesians 2. Look in verse number 8 and 9. You know these verses real well in Ephesians 2. What does it say in verse number 8? For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God. Verse 9, not of works lest any man should boast. For we verse ten, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Listen to this, which God has before ordained that we should what? Walk walk in them. God has a special will for you. He has works that he wants you to do. And so this is the will that Paul is referring to here. God wants you to know his will. And it takes wisdom on the pat on the part of a believer to know this. You say, well, how can I know God's will? And some people have mistaken ideas about God's will. They think it's like more like a roadmap. It's not like a roadmap, it's more like a relationship. When God sent the Israelites to the promised land, he didn't give them a map, he gave them himself. And if you want to know God's will, you're going to have to walk with God. You're going to have to have a relationship with God. And some people might be tempted to think, well, it's too late for me. I've wasted so much of my life. Let me just say, it's never too late for you to find and know and do the will of God. Where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. And the Bible says in the book of Joel, chapter 2, verse 25, that God can make up the years that the locust has eaten. Samson killed more Philistines in his death than he did in his life. God was able through the life of Samson to make up some time. And God is able to make up things in your life if you follow God's will. You say, how do I know God's will? Well, there's the word of God. Again, it starts with God's Word. If you find God's standard will, that'll help you in finding his special will. So you have to know God's word. That is the chief instrument that God uses for revealing his will to his people. But then there's also the providence of God, 1 Corinthians 16, 9, a great door, an effectual, is open unto me, and there are many adversaries. God will open doors in front of you, God will close doors. You have to with wisdom read the providence of God around you Where he opens doors, where he closes doors. Then there's the peace of God. Colossians 3. 15. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which you are called. In other words, the word rule there has the idea of umpire, arbitrator, referee. Uh the peace of God is that umpire in our heart that calls the spiritual balls and strikes, if you will, or he's the referee that throws the flag when you get out of bounds, or blows the whistle when there's a penalty. The peace of God will rule, should rule in your heart. And when you're not doing what the Lord wants you to do, there will be the absence of that peace. The referee will be throwing the flag. But then there's the Spirit of God, Romans 8. 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. The Holy Spirit will plant desires in your heart. He will give you a burden for certain things. He'll convict you about other things. I know a lot of this is subjective, but of course we always use God's word to guide us even in all these things. And discerning these things. And then there's the people of God. The Bible says, For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and in the multitude of counselors there is safety. Find spiritually mature, wise people that know the Word of God that can help you in making decisions about the will of God for your life. But I will say this: if you want to know God's will, the first thing, the most important thing is this, you have to be willing to do it. There has to be a submission. God's not going to show his special will to you if you're not willing to do it. But I tell you this, you get right with God. You surrender yourself to God. You say, God, anything you want me to do God, here's my signature. I'm not going to fill in the contract. You fill that in. Whatever you want me to do, I will do it. And you know what? You won't have to find God's will. God's will find you. It'll find you. So Paul says in these evil days, be careful with God's time. Be committed to God's will. But then here's number three. Be controlled by God's Spirit. Be controlled by God's Spirit. Look at verse 18. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with water the Spirit. Now Paul is making a a contrast here, so I want you to see the contrast, first of all. He's making a contrast between the gods of the the people of Ephesus and the true and the living God of heaven. Did you know that the people in Ephesus believed that To get drunk was the way that you learn the will of their gods and serve their gods. Drunkenness was a part of their worship The city of Ephesus was a center for pagan worship. They worshiped the god of wine who was called Bacchus. He was the son of Zeus, the chief god of the Greek pantheon of gods. And this cult of Bacchus was a religion of ecstasy. It was a religion of emotionalism, where people get themselves worked up into a frenzy. It was very popular. And the worshippers in this ritual, as they got themselves worked up, would engage in all kinds of atrocities, all kinds of sexual perversions, and there was always also music. and there was dancing and there was feasting. It was called a Bacchanellian feast. If you look that word up in the uh in the dictionary, you'll see next to it, it'll talk about a drunken orgy and that's basically what it was The key element in this pagan system was drunkenness. And by getting drunk, they believed that they elevated the worshiper, and you were able to get in touch with the gods, and you would get carried away in all kinds of ecstasies. Which some of that included in speaking in an unknown tongue. And Paul's saying, look, don't do that. That's not of God. Be not drunk with wine, which leads to all kinds of excess and a lack of control. But on the other hand, be filled with the Spirit There's a contrast. When a Christian is filled with the Spirit, you don't lose control, you're brought under control. That's the whole point here. I heard of a lady who damaged her automobile in order to collect the insurance. She had to fill out a report. And this is what she wrote. She said, I was backing my car out of the gr of the garage. I lost sight of the driveway and got on the lawn. She said, I knock I went across the the lawn through the hedge, knocked over a garbage can, and then knocked over the mailbox. She said, then I went down over the curb, hit my neighbor's automobile, and then she said, and then I lost control She probably lost control a little bit sooner than that. As believers, we don't want to lose control We want to be under the control of the Holy Spirit. And everyone's under the control of something, some substance, some thing, some person. As believers, we are to be under the control of the Holy Spirit. That's the way we walk. That's the way we live. So notice the command. Be not drunk with wine when it is excess. But here's the command. Be filled with the Spirit. This is an imperative. This is not a suggestion. This is a command. To fail to obey the command of God is a sin. There's a negative command here. Be not drunk with wine. There's a positive command. Be filled with the Spirit. If if I got drunk, that would be a sin, right? If I came and tried to preach to you being drunk, uh you would form a a a committee and say, we got to get rid of Pastor Harmon. He can't do that. And you would be right But it's just the biggest sin for me not to be under the control of the Holy Spirit is for me to be drunk. And it's true for every believer. This is a command. This is God saying, be filled, be under the control of the Holy Spirit. This is present tense. Be being filled. Constantly be filled This is a day-by-day thing. Again, we're walking every day of our life under the control of the Holy Spirit. That is the default mode for the Christian. That's what he's saying here. Every day we must yield ourselves to the Holy Spirit, consciously claim that Spirit's fullness in our life. It is a present tense verb. It's also plural. It's for all of us, not just for the preacher. You say, well, you know, you're a pastor, you have to be filled. Well, you too too, but if you're a Christian, it's for all of us, not just for certain people. But it's passive in voice, meaning it's something that God has to do for us. We can't do it for ourselves. God has to do it for us. And why does God want us to be filled? Because He wants to be a control of our life, where everything is under the control of the Holy Spirit. And you'll notice that when a person is controlled by the Spirit, they'll have a special boldness to them. You know, remember in the book of Acts, chapter 2, when the Holy Spirit fell upon the Believers that prayed in their in the upper room there, and the people mocked them and said, They're filled with new wine. And Peter got and said, Oh no, that's not what this is. This is the promise of Joel. I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. And and and they will prophesy. You see, uh a drunken person has an unusual boldness about them. There's something about being drunk that loosens their tongue. But it's equally true about a person who's filled with the Spirit. There'll be a divine boldness where we will be willing to speak the word of God and speak for our Lord. There's a boldness there, but notice the characteristics of it. How do we know that a person is filled with the Holy Spirit? Well, there'll be joy. Look at verse 19. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. There will be an inner joy, an inner peace, a contentment that is contagious. And it's a joy that naturally breaks forth in singing You'll want to sing the praises of God. This isn't necessarily in a public setting, but in a private setting, wherever you go, you'll be filled with joy. You'll want to sing God's praise. There'll be this inner song in your heart. Billy Sunday said, if you have no joy in your religion, there's a leak in your Christianity somewhere. Charles Fergus said, holy joy will beautify you. There'll be joy. But then there'll be thankfulness. Look at verse 20. Giving thanks. Always for all things on the God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. You'll just have a thankful spirit. You'll realize how much God has blessed you. You won't look at your burdens, you'll be focused on your blessings. And you'll have a thankful heart. You won't have an arrogant sense of entitlement. There'll be a humble sense of gratitude for everything that God has done in your life. But then there will be another thing, submission. Look at verse 21. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. When we're filled with the Holy Spirit, a person will be subject to others. You'll be subject to spiritual authority. You'll be subject to any authority that God has put in your life. There will be a willingness to submit to the needs of others. Self is taken off the throne. Jesus Christ reigns on the throne of your heart, and you're in absolute submission to Him. So, we know we're living in the last days. We know that it's dark and there are dangers all around And God doesn't want us hiding away in fear. No. How are we to live in these evil days? Be careful with God's time. Be committed to God's will. Be controlled by God's Spirit. God wants to use us as lights in this dark world. And we can't do that on our own. We have to be under the control of God God. Amen? Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed, let me just ask you, would you just take a minute there in prayer and would you just search your own heart to ask God to to do this for you, to help you in these areas? Maybe you've been taking for granted the time that God's given you. And it's registered now that you know what? You only have so many days. You're one day closer to running out in the hourglass of your life. You only have so much time. Don't waste it. Use it for God. Redeem the time because the days are evil. Walk circumspectly. Are you committed to the will of God? Are you willing to say here this morning Father, I absolutely submit and commit myself to you. Whatever days I have left, I want to give them all to you. And here's the blank contract, God, with my signature. I'm submitted. Show me your will. Help me to walk in your will. And then would you right now yield yourself to the Holy Spirit? Consciously claim the fullness of the Spirit in your life. We we need it We need it for everyday living. We can't do this on our own And if you're here today, you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ, I want to encourage you today, make that decision right now right now say yes I'm saying yes to Christ I'm turning from my sin I'm turning to Christ the gospel is this that Jesus came As the virgin-born Son of God lived a perfect life, took all of your sins upon himself on the cross, satisfied God's wrath for your sin. Paid your sin debt so that salvation is now a gift that you receive when you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And friend, if you haven't done that, please, I'm pleading with you today, put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ for your salvation. Pray and say, Lord, forgive me. God be merciful to me as sinner. Save me. If you do that, friend, he will save you. Father, please use your word in every heart Speak to believers, Lord, that they know how to live in these evil days. And for those who don't know you, Lord, that they will put their full faith in Christ. Safe souls strengthen the body of Christ for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen