If you have a Bible, I hope you have one close by. Would you open please this morning to the book of Matthew, chapter twenty-one? The book of Matthew, chapter twenty-one. And I want to read this passage of Scripture with you, and I want you to follow along in your Bible and verses 1 down to verse number 11. Verse 1 of Matthew chapter 21. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethage, unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying unto them Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied and a colt with her. Loose them, and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken by the prophets, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon the foal of a donkey, and a colt the foal of a donkey. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and brought the donkey and the colt, and put them on them their clothes. And they set him thereon, and a very great multitude spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches from the trees and strolled them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. This particular narrative, and by the way, this is recorded in all four Gospels. scene of Jesus entering into Jerusalem. This particular story event in the life of Christ is one of the most important events in all of redemptive history. This is one of the most important days in all of redemptive history. We traditionally call this Sunday Palm Sunday, and that's because of what we read here, how the people with through palm leaves in the way when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on that historic day. Now why is this day so very important? And what does it have to do with you and me? It was this day that Jesus officially presented himself to Israel as their Messiah, and also to the world as the Messiah, the King. It demonstrated that Christ had come to be the king, to fulfill the purposes that God had given him It began what is the most important week in redemptive history is what we call the Passion Week. The dramatic events that took place on this day, on this Sunday, so many years ago, led to what happened at the end of that Passion Week. which would be the crucifixion of the Son of God, and then of course on Sunday, his resurrection. So on Sunday, on this Palm Sunday, so many years ago that This was the triumphal entry on Monday of that week. Jesus went and he cleansed the temple. He cursed the fig tree. On Tuesday, there were the controversies that Jesus had with Crucifixion. Saturday, Jesus is in the tomb, and then on Sunday is when Jesus came out of the tomb. But today we want to focus on this one event that initiates this Holy Week. which is the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. We could also call this the tragic entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Why would we do that? Well, because when Jesus entered into Jerusalem on this day so many years ago, the vast majority of people didn't really understand what was going on. They did not understand how important this day was. They did not know the significance of what Jesus was doing. They didn't really understand what he meant when he declared himself or he presented himself as the king. You say, well, now wait a minute. Doesn't the Bible say the peop people were crying out, Hosanna? Yeah, but those same people later on that week would be crying out, Crucify Him. They were kind of caught up in the hysteria of the day but they really truly didn't comprehend all of what was going on, the significance of Jesus presenting himself as the Messiah, as the king. In fact, when Luke records this account, Luke tells us that when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on that day, Jesus wept. There are only a few places in Scripture that record Jesus weeping, and this is one of them. The Bible says in Luke nineteen, verse forty one, and when he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace. But now they are hid from thine eyes. That is to say, they really didn't comprehend. They didn't understand. It was hidden from them. They didn't really fully get what Jesus was saying and presenting himself as. In fact, in Matthew 21 here, we saw in verse number 10, you might want to look at it again. It says that when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? Who is this? What's going on? This is the crucial question. The most important question that you'll ever answer in your life is that question, who is Jesus? Who is he? Some people may be wondering what does Palm Sunday have to do with me? I'm just trying to make it through this crisis. I'm just trying to survive what we're going on what's going on right now? Why should I be worried about what happened 2,000 years ago in Jerusalem? And the answer to that question is very simple, because it's a matter of life and death. Knowing who Jesus is Knowing what he was proclaiming on this day so many years ago is a matter of your eternal destiny. It's a matter of your life. Either Jesus is who he presented himself to be, or he's not. Either he is the Messiah, the Son of God, the Son of David, or he's not. And if he is the Messiah, that makes all the difference in the world. If Jesus is who he claimed to be, that means that He was the sinless Son of God. That means if he's sinless, that means he never told a lie. If he ever sinned or told a lie, he could not be the savior of the world. That means if he is who he claimed to be, he's sinless. He's the Son of God. That means he never told a lie. Everything he said was true. That means that there's only one way to heaven because Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father. But by me. That means that there's only one way of salvation. There's only one way to heaven, and that's through Jesus Christ. But it all goes back to this one thing. Is Jesus the son of God. Is he the King, the Messiah that He presented himself to be? Well the scripture Especially here in the Gospel of Matthew, what we're looking at this morning, answers with a resounding yes. Yes, Jesus is absolutely the Son of God. The Messiah, the Savior of the world, who would bear the sin of the world, take your sins and my sins upon himself on the cross, and offer salvation to the world. But this is a matter that every person has to settle in their heart. You have to settle this in your heart. And so what Matthew's going to do here is he's going to present three evidences in this narrative to support the claim that Jesus made that he is the king, the Messiah. And so if you're following along and you're taking notes, here's the first line of evidence. I w I call this the final preparation of the king. Look at verse one again of Matthew twenty-one. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethage unto the Mount of Olives. They sent, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying of them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway Ye shall find a a donkey tied in a colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord has need of them And straightway he will send them. Interesting that Matthew focuses on this one thing that Jesus is doing here. Jesus is preparing to present himself as the official king in Jerusalem on this day. And Matthew points to this one event right here, these things that Jesus is doing to prepare himself to present himself as king, because even in this these things here. There are little evidences of Jesus as to who he is in the way that Jesus even prepares to present himself. And let me just remind you that Matthew The whole gospel of Matthew is written to prove that Jesus is the King. Remember, he wrote this to Jewish people, and he wants to remind them that Jesus is the Son of David. He's God in the flesh. And what Matthew does in his gospel is like a lawyer, he compiles evidence, one piece of evidence after another after another. In chapter one, there's the testimony of history. He starts off with the genealogy of Jesus, proving he's the rightful son of David. He also proves he's the virgin-born son of God. Then he gives many prophecies In chapter 2 and chapter 3, there's the testimony of John the Baptist, his forerunner, who declares him to be the Son of God, the Lamb of God. In chapter 4, there's the testimony of Jesus' power. The Sermon on the Mount is the testimony of Jesus' words. And then in chapters 8 and 9, there's Matthew records the miracles. There's the testimony of all of Jesus' miracles. And on we could go. And all throughout the Gospel, Matthew is just presenting one thing after another. Finally, all the way to the end here, here in Matthew 21, Matthew is still giving yet more evidence that Jesus is the true Messiah. And he points it out even in the way that Jesus prepares to proclaim himself as the Messiah on this day. This is the only time in his ministry that Jesus actually planned and promoted In fact, if you read through the gospels, you'll find out that he deliberately avoided public scenes or demonstrations. You'll read the phrase that's written many times. It's not my hour's not yet come. It's not my time. He would do a miracle and people would want to push him forward. He said, It's not my time. Jesus knew that he was on a divine timetable. But finally, here on this day, the Bible says in John 12, 23, and Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. These were the words that Jesus spoke. on Palm Sunday, on that day. He knew it was the time. And so now he planned this public demonstration It was time to present himself as the Messiah, as the king. And so Jesus tells his disciples here to go into a village that was close by, right um right there at Bethage, when Jesus was On that day getting ready to go into Jerusalem the night before, he went to Bethany and spent some time there with uh Mary and Martha and Lazarus. Lazarus was the one that Jesus resurrected from Bethany. And the Bible tells us it was no secret that Jesus was in Bethany. It kind of spread. Many people came there to see him, and they also wanted to see Lazarus, the one that Jesus Rose from the dead. There was already a lot of tension in the air. It was a very highly charged atmosphere. And so Jesus says to his disciples, Go to this village of Bethage. And you'll find a cult tied. And he says, if any man asks you, you know, what are you doing, you just say, the Lord has need of him. Now, even in this, we see glimpses of Jesus as God. How did he know that the donkey would be there in that very location at that time? How did he know that? Not just the cult, but also the mother of the cold. So this would be two donkeys. How did Jesus know that it would be a cult that was never written upon. The Bible and the Gospels talks about that. All of this is a demonstration of the omniscience of the Lord Jesus. His omniscience knows something else. It knows all about you. It knows all about me. We should remember that about our Lord Jesus. He knows everything about you, everything about me. I was reading this week. um how that there are certain people that are a bit nervous because um with this coronavirus that is out there um there's the stay-at-home order not just in the state of Maryland but in many states And many are f finding that people aren't obeying that order. And so there's this idea that they're tracking people with their with their mobile phones. Did you know that your mobile phone people are able to track you and know where you are? If you have a mobile phone, does that kind of make you a little bit nervous? Well, let me tell you something even more powerful than that. Jesus can track where you are. He knows exactly where you are. Not only does he know where you are, he knows the thoughts of your heart. He knows what you're going to think and what you're going to say long before you ever say it And this should not make us nervous as God's children. This should give us comfort to know that the Lord is watching over all of us. But we see here in this Even in the preparation, evidences of who Jesus is. There's the final preparation. But then the second thing is, write down the fulfilled prophecy. Look in verse number four. Now, why did Jesus have his disciples do this? Why would why did Matthew record this? And he tells us in verse 4, all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee meek and sitting upon a donkey and the coal and a colt the full of a donkey. And so Matthew tells us very clearly Again, an evidence of who Jesus is by pointing to the fact that this was in fulfillment of the Old Testament scripture And by the way, Matthew and his gospel is consistent to point out, all through the gospel, the times when Jesus fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. This is what scholars call Matthew's fulfillment citations. In fact, sixty-eight times in the Gospel of Matthew Matthew will say, this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, and so on. Now again, remember, he's writing to convince Hebrews that Jesus is the rightful Messiah. There's no better way to prove that than to point back to the Old Testament scriptures and to show how that the life of Jesus Christ fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. And here's yet another prophecy that Jesus fulfills. Peter Stoner in his book Science Speaks uh talks about the principle of probability. Maybe some of you remember me talking about this before. And using this principle He says that the probability of one man fulfilling eight of the prophecies of the Old Testament to be the Messiah would be one in ten to the seventeenth power. That's a that's an incredible number. To try to imagine this, let's just say that we we took and we filled uh the state of Texas with silver dollars, coins. And we filled the state with them two feet deep. That's the number you're talking about. With that number, you can fill the state of Texas with silver coins two feet deep. Let's just say that we marked one of those coins and then we asked one person uh to walk through the state of Texas blindfolded and then just to reach down and pick up the coin, any coin, and the coin that he happened to pick up would be the coin that was marked. What do you think the odds of that would be of happening Peter Stoner told us that's the same odds of one man fulfilling eight Old Testament prophecies But yet here in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew points out that Jesus fulfills 68 Old Testament prophecies. That's incredible. That's evidence right there. But notice the prophecy in particular. In verse number five Matthew is referring to Zechariah 9. 9. Zechariah 9. 9 says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a cold the full of a donkey. And so this prophecy here is fulfilled on this day, uh, and all the details that Zechariah gives it so very long ago. And it's interesting that when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on that day and presented himself as a king, he wasn't riding a white stallion Which in ancient days, that's what kings would ride. That's how they would present themselves in a ma in a majestic way, riding a mighty white horse. That's how kings and warriors like to portray themselves, but that's not not how Jesus portrays himself here. When he comes into Jerusalem on this day, so many years ago, he's mounted not on a white stallion But on a donkey, a beast of burden, we could say, because that's exactly what they were used for. An animal was used to bear many burdens. And there's, I think, a purpose in all of that. When Jesus came to present himself as king on that day, he was not presenting himself as king that would bring peace in a political way. That's what the Jewish people were looking for. They were looking for a king that would come in, a a warrior king that would throw off the shackles of Rome and bring peace to Israel and be a political leader. That was not how Jesus entered in Jerusalem on that day. By the way, that day is yet to come when he comes again This time when Jesus rode in as the king, he was coming, presenting himself as the one who would bring peace, but it would not be peace with man, it would not be peace with nations, it would be peace with Almighty God. To have man's sins forgiven. He presented himself as the Messiah, but as the burden bearer, the suffering servant. And it's appropriate then that Jesus would ride in on an animal that was a burden-bearing bearing animal, a donkey, because Jesus himself would be the one who would bear the burden of sin for all of mankind. And so there's significance in the way that Jesus comes in. He fulfills this prophecy to the team. The Bible says he comes with salvation there. And so there is the final preparation of the king. There's the fulfilled prophecy of the king. But I want you to see the third thing. I want you to see the formal Presentation of the king. Look in verse number six what it says. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. And brought the donkey and the colt and put him on that their clothes, put on him their clothes, and set him thereon. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees. And and strolled them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed after cried, saying, Hosannah to the Son of David, blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. So in verse number seven, the disciples, after they did what Jesus says, they kind of make a saddle from garments. They set Jesus on the colt. And what we have here really is the humble coronation of Jesus the King. And all the coronations that have ever been held in the world's history to honor a monarch, no monarch even comes close to what Jesus deserved by way of honor. But here he in a very humble way is set on this animal, this unbroken colt. And notice how the colt doesn't buck. It doesn't, there's no anxiety there. The animal just receives Jesus. Almost as if to know that he was the creator of the world, almost as if to know that this animal was created for this very purpose to display, present the Son of God. And then there's a parade that begins. In verse 8, Jesus begins riding towards Jerusalem, and a parade of people follow, the Bible says, as he comes to the crest of the hill of the Mount of Olives. He can look east and he can see Jerusalem. So if you can picture in your mind's eye, he kind of rise up the hill, and as he's looking out at the top of the hill, at the crest of the hill, He can see the Mount of Olives at Jerusalem, and now he'll ride down over the western slope of the Mount of Olives, and he'll begin to make his entrance into the city. And as he gets closer to Jerusalem, the crowd gets bigger. In that crowd are people that Jesus healed. In that crowd were people that heard Jesus teach In that crowd was Mary and Martha and Lazarus, the one that Jesus resurrected from the dead. These are people that saw Jesus do these mighty works. And the Bible says it was a very great multitude that as he was riding to Jerusalem, threw down their garments in the way. Now why did they do that? That was an old custom. It's described in 2 Kings 9. 13. And what does it symbolize? It symbolizes that you're submitted, that you would, you're, that you're humbling yourself before the king. You know, in ancient days a person would kneel before a king or maybe even lay prostrate before a king. But obviously if a king's riding on a animal like this, you didn't want to do that. And so rather than prostrating yourself before him. They would throw their garments down. And that was a way of saying, I submit to your Authority. We place ourselves under your feet. And then the Bible says they begin to praise in verse 9. And the multitudes that went before and them that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. And what they're doing there at that point is they're quoting Psalm 118, the verses 22 to 27, the Psalm of Hosanna's And this was a beautiful beatitude addressed to the king. And basically what Hosanna meant was, save now. Save now. And again, the people they're looking for the Messiah to come. And no doubt many of the people there In Jerusalem, the Jews had read the Old Testament scripture, and they no doubt knew of this prophecy of Zechariah. And they, however, did not really fully comprehend everything about it. They wanted Jesus to declare himself the warrior king right now and take away all the problems and burdens that Rome had brought upon them. So they were saying, save now. And the Bible says, again, as Jesus was getting closer to Jerusalem, people inside the city heard the commotion of what was going on. And so you have people coming out of the city and people following him in the city. One scholar estimated that there was perhaps in the neighborhood of 200,000 people that were there. shouting and celebrating and they were cutting down palm branches and they were laying him at laying them at his feet. What did that symbolize? In the Old Testament, palm branches were used to decorate the booth at the Feast of the Tabernacles, and palm branches symbolize God's glory that covered them in the wilderness. And Matthew tells us in verse 8 that these were taken from trees in the field. And so they were welcoming their Messiah. They were saying, save now. Now, again, some people might think, well, since they were saying that, since they were recognizing him as the king, and they were saying, Save now, Hosanna. That must mean that they truly accepted Jesus as the Messiah, right? I wish that were true. No. You know what? They were like many pre- professing Christians today. That have kind of a shallow superficial faith, that when things are going good, they express faith and trust in the Lord, but when things aren't, they uh they walk away. It's a very superficial faith. And these same people that were shouting, Hosanna, son of David, just a few days later, would be shouting. Crucify him. Crucify him. But again, notice in verse number ten. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? Again, this is the response of the this response reveals kind of the st superficial faith. They're caught up in the emotion of it and they're shouting Hosanna, but then they're saying in the next breath, who is this? Who is this? They were spiritually blind. They really didn't understand them. They really didn't see. You know what's very interesting is that People on the outside were saying, who is this? But you know, the priests on the inside of the temple, did you know that while Jesus was making this triumphal entry, the priests were praising God in the temple. It was the first day of the week, and according to the ancient rabbis The priests were reciting Psalm 24, verses 7 to 10. Lift up your your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lifted up ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? So the people in the streets and the priests of the temple were asking the same question. Who is this king? And the people outside, look at verse number 11, and the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet. So the people outside were saying, Well, it's Jesus. Who is this king? It's Jesus. But the priests on the inside of the temple were answering that question out of Psalm 24, saying it was the Lord Almighty, it was God. Who is this King of glory? The Lord Almighty. So the people were saying it's Jesus, and the priests were saying it's the Lord Almighty, and in a way that nobody could yet understand, they were both right. Because Jesus is the Almighty God. Jesus is the King of glory. This day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem was a day that was marked in Scripture. Did you know that there was a prophecy about this in Daniel chapter 9 verse 26? It says that after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off. And Daniel prophesied from the decree of Artaxerxes to the time of the Messiah that would come to Jerusalem, that he would be cut off, would be a a total of sixty-nine weeks, or we could say sixty-nine seven-year periods, meaning from the decree. To the time of the Messiah, it would be 483 years, and a Jewish year cons consisted of the 360 days. If you do the math, the total number of days is 1,7 excuse me, 173,880 days. If you count those days out from the command to restore um the the decree of Artaxerxes uh to restore the city And if you count that day from March 14th, 445 B. C. , and you count the number of days, you come to April 6, A. D. 32. This was the very day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem. This day was written in the calendars. It was written in the scripture of the day when Jesus would come into Jerusalem. And the people should have recognized it. They should have understood that indeed He is the Messiah. He's fulfilling all of the prophecies. But I want you to just, look, if you'll take your Bible, look in Matthew, look in Luke chapter 19. Let me just show you this as we finish up. Look in Luke chapter 19, and look down at verse number 39. Let's get Luke's perspective. In verse 39, Luke picks up the story, and some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. When the Pharisees heard the people crying out, saying, Hosanna. They hated that. They didn't like that. They couldn't stand the fact that Jesus was being praised so much. They hated Jesus. And they were very disgruntled. They did not believe he was the Son of God. And rather than speaking to the crowd, the crowd is too massive. They speak to Jesus and they say, Jesus, tell these people to be quiet. And how did Jesus respond? If these people held their peace, Then the very stones would cry out. What did Jesus mean by that? And really the response, we could say it like this, because the the verb there is future indicative. When these people are silent, the stones will cry out. It's almost as if Jesus at that moment right there was making a prophecy saying that it's going to come a time when they will be silent. You just be patient. They'll be silent. They'll stop crying out, Hosanna. And when that happens, then the stones will begin to cry out. What did Jesus mean by the stones crying out. Well, Luke tells us, look in verse forty one of Matthew of Luke nineteen, and when he was come near he beheld the city. This is when he weeps over it. Verse 41 saying, if thou hast known even thou at least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. And at this point, this is when Jesus gives a prophecy. because these people didn't fully recognize Jesus as the Messiah and the Savior, because they did not call upon him as their Savior and their Lord. But their voices would grow silent. And they would later say, crucify him. Then the stones crying out, I know a lot of times we like to think of that as a positive thing. You know, I I think people talk about, you know, creation crying out. I think creation is crying out all around that Jesus is the Son of God. That's already happening. But the particular stones that Jesus here was talking about when they cry out would be a cry of judgment because Jesus said not one stone would be left upon another. They would literally be ripped apart. That's when the stones would cry out. Because after Jesus would be crucified, because when the nation of Israel and many rejected Jesus. And right after his crucifixion, and they rejected the fact that he rose again, even though all the evidence was there of his resurrection, when they turned away from their Messiah as the true Son of God. Then not too long after that, Rome would surround the city, Jesus said, would compass the city about, and not one stone would be left upon another. And he was talking there of the temple that would be ripped apart. And you know what? You can go to Jerusalem today. You can go to the southwest corner of the temple platform. And you can see, if you look down over the side, massive stones that are laying there. That were thrown down from the Romans in 70 A. D. when they went into Jerusalem and they literally tore the temple apart. Those stones are still there, and they still bear witness. They cry out to anyone who dares reject Jesus as the Messiah, and theirs is a cry of judgment Again, you ask the question, what does Palm Sunday have to do with me? It has everything to do with you. Because either you believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the King And you receive him as your Savior and your Lord, or you don't. And friend, if you don't, then the stones will cry out, but they will cry out in judgment against you. because you have not received your Lord and your Savior. By the way, you know Jesus is going to come again He went into Jerusalem on that day. But did you know that one day again the Bible says in the book of Zechariah that Jesus is going to touch down on the top of the Mount of Olives And the Bible says that that mount will split in two. And Jesus will again present himself as the king. He'll do it once again. He's coming again. And this time when he comes, he's coming in judgment. The first time when Jesus came and he rode into Jerusalem on that day is the meek and lowly Savior. He was presenting himself as the king who would bring spiritual peace to your heart between you and God because that's the big issue right now Is what's your relationship with God? And if your sins are not forgiven, if your sins are not taken care of, then friend, you have a big problem. Jesus came that you might be forgiven, that you might have peace with God. But the next time that he comes, he won't be coming as Savior, he'll be coming as judge. And friend, the question is, are you ready for that time? Will you bow in prayer with me? Would you bow in prayer with me? Father, thank you for your word. I pray, Lord, that those for those who are listening and watching, that you'll use your word to speak to every heart. And if perchance there's someone under the sound of my voice that hasn't made certain their salvation, they haven't received Jesus as the Savior, the King. That they'll understand that now is the time. Now is the accepted time. May they say from their heart and may they mean it, even more so than the people on that day in Jerusalem so many years ago. May they say and mean from their heart Hosanna, save me now. Save now. Jesus, I call upon you as my Savior. And my Lord, forgive me for my sins. Cleanse me with your precious blood that was shed on the cross, that paved my sin, that cleanse me and forgive me. Make me your child. Forgive me. Save me now. And my friend, if you pray that prayer, the Lord He will save you. He loves you. He wants your sins to be forgiven. That's why He came to die for you. Would you trust him today? And that's the best way to be ready when he comes again, because I want to tell you something, friend, he's coming again. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We praise you. And thank you for Jesus. We pray in His name, Amen