Would you take God's word and open, please, to 2 Corinthians chapter 4? We uh, as you know on Sunday morning we're studying this great epistle. And this morning we come to 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verses 1 through 7 is what I want us to look at this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's word as I read this? this morning. 2 Corinthians 4 verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry as we have received mercy, we faint not. But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness nor handling the Word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world is blind to the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. You may be seated. Thank you so much. May this is God's holy word, and may we uh Be submissive to it. Would you pray with me? Father, I am so thankful for your word. And through the word of God, we see the glory of Christ. So Lord, help us to see that today. And may we apply truth to life and be blessed. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Life in this fallen world is filled with trouble, with struggle. It's filled with sorrow. You don't need me to tell you that. I know that you here, you've been through struggles and sorrows in this life. Job said this in Job 5, verse 7. Man is born under trouble as the sparks fly upward. Jesus said in John 16, verse 33, In the world ye shall have tribulation. And so this is nothing new to us. We we know this, that as we live in this world we will have tribulation, we will have trouble. But the question is, how do believers experience triumph in the midst of the conflicts and the troubles that we face in this world? How do we overcome all of these things? How do we rise above the dark trials? The answer lies in the truth that we see here in these verses. The answer is very simple. The answer is by gazing at the glory of God revealed in the face of Jesus Christ, and we see it in the mirror of God's Word. Now this is the important central idea that Paul gives here in this passage that we just read. In fact, it kind of acts like bookends in this narrative here. We see it in chapter two, verse three. Or excuse me, in Second Corinthians chapter three, verse eighteen, I should say. But we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image. And then we look in chapter four, verse six, we see the same idea expressed, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So it acts like bookends in this passage that we just read. And so the idea that we have here is this: the only way to successfully live the Christian life is by beholding the glory of the Lord. That's the idea here that we see in this passage. For the Apostle Paul, the Christian life was all about focusing on the glory of Christ. That's how he came to the saving faith to begin with. You might remember when Paul was on the road to Damascus, he wasn't traveling to a revival, right? He was actually traveling to persecute Christians. And on the way there, he met up with Jesus Christ. And he saw the glory of Christ. And this led to his conversion. This dramatic encounter forever shattered his proud, legalistic, pharisaical self-confidence. And he threw all that into the lost column that he might gain Christ, he said in Philippians chapter 3. And so Paul started the Christian life by beholding the glory of Christ. And he ended his Christian life by doing the same thing. You remember that later on Paul in his life was beheaded for the gospel. And um but before that Paul said, you know, to be absent from the body is to be what? Present with the Lord. So he saw the glory of God there face to face. And he lived all of his life in between, focusing on the glory of Christ. And that's what we have to do. Now you might sit here and say, well, that's good for Paul. Paul saw the glory of God. How do we see the glory of Christ? I mean, Jesus never appeared to me like he did to Paul on the road to Damascus. But the incredible reality of the new covenant is that every believer can see God's glory revealed in Jesus Christ And this is what Paul's been talking about. The incredible privilege that we have as new covenant believers is something that the old covenant believers did not have. The writer of Hebrews actually tells us, as he said, God has provided something better for us. And you remember in the previous verses here in chapter three, Paul has been contrasting and comparing the glory of the old covenant versus the glory of the new. And the new covenant has a surpassing glory from that of the old covenant. And you might remember that this was illustrated. Paul used the illustration of Moses when he went up to Mount Sinai to receive the Ten Commandments. That was the stipulations of the old covenant when he went up there. His face was lit up with the glory of God because he with an unveiled face saw the glory of God there. And when he came down, the people saw his face glowing and they were afraid to come near him. And so Moses wore a veil over his face But the reason he wore a veil over his face was not because uh necessarily of the people's fear, it was because that glory was a fading glory. And when that glory began to fade, he would go back up into the presence of God and take off the veil and experience the glory of God over again And Paul used that illustration to talk about the glory of the old covenant is a fading glory. The glory that we have in the new covenant is a glory that is permanent. That's the difference. The glory that Moses received was an outward glory on his outward man. It didn't really change him inwardly, it just changed his outward appearance. And it was temporary. But we as believers under the new covenant, we get an inward glory. And it's a permanent glory. It's a glory that does not fade. It's eternal. And it comes when we see the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, we're changed to new levels of glory. Look again in 2 Corinthians 3 verse 18. But we all with an open face, just like Moses took off the veil and he experienced God's glory, we with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. How do we see the glory of Christ today? We do it with an open face when we come to the mirror of the Word of God. We see it through the Scripture. The mirror is the Word of God. It reflects the glory of Christ. And as we look into Scripture and we see Jesus Christ in the Word of God, the Holy Spirit automatically lifts us to new levels of glory. And that word glory there just is a word we could say Christ-likeness. Glory equals Christ-likeness. When we focus on the glory of Christ in the Scripture, the Holy Spirit lifts us to new levels of glory or Christ-likeness. From glory to glory, the Bible says. So when Paul talks about beholding the glory of Jesus, he's not talking about having a vision. He's not talking about having a dream. He's not talking about some subjective mystical experience. Mysticism is this idea of trying to attempt to see that God Unmediated without some means. Um, this is the belief that apart from any external existence, you can enter directly and experience the presence of God. And that's of course is not what Paul's talking about. When Paul speaks about beholding the glory of God in the face of Christ, what he has in mind is not a subjective experience, but an objective look at Christ revealed in Scripture. That's what he's talking about. You might say, well, doesn't that put us at a disadvantage? I mean Moses saw all the glory of God. The Apostle Paul saw the actual glory of Christ on the road to Damascus, but we're looking at Scripture. It's different. Yeah, it is different. Let me tell you the difference. What we have is better. You say, how could you say that? Well, I'm glad you asked. Hold your place here. Look in 2 Peter, look in chapter 1. Go back to 2 Peter chapter 1, and I want you to look at verse 16. 2 Peter 1. 16. Now what's going on here? Peter is talking about his experience on the Mount of Transfiguration. Remember what happened there? Peter, James, and John were there on the Mount of Transfiguration, it's recorded in the Gospels, and they saw Jesus, they saw the glory of Christ, that inward glory of Christ, Christ who is the glory of God, it began to shine outward. It it shined brighter than the sun. And they saw the glory of Christ. Peter saw the glory of Christ, and he's talking about it here. in second Peter one verse sixteen. Listen to what he says, for we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were I witnesses of his majesty. Peter's referring to that event We saw the majesty of Christ. We saw the glory of Christ. We're not telling you a fable or a tale. We were eyewitnesses. And not only that, verse seventeen, for he received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Not only did they see the glory of Christ, they heard a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son. They heard the voice of God the Father. And look at verse 18. And this voice, which came from heaven, we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. You say, wow, what an experience. I mean, to be there in that holy mount, to see the glory of Christ, to hear a voice from heaven, from the Father. Wow, what could be better than that? Well, look at the next verse. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. You know something better than that? The word of God. The word of prophecy, the scripture. Listen to what it says, whereunto ye do well that you take heed. As unto a light that shines in a dark place until the day dawn and the day star arise in your heart. When you come to the more sure Word of God and you see the light of Christ in the Word of God, that light shines in our dark heart. It gives us a vision of the glory of Christ. The Daystar will arise in our hearts. And so we have a more sure word of prophecy. We have the word of God. What a privilege that is. Sometimes I wonder if we realize how privileged we are. As believers of the New Covenant, we can behold the glory of Christ in Scripture. Now with that in mind, I want to give you, with the time I have left by the help of God, just six spiritual benefits that we get. when we focus on the glory of Christ in Scripture. And number one, I've already alluded to this, so I won't spend a lot of time on it. It does a deep work of sanctification in our life. Again, go back to 2 Corinthians 3 verse 18, where it says, we are changed. into the same image from glory to glory. The word changed here is where we get the word metamorphosis. It is a change that begins on the inside. And you mark it down, when God does a true transforming work in his people, he doesn't start on the outside. He starts on the inside. That's where the change begins. And so as we focus on Christ in the Scripture, God through the Holy Spirit changes us on the inside. But we need to see Christ in the Word of God. That's why I endeavor as a pastor to try with my own feeble effort, but to try to show you Jesus Christ in the Word of God. Because that's what's going to change you That's what God uses. And again, as I said before, glory here simply means Christ likeness. We are lifted to ever higher levels of glory. It surprises me how that there are some Christians who have no concern about their sanctification in their life. And that that troubles me. If you're truly justified, there will be taking place in your life sanctification. And sanctification is the process whereby God makes us more like Christ and less like the world. If sanctification is taking place in your life, this year you should be more like Jesus and a little less like the world around you. And that process should continue on and on through our Christian life until finally there's glorification when we're taken out of this world and out of the presence of sin and we receive our ultimate glorification there in the presence of the Lord. But just like you're justified, you are being sanctified. And I would just say this: if there is no sanctification taking place in your life, I would question whether there has been justification. If there's no desire in your heart for Christ-likeness, if there's no desire for practical holiness in your life, I have a concern about you spiritually. And I don't I'm not I'm not being judgmental. I'm just saying I want you to know. I want you to know that you know Christ, and one of the evidences of that is there will be a desire for this change in into Christ's likeness. That's the goal That is just something that will happen automatically. That's what Paul meant when he said, Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. When sanctification happens, it begins in the mind as you see the truth of Scripture, you see Christ, it works in the mind, and it seeps down into the heart, and it just changes who we are. And Colossians called it putting on the new self, who is being renewed into a true knowledge to the image of the one who created him In Galatians 4, Paul said this, My children, with whom I am again in labor until Christ is formed in you. Paul felt labor pains Because he felt the burden of seeing people conform to the image of Jesus Christ. And in another place, Paul called Christ's likeness the prize of the high calling. He said, This one thing I do I forget those things which are behind, and I'm pressing forward to the things which are before. He said in Philippians three thirteen, I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. This is the high calling of God. It is this work of sanctification. That's why we come to church. That's why we worship. That's why we study the Word of God. Because we want God to do that process in our life. And so when we behold the glory of Christ, it does a deepening work. It hastens that work But here's number two. It keeps us steadfast during difficult times. Look in chapter four now, look in verse one. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry As we have received mercy, we faint not. And therefore points back to everything Paul said in chapter 3 about the glory of the new covenant. And all those things, seeing the glory of Christ in the mirror of God's Word. And we that gives us strength to continue on even in the most difficult circumstances and trials that we may face. Paul said, seeing we have this ministry. We faint not. And the word faint here means to give in to fear. It means to lose control or lose courage. It means to behave like a coward. And Paul says, we knowing all this, knowing all the blessings of the new covenant and the glory of Christ, we don't quit. We just don't give in. And Paul he had some serious trials. And as he writes 2 Corinthians, he really talks about some of the greatest difficulties that he's ever faced. Follow with me. Look in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Look at verse number 8. Let me just remind you of this. He said, for we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life. You ever been there? You ever been so burdened down that you despaired even of life? Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 2, look at verse number 4 Paul said, For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears. He talks about many tears. In chapter two, verse thirteen he says I had no rest in my spirit because I found not Titus my brother, but taking my leave of them I went from thence into Macedonia. Paul, there's a door open to Share the gospel, but Paul said, I I was so b overwhelmed, I was so burdened down, I had no rest in my spirit, I couldn't I couldn't do it. I was at the end of my rope, he said. Look in chapter four and look in verse number eight. Where he talks about this chapter 4, verse 8, we are troubled on every side, yet not in distress. We are perplexed. But not in despair, persecuted, but not forsaken, cast down, but not destroyed, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. And then he says, For we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest and our mortal fresh flesh. So then death worketh in us, but life in you. Paul says, look, I'm going through all of this for your benefit. It just seems like I'm always being delivered up to circumstances where death is imminent. And so he's just, he catalogs many of the dangers that he goes through. And I don't have time to list all of them. But he had sufferings. He was overwhelmed. Perhaps the worst burden that Paul had to bear was the assassination of his character, the false apostles in Corinth. basically had destroyed his reputation so bad that the people in Corinth no longer trusted him. And I would suggest you that's probably the hu a huge burden for any pastor. I mean if you got to the point here as a congregation that you no longer trusted me or trusted what I said, my ministry here is basically over. You're not listening to me anymore. And Paul was facing that with the Corinthians. That was, I think, the thorn in the flesh, where he said, Lord, take this away. Remove it. And what did God say? Paul, my grace is sufficient for you. I'll make you strong even in weakness. But it's a wonder that Paul didn't quit. It's a wonder that Paul didn't say, you know what, I'm done. It's over. Why didn't he quit? Because he kept his eyes on the glory of Christ. And Paul said, knowing these things, we faint not. We do not quit. I hear I read an article not too long ago of pastors that are just dropping out of the ministry all over the place. They're just stopping. And part of it is because the pressure that this COVID pandemic has put on their ministry in the church and and and the results that they're seeing and the discouragement that they're in and all over It's people that are quitting and discouraged and pastors are quitting and people are unfaithful and and on it goes. But you know what? We're not gonna faint. We're going to continue on. Why? Because of the glory of Christ. What we see in Scripture of Jesus, the glory of this new covenant, it keeps us steadfast during difficult times. But here's another thing. It makes us honest ministers of the gospel. Again, look in chapter 4, verse 2. But we have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness nor handling the Word of God. deceitfully, but by manifesting of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. When a person beholds the glory of Christ and are truly saved, and understand who God is and understand what his holy law demands and the provision of salvation, they will renounce any kind of hidden life And that's what Paul's talking about, any kind of shameful hidden life. And this was the accusations they were hurling against Paul. Oh, he's a hypocrite. He has some hidden life of sin and some hidden life of shame. And Paul said, no, because I I see the glory of Christ. And this has caused me to renounce any shameful hidden life. There's no life of hidden shame with me. We do hear of ministers at times that are revealed for having some kind of a double life, some kind of a life of shame that sometimes comes to life. But Paul said, That's not me. That's not me. Earlier on in chapter 2, verse 17, he said, you know, I'm not like many which corrupt the Word of God. I'm not out there peddling scripture. I'm not out there trying to And this for myself to see what I can get. But in verse chapter 2, verse 17, he said, But as of sincerity and as of God in the sight of God, speak we in Christ. Remember I said that word means to hold something in the light up in the sunlight to evaluate. Paul said, you can hold my life up into the light and evaluate my life. It's open to any scrutiny that you might give. There's no hidden life of shame here with me. I'm not walking in craftiness. This has the idea of an unscrupulous manner deceiving people, maybe for personal gain. Paul said, I'm not handling the Word of God deceitfully. This is the idea of watering down or diluting the message or distorting the message in some way. or misinterpreting what scripture says. There are certainly ministers that do that for their own personal gain, trying to say what sells, but Paul said, that's not me. I don't do that. I reject. I renounce anything like that. And then There's a fourth thing. When we see the glory of Christ, it does a deep work of sanctification. It keeps us steadfast. During difficult times, it makes us honest ministers of the gospel. It also renet it reminds us of the great privilege that we have been given Notice verse three and verse four. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. Now again, one of the criticisms leveled against Paul was that his evangelistic method was defective. I mean his approach was straightforward and simple. If you were here with me in 945, we talked about that. When Paul went into the Corinthians, he said in 1 Corinthians 2. 2, I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. He said, I didn't come to you bowling you over with my rhetoric. I just simply straightforward preach the gospel. Now, because of that, some of the false apostles were saying, you know, he's ineffective. His message, his his methods. Uh it's no good. If if he's such a a good apostle, how come more people are not getting saved? How come there are not more people that are responding to his message And Paul says, I'll tell you why in verse 3, if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of the world has blinded the minds of them which believe not. Sometimes people ask, how come more people are not responding to the gospel? I'll tell you why, because they have blinded minds. And their minds have been blinded by the evil one, Satan First of all, because of their own sinfulness, but the gospel is veiled to them. And the word here hid, Calupto, the word is veiled. We're getting back to this idea of a veil and an open face. We are now unveiled. Why? Because the moment we got saved, God ripped away the veil, and now we can with an open face see the glory of Christ in the page of Scripture. But to those who don't know the Lord, they still have that veil. It's over their eyes and they're blinded. You say, well, who can take that veil away? Only God can do that. Only God. Look back in chapter 3, look at verse 15. But even unto this day when Moses is read, the veil is upon their heart. He's talking about Jewish people who read the Old Testament scripture and they can't see Jesus. But look at verse 16. Nevertheless, when it shall be turned to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away. The Lord is the one who takes away that veil. And Paul is saying the reason more people are not responding is because Satan is the one who blinds the minds, and God is the one who has to remove the veil. And what he's saying there is salvation is not the result of human persuasion. It is a work of God. God has to rip away the veil. And if you're here this morning and you're saved, it's because God in His grace has given you the privilege of ripping away the veil from your eyes. That's his grace in your life. And remember when Paul was in Philippi and he was preaching the gospel, he was planting a church there, and there was Lydia, the cellar of purple. Listen to what the Bible says. Talking about her, a certain woman named Lydia, whose heart the Lord opened, it says, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of by Paul. The Lord opened her heart The Lord has to do that. And so those who criticize Paul's preaching as irrelevant, as offensive, as ineffective, Paul said, Look, if our gospel is hid, it's hid to those that are they're still veiled. They're still veiled. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. And so when we look into Scripture, and we are given the privilege of being able to see the glory of Christ, we should remember the privilege that we have been given by God. That we can see that. But here's number five. Another thing, seeing the glory of Christ in Scripture, it forbids self-promotion. Look in Again, 2 Corinthians chapter 4, look in verse number 5. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. Again, Paul is answering the attacks against them, and the attack was, oh, he's proud, he's boastful, he preaches with selfish motives, he preaches for the power and the prestige that he gets. And Paul's response to that is, look, when I preach, I don't preach myself. I preach Christ. It's all about Him There have been pastors and preachers that preach themselves, that promote themselves, but when you see the glory of Christ in Scripture, it rips away self-promotion. Why would I want you to sh show you me? Who am I? I I'm amazed sometimes at some things I see in churches. For instance, I I I know of one church that had a day where the pastor had masks of his face made where all the people had to wear that mask. I'm not making that up. That really happened. I'm thinking about doing that for you all here. You come to church, everybody looks like me. What a nightmare that would be. Talking about scaring people away. Why would anybody want to do that? Why would you pay money to do that? That's ridiculous. I heard of another pastor who made these coffee mugs and he put his face at the bottom of the mug. So when you drink your coffee and you come in, you see his face. That would make me want to quit coffee. Quit drinking out of that mug. What why why would you do that? I I I'm amazed. This self-promotion that's out there. Jesus said this in John 7, verse 18: He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory. If you promote yourself, if you speak of yourself, it's because you're seeking your own glory What a vain thing to do. Paul said, I don't we don't preach ourselves. We preach Christ Jesus the Lord. And ourselves, your servants. If you want to know what I am, I am your servant. I am your slave. Dulash is the word slave. Paul said, you want to know who I am? I'm a slave. I'm a slave for Christ. I'm not any kind of a celebrity. I'm just a slave. You're slave for Jesus' sake. We preach Christ. When you see the glory of Christ, you're not going to want to do anything else but preach Christ. Paul said in another place in Galatians 6. 14, but God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. Paul said, look, the only thing I want to glory in, the only thing I want to boast about, is Christ and the cross of Jesus Christ. That's the only thing I have to boast about But then there's the last thing. When we see the glory of Christ, it does a deep work of sanctification. It keeps us steadfast during difficult times. It makes us honest ministers. It reminds us of the great privilege we have. It forbids self-promotion. But number six, it emphasizes the sovereign work of God and salvation. Look in verse number six. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. And what Paul is saying is that this is the work of God. Salvation is as much the work of God as creation And this is the illustration he's using God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. When did that happen? That happened at the dawn of creation. There is all darkness, and God said what? Through divine fiat, let there be light. And there was light. That's the power of God. That's the power of his word. That's creation. But that's exactly what happens at salvation. In your dark heart, God says, let there be light. And there's light. And that's how salvation comes. It is a work of God. At salvation, sinners receive the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. I love the hymn that we sing, and Can It Be, there's that line that says, Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast abound in sin in nature's night. And thine eye diffused a quickening or life-giving ray. I woke, the dungeon flamed with light, my chains fell off. My heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. That's salvation. That's God giving light and darkness. And so the only way to really successfully live the Christian life is by beholding the glory of Christ. And we have to do that every day. We come into the kingdom by having our eyes open to see the light of the glory of God in the image of Christ. And one day When we leave this world, we will stand before the glory of Jesus Christ in heaven and the way we live this Christian life in between. is by continuing to focus on the glory of Christ. And as we do that, we're lifted to new levels of glory by the Spirit of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, we're so thankful for this wonderful this wonderful truth, this wonderful idea. Thank you, Lord, that you ripped away the veil. And we got to see the beauty of Christ. And we get the privilege of beholding it every day. We can look into the mirror of Scripture and we can see the excellency of Christ, the beauty of Christ, the glory of Christ. What a privilege we've been given, Lord. We pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that still has that veil, it's they read the Bible, but they don't see Christ. Maybe their heart is hardened against the gospel. Father, I pray that you will, the Creator God, the God who said at the beginning, let there be light. Lord, that you would shine your light in the darkness of that heart. To give that light of the knowledge of the glory of Christ, the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And bring salvation to that heart that they might truly know you. Do that work. And if you're here today, friend And you feel the convicting power of the Holy Spirit knocking at the door of your heart and saying, it's time for you. It's time. Very simply, you can just reach out in prayer. The Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you reach out and would you say yes? Yes, Lord. Lord, please rip away the veil. Let me see Christ. Save me, Lord, forgive me for my sins. Give me eternal life. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name.