Would you take God's word this morning, please, open to the Gospel of Matthew? We have been doing a series through Ephesians, but we're going to set that aside. During the Christmas season, I'm going to go through a series called Christmas in the Gospels, and I want us to look at each of the four Gospel writers and how they presented the Christmas story. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? I want to read a few verses from Matthew. We'll start at verse number eighteen. Verse eighteen. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privately. But while he thought on these things, behold the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Thank you so much you may be seated But you pray with me today. Father, bless our hearts and our minds as we go to the scripture and we look at the Story, the account of the birth of our Savior, one of the greatest miracles ever. And Lord uh may it prepare our hearts. To celebrate the coming of Christ into this world and what it means, Lord, to us and knowing Christ and salvation. So bless us today, Lord, as we go to the scripture. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So Christmas is all about Christ. It's beyond ridiculous to think that you can celebrate Christmas without Christ. It always around this time of year irritates me to see people wanting to take Christ out of Christmas I mean, how do you do that? It's all about Jesus. It's all about focusing on Christ. Each of the four Gospels presents a unique view of Christ. The Gospel of Mark presents Christ to a Roman audience as the servant. Luke was written to the Greeks and presents Christ as the perfect Son of Man. The Gospel of John is more universal in its appeal, and he presents Christ as the true Son of God, the eternal Son of God. But Matthew is written to a primarily a Jewish audience and presents Jesus Christ as King. And together these four gospels harmonize and Just present a beautiful portrait of Jesus as King and Servant, Son of Man and Son of God. And t today we're going to just look at Matthew. We're going to look at chapter one and two. Don't get nervous. I'm not going to go through every one of the verses. I'm just going to kind of give us a bird's eye view and just give us a general understanding of how Matthew presents the Christmas story. And again, Matthew is concerned primarily with uh his Jewish audience. He wants to prove that Jesus Christ is the king, that he is the son of David. In fact, we see the expression son of David used in the Gospel of Matthew more than any other of the Gospels. And so he really presents three things, and I want to go over these things with you this morning. The messianic credentials of the king, then he talks about the miraculous conception, and then he talks about the magi's confirmation. So I want to go over these three things. First of all, the messianic credentials of the king. Now, if you've ever started doing Bible reading in the New Testament, you begin with Matthew chapter one, and what you see is a bunch of names that are hard for to pronounce. Do you ever wonder why uh Matthew starts his gospel with a uh a a genealogy? Well if anyone's going to be presented as the king, he has to have the right credentials. David Howe of Frederick, Maryland, was a small business owner. He's a man who's happily married to his high school sweetheart. And he was minding his own business one day when he received a uh a message that changed his life. He was contacted by a United Kingdom genealogist in 2006. And he was informed that he might be uh the the man who has a right to inherit the crown of the Isle of Man. You say, what's the Isle of Man? That's a little Isle And the sea uh between England and and the Irish Sea between England and Scot Scotland is kind of a self-governing British territory. And really it has a population of about 100,000 people and is known for an annual motorcycle race that happens on the island. That's really all it's known for. But nevertheless, according to the genealogical record, this uh man, uh David Howe, is a direct descendant of Thomas Stanley, who was the last king of men And he reigned on the throne 500 years ago. Well, when David Howe found this out, he went ahead and filed a claim with the His Majesty's stationary office. And uh he said he thought that someone would object. Surely he would get a letter from the Queen herself objecting to all this, but he he got no letter like that. And uh in fact They sent him in the mail, after no one contested it, they sent him in the mail, a coronation, a robe, a uh a crown, a also a an anointing spoon. And so he was the rightful king of the Isle of Man. And he thought that everyone had received all that, and so he went to visit his subjects on the island and found out that he got a very cold reception. He wasn't received very well at all. A genealogy can really change your life. It proves his credentials. Now Even though Jesus did not receive a warm reception from the Jewish nation, Matthew demonstrates that he is the rightful king. And the way he does that is by giving us the genealogical record. He's proving that Jesus Christ is the right He is the only person that could be the Messiah. And the record proves it. Now, if anyone had experience on working on genealogical records, it was Matthew, right? Matthew was a tax collector. And collecting taxes and looking at genealogical records, that all worked hand in hand. You might remember that Luke's gospel opens up kind of the same way, but also Luke talks about A great taxation that was issued forth by Cyrene or uh by uh Caesar Augustus, and uh he decreed that all the world would be taxed. And every Jewish family had to return their it to their ancestral home. And so comparing genealogical records somehow worked with the Romans as far as collecting taxes. But it was also important to Jewish people uh their genealogical record. It was important for the exchange of land. God at the beginning, you remember, after the land of Canaan was conquered, gave each tribe a certain location of land So if you were going to sell that land, you had to have your record, your ancestral record. It was also important if you were going to serve as a priest, you had to be a Levite, you had to be able to prove that. And uh and so also it was important if if for uh uh tribal location. And so Later, uh the Romans will use all of this again for the purpose of taxes. Now in this genealogy, Matthew proves basically two credentials about Jesus. First of all, he lines up royally as the person who would who would be the Messiah. Look in chapter one of verse or verse one of chapter one here in Matthew. The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. the son of Abraham. There are two names that are mentioned here that are very important. Jesus is the son, first of all, the son of David. That shows his royal credentials. According to Old Testament prophecy, the Messiah would be a son of David. You remember that story in 2 Samuel chapter 7, where David wants to build a temple for the Lord. And uh he comes to Nathan the prophet and tells him all his heart, and Nathan says, Oh, listen, do what's on your heart, God's with you. And God comes to Nathan in agreement and says, Look, I didn't commission that. David is a man of war. He's not the one that I want to build my temple. And God later comes to David and he gives him a promise. You want to build for a house for me, but I'm going to build a house for you. And what God had in mind for house was a dynasty. David wanted to build a temple. God says, I'm going to build you a dynasty. And one of your sons will sit upon the throne of David, and he will reign forever. That's the Davidic covenant. And later when the angel announced to Mary that she would have a son, the angel says, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. Jesus Christ is that King. He is the fulfillment of that Davidic promise. And so Matthew shows the credentials of Jesus royally. He shows them racially. Look again in verse 1. He's the son of Abraham as well. This shows that racially he uh meets the claim because Jesus is a son of Abraham. All the way back in the book of Genesis, God made a promise to Abraham. He said, Abraham, through your seed all the world would be blessed. And later on the Apostle Paul would say, God used the word seed singular, not seeds plural Paul was saying, when God said your seed will bless the world, he was referring to one person in particular, that is Jesus Christ. The Messiah would be of the seed of Abraham. Did you know that there's only one Jew that is able to make such a claim? A son of Abraham, a son of David, that fulfills the genealogical credentials to be the Messiah. Only Jesus Christ fulfills that Did you know that in 70 A. D. , when the Temple of Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans, all of the genealogical records of all Jewish people were destroyed? Therefore, today there's no j Jew that can come and claim to have all of the credentials To be the Messiah. The Jews are still looking for a Messiah. Guess what? There's no one that's going to be able to come forth and say, genealogically, I have the credentials, because all of those records were destroyed. Now you say, well, we have DNA evidence. Can a person through DNA prove that claim? And the answer is no. Because the proof of the Messiah is not solely based on genetics. You have to prove Who you are, you have to prove genealogically that you meet their credentials, and there's only one person that meets those credentials, and that is Jesus Christ. And so we see first of all the messianic credentials of the king. But then secondly, write down the miraculous conception of the king because In verses 18 down to verse 24, Matthew emphasizes that Jesus is the Son of God. In the first 17 verses, he emphasizes he's the son of David. But in this next section, he emphasizes he's the Son of God. And he talks about the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus. Look in verse 18 of chapter 1. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. And so notice Matthew basically gives the facts. The virgin birth is publicly reported. When he says in verse 18, the birth of Jesus was on this wise, we would say it like this. It happened this way. Here's what took place. Matthew doesn't try to convince the reader that it happened. He doesn't try to explain the virgin birth. He simply states the facts. Here's what happened. This is what took place. Mary and Joseph were espoused. Now espousal in Jewish custom uh is kind of an engagement, but it goes beyond that. When you're espoused, you are legally married. And I've told you about this before. The Jewish wedding has several stages. There is the contracting stage where the groom will go to the prospective bride's father and negotiate a contract and pay a wedding price and once that is settled they are legally espoused, they are legally married, but they don't Uh they don't live together at that point. He will go to his father's house, he'll prepare begin to prepare for her and he'll come back to receive her. She has to always be ready. She doesn't know when He's going to come back to receiver. This is called the claiming stage. And then right after he comes to receive her and brings her back to the father's house, they have a marriage supper. There's a celebrating. The marriage is consummated That's the third stage of a Jewish marriage. Well, Mary and Joseph were espoused together. And notice Matthew is very careful to point out in verse 18 as we read that um when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph before they came together, that is, before the marriage was consummated Before actually the second stage of the marriage, of the espousal took place, Joseph had not yet come to claim Mary as his bride. They were espoused illegally together, but he had not yet come to claim her. And in that time, Mary was found to be with child. And Luke and Luke also is very careful to call Mary a virgin. Matthew says they had not yet come together and she's found a child. Luke emphasizes that she's a virgin several times he mentions that in his narrative. And in fact, when the angel announces to Mary that what she has within her is a child of the Holy Ghost, she rejoices. What does she do? She goes and tells her A friend Elizabeth, who also sang for joy. Mary sang for joy. They talked to Zachariah. He sings for joy. All this shows that this was public knowledge. This was public knowledge. Mary was not trying to hide this. This is and this is important because there are certain people out there that say, oh, you know, this was a Mary was uh had a had a illicit relationship with with someone else. And that day, if a woman was espoused before her husband came to claim her, she wouldn't go around telling others about it if it was something that was a sin. Mary was rejoicing because what was taking place here was of God. And notice, now if you're in Joseph's shoes, what are you thinking? Imagine his thoughts. This is why God had to come and providentially reaffirm this dream. So look at verse 9 or this uh this announcement of of uh Mary being with child and he does it through a dream. But look at verse 19. Then Joseph her husband being a just man not willing to make a public example was minded to put her away privily, or that is in private. But while he thought on these things, behold an angel lord appeared unto him in a dream Saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. So imagine again Joseph's distress. The Bible portrays him as a good and godly man. Well, everyone else might have been singing and rejoicing. Joseph cer certainly wasn't. I mean, he had a lot of questions in his mind. He loved Mary, but to find out that she was with child probably shook him to his core. And he had three options. He could he could just simply publicly divorce her. If you followed the letter of the law, what would happen? She would be stoned if you followed the Old Testament law. Another thing is he could just make a public example of her. He could shame her publicly and then divorce her. Or he could have a private divorce. Done secretly. This was a quiet divorce. It would be done in front of a few witnesses. A bill of divorcement would be written. She could go on her way. She could have her child Joseph could go on his way, and he could marry another No one else had to know about this. He would save Mary the embarrassment. Or he could marry her anyway. But that would have been a violation of Leviticus 2010. And Joseph was a just man. He wanted to do what was right before God. And while he is thinking about all this, what does the Bible say? That He won he wanted to he was going to put her away privately. The word put away in verse 19 is apaluo, a technical word for divorce. And you can imagine Mary's position. How how does she explain herself to Joseph? She had no way to defend herself. You know, uh this has never happened before ever in history that a virgin is with child I mean who's going to believe that? In all of human history there had never been a virgin birth. But God intervenes. And Joseph has a dream, as we saw in verse 20. In a dream, God came and said, Joseph, notice how God addresses him, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife. God affirms that this is all of him. Why? Notice what he says, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. God gives him the messianic reading, son of David, you're in the line of the Messiah. You know, this again points back to the genealogy, the royal lineage of uh David. Now Jesus would be the legal son of Joseph. He wouldn't Joseph would not be his father, but Joseph would be his legal earthly father, and so Jesus fulfills the legal uh qualifications uh as having Joseph as his legal father, but not his real father. Um because again Mary was a virgin. But God reminds uh Joseph that what is taking place is of him Mary has a child of the Holy Ghost. And look at verse 21. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. So the child, Joseph, that Mary's going to have, this is a miracle. This is something done by God. The Holy Spirit is creating within her this child. And this child will be the one who will save his people from their sins. Did you know that the virgin birth proves that there's only one way to heaven? Why would you know why would God send his son into the world to die in agony and shame if there were other ways to heaven? God sent his son into the world because the only way to salvation would come would be through his son, Jesus Christ. The virgin birth proves the exclusive nature of the gospel. The Bible says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Then we see the virgin birth prophetically recorded. Look in verse number 22. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. And again Matthew is concerned with reaching a Jewish audience, and so he's careful to point out Old Testament passages. So he points all the way back to Isaiah. The prophet Isaiah, who gave the prophecy in Isaiah 7. 14, behold a virgin shall conceive and shall bring forth a son. This was the Old Testament prophecy about a virgin birth. And Matthew points to that and says, this is the fulfillment of what was spoken of in the Old Testament. This was something miraculous. Remember in Isaiah chapter 7, Ahaz was afraid because two evil kings were coming against him. And God came to Ahaz through Isaiah and said, Look, ask me of a sign. And Isaiah says, Oh, I don't want to attempt allure with a sign. Look, when God says, ask me for a sign, it's okay to ask for a sign. And here's the sign: Behold, a virgin shall conceive. Now there's been a lot of debate with scholars and say, oh, the Hebrew word for virgin there could mean young woman. Well, it could mean young woman, but it could also mean virgin. And the context determines that. So think about it. God says to King Ahaz, ask for me, ask of me a miraculous sign that I'm going to deliver you and I'm going to deliver the house of David. Well, here's the sign a young woman's going to have a child. That's not a sign. That happens all the time. But here's the miraculous sign: a virgin shall conceive. Now that is a sign. The context makes it clear. And besides, we have Matthew's commentary that where he uses the Greek word, they can only mean version. And this would be the sign back then to the whole house of David and to all of us. That this is zi uh a miracle of God that Jesus is the virgin-born Son of God And then we see the virgin birth personally received. Joseph believes all of it because look in verse twenty four. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Joseph is an example to all of us because here we see his faith in God. Why? Because he believed what God said. He believed it. How do we know? Because he he took Mary to be his wife. And the Bible says he knew her not till she brought forth the child, Jesus. And he believed. He believed in the character of Mary, that she was a pure woman. He believed in the miraculous conception. And he believed that Jesus was the Savior. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. If you want to be saved today, you have to believe that Jesus is the virgin-born Son of God. That he came as the only Savior of the world. And he came for that very purpose to save us from our sins. But let me give you the third thing. We see the messianic credentials. And the miraculous conception. But then here's the third thing, the magi's confirmation of the king. And we see this in chapter 2. Verses 1 to 12, Matthew points to the wise men who came seeking the king of the Jews. Now why is Matthew pointing this out? Well, these are Gentile wise men coming to worship the King of the Jews. And Matthew is clear that their purpose in coming to see the Christ child was to worship him. Notice the worship of the Magi. Look in verse 1. Chapter two. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east of Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to what? To worship him. They want to worship him. Now, why would you want to worship a baby? Why would you want to worship a child? You should only worship God, right? So what does this tell us? These men obviously knew that this one coming, this king of the Jews was more than just a baby, more than just a child. He was the fulfillment of Old Testament scripture. They obviously knew their Old Testament scriptures. They knew about Isaiah 7. 14. They knew about Isaiah 9. 6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty. God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. They knew that He was more than just a baby. They knew who Jesus was. They were not coming to get something from Jesus. They were coming to give worship to him, to give gifts to him, because they recognized who he was. Why why did you come to church today? Did you come for what you could get or what you could give? That's what worship is all about. They came to give. And notice the words of the religious leaders. Drop down the um verse number three. And when Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with them. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah art not the least among the princes of Judah, for out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my land. people. Now Herod called together the chief priests and the scribes because he wanted to know where this Christchild was born. When the Magi came to Jerusal to Jerusalem looking for the Christchild, I mean it just caused a lot of trouble Herod was a man who was very paranoid to have some kind of a rival king of the Jews. So he pretended that, you know, he wanted to worship the Christ child too. And uh he calls in the chief priests. He wants to know where specifically this child would be born. And they all knew the religious leaders and the scribes, they quoted back to him the prophecy out of Micah. about the Messiah being born in Bethlehem. You know, it's funny that none of them bothered to go all that distance and it wasn't really far, it's just a few miles to Bethlehem to see what was going on. There was kind of an apathy among uh the people in Jerusalem at that time. Here are these Gentile wise men traveling a long distance to see the Christ child, and yet people in Jerusalem they weren't all that concerned about it. It kind of reminds me of the way some people celebrate Christmas, you know. They're not really focused on Christ. They're pretty apathetic when it comes to the Christ child. They're more focused on the festivities and what they can get out of a holiday season. But again, Christmas is all about worshiping Christ, seeking Christ. Notice the wickedness of Herod. He was very subtle. And look at verse 7. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. He he uh he wants to play his cards right, and so he wants to pretend that he wants to worship. Oh, tell me, when did this star appear? And look in verse 8. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when you have found him, bring me word again. that I may come and worship him also. Oh, the prophet said he's going to be born in Bethlehem, so go and when you find him, let me know, because I'm going to come and worship too. He didn't want to worship Christ. He wanted to get rid of any rivals. Herod was a desperately wicked man. His whole life was spent getting rid of rivals. He was so insecure and paranoid that he killed his own two sons because he was afraid they would take his throne. That's how wicked this guy was. He was an evil man. But then we see the wonder of the star in verse number nine. Notice it says, when they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it stood over where the young child was. This is an interesting feet feature of the Christmas story. And Matthew records it here. I think because I think it uh it has kind of a uh something that the Jewish people would be interested in. Here is this star that leads these wise men. to the place, the very place where the Christ child was. Now what is this star? If this is a real star, it's a very unusual star. I think the word star here, Aster, can also mean just a shining forth. And uh and according to Matthew here In verse 7, Herod wanted to know what time the star appeared, the word for appeared here, the Sanod, lighting up. When did this particular shining Happen. So I think that what would be called a star. And by the way, it's also called his star in verse number two. When the Magi came, they said, We we saw his star. Not just any star, but his star. That is the star of this Christ child. And I think when we we say the word star here, what they could have saw was just something that looked to them like a star, but it had a shining in the heavens And I've said this before, I think this shining forth is simply the Shekinah glory of God that led these wise men all the way to Jerusalem and then it seemed to disappear. And then they ask around, where's this Christ child going to be born? They find out it's going to be Bethlehem, and they go to lead to Bethlehem, and guess what? Here's the star, it appears again. And the star leads them to the very place where the child is. Look again in verse number 11. And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child. Back up to verse number nine. Here's what I want you to see where it says, When they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was Now what star can do that? To stand over where the child actually was? That's an unusual star But again, I think that this is the Shekinah glory of God. You see, it was the Shekinah glory that led the Jews through the wilderness in the Old Testament. And the Shekinah glory appeared over the tabernacle. When people would see that shining right over the tabernacle, what did the Jewish people know? That God was there. God was in that tabernacle. And when this shining appeared over the very place where the Christ child was, what should that say to the Jewish people? God is there. This is God. It was the glory of God that led people to the presence of God. And so I think that's what this was. It was this Shekinah glory that led them to the very place and stood over where the young child was. And then notice the worship of the Christ child. Look in verse 11. And when they were coming to his into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. So they did what they came to do. They worshipped the Christ child. They brought gifts of gold, appropriate gift for a king, frankincense. This was incense that was used in the temple worship, an exclusive kind of incense that the Bible speaks about. This speaks, I think, of uh, again, that he's God and they worshipped him. Myrrh was an embalming kind of uh uh uh uh uh incense we could say or or it was this uh pounds of this kind of ointment would be used upon a body As they were preparing it for burial. So this speaks about the death of our Lord Jesus Christ. He was born to die for our sins. So these are appropriate gifts, and they worship him. All this points to again the person and work of Jesus Christ. He came as the King, He came as the Virgin-born Son of God. Who would die for sins? He would be the only way that salvation would come to this world. It would be through the virgin-born Son of God. And you know what, friends, we must receive him as king. That's how to celebrate Christmas. We acknowledge him for who he is, the virgin-born son of God, the only savior of the world. And we bow to him. We worship him as King. The Bible says that if we believe in our hearts that God raised him from the dead, if we acknowledge him as Lord, we confess him as Lord, that we'll be saved. We submit to who he is. You come and you subject yourself to his lordship, to him being king. Lord Nelson, the great British admiral, always treated his defeated opponents with great kindness and mercy. And after one of his naval victories, a defeated admiral was brought aboard Nelson's ship And this man, knowing Nelson's reputation for kindness and mercy to a defeated foe, reached out his hand to Lord Nelson But Nelson did not acknowledge it. He simply, with his hands behind him, he said, Your sword, sir, then your hand. First you have to submit before you get my mercy And friend, that's the way it is with Jesus. You want the mercy of God and salvation? Your sword first. You have to submit to who He is. You have to acknowledge who He is. He is Christ the King. And have you received Him? Have you absolutely repented of your sin? Submitted to who He is? Ask for his mercy and salvation. That's what you must do. That's how to receive Christ as your King. Let's bow together for prayer today. Father, thank you for this beautiful narrative from the Gospel of Matthew. From Matthew's perspective of Christ coming into this world as king, he had the right credentials. He was miraculously conceived as the virgin-born Son of God. And he is truly the king, the one to be worshipped, the one that we must seek. Father, if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ, I pray that today would be the opportunity and the moment when they reach out, they submit to who Jesus is, they realize his whole purpose for being born into this world. was to be a savior. Savior from sin. The Savior. And that they can receive forgiveness for sins right now. They can become a child of God through faith in Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed. So if you're here today, you've never put your faith in Christ. I want to invite you to do it right now, friend. The Bible says now is the accepted time Now is the day of salvation. Would you just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I I believe who you are. I believe what the Bible says about you. That you were the virgin-born Son of God. That you did come and die for sins. That you are the only way of salvation. And I put all my faith in you and asking you to save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand up and say, yes, that's me, preacher. I want Jesus I want to know Christ. I want to know that I'm saved. I want to know him. Anyone here? Is that you? If you're a child of God already, let me ask you this. Are you submitted to the Lordship of Christ in your life? Because a lot of times as even as believers, we have a tendency to set ourselves upon the throne of our heart and be our own king. But friend, if you're a child of God, Jesus is your king. And you must submit to him in every area of your life. Is he truly your king? Are you submitted to him? And that there's one way that that'll one one thing that you do in your life that'll reveal. One way to show that he's your king. And that is obedience. Absolute obedience. Are you living in obedience to Christ your King? Father, bless your word, the hearing hearts today. Use it, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.