Take your Bibles this morning, open to the Gospel of Mark. We are studying through this gospel on Sunday morning. And look at Mark chapter 10. And I want to look at uh verses uh twenty-eight down through verse forty-five today. While you're finding that, I read once about a preacher that died and he went to heaven, and when he arrived to that celestial city And uh he realized that there was a New York tax tax taxi driver that uh had been given a bigger mansion than him. And uh he complained to St. Peter about it, but to no avail. Peter explained to him that in heaven rewards are based on results. And so he said uh he went on to say, he said, When you preach, some listen and some sleep He said when this man drove his taxi, the people riding with him not only stayed awake, but they prayed. Well, that's obviously not a true story. But I do think that when we get to heaven, we're going to be surprised at how people will be rewarded. We think we know who's in first place here on earth, but we really don't know. There's a principle in Scripture that uh we're going to learn here today. And uh we find it here in the the Gospel of Mark where Jesus mentioned it in verse number 31. He says, Many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be First. In other words, the k in the kingdom things are reversed. You know, to be first by the world standards, you have to assert yourself, you have to fight, you have to scratch and compete You become first by being first. But in the kingdom, that's reversed. Jesus said the first shall be last. And the last shall be first. Now during his earthly ministry, Jesus stated this principle several times, and this was something that he was trying to convey to the disciples. They didn't seem to really grasp it. But we're going to look at what Jesus means by this. And really the expression implies a question, does it not? Or it's almost like a riddle. How does one become last, how do you make yourself last and thereby become first? And I think one of the reasons why in this particular uh uh part of Mark, why these narratives are placed next to each other is to help us to understand this principle. The all of these narratives that we're going to kind of look at illustrate this very principle. But let me give you the short answer to it. How do you become last and and thereby become first? Well the short answer is simply by humbling yourself. It is through humility. It is through putting other people ahead of you. Another way to say it is, just follow the example of Jesus. Follow the example of his life. So I want us to look at this kingdom principle and see the areas in which it applies. The first area is in salvation. The last shall be first in salvation. Go back to Verse 23. And let's look at this. And Jesus looked around about and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? Now remember, Jesus had just had a conversation with the rich young ruler. He came to Jesus and said, what can I do to inherit eternal life He was kind of puffed up with his own self-righteousness and pride. And Jesus, knowing that, said, well, you have to obey all the commandments. He said, Well, I've done all that from my youth. And in order for Jesus to really reveal to this man his blindness about his own standing, Jesus said, well, then go sell all that you have and follow me. Jesus knew that this man's God was money. This is not a universal principle that Jesus is giving for anyone who wants to come into the kingdom. He's not asking you to sell all that you have and follow him. But in this particular situation, Jesus was revealing to this man that money was his God. And the Bible says he walked away and he was filled with sorrow because he had many possessions And in in essence what we could say is he was unwilling to make himself last. He was first as far as man's standards in the world today, as the way the world counts being first. He was first being a rich man, but he was unwilling to make himself last. Look at verse 23 where Jesus says, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom? In other words, a love of material things erases the need for spiritual things, and riches and wealth cause pride, like it did in this yo this young man, and you can't enter into the kingdom if you're filled with pride. You have to be humble. You have to see yourself the way you are. You have to be broken over your sin and poor in spirit. And this man was not that. And so therefore he was not ready for the kingdom. Because you can't come into the kingdom haughty. You can't come into the kingdom proud. You have to be like a child. Remember, Jesus earlier blessed the children, and he said, Oh, such is the kingdom of heaven. You have to become like a child. This young man was not like a child. Children were humble. He was proud It's a contrast between the attitudes of those that are ready for the kingdom and those that are not. And just to make this point really clear, look what Jesus said in verse 25. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Now, around the 9th century, there was a legend that was developed that Jesus was talking about an obscure point Uh and the wall and the gates that go around Jerusalem. If you go to the old city of Jerusalem, there's a big wall, there's gates, they all have their names. You know, you go over there to today there's the Herod's gate, Damascus Gate, and so on It was said that back in Jesus' day there was an obscure gate that was very low, and if a traveler wanted to enter in that way, then the key they had to teach their camels to kneel, to bend their knees in order to get into that gate. And they say that's what it was talking about. Not that it was impossible, but that it was very difficult. Well, that's a very nice story. The only problem is it's not true. That's not what Jesus is talking about here. That was a story that was developed to kind of take away some of the difficulty in what Jesus was saying here with this verse. When he said it's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, what do you think of when you think of an eye of a needle? Well, that's exactly what Jesus is talking about. Where you put the thread through the eye of a needle, hard to do that. The biggest animal back in Jesus' day was a camel. The smallest entrance was the eye of a needle. And Jesus was saying, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to get into the kingdom of heaven. And this is exactly what Jesus meant. In fact, it's impossible for that to happen. And it simply means this: it's impossible for you to get into the kingdom of God if you're not humble. If you're filled with pride, it'll never happen. Now, and by the way, you can't do that of yourself. It is with man it's impossible, it says in verse 27, but with God all things are possible. Salvation is a work of God. You know, I can't even humble myself unless God does it for me. I can't even see my own need unless God opens my eyes to see my own need. It's got to be God who does it. That's why the disciples, they were astonished and they said, Who can you know who can enter in? And that's why Jesus said, with man, this is impossible. With God, all things are possible And so this is something that we need to take heed. You say, well yeah, that's that's right, preacher. You preach it to those rich people. I'm preaching to everyone here today, if you're an American, you're rich. We are the richest country in the world. We are the most prosperous people in the world. And we better be careful that our wealth and our prosperity don't become a snare to us. Or that we're filled with pride and we fail to see our real spiritual need. So the last must be A person who's first must make themselves last, I should say, if you want to inherit the kingdom of God, if you want to be a part of that kingdom. But then there's a second area, not only salvation, but in sacrifice. The last shall be first in sacrifice. Look at verse 28. Then Peter began to say to them, Lord, we have left all and have followed thee Now Peter speaks up. He was always the spokesman for the disciples. He always said what the others were thinking. They were afraid to say anything. Peter was always the one speaking out, and sometimes he got rebuked for it Sometimes he said things that were foolish. Someone said that Peter was the disciple with a foot-shaped mouth, because he was always putting his foot in his mouth. But here Peter speaks up and he says, Lord, we have left all follow thee. In fact, in in Matthew's gospel in Matthew 19, 27 The way Matthew records this, there's a question at the end where it said, Peter said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore what's in it for us? Now Mark doesn't record this, but Matthew does. I think the reason for that is because Mark was depending upon Peter for his information to write his gospel. And I can just imagine a conversation between Peter and Mark where Peter says, don't put that last question in there. That kind of makes me look bad. But Matthew, however, records the last question. What's in it for us? What shall we have? What are we going to get as a result of this? And the we is in the emphatic. Peter's kind of speaking for the disciples, and he's contrasting him and the disciples with the rich young ruler. The rich young ruler was unwilling to part with his earthly possessions, but we've done that. We have done that. What are we going to get? And by the way, the disciples appeared to have been very well off by the standards of their day. If you look at their life, Matthew was a tax collector. That was a good living back then. Peter, Andrew, James, and John, they all had prosperous fishing businesses. And so when Peter asked this question, it was kind of a legitimate question because they had forsaken what they had to follow Christ. They were thinking that Christ was going to set up his kingdom there on earth. They would have a prominent place in the kingdom, but things weren't working out the way they thought they would. The forerunner was murdered, John the Baptist. The king was rejected. There's mounting hostility against Jesus and Jesus is now telling the disciples, look, I'm going to Jerusalem, and when I go there, I'm going to die. I'm going to be crucified. I'm going to be delivered over into the hands of the Gentiles. So it seemed like everything was crumbling around them. And furthermore, they had a long road ahead of them, the disciples. Jesus said, pick up your cross and follow me. Follow me if you want to be a part. So it looked like from the earthly measure that they had been first. They sold all they had and what came to Jesus and now they were last. How are they, what's gonna, what's in it for them? And so Jesus then gives them an amazing promise. Look at verse number 29. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, there is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sister, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and the gospels But he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brethren, and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions and in the world to come eternal life So here's an incredible promise. Jesus says to Peter in all of those that whatever sacrifices you have made here Just remember this, that they will not be in vain. God will return back to you a hundredfold God's going to give back to you so much more. In fact, in Matthew's gospel, it says that they would have twelve thrones. that they would sit upon when the kingdom came and all the pre-fall conditions were restored and there was a kingdom. Jesus said you'll have thrones to sit upon. But this promise extends to all believers. Notice where it says there's no man. In other words, everyone, his promise is to you, it's to me. Whatever sacrifices you make now for the kingdom of God, Jesus says you're going to be restored that a hundredfold. God is no man's debtor. Whatever sacrifice you make will be rewarded. It might look like here on this side that you're in last place, but when the kingdom comes, you're going to be in first place. You see, think about all the people in church history, the great missionaries who left family and friends, and they went on foreign fields and they suffered. And just for the sake of the gospel, I think of men like uh David Livingston and the great things that he did. It is said that he walked over 29,000 miles in Africa. He was a pioneer missionary to Africa. He ministered half blind. He wrote in his diary these words that were turned into a song. He wrote, Send me anywhere, only go with me. Lay any burden on me, only sustain me. Sever me from any tie but the tie that binds me to your service and to your heart. That was his dedication. And Jesus makes a promise to people like him that you will be restored or whatever sacrifices you make will be restored. So the last shall be first in sacrifice. But here's a third area. This applies to salvation. It applies to any sacrifices that you make, but also in suffering. Look down now to verse 32. And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus went before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve and began to tell them what things should happen unto them. And so Jesus is where it says he's in the way to Jerusalem. Remember, this is Jesus' final journey to Jerusalem. Think about it like this. Ten days from this moment, Jesus will be crucified. Ten days from that moment. Now Jesus had finished his ministry in Galilee, so he was coming south. He came into Judea. He crossed over on the other side of Jordan, came to Jericho, and now they're making their way upwards. Jericho was basically 1,000 feet below sea level. Jerusalem was 2,500 feet above sea level. So when it says they were going up into Jerusalem, literally they were going up In fact, if you're in the land of Palestine, if you're traveling to Jerusalem, no matter what direction you're coming to Jerusalem from, you're going up because Jerusalem is located in a mount. And so here's Jesus, and they're all going up. There's a parade of people that are with them. And notice where the disciples it says that they were amazed in verse 32, as they followed and they were afraid. They're following Jesus. And first of all, they're amazed. What are they amazed at? They're amazed that Jesus Having basically told them before already that he was going to die, that he was so set, he was so determined to go to Jerusalem. If someone told me, Jerry, if you go up to New York in a week, you're going to die. I want to tell you, I would be kind of reluctant to make a quick journey up to New York I would be slow about that. I wouldn't be determined. Well let me get there then. They were amazed that Jesus was showing such Determination. Why? Because he was completely, totally committed to doing the Father's will. To dying for sin. This is why he came to the earth. And it also says that they were afraid. Well, why were they afraid? Well, because Jesus told them, you're going to have to pick up your cross and follow me. You're going to have to join me in this. You're going to have to come with me. And so they were coming up to Jerusalem. And notice in verse 33, saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death and shall deliver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him And the third day he shall rise again. So here is another private conversation. Again, he takes the disciples aside. He said, I just want You to know again why we're going to Jerusalem, what's going to happen. This is the third time that Jesus told his disciples about What's going to happen in Jerusalem? This time he even gives them more detail here. The first two times he basically gives them some general information. But finally, here Jesus says, let me tell you exactly what's going to happen He gives the predictive prophecy about the crucifixion, all these things. Now, why did he say this to the disciples? Because again, the disciples still didn't seem to really grasp all that was going on. They still didn't really seem to get it. But another reason Jesus told them this is because he wanted them to learn self-denial. He wanted them to learn humility. He wanted them to learn to suffer. for the sake of the gospel. He was calling them to be a part of it. And by the way, it may be that God might call upon you as a believer To suffer in some way for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I just want to ask you a question this morning. If that came, would you be willing to do it? Would you be willing to pick up your cross and to follow Christ? and suffering, if God so called upon you. Soren Kierkegaard said one time, listen to what he said, he said, I went into church and sat on a velvet pew. I watched as the sun came shining through the stained glass windows. The minister dressed in a velvet robe, opened the golden gilded Bible, marked it with a silk bookmark, and said, If any man will be my disciple, let him deny himself, take up his cross, sell what he has, give to the poor, and follow me. He then said, I was looking around and nobody was laughing. Think about that. Why did he say that? Think about the incredible comfort that he was describing there. Which describes people today. We live in such comfort. We sit on comfortable pews in an air-conditioned building And we have all these comforts. We have these wonderful Bibles with silk bookmarks, and yet the call for the believer sometimes is to sacrifice and to suffer. And sometimes those things seem so removed from us, almost laughable today, and all the comfort that we live in as Christians. But the last shall be first in suffering. And Jesus makes himself an example. Let me tell you something. There was never anyone ever Who was in first place like Jesus? He is the firstborn among many brethren, the Bible says. He is the preeminent one, and he who was number one in heaven became last on earth. Let me give you the final area, number four. This applies not only to salvation and sacrifice and suffering But it applies to serving. It applies to serving. Now you would think that by now the disciples, they really got this. But I want to tell you the disciples, they were slow learners. Like one preacher said, they were blockheads. You say, why do you say that? Well, here Jesus had just spoken of his own suffering and death and being delivered over to the Gentiles, which was unimaginable to the Jews that you would be delivered over to Gentiles. But just to show you how out of tune they are, look at verse number 35. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us what whatsoever we shall desire They come and they have a request. I love the way they say it. Lord, we want you to give us whatever we ask. Sounds like a child to a parent, right? Dad, I'm going to ask you for something. Please promise me you'll give it. Well, son, I need to know what it is before I make the promise. This was the first name it and claim it ever in theology. They were coming, they said, we're going to name something, Jesus, and we're going to claim it. We want you to give it to us. And it doesn't work that way with Jesus. Because notice what he says in verse 36, and he said to them, What would ye that I should do for you? What do you want from me? What do you want me to give you? And by the way, again, if you go to Matthew's gospel and you look at this account, it says that it was actually the mother of James and John. that came asking this. Mark did not record the mother doing this because Mark knows that the ones really responsible for this was James and John. They put their mother up to this. Mom, would you please do us a favor? We want you to go and ask Jesus something. He won't turn you down. He might turn us down, but he won't turn you down. Why? Well, because did you you know who the mother of James and John is? It is actually Salomi, which is the sister of Mary, the mother of Jesus. So this is actually Aunt Salome. And James and John are the cousins. So they put their mother up to come to Jesus. They were kind of appealing to family ties here when they had their mother come and do it. And what was the request? It was a pretty big request in verse number 35, or actually verse 37, notice what it says, they said unto him, grant unto us That we may sit one on the right hand and the other on the left hand in thy glory. Here's the request, and again it was the mother that asked, put one of my children on your right hand, the other on your left. when it comes time for the kingdom. Now this is an amazing request. Give them the chief seats. One on the right, one on the left. Now Jesus had already promised that they would sit on thrones, but that wasn't enough. James and John wanted the most powerful seats, they wanted the most recognized seats. And uh It was an incredible thing for them to even ask. And in fact, Jesus seems shocked by it. Look at verse 38. But Jesus said to them, Ye know not what ye ask. Can you drink of the cup that I drink of and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? In other words, you don't know what you're asking here. Now In this account, he speaks directly to James and John. He doesn't talk to the mom because again, Jesus knows who is really the ones responsible for this request. And he says to James and John, you don't realize what you're asking here. Can you drink of the cup that I'm going to drink of? Can you be baptized with baptism that I'm going to be baptized with? And when Jesus used the word baptism here, he wasn't talking about water baptism. The word baptism simply means immersion. Can you be immersed in what I'm going to be immersed in? What was Jesus about to be immersed in? Suffering. He was going to go to Jerusalem and the week of passion was going to begin. He was going to suffer like no one has ever suffered. And Jesus is saying, I'm about to be baptized. And unbelievable suffering, is that what you're asking for? You want to be a part of that? Because here's the principle: the greater the glory in the kingdom, it's because of the greater suffering. Here on earth. The greater you suffer for the gospel and for the kingdom here on earth, the greater glory you're going to have one day in the future. And so really what they were asking was Lord, help us to suffer like no one else has ever suffered. How many of you are glad for the prayers that God has not answered for us? Some of the things that we ask for, we don't really understand what we're asking. And the disciples they didn't understand. They didn't get it. They still don't know because look at the response. When Jesus asked them that. And the the verse 39, and they said unto them, we can. Really, you think you can? And then Jesus said to them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of, and with the baptism I'm baptized with with all ye shall be baptized. But to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but it shall be given for to them for whom it is prepared. In other words, Jesus was making a prediction, and what he was saying essentially was, yeah, one day you will be ready to suffer for the kingdom. You're not ready for that right now. One day you will be. In fact, James would be the first martyr of the church. He would be beheaded. And John would suffer on the Isle of Patmos. One day they would suffer for the gospel But then Jesus says in verse 40, but to sit on my right hand and on my left, it's not mine to give. That's a decision for the Father. I don't make those decisions. Those decisions are decided by my Father. And so look at verse 41. Notice the reaction of the disciples. And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. I bet they were. These guys here these guys were competing about who would be greatest in the kingdom. And they're mad that James and John did this. They're probably mad that they didn't think of it first. Send mom in to ask this request. And then Jesus sees that there's a little bit of a riff in the disciples. So he calls them together again. This is another private meeting. Look at verse 42. But Jesus called them to him, and he said unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to be rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them And their great ones exercise authority upon them, but so shall it not be among you. But whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister. And Jesus basically tells them, you know, the way it is in the world today, greatness among the Gentiles is measured by having power, lording it over them. Exercising lordship is the idea of ruling over people in a tyrannical kind of way with power. Jesus said the ones who are first today are the ones who have this power and they rule over people. That's how greatness is looked at today, but that's not the way it is in my kingdom. That's not the way it is. In fact, in my kingdom, the greatest will be the servant. Look at verse 44. And whosoever of you will be the chiefest. Shall be the servant. Look at the word chiefest there. The Greek word there is protos, first place, number one. Whoever's number one in my kingdom It's going to be the servant. The word for servant, doulas, lowest word for servant, actually slave. Dulas always in Greek meant slave. The greatest is not going to be the one in first place. It'll be the servant or the slave, the one who puts others ahead of them, the one who serves others. The one who literally makes themself a slave on the behalf of others for their good. That's the one who's greatest in my kingdom. And again, Just to emphasize this point, look at verse 45. For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister And to give his life a ransom for many. Again, he points to his self, his own life. I came not to be ministered to. I didn't come to be first. I came to minister to serve others. In fact, I came to give my life a ransom for many. And the word ransom here, Lutron, means a price so that you can be released from prison, from bondage. Now there are some theologians that they look at this, they develop what they call the ransom theory, you know, and they say, well s you know, we are all in bondage to Satan. We're in prison to Satan and Jesus pays the ransom price to Satan so that we can be free. No, my friend, no, that's not what that's saying. Let me tell you what happened to Satan at the cross. He was crushed. He got his head crushed. The ransom is not paid to the devil. The ransom is paid to God the Father. Jesus paid the ransom price so that we could have eternal life in heaven. He gave his life a ransom for many in the place of many. He died in our And that's the whole purpose for his coming. Again, this is the greatest illustration of someone who is first, making themselves last. And thereby becoming first. Remember what it says in the book of Philippians? He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Therefore, God has what? Highly exalted him. And given him a name that is above every name. You see, Jesus made himself last, and God the Father said, I'm going to make you first. And this all took place at the cross so that we could have salvation, so that we can be saved. And so this is the kingdom principle. It is something that we must learn to apply. It applies in salvation. Unless you make yourself less, you'll never be a part of the kingdom. When you make yourself last in sacrifice, remember God will restore that to you. He will give you a hundredfold back. When you make yourself last in suffering, God will give you great glory. He'll make you first. When you make yourself last in service and you serve others and you minister to others, that's the way to true greatness in the kingdom. You become first by making yourself last. This is the message that Jesus gave to his disciples. It's the message that he gives to us today. Friend, are you willing? To do that, to make yourself last. Let's let's bow for prayer together today as we're out of time I want you to think about the words of Christ, and I want you to examine your own heart in light of what Jesus has just said. And first I want you to ask yourself, am I truly a part of the kingdom of God? Am I sure about my salvation? Have I humbled myself? Have I been broken over my sin? It may be that you're here in that your condition now. You say, I am broken over my sin. I feel the weight of it. And mourn over it. Remember the words of Jesus who said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. And you know how you're comforted when you come to Christ, you come to the cross. You return from your sin and you turn to Christ and you ask for his salvation. He will save you. He will cleanse you from your sin. He will make you right before God. He'll give you eternal life. But that only happens when you make yourself last. When you humble yourself. And then if you're a child of God and you know it. Are you following the example of Christ in your life? Following in his footsteps with this principle. Being first by being last. Serving the Lord Jesus. One day we're going to stand in the awesome, overwhelming presence of our living Lord Christ. And in that day, will you be able to say, I've served Him? I made myself last in order to be effective for the kingdom. Can you will you honestly be able to say that? Or are there things in your life that you just They're hindering you from being the person God wants you to be. Jesus God to take them out of your life Help you to be the servant that God has called you to be. Father, bless again these words to every hearing heart here today. Lord, for those who don't know Christ, I pray that they would see Christ as the only way of salvation. That they would call upon him. And friend, if you're here And you want to call upon Christ, would you take a moment right now and reach out to him in prayer and say these words and mean them, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. For Christ's sake, make me your child. If you prayed that prayer, would you let us know afterwards? We want to encourage you in your Christian faith. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.