It's good to see you here in God's house tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, open to the book of Psalms. Tonight I want you to find chapter 54 in the book. Book of Psalms. We've been studying uh the Psalms for uh a while now. Someone might ask, well, how long are we going to be in here? Well, I don't know. Um I just keep saying, Well, I'm that's probably the last one I'm gonna move on. And then I get up in the morning and I start reading and I read another psalm and I think I want to preach on this. Because they minister to my heart when I read through them. I hope they minister to you. Psalm 54, verse number 1 through 7, a short psalm, but let me read this if we follow along, verse 1. Save me, O God, by thy name. Judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth. For strangers arisen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them, Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul He shall reward evil unto my enemies and cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. For he hath delivered me out of all the trouble, all trouble, and my eye has seen his desire upon my enemies. I want to speak tonight on this topic between a rock and a hard place. You ever hear that expression? Uh where does that come from? Well that expression, uh in case you didn't already know, comes from uh a saying that from ancient Greek mythology It was a story of Odyssey. I don't know if you ever read that story, but in the story, Odyssey is makes his efforts to return home. But the return home is not an easy journey because he has to pass between a place called S uh something called Scyla and Charybdis. Scylla happens to be a horrible man-in-the-monster that struck from above on the cliffs, hence you have the rock. And Charybdis was a treacherous whirlpool, and thence you have a hard place. And so that's where you get the whole saying between a rock and a hard place. And it's used to speak about a dilemma that we're in, a predicament. uh a difficulty in our life, something that is not easy, uh where we're perhaps in a place in our life where there are no easy choices, where uh we are uh trying to figure out a way out of this circumstance or out of this dilemma that we happen to be in. This is the background of the writing of Psalm 54 When David wrote this psalm, he was between a rock and a hard place. He had a difficult dilemma in his life. In fact, really, to understand Psalm 54, we have to look at what's going on. So take hold your place here. We'll come back to it, but go to 1 Samuel chapter 23, and I want you to look at the background behind the writing of this psalm. It helps us to understand the psalm a lot better. And let me just tell you what's going on here in chapter 23. We'll look at verse um down to verse 13 uh in a minute. But David is betrayed by some people. This is a time in his life when he has been running from King Saul. If you know anything about the life of David, you know King Saul wanted to kill him. He was jealous of him. He was David was the anointed king, and Saul did not appreciate that. So he wants to kill David, and David is running from place to place. He's hiding in the wilderness. As you come to chapter 23, David does something heroic, actually. He delivers an Israelite border town. It's right on the border of Israelite land and and the Philistine territory. And this town that's right on the border was captured by the Philistines. And David heroically delivers this town and puts it back into the hands of the Israelites. And you would think that out of gratitude they would be thankful for David, but they were not. They still treated him as if he was a traitor. And so what happens is, is this uh they are going to turn David in So David flees to the wilderness. Look at verse thirteen. Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah, and he forbear to go. And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Zif And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hands. And so in these verses it describes how David is in this dangerous situation. He's running, he's hiding. Saul is after him. And finally, down in verse 19, this place where David is staying, the Bible calls it Zif, the Ziphites. Look at verse 19. Then came up it came up the Ziphites to Saul, to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood? in the south in the hill of Hakaliah, which is on the south of Jesheman. Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul, to come down, and and our part shall be to deliver him into thy hands. And so here these people did betray David. Now one thing to understand about this is the village of Zith was on the territory of the tribe of Judah. Do you remember what tribe David is from? He's from the tribe of Judah So these are his own people, these are his own tribe, these are his own kindred. He would have every reason to expect that his own people would be loyal to him But instead they sold him out. They betrayed him. Now Saul out of gratitude he kind of pronounces a benediction. Look at verse 21. And Saul said, Blessed be you, O the Lord, for ye have compassion on me, you know. Uh poor Saul, he's been on a pity party No one likes me, everybody hates me, I'm going to eat some worms. That's a verse somewhere else in the Old Testament. But Saul was just having a pity party. Here these people, oh, you have had pity on me. And so uh thank you and bless you. But Saul had no right to bless because he was under God's wrath, because he had disobeyed the Lord and he was disobeying God by what he was doing. Nevertheless, Saul now is hunting David. He bears down on him because he gets a fix on David's exact location. Look in verse 25. Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David, wherefore he came down into a rock and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Naon. Saul gets an exact fix on the location of David. The Bible says David retreated to a rock. Actually, in the Hebrew, it's articular. It reads, the rock. This was a well-known rock. That was right there in the wilderness. A big old rock, perhaps a mountain area. And Saul goes straight to that place in the wilderness of Mayan. He knows exactly where that is. And finally it looks like Saul's finally going to catch up to David. He's got him trapped. Literally, Saul is on one side of this rock. And David is on the other side. And the only thing protecting David from Saul is this rock. So look at verse 26. And Saul went on this side of the mountain. And David and his men on that side of the mountain. And David made haste to get away for fear of Saul. For Saul and his men compassed David. And his men round about to take them. So you know what Saul does? Saul divides his army. And here's David on one side, and here's Saul, and he divides his army, and they're going around kind of in a pincer movement And pretty soon they're going to have David right there where they want him. David is trapped. It just looks like it's over for him. Like Saul's finally going to get him. If Saul gets him. He's going to kill him, there's no question. He doesn't want any rivals to his throne. So this is a very difficult situation. David is trapped. When I read this passage of scripture, you know I I'm sorry. Uh you know what I think of? I think of the TV series I used to watch when I was a little kid, Batman and Robin. You ever watch that? You ever remember how the at the end of each episode Batman and Robin were in this life-threatening situation. You know, it was some trap that the penguin or a joker set up And uh always there was a voiceover that came on at the end while they were in this trap. You know, will will Batman be able to get out of this dilemma? Keep your fingers crossed. Watch next week, same Battime, same what? So you all watched it too, didn't you? And so he's in this dilemma, and the question is, is he going to get out? And that's the question here for David. David is in this this this trap And I have a voice going off in my mind. Will anyone save God's anointed shepherd boy? Will he be able to get out of that? Well, go back to Psalm 54 because this is the occasion. Where David writes, when David wrote this, he had just been betrayed by his own people, the Ziphites. He wrote this right after the betrayal. This is a very difficult dilemma. Let me ask you a question. What do you do when you're in a dilemma? What do you do when you're in a difficult circumstance? When it seems like you're between a rock and a hard place. What does David do in this psalm? And this is something that all of us can learn. As we follow David's example here. Notice from this psalm three important steps to take when you are in a difficult dilemma. Here's the first one. Number one, express your desperation to God. Notice in verse number one, save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me, which is to say the Hebrew word there is vindicate me or take up my cause. As just like a defense lawyer would take up the cause of someone who's been accused, God take up my cause for me. So I want you to notice that in this prayer, David doesn't give some long drawn-out prayer to God Notice that his prayer in this chapter is short, desperate bursts of emotion. That's what we read here. He says, save me. And then he says, we could say, vindicate me, God. And then he prays in verse 2, Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth. Two times we see him say the expression, O God, O God. You have to sense the passion in these prayers here. I think the best prayers are not long, eloquent, loquacious prayers filled with all kind of theologically correct words, although there's a place for all of that. I think the most powerful prayers are the passionate prayers that we pray out of desperation. When we just an emotional burst. Someone said some prayers are so cold that they freeze before they get to heaven. Passionate prayers are filled with our emotions. And this is what David does in this situation. He just cries out, oh God, save me. God, vindicate me. James 5. 16 says this the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. I think one of the most effectual fervent prayers in all the New Testament is in the episode in the life of Peter. You remember the story when he walks on the water? Gets out of the boat, Jesus says, come, and Peter comes walking on the water, and he looks around and sees the winds and the waves, and you know the story. He takes his eyes off the Lord, he begins to sink. And at that moment, Peter prayed the prayer. You know what his prayer was? Lord, save me. Just three words. And right immediately, Jesus was there. I think the desperate prayers that God's people pray in a difficult dilemma gets the attention of Almighty God. And I think that's what's missing a lot of times in our prayers is desperation. Are you desperate for God? Are you desperate for his help? And sometimes I believe that God puts us in a desperate situation. To help us really learn to really cry out to him in prayer, desperation. I think that's missing. When I go to other countries like Africa and go to countries in Africa, Or go to Central American countries. And here are people that are in that don't have the blessings that we have here in America That just seem to be in difficult and desperate situations. And I go to churches where they worship and I listen to them pray. I want to tell you, there's something about those prayers. There's a desperation about them There's a dependency about the way that they pray that's missing, I think, sometimes here in America. I think desperation moves the heart of Almighty God. It moves God to work on our behalf. The old preacher Vance Habner used to say this: the tragedy of our time is that the situation is desperate, but the saints are not. I think about that, he's right. We look around. We have we are in a desperate situation in many ways. In our country, in our world. Maybe we can say in our in our own relationships and our family, we are desperate and we are desperate for God. I think this is the way Jesus taught his disciples to pray. Remember they heard Jesus pray, and they said, Lord, teach us to pray the way you do. And when before Jesus taught them to pray, first he had to tell them what not to do. He said, look, when you pray, don't pray like you hear others do. Don't pray like some of the religious people. Don't pray like some of the heathen that don't know God the way they pray. They have mechanical prayers And Jesus Day, the Jewish prayers kind of devolved down into writing out things and praying and saying some words without really having a heart. in those prayers. They were very ritualized. They were repeated from memory. You can you can mouth a prayer without really even thinking about what you're saying. As if there's something magical. about the way that you put together the sentence that's going to move God, these prescribed prayers. It's easy for us as Christians to kind of fall into that pattern. I think that all of us have one routine prayer in our system, and once we get rid of it, we can really start to pray. We can really start to pray from our heart, and God wants us to get rid of it. Don't just go through the mechanics of praying, really pray. He said, don't pray mechanical prayers, don't pray mystical prayers. Back in that time there were people that believed they could get caught away into some kind of a ecstasy, as if that they had they prayed this language that was really just gibberish. In Matthew 6, when Jesus said, don't use vain repetitions, the Greek word there is bada-legao. Legeo is from the Greek word to speak. Bada is a non-word. Bata legeo is just speaking non-words. Words that no one understands. I know some people believe in a private prayer language, uh as if it you speak some kind of private prayer language. You're going to be more intimate with God. Let me tell you something. The prayer that Jesus taught his disciples to pray in Matthew 6, you don't get any more intimate than that. You don't get any more intimate than the Lord's Prayer. And uh so Jesus said, don't use this mystical idea of praying the way that some people do, as if there's something in that, in this mechanical way. Of repeating words. And what did Jesus do right after that? He gave him the Lord's Prayer. Did you ever think about the Lord's Prayer? You how long it is? It's not very long at all, just over 40 words. Forty words. They're not long words. They're not uh words that are hard to pronounce. They're not long uh uh uh deep theological words, so there's a lot of deep theology in the prayer, but the words are pretty easy. And it's prayed with passion. To pray to the Lord. Jesus wants us to pray. To pray with passion, to pray with desperation, to pray to the Lord, to get God's attention. And this is what David does. Express your desperation to God. But here's the second thing I see in this psalm. Explain your dilemma to God. Explain your dilemma. Look at verse 3. For strangers are risen up against me And oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. So David, notice that. He's very specific here. Strangers, Lord, have risen up against me. This doesn't suggest that his enemies were Gentiles. Remember, these are people from his own tribe that had betrayed him. This word is used to describe people in Job's family and his friends, and David uses it in a similar way in another place. It can really describe anyone who's turned his or her back on someone, and certainly that's what these people did to David. And oppressors there, it means ruthless men. And they seek after my soul. That is, they're trying to kill me. And why do they do that? David tells us why in verse 3. They have not set God before them. They're not doing this out of God's will. They're not seeking God's pleasure. They're doing their own thing. And so David's very specific. And then he asks again in verse 1, Lord, judge me. That is, Lord, vindicate me. Just come to my aid. Help me out of this mess. Now, what do we learn from this way of David praying? Well We learned that David's very specific about what he wants and what he needs. God, here's what I need. I have these men that are coming after me. They're not People that want to do your will, they're not following your precepts, they're not listening to your voice or your word, and they're oppressors, they're strangers, they're seeking after my life, they want to kill me. God, take up my cause. God, deliver me. Defend me, Lord. This is very specific. And this teaches us that in a crisis situation, when you pray, just tell God exactly what you want. Tell Him exactly what you need. Now someone might say, well, why do we have to do that? God already knows what we need before we ask Him, right? Well, true. That's right. He does know. But we still need to be specific in our requests, and that we need to do this for several reasons. First of all, because it guards our prayers from becoming an empty ritual, just like I just said. You know, when we tell God specifically what we need, it keeps us from that mechanical way of praying. And God doesn't want us just to be words without heart. That's one reason to be specific. But there's another reason. That's simply because God commands it. God commands it. When Jesus taught the Lord's Prayer, he didn't say, here's what you say, Father bless me. Amen. No, Jesus was specific about your petition. Give us this day our what? Daily bread. Whatever you need that day. Bread is one word that stands for anything that you need in that particular day. Daily needs. Take your daily needs to God. That's what Jesus told us to do. The Apostle Paul said this in Philippians 4. 6 Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer, supplication, with thanksgiving, what's the rest of it? Let your request be made known unto God. Tell God what you need. And so it guards us from being empty in our praying because God commands it, but also because it kind of gives us a sense of peace. The reason you're specific and you tell God exactly what you need is because after you do that, you know what? There's an exchange. God gives you peace after that. See, where do you get that? Philippians again, Philippians 4 6. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known unto God. And notice the next part, and the peace of God which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. So there's an exchange, isn't there? When we tell God exactly what our requests are, in return, God gives us peace. And that peace keeps us. The word for keep here, interesting Greek word. It's a military term to watch over, just like a garrison of soldiers. Who's Paul writing? The Philippians in the city of Philippi. Philippi was a Roman colony, and Roman soldiers were all around that city guarding it. It was eight hundred miles away from Rome, but it was a Roman colony, and they had Roman soldiers there that were constantly watching over this little colony. And so when Paul used this word that the peace of God is going to garrison you about, is going to watch over you I think the people of Philippi immediately their minds went to those guards. Just like those Roman soldiers are guarding over you, even the peace of God will guard over you. Even so the Peace of God will guard over you. That's a pretty good trait, if you ask me. We give God our troubles, our dangers, our dilemmas. We tell him specifically what we need, and then he in return. gives us peace. That's the reason we pray specifically. Because it guards our prayers from becoming empty. God commanded it. It gives us a sense of peace. And this is how we know that God answers us. How do you know God answers your prayer if you're not specific? You know, God bless everybody. You know, our children, when we had family devotions, they when they would pray, it was our turn to pray It was pretty general. God bless everybody. Lord bless all the missionaries. Bless mom, bless dad, bless grandma, bless grandpa. And the only time there was any variation on that prayer is every once in a while they would include in the family dog. God bless Molly. But it was pretty much pretty general, very general. And I would try to encourage the kids, like, you know, be specific. Tell God exactly what you want. Be very specific with your prayers. And as they grew up and grew older, they they began to learn that idea. But you know, sometimes there are Christians in churches who've been saved for a long time and they haven't really learned to be specific. First John 5, 14 says this, and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us, and if we know that he hears us. Whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of him. The word for ask here, very interesting word. It's a word that has the idea of boldly asking, not with disrespect, but with confidence We come and we ask God boldly, but also and the word petition that we see in 1 John 5, 15, is a kind of a another form of that same word, and it has the idea of a specific, exact, precise request. That's by the way the reason the King James translators, when they translated this Greek word, used the word petition Because it really has that idea in it, a very specific request. When you pray, give God your petition, your specific thing that you want to ask. Go boldly. And ask him for it. And you know what? You can even write it down. Keep a prayer journal. I know some Christians that write down all their prayers, specifically what they ask God, and when God answers that prayer, they write it in. You ever hear of people that do that? I was reading about George Mueller, the great prayer warrior. We heard about him who basically uh prayed in money to keep his orphanages. functioning over there in Bristol, England. He's very famous for that. I read that he had kept a journal of all his prayer requests. And he included in that journal specific answers to 50,000 prayers that God had answered for him. 5,000 of those prayers were answered in the same day that he prayed for it. That's amazing. But he kept a journal of it all. And he wrote it down. He had diligent records about that. So express your desperation to God. And then explain your dilemma to God. That's what David does. But then here's the third thing: expect your deliverance from God. Look at verse 4: Behold, God is mine helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies and cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. For he has delivered me out of all my tr all troubles, and mine eye has seen his desire upon my enemies. After David cast all his anxiety on God, he's filled with confidence that God will deliver Because his confidence is really in God. It's not in himself. His confidence is completely in God. And I think this is where God wants to bring us a lot of times in our Christian life Where we're just absolutely confident in him. In him. Martin Lloyd Jones one time said this. He said, I sometimes think that the very essence of the whole Christian position And the secret of the successful spiritual life is just to realize two things. I must have complete, absolute confidence in God and no confidence in myself. I think that's true. Once David tells his dilemma to God, his danger, he doesn't worry about it anymore. In fact, what he does is he encourages himself And he praises God. He thanks God. And there's really two ways that we see here in these verses that he expresses his confidence. First of all Remember that God is your helper. He reminds himself who his helper is. Look at verse 4. Behold, God is my helper. And the Lord is with them that uphold my soul. I think this is the central verse of the Psalm. I think this is the whole point of it, to express confidence in God and say, God is my helper. Again, this is where God wants to bring us. The word helper helper, uh the word easer. Remember there's a story of the The uh raising of the stone called Ebenezer when Samuel prayed and God helped him and he he took a memorial stone and raised it there and he called it the stone of Ebens. The stone is the Hebrew word for stone. Ezer is this the word for help Ebenezer. And this is the form of that same word. God is my easer. God is my help. And David uses this word a lot. In his writings, a lot of times in his Psalms, he uses this word of God being his help. And so he reminds himself who his helper is, and we need to do that. When you're in a difficult dilemma, remember who your helper is. Remember, it is God. And then here's the next thing he does. Offer thanksgiving to God in advance. Because that's what he begins to do. In verse 6, I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. For he hath delivered me out of all trouble. Now, so first of all, he says, I will freely sacrifice. We could translate it, I will offer a free will offering. That's really what he's talking about here. You know, in the Old Testament, in the book of Leviticus, there were several offerings a worshiper could could offer to the Lord, and one of those was called a free will offering. Why would a person do that? Well, if there was ever an occasion in their life when something happened where God delivered them, where maybe something good just maybe they had a great harvest. Or maybe God blessed them in some specific way. Maybe they were healed from a physical infirmity. Or there was an incredible deliverance in their life of something. Then the offer would come to the tabernacle with a free will offering, and he would take a third of that animal the best of it and he would offer it to the Lord and then another third of it he would give to the priest and then the other third of it, you know what he would do? He would take it home and he would share it with all of his family. They would have a thanksgiving feast together. That's where we get thanksgiving from And David is talking about that very offering there. He says, you know, I'm going to prepare a thanksgiving offering. Now, think about this. Now, when David wrote this, he hadn't yet been delivered. But he was already planning the Thanksgiving dinner for it. He was confident that God was going to deliver him. And then here's the other thing, he's so confident that he speaks in past tense. Look at verse number seven, for he hath delivered me out of all trouble. Wait a minute, David, you're not delivered yet But that he hath his perfect tense, completed action. These are called prophetic perfect verbs. It's when the author speaks about something happening in the future as if it had already happened. In other words, it was so sure that it was going to happen, even though it hasn't taken place yet, he uses past tense verbs as if it had happened. This is a sure thing. This is going to happen. He has delivered me. He already has delivered me. He had such confidence in the Lord. Now, how could David be so sure of this? This was faith on David's part. You know, it wasn't faith based on just nothing. Remember I said that faith is not believing in spite of circumstances, but it's obeying in spite of consequences, right? So this is not wishful thinking on David's part. Why was he so confident? Because God came to his house. With the prophet Samuel. And God anointed him through the prophet Samuel. And what did God say to David? You're going to be the next what? Now, how's David going to do that if he's dead? How's he going to be the king if Saul gets him? He was operating completely by faith. He was basically saying, God. It doesn't look good for me right now, but you did make a promise to me. So I trust that promise. I believe you. In fact, I believe it so much. I know you're going to deliver me, and I believe it so much I'm going to go ahead and get that sacrifice ready. And I'm going to, I praise you that it's already happened. Expect your deliverance from God. You see, you are God's child. He's going to watch over you. He's going to take care of you. You realize how many promises you have in the Bible that you can cling to? And stand on in faith. That's what David does here. So let's get the last part of the story. Let's go back. to 1 Samuel chapter 23. Did God deliver David? Of course he did. But how did he do it? Let's go back. To finish off the sermon, let's go back to 1 Samuel 23. Let's pick up the rest of the story here. This is week two of our Batman television show here. How did he get out of it? How does he get delivered? Look at verse 27. Now here's again, here's David. Remember Saul? He's on that rock. It's the rock is between him and Saul. And Saul divides his army and he's surrounding. He's coming in on David. And David's going to be surrounded from both sides. And he's going to be caught. It's a sure thing that he's going to get caught there. But look at verse 27. Right when Saul's about to move in, back up to verse 26, we'll read it again. And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain, and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul. For Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take him. Right when he's ready to grab him, verse 27. But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Hasty and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. And wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. So can you see that? Right when Saul's about to move in, Saul gets a message. Hey, king. You gotta come quickly. The Philistines have invaded your land. Now You know, Saul probably would have let it go, but I think he was probably thinking about his own hometown, Gibeah. The invaders had come deep into Israel, deep into the territory, and he was more concerned about his own kindred, his own hometown. So when he gets news that the Philistines had come, right when he has David trapped, he's got a He's got to go. And guess what? David is delivered. And David is free. But by this providence, you think that was an accident? Just a coincidence, right? No, it's God. God keeping his promise, God watching over his servant, God delivering David, intervening. And so therefore, in verse twenty-eight David names this rock a special name. Therefore they called that place Sila Hem Malikot. Try saying that three times. It's the Hebrew. Let me let me break it down. It just really means the rock of escape. Or we could say the rock of deliverance. This is the rock of escape. You know how David got out of that dilemma? You know how he you know what he did when he was between a rock and a hard place? He just depended on the Lord and made the Lord his rock. The Lord watched over him. That's in essence what he's doing here. He's just saying, Lord, you take care of this. No matter what dilemma you're in. What difficulty, whatever bondage, whatever heartache, whatever dark circumstance, listen, friend, don't doubt it. God will be your rock. Just, you know what, express your desperation to the Lord. Explain your dilemma to the Lord. Expect your deliverance from the Lord because he will be that to you. He will be your rock for you. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we come to you in confidence, knowing that you're a God who loves us, who cares deeply for us. And when we were in the difficult, dark dilemmas of life, the hard places of life. Where we feel we have within our own earthly strength no way out. Nothing we can do. That's the time, Lord, when we need to cry out to you in desperation. And pray the words that David prayed in this psalm. Save me, O God. Save me. Vindicate me. Deliver me. Hear my prayer, O God. Be my rock. Maybe there's someone here tonight that you just need to say that to God. God doesn't need a long prayer, He doesn't need a Eloquent prayer. What moves his heart is your desperate prayer. So would you take a moment and would you just seek God? Seek his face. Tell him what you need. Be specific. And let him move on your behalf. Can I ask you, is your rock Christ? Are you sure of your salvation, friend? Are you standing on the rock of salvation firmly? Christ died for you. He shed his blood that you might have forgiven. Forgiveness of sins and eternal life. Come to Him, come to the rock, stand firmly on Him for salvation. There's no other way than through Christ. And so, Father, bless these words to our hearts tonight. Minister to your servants, to your people that you love so dearly. Give each the grace that they need at this moment. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.