Would you take your Bibles tonight, please? Open to the book of Philippians, and we want to continue in our study in Philippians here on Sunday night, and we want you to go to chapter 3 tonight. We're starting chapter three, verses one down to verse number three of the book of Philippians. And tonight I want to talk about characteristics of a true believer or Uh title of of the sermon you could call it, I guess, Beware of Dogs. I've seen this scripture verse on a lot of gates and posts. Just look in verse number one. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. For we are the circumcision which worship God in spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh. In a book called Beware of the Dogs, it's uh tells a story that took place during World War II. Peter Williamson was a pilot and he was flying home injured after a dog fight when he began to feel lightheaded And he decided to bail out of the plane just as he started over the English Channel. When he wakes up in the hospital, his injuries are are treated and he's told he's in a hospital in in uh England, in Brighton, England. However, he soon begins to notice that things are not quite right there at that hospital, not as it should be. And he hears s the sounds of uh different planes flying overhead that uh didn't make sense to him. And finally when he looks out the window, he sees a sign written in French. The science said, Beware of the dog. And he realizes that he's not in England at all, but he's an enemy territory He's being deceived by the enemy. And shortly after this, he realizes this, the nurse sends in a man who is supposedly to be from the Royal Air Force to get information from him. And knowing that uh knowing that uh he is uh Not in England. He refuses to give him any information except um his name, rank, and number. And so basically uh that the fact that he refused to give give the information saves his life. And he says in the book, it's all due to the sign that he read, beware of the dogs. I think about that when I think about this passage here in Philippians. The Bible is filled with warnings, and Paul is certainly giving a warning here to the Philippians. But it's a warning really that applies to all of us because whether we realize it or not, we are all in enemy territory. And Satan is constantly trying to deceive God's people. That was the case in Philippi. Paul was really concerned about this church because he had received word through Epaphroditus that there were some things going on there. that was uh alerting that was concerning regard to in regards to theology and what was being taught. So three times we see in verse number Two, the word beware. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. So there's a spiritual warfare going on in the there at Philippi. And Paul gives this warning. Now, who is Paul talking about here? Who is he referring to when he says to beware? And uh what Paul is really doing here in these verses is he's contrasting False Christianity with true Christianity. And really to understand this section of Philippians, you have to understand a bit about the history. Soon after the gospel began to be spread among the Gentiles, some Jewish men followed Paul basically, and they claimed to believe in Jesus. But they began to teach the Gentile converts that they could not be saved unless they were circumcised according to the law In other words, Jesus was not enough. You had to add something to that. Just write down Acts chapter 15, verse number one. But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. They didn't deny Jesus. They didn't deny that you had to believe in the Lord Jesus. But they said that faith in Jesus is not is necessary, but it's not sufficient. You had to add something to that. Faith in Jesus was good. That point, you have to get to that point, but you also have to do this. You have to add to Christ the keeping of the law or Jewish law, especially circumcision. That was necessary in order for a person to be saved. And really it was resolved in Jerusalem at the council of the church leaders there. It was decided that Gentiles do not have to become Jews or to become circumcised in order to be saved. But that every person, Jew and Gentile, is saved by grace through faith in Christ alone. And so that issue was settled in Acts chapter 15. But that decision did not cause Satan to give up, or these false teachers, or these Judaizers. He continued to work through these men, this group of dedicated Jewish men. dedicated to their error, who followed Paul all around on his missionary journeys, and they infiltrated the new churches that Paul planted, and it began to bring in this message of Salvation is by adding to Christ the law of Moses. And so Paul Paul writes in several places in the New Testament, Paul has to deal with this error. But in fact the the the book of Galatians is dedicated to refuting this error. And you remember Paul said at the beginning of Galatians, if any man preach any other gospel than the one that I have preached unto you, let him be what? Let him be accursed. Let him be devoted to judgment. Let him be devoted to God's anathema. That's a serious, serious judgment. So the Judaizers are the men Paul is warning about here in this passage. And he's warning the Philippian church, look, watch out for these guys. Beware of dogs. Beware of the evil workers. Beware of the concision, or we could say the false circumcision. All these three phrases refer to that one group of Judaizers that were promoting a counterfeit Christianity. Now, while the Judaizers no longer exist today the way they did in Paul's day, there is still the philosophy and the core they're teaching that is prevalent even today. There are still people who are trying to mix somehow ritual or works in with faith. We see this today. That's why all throughout the New Testament, writers exhort believers to examine your faith to make sure it's the real thing, to make sure it's rooted in Christ and Christ alone. You are to examine your heart. You're to be vigilant in this area. About twenty years ago, a survey was conducted among youth from Protestant churches from different denominations, and they asked whether they agreed with the following statement. The way to be accepted by God is to try sincerely to live a good life. More than 60% agree. Another one said, God is satisfied if a person lives the best he can. Almost 70% agreed. According to a Barna poll, 43% of Americans said it doesn't matter what religious faith you follow, because they all teach the same lessons 54% of the Americans disagreed. Half of Americans, 50% believe that all people are eventually saved or accepted by God, no matter what they do. Fifty percent of Americans believe that. There are a lot of people out there that think that just being Christians um you know is just by just trying to do the right thing. They think that they are Christians. Many people are in that lie where they think that just by doing the best they can, if they can just be sincere, that makes them a Christian, and they're not That's why Jesus warned the Pharisees back in his day that were resting in their own religious good works. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we done all these things? And Jesus will say what? Depart from me, I never knew you. So this text is extremely important in helping us to discern what true Christianity is and to reject any counterfeit version. So what I want to show you here in this passage in the time we have are seven characteristics of true believers. Seven characteristics of true believers. They're kind of woven through the warning that Paul gives us here in these first three verses. Here's number one: true believers exhibit joy. Exhibit joy. Look at verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. A son once asked his father, when a preacher says, Finally, what does that mean? And the father said, It means absolutely nothing, son. So when Paul says finally here, he's not closing the epistle. In fact, he's only halfway done. He still has a whole lot more to say after this. But this is really a transitional word where he's moving towards another topic. The word literally means towards the rest. Or regarding the rest, here's what I want to say about the rest. regarding the rest of my instructions. And then he says, rejoice in the Lord. That is a command. That is on the top of the list of instructions in this. I want you above all things to just rejoice in the Lord. This is a present-tense imperative. It's a command. You are to continually rejoice in the Lord. This should be the manner of life. This should be A lifestyle for believers. People should see us rejoicing in the Lord. Joy is the major theme of this letter. We've seen that already. This letter consists of just about a hundred and four verses. Rejoice is used nine times, joy is used five times, two rejoice is used two times. And again it's ironic that Paul writes this from a Roman prison. His circumstances didn't determine his joy. His joy was because of the fact that he was in the Lord, that he was in Christ. Here's a man constantly chained to a Roman soldier, doesn't have a single moment of privacy, he's been that way for two years in his life. He's going to appear before Caesar, but yet his whole default mode was joy. Joy. And I think that Paul's joy was perhaps the talk of the imperial and the imperial guard that was watching him all throughout his stay there in that room in prison. But again, how could he have such joy? We see the command, but the cause. Again, the key is the three words in the Lord. Paul doesn't just say rejoice, but rejoice in the Lord. The cause of our joy is in the Lord. The Lord Himself is both the occasion and the source for joy for the believer. Again, our joy is not dependent upon circumstances. Our joy is rooted in knowing Jesus Christ. Doesn't mean that you always walk around and you're happy. Because sometimes you can't be happy. In fact, there are times when we weep. There are times when the Bible commands us to weep. But we can always have deep down that inward joy. On the surface, we can have one emotion, but deep down there is that inward joy that we have. Even in difficult circumstances, we can rejoice in the Lord. Why? Because all of our hope is in Christ. Because all of what we have, all of our future hope, all of that that rests in Christ, no matter what the circumstances are right now, we can rejoice knowing that we are in the Lord. Remember, the definition of joy is seeing everything that we're going through from God's perspective. Looking at it from God's perspective, seeing God and all of my circumstances would be another way to view it I heard about a young couple that moved into a new neighborhood. The next morning while they were eating breakfast, the young woman saw her neighbor hanging wash outside. And she said to her husband, the laundry is not very clean. She said, this that woman doesn't know how to wash correctly. And perhaps she needs better laundry soap. And the husband just was quiet. And uh but every day, every time her neighbor would hang up wash to dry, the young woman would say the same thing. She just doesn't know how to wash clothes. Those those clothes are not clean And someone needs to tell her that. About a month later, the the woman was looking out the window with her husband. They were having breakfast and she looked and she said, You know what? Those sheets are clean. She's learned finally how to wash correctly. I wonder what happened. And the husband said, Well, I got up early this morning and I cleaned our windows. It matters how you see things. And and so it is with life. Joy is looking at our circumstances through clean windows. It's the window is God. And when we see things through Him, when we see things through Christ, it changes the perspective. Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life, the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be all right, and the determined choice to praise God in every situation. It's seeing God in all of our circumstances. Joy is a choice that we make. That is what true believers do. True believers rejoice in the Lord. But here's number two. True believers emphasize truth Again, look at verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Evidently, what Paul's about to write, they've heard before. He's going to warn them about false doctrines and false teaching. And in order to combat this error, he has to emphasize truth. So Paul doesn't mind repeating the same truth over and over. The word grievous here means troublesome or irksome. Paul said it's not grievous. For me. It's not no trouble for me to repeat to you things that you've already learned. You need to hear this again. In fact, one of the duties of a pastor is to teach you again things that you already know. I doubt that I can tell you anything that you've never heard before. uh if you've been saved any length of time and have been listening, but we need to repeat the truth. And First Timothy four 6 Paul said, if thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Timothy, just keep reminding them of the things that are already told you. If you do that, you'll be a good minister. Peter said this, wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them. You already know this, but I'm going to keep reminding you, I'm going to keep you in remembrance of these things. And why do we have to repeat doctrinal truth? Well, because error is constantly on the repeat. False doctrine and worldly philosophy is constantly being hammered into people's minds in different ways. And the only way that you can refute heresy and false doctrine is by repeating the fundamental truth of God's word. But believers don't mind that. That is what Paul says. He says it's safe. Look again in verse 1, the last phrase. But for you it is safe. And the word here means not to be tripped up, not to allow you to fall, literally something that will not throw you down or cause you to trip in any way. That's the idea here. When you hear the word of God, the truth, repeat it again and again, it will make you strong, it will make you stable, it'll keep you from being tripped up, it'll keep you from falling. It'll make you immovable, steadfast. So true believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. But here's number three. True believers exercise discernment And again we look at verse number two where he says, Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. The word beware here, bleho. That is the idea of um keep on guarding, keep on watching, perceiving. We translates it like this, keep a watchful eye ever Constantly be on the alert. And again, Paul is referring to these false teachers here. He calls them dogs. That's that's pretty serious. I mean uh I I've I've singled out people who teach false things before. I don't think I've ever called anybody a dog Uh maybe I need to, but Paul does. He doesn't he doesn't back away from that. Beware of these dogs. They're dogs Now the word for dog, I know today we have dogs as house pets and all that, lap dogs, cute little poodles and all that. Just get that out of your mind. That's not what he's talking about here. All right The the the word here, Qon, is uh is uh the ancient word for dog here was a mangy, flea bitten, vicious, starving scavenger that went around in little villages running in packs, digging through garbage and attacking people. They were vicious. You had to constantly in the ancient world be on guard against these dogs. They were very dangerous. Barclay wrote this. The dogs were the pariah. dogs roaming the streets, sometimes in packs, hunting amidst the garbage dumps, snapping and snarling at everyone that they met. So in the Bible, a dog always stands for that which is really bad, low. You can't get much lower than that. Jews called Gentiles. We should say, especially the Pharisees and the religious Jews, they called Gentiles dogs. That was a derogatory term. And here Paul is kind of turning it around on them. Paul is saying, look, it's not the Gentiles who are dogs, it's these Judaizers that are teaching false truth. They are the dogs. And those are the ones that you need to watch out for. They're constantly we could probably imagine Paul thinking, you know, they're snapping at my heels, snarling at me. and trying to undo what I've done, follow me around from town to town, making trouble, causing a dangerous infection if they bite you with their false doctrine, their dogs. But then beware of evil workers. Paul calls them evil. Again, strong language here against these false teachers. They're dogs, they're evil workers. Anyone who teaches a lie about God, that is evil. In fact, that's the worst form of evil. If you give someone a false gospel or a false sense of salvation, there's nothing more evil than that. Because you damn a person's soul to eternal hell. And so there's no greater evil than to pervert the way of salvation and to cause people to stumble And then he says, beware the concision. And Paul calls these men, really it's a play on worse words here, the false circumcision. You know, there were uh back in that day uh certain religions, pagan religions, that would require this kind of thing. And uh But they were they were teaching, however, that wrongly that you needed to add circumcision to the gospel in order to be saved. And Paul deals with this in Romans chapter 4. using Abraham as an example, saying that when God gave the gospel to Abraham, uh, you know, Abraham got saved through faith, not the ritual of circumcision. God first gave circumcision to Abraham, but that's not what got Abraham saved. It was him believing on the Lord. That's what got him saved, and not circumcision. So Paul says, beware of this. So, true believers exercise discernment. This is a call to make sure that everything you hear, you weigh it against the scripture, you weigh it against God's word and be discerning. True believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. True believers exercise discernment. But here's number four. True believers exemplify purity Now notice what Paul says in verse number 3, for we are the circumcision. Now, you say, wait a minute, he just said beware of that. What does Paul mean by that? We are The circumcision. Well, circumcision was an outward ritual that demonstrated a committed heart. Just like baptism, the ritual of circumcision was reflecting an inward reality You know, when a person gets baptized, we know that it's not that baptism, it's not that ritual that saves anyone. What it reflects is a spiritual reality, and what's that? That they have been cleansed inwardly by the work of regeneration. The Holy Spirit of God is giving them a new heart. They're one with Christ spiritually. There's that spiritual oneness that that believer has. And baptism is simply an outward ritual that reflects that spiritual reality that God has already done in the heart. Well, it's the same way with the ritual of circumcision. With the Jews, however, it became an outward ritual that produced salvation. Just like there are some people today that teach baptism that outward ritual saves you, the Jews, many in Paul's day taught that the ritual of circumcision produced salvation. It was a saving ritual. In fact, um why don't you go back to Romans chapter 2 real quick? Let me just show you a little bit of what Paul said in Romans about this. Maybe this will help us to understand. Romans chapter 2, and look at verse number 25. Romans 2. 25. For circumcision verily profits, if thou keep the law. But if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. Therefore, if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? You see what Paul is saying there. Basically, Jews thought that circumcision did save them. They were deceived about this outward ritual. And so they would go through the ritual of circumcision, but yet their heart was not obedient to God, that was not obedient to the law. And Paul is saying, look, whatever outward ritual they did, their disobedient heart made that null and void. Doesn't mean anything if their heart is not a heart of obedience. And so, long again, long before Paul's day, the ritual of circumcision had become so shrouded in superstition that the ancient rabbis formulated sayings like this: no circumcised Jewish man will see hell. And circumcision saves us from hell. In fact, the midrash includes the statement, God swore to Abraham that no one who was circumcised would be sent to hell. And they believe that Abraham sits at the gate of hell and never allows any circumcised Israelite to enter. And yet while they had all their faith in this outward ritual at the same time They were violators of God's law, and Paul said whatever ritual they did, it did them no good. Does them no good. Has no meaning if a man doesn't live according to the w the law. As a matter of fact, um he that is counted he's counted as being uncircumcised. And those who may be uncircumcised, if they have a heart of genuine obedience to God, God counts that counts their uncircumcision for circumcision. So what the whole point is it's a matter of the heart. That's the whole point. Look down at verse number 28. For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly Neither is he that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew which is one inwardly, and the circumcision is that of the heart. In the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. Paul said the true true children of Abraham is not by outward ritual, it is by the inward. Circumcision of the heart. What is that? That's salvation. That's salvation. That whole ritual pointed to the fact that man needed a cleansing from a very deep cleansing. And that the sin nature has been passed on from generation to generation, and it's that sin nature in man that needs to be cleansed, a deep, deep cleansing. That's all that signified. And so that's what Paul means when he says in verse 3, for we are the circumcision. Paul is saying that a true believer Who has a real inward heart circumcision, that's the ones who are truly belong to the Lord. That is to say, what he's saying here is that those who have been truly saved, been cleansed in their heart by the Holy Spirit, they've had their conscience cleansed by the blood of Christ, God has done that deep work of purity in salvation. That is who the true believers are That deep work of purity in the heart that takes place at salvation, Paul says, we are The circumcision. Those of us who are truly saved, that's the spiritual work that God has done. That's what God is looking for. for the change of the heart. And friend, that only comes through truly knowing Jesus through salvation. So true believers live godly, pure, obedient lives because they have been cleansed from within in their heart through salvation That is that spiritual circumcision of the heart that Paul's talking about here. And therefore they live a life of godliness and purity before the Lord. True believers exhibit joy, true believers emphasize truth. True believers exercise discernment. They exemplify purity in their life. But here's number five. True believers enjoy worship. Look again in verse three. For we are the circumcision which worship God in spirit. So again, this coincides with the previous point in reference to worship. True believers worship God in Spirit. They don't just go through mere rituals. Worship is not just going through empty outward rituals. No, it's a heart that overflows. The origin of worship is supernatural because it's generated by the power of the Holy Spirit in us. You know, we bring our worship with us when we come to church. You know, sometimes people want to come to church and they want to, you know, they want to be moved And they think, you know, somehow on that that's worship. No, you bring your worship with you. When you come with sincere thanksgiving and praise. To God for what He's done and you worship because the Spirit of God is moving in your heart and your Truly gods, and it involves adoration to who the Lord is and praise. It just it transcends all outward ritual like the like these uh Judaizers practice. Remember what Jesus said? The hour comes and now is when true worshi worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in what? Truth. Includes two things. In spirit, there has to be the affection, the emotions, but also it has to be based upon truth. Now, a lot of worship today has one but not the other. There's a lot of worship out there that it's all spirit. I mean there's a lot of A lot of emotion in it, and there's nothing wrong with emotions, beloved. I I I when I hear truth sung about Jesus Christ, I can't help but have emotion about that. I can't help but have affection about that But there's a lot of worship that it's all it's designed to do is to get you feel uh to feel a certain way. It's not really generated upon the truth of scripture. It's not Worshiping the way God has prescribed to be worshipped. It's all designed to get you to feel a certain way. Um and then when you leave, you you lose that feeling and you don't have it really anything to hold on to It's all wildfire, it's strange fire. There's a lot of worship that goes on like that. And then on the other side you can swing all the way to the other way where there's a lot of worship that is all truth, but there's no spirit. It's cold dead orthodoxy. And and you know, you know, yeah, we got all of our T's crossed and all of our I's dotted, but you know what? It's dead. There's no emotion, there's no affection that's based upon the truth of God's word And so on one hand, there's wildfire, on the other hand, there's cold dead orthodoxy. God doesn't want either of those. He wants true worship based upon the Word of God in spirit. In spirit, um someone said Baptists are so inhibited it's hard to tell they're inhabited. It's okay to display a little bit of joy and emotion and thanksgiving, but also on the other hand, we don't want it to be wildfire. to where the the the message and is lost. And so truth is worship is based upon scripture. It's done in spirit. Because true worshipers love God. They find their source of joy and delight in Him. They reverence His name. They have a trust in God that produces real peace in their heart. They're devoted to him. That worship is spirit empowered. That worship is what exalts Jesus Christ for who he is. All the truth about our Lord Jesus Christ. And it is a submitted heart before a sovereign God. True believers exhibit joy, they emphasize truth, they exercise discernment, they exemplify purity, they enjoy worship. But here's number six, true believers exalt Christ. And again, that's what it's all about. It's all about exalting Christ. Look in verse three again where it says, which worship God in spirit and Rejoice in Christ Jesus. You say, well, Paul already said to rejoice in the Lord. Well, this is a different word for Greek word for rejoice here. The word is boast or glory in. That's the idea here. It's based on Jeremiah 9, 23 and 24. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast of his wisdom, and let not the mighty man boast about his might. Let not the rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boast boast in this that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord. That's the whole idea here You ever been around someone who's a boaster? They're always talking about how smart they are, how wonderful they are, uh, and so on. As true believers, boast in Christ. They tell everyone how wonderful He is, how great He is, how merciful, how kind, how powerful, how awesome. Paul said it like this in Galatians 6. 14, but God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, you know what? I don't want to boast about anything except the cross of Christ. I want to glory in Christ. And that's it. I have nothing else to really boast about. Just the cross. And really the word glory here, the Greek word. Every once in a while you come across a word in Greek, or maybe sometimes in Hebrew, where there's really just no English equivalent to it. You can't find an English word that matches the Greek word. And I would say that this is one of those words here. There's no precise English equivalent for this word in Greek. It means to boast in or to glory in or trust in, rejoice in, to rebel in, to live for. All of that. All of that and more. Another way to say it would be to have an obsession. To have a divine obsession. What are we to be obsessed about? Christ and the cross. That's what I boast in. That I'm in Christ. Paul said, I've been crucified with Christ. That I'm one with him. That is the thing that we rejoice in, that we boast in. That's why Paul said, look, we preach Christ. You're not going to get anything else out of me except Christ. For me to live is Christ. And if I die, that's just Cain. Paul's whole life was obsessed about the cross and Christ. He was always boasting about the cross. True believers find their glory in Christ, and they boast about Christ and the cross, not themselves. So they exhibit joy, emphasize truth, exercise discernment, exemplify purity, enjoy worship, exalt Christ. Here's the last thing. True believers eliminate legalism. Look at the last part of verse number three. And have no confidence in the flesh. No confidence in the flesh. So the flesh represents man's fallen, unredeemed humanness. It pictures man's human ability apart from God, self-reliance or self-effort. These Judaizers went around giving these lists of outward things to do, this these do-and-don't lists. They believe this it was salvation came by faith, but also by mixing in works of the law And they also believe that sanctification came by a list of do's and don'ts. And so they were encouraging self-reliance. They were encouraging self-effort. They were boasting in the flesh and encouraging others to put confidence in the flesh. And Paul said that true believers don't do that. One of the accusations they made against Paul and his gospel was they said we know Paul's gospel When it's preached, it led to loose living. I mean, if you believe one saved, always saved, you're gonna it's gonna lead to loose living. And And the truth is, Paul replies to that accusation in Galatians 5 and 6. And of course that charge is not true. It's not true because Christianity doesn't lead to a believer away from The law into nothingness. What happens at salvation? We have the Holy Spirit given to us, and the law then becomes a guide. And now we have the power of the Holy Spirit working in that helps us to walk according to God's law. So it's not confidence in our flesh. It is dependent upon the work of the Holy Spirit and the power of the Holy Spirit Fulfilling the righteousness of the law in us. That imparted righteousness that the Holy Spirit gives us when we're saved, that is the power that we have that inward power that helps us to overcome the flesh and to walk in the law of God without really Knowing it sometimes. We're just walking in the Spirit. And what happens is those who walk in the Spirit fulfill the righteousness of the law This doesn't mean that we don't practice self-disciplines. We do. Remember I told you there's an overbalance in this doctrine of sanctification where some people say, well, you know, here I am, God just sanctify me, and people think I don't have to really do anything It's all up to God. That's an overbalanced view, a wrong view of sanctification. Yes, the Holy Spirit lives in us, but through the power of the Holy Spirit, we have to enact in our lives spiritual discipline. That's not legalism. Because we're not trying to be uh to please God or work for our salvation that way. What that is, is that simple diligence applying truth through the power of the Holy Spirit, living a disciplined life. God wants that. But it's a there's a freedom in that. Now as saved people, we are free not to do what our flesh wants, but to do what the Spirit of God wants. That's the point. And so we don't have confidence in our flesh. Grace is the way to life and the way of life. We trust in God's grace. Not only is a sinner saved by grace, but a sinner lives by God's grace. And through that the the the flesh is crucified. We have no confidence in the flesh. We live by the power of the Holy Spirit. True Christianity humbles all pride and has no confidence at all in self or in the flesh. So that's the characteristics of true believers. They exhibit joy, they emphasize truth, they exercise discernment. They exemplify purity, enjoy worship, exalt Christ, and eliminate legalism. And so Paul saying to the Philippians, look, don't let these false teachers confuse you or steal your joy. Beware, look out. And so this should cause all of us to stop and examine our life, to make sure that we're exhibiting these characteristics in our own life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, again, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of the gospel. The power of the Holy Spirit, Lord, that you've given to us. That in Christ, not only do we have imputed righteousness put on our account, but imparted righteousness given to us by the Holy Spirit. And the power to live a life that is pleasing to you. Lord, help us to look at these things and to measure our own life next to what Scripture says and to make sure. That we are in Christ, to examine our hearts, to make sure that what we have is the is the real deal. It's the true thing. That our hope is in Christ and Christ alone. And we see these evidences in our life that demonstrate and reveal that we truly know you. You. Give us discernment, Lord, in these dangerous days. And help us to disciple and teach others to be aware and to be careful. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.