His children, you better believe it. We have the Holy Spirit living inside of us. There is a very real and legitimate part of the Christian walk that is subjective. All of us here who know the Lord Jesus Christ, we have experienced an inward peace that passes understanding. We have been ministered to by the Holy Spirit There's been times when we've been down, the Holy Spirit in his presence comes and he lifts us up and he gives us joy and he gives us comfort and we know that it's of God. There's been times when you have been in your study with the Bible open, reading, and you have such a sense of the presence of God. You have such a sense of the of the peace of God of the pleasure of God. And don't you get that sense? When you do what is right, you have a sense of the approval of Almighty God. And we can't describe that. We just know that that is the inward peace, inward subjective experience that we all have as Christians And all those things are very real. All those things are very legitimate. He wants us to experience his presence And we've all had that. In fact, the Bible says in Romans 8. 14, for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And beloved, that is a subjective inward experience And the Holy Spirit teaches us to cry out what? Out of the Father. Again, all of that is inward. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. In fact, look in Colossians 3, look in verse number 15. Notice what it says. And let the peace of God rule in your heart. That is a subjective experience. Now, so there is a subjective side to the Christian life, and it is legitimate, and it is real, and it is fellowship with Christ. And so I don't want you to get the idea that there's no inward subjective uh communication that you have with God, that is all very dynamic, it's all very real, it's all very legitimate. But let me be careful to say that all of those inward subjective experiences has to be in submission to the Word of God. It has to be under the authority of the Word of God. And if you have a subjective experience that doesn't match what the Scripture says Well, friend, very kindly, I doubt that experience because God never goes against his word. He never goes out of harmony with his word. And so this is the danger. What is mysticism? Mysticism is subjective inward experience that has gone crazy That has gone overboard. That is questionable. It is unreasonable. It's bizarre in some cases. And in some cases, irrational One person wrote this in the book, Reckless Faith. Mysticism is the idea that spiritual reality is found by looking inward, and then he says the mystic disdains rational understanding and seeks truth uh instead through the feelings, the imagination, personal visions, inward voices, private illumination. and purely subjective means. If that becomes the your chief source of truth is inward subjective feelings, my friend, what that does is that removes you from the obje objective Word of God. And that is something that is very dangerous. And so people can get caught up in subjective spiritual experience, and pretty soon it's the way in which they define themselves. They define themselves, they define their whole Christianity, not by just a steady obedience, a faithful walk with the Lord, obedience to Scripture, spiritual disciplines, and all the other things prescribed in the Word of God. They begin to define their whole spiritual life from one Subjective inward experience to another. One vision to another. One big spiritual mountaintop experience to another. And by doing that, they subtly replace the sufficiency of Christ in their life and the sufficiency of the Word of God. Again, it is subjectivity gone. Wow, there are even some Christians who have these experiences and they relate them in order to communicate to others that they're on another level. They're on a higher spiritual plane. And sometimes they use it to intimidate other Christians. Again, it's subjectivity going wild. And another thing about it, it's self-authenticating That is, since it's subjective, you really can't prove or disprove it because it's that person's individual subjective experience. And so how do you disprove that? Unless you just say to the person, I don't believe you. And you don't want to do that. You don't want to be mean. But there's no way to prove that. But then also it rejects reason and reality. And again, they become sometimes so very bizarre. Let me give you an illustration. I've told you this before, but this is kind of one of my um I say favor, but that's not a good word This is one of the illustrations that really just uh I it's hard to believe that this actually happened, but it did. I'm not making it up. You can check out the facts for yourself. But on the TBN network There was Jesse Duplanis, the uh preacher from Louisiana, and he was being interviewed by Benny Hinn, and he was telling Benny Hinn how close he was to the Lord, and he said he had this experience, and he said one morning he got up and he was praying and he said something wasn't right and he said he knew that God wasn't acting just right that morning. And so he said that um he stopped in the middle of his prayer and he said, Now God uh is something bothering you because you're not acting just right today. And he said, God said to him, Well, Jesse, I'm having a hard day. My people are really hurting me out there today. And Jesse Duplanis, who wants us to believe that he has this special connection with God through this experience, basically said, Well God, I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to cancel all my appointments, and I'm going to spend the whole day with you today Because he wanted to help God out through this difficult day he was having. And God said to Jesse to Planis, thank you. And he was relating that on national television to an audience. Now think about that folks. Think about the fact that there were some people that were actually believing that story. They were believing what he said. What does that say about God to those people? And what does that say about Jesse Duplanis? And by the way, if anyone would ever dare to challenge that experience, which I guess I'm doing right now, they would be called divisive, unloving. Oh, you're just jealous because you don't have that walk with God Friend, let me tell you something. Never mind the fact that that whole experience doesn't harmonize at all with Scripture. It doesn't harmonize at all with who God is. Let me tell you something, folks. God doesn't have a bad day. He doesn't have bad days. What kind of theology is that? God is not emotionally codependent on anyone. You understand that? God dwells in a condition, in a state of perfect blessedness. Paul said in Timothy, he is the blessed and only potentate. The psalmist said in Psalm 16, 2, Lord, thou art my Lord. And my goodness extendeth not to thee. That is the Lord. Lord, I uh nothing about me can increase your blessedness. There's nothing about me that can increase the quality of who you are. I can't better your circumstance I can't do anything to add to your blessedness. Now, friend, that doesn't mean that God doesn't rejoice over us or that he doesn't joy over us because the Bible says he does that, but he does that because he delights to do that, he chooses to do that. But nothing you can do can make God any more blessed than he already is And nothing you can do can inflict pain and hurt. You can't make God your victim. You understand that? Simply put, God doesn't have mood swings based on the way you act. He doesn't. Write down Job 35, 6. Job said, if you have sinned, what do you accomplish against him? If you sin, do you think you're making God your victim by doing that? Do you think you're inflicting hurt on God? Job 35. 7 says, if you are righteous, what do you give to him? You can't add to his blessed state, and you can't take away from it through your actions. Now again, let me qualified, that doesn't mean that God doesn't hate sin, he hates sin. It doesn't mean that God doesn't grieve over sin. He does grieve over sin. But friend, he does so because he chooses to do that, not because you make him your victim Because he's too transcendent for all of that. But in this mystical experience, we're supposed to believe That God has bad days, and every once in a while he needs a specially anointed servant who has a special relationship with him to help get God through those bad days. You say, friend, what is that? That's mysticism. That's a mysticism that is out of harmony with the Word of God. And this kind of mysticism creates a theological climate that is largely intolerant of sound exegesis and sound Bible teaching. They kind of debunk biblical exposition. And you know why they do that? Because careful teaching of the Bible basically debunks their spiritual experience. It shows that it's not real, it's not reliable. And so this is the kind of thing that's going on all over, sweeping through the church And it's taking hold. You know why? Because this kind of mysticism promises something richer, something easier, something faster in your spiritual walk, something better, when actually it delivers nothing. There's nothing that you can add to the sufficiency of Christ. And yet it's sweeping through the church. When Offer wrote this. He wrote, a new breed of self-appointed prophets has arisen. These religious quacks count their own dreams and visions with different phrases, the Lord told me. That is mysticism, and it preys on people looking for some secret truth that will add to the simplicity of God's all-sufficient, once-for-all delivered word of God. And he's exactly right. Another example of this is a book by Don Piper, and you've probably heard of it, 90 Minutes in Heaven. That's another book out there. And it's it's been out for a few years. And it's a story about this Baptist preacher who had a car accident and he died. And uh he according to his report, uh he died, he was dead for 90 minutes. After 90 minutes he was revived. Someone prayed over him and he was revived. And he says during that 90 minutes, he went to heaven And he had an experience in heaven. And then he wanted to write about it and tell other people about it. And he wrote a 25-page book that was on the New York Times bestseller, five over half a million copies sold And people, this was a kind of a fad a few years ago, and people, they were captivated by that. I had people in the former church I pastored were saying, Oh, this wonderful book that talks about heaven I said well you know we've already have a book that talks about heaven. It's pretty good too. It's pretty reliable. And if you read the book, and by the way the author wrote this, he said, because I was able to experience heaven, he says, I want to be able to prepare you for it, and so now I'm preparing you for it. through uh through this book. And again, I say there's another book that's much better able to prepare you for heaven than that book. And if you read the book, you read about his experience, there's little interaction with the Bible, there's little to no gospel. And the title can be deceptive because it talks about his 90 minutes in heaven, but actually only 15 pages in the book are devoted to his experience in heaven. And you know what folks? He says he went to heaven and guess what? He never saw Jesus there and he never saw God the Father there. What he did see was some of his old friends, people who had gone on. People who were still in the age, the last time same age as the last time he saw them, that was years ago. And his whole description of heaven was meeting friends. Now In all fairness, he says that he was only on the outskirts of heaven. He didn't actually go into the inner, I guess whatever. Maybe he didn't go past the pearly gates. But he was on the outskirts of heaven. But despite that, he felt the presence of the Lord. And so ninety minutes there he was there in heaven. And during that ninety minutes, he did not see Jesus. And so this man's heaven is a heaven without Jesus. I want to tell you something, friend. You might be persuaded by that and by what you might say, well that was years ago. Yeah, but they're they're making a movie out of it now. And that movie's going to be out in a few weeks. Everyone's so captivated by this. This man's heaven is a heaven without Jesus. And friend, if you're captivated by that, then you need to get into the scripture. You need to get into the Word of God. By the way, the Apostle Paul had an experience of going to heaven. Oh, and by the way, let me just back up for a minute. That whole experience doesn't square with what Paul said. Paul said to be absent from the body is to be in the outskirts of heaven, right? To be absent from the body is to be what? Present with the Lord. Not to sense the presence of the Lord, but to be present with the Lord. To be right there with him. That's what the Bible says, what happens when you die? You're there in the presence of Jesus Christ. Beloved, according to the scripture, he will be the first person that you see when you get to heaven And the Bible is all about the Lord Jesus Christ. But Paul had an experience like that. In fact, why don't you just take a minute? I know this is a long introduction. I'm not going to get done this sermon, but Go to 2 Corinthians real quick. Look in 2 Corinthians. And I want you to look in chapter 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And I want you to look down at verse number one. Paul's talking about an experience that he had of going to heaven. And he's reluctant to talk about it. You say, why is he reluctant to talk about it? By the way, he's forced to do this in order to defend his credentials as an apostle, because there were people in the church at Corinth that were basically saying he's not a real apostle, he's a false apostle. And so Paul says, in order to show you that I'm really a legitimate apostle, I have to show you some of the signs of the apostle that I have, and that includes visions and revelations. Look in verse 1. It's not expedient for me, doubtless, to glory. Paul says, I don't want to boast about this. It's not expedient. Why, Paul? Because this could tempt his flesh to be proud. And that's why Paul doesn't like to bring it up. Because it could tempt him to be proud, to talk about all these visions and revelations that he had. And if you read through the scripture, you're going to find that there are seven occasions when Jesus appeared to Paul He had real visions and revelations. And here he has an experience where he's caught up to heaven Now the Corinthians were listening to lying, false prophets and apostles who were bragging about their spurious and irrational, questionable visions and dreams, and Paul says, well I will tell you about something that happened and it's very real. I don't want to relate it. I don't like to boast. I don't want to glory in this. And if this is not going to benefit the church, if this would benefit the church, no doubt Paul would have said it over and over and over again. But he said it's not a benefit to the church. But look at verse 1. I will come to visions and revelations in the Lord. And then he starts using third person. I knew a man in Christ. You say, who is that man? It's Paul Why is he using third person? This is a humble way to talk about what happened to him. Using the third person is kind of a self-effacing way to talk about this revelation that he had. And then he says, I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years, whether in the body I cannot tell, whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knows such a one Caught up to the third heaven and we know this is heaven, we don't have time to get into all that, but we know this is paradise, this is heaven He said that this man was called up to the third heaven. We don't know exactly when this happened. Some think it happened when Paul was stoned and left for dead recorded in the book of Acts. We're not sure when it happened, but Paul had this experience. And look at verse 4. How that he was caught up into the paradise and heard unspeakable words, which is not lawful for a man to In other words, what happened, Paul said, was for me and me alone, Paul says, I'm not going to repeat this. First of all, he couldn't convey in human words all the things that he heard and he saw But even if he could, God was not permitting him to relay that. He said, this is just for you, Paul. This is just for your benefit And look at verse 5. He said, Of such a one will I glory, yet of myself I will not glory, but in my infirmities. Paul hated to boast He hated to glory about this whole thing. He said, I have to tell you about it, and in doing it it kind of causes me to boast and glory. He said, But I want you to know that I only glory really in one thing, and that is in my weaknesses I'm nothing. Even though I've had this experience, I am really nothing. Look at verse 6. For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool. Paul said, if I did glory and boast and tell you about this, it wouldn't be a foolish thing for me to do. Why? For I will say the truth. Paul says, because Everything I would say would be the truth. If I told you in detail everything that I experienced there, I wouldn't be a fool because this really happened. This was real But now I forbear, but I'm not going to tell you why, Paul, lest any man should think of me above which he sees me to be. Paul said, I'm not going to use this revelation. I'm not going to talk about it because I don't want you to think that I'm something other than what I really am. I don't want to pull out the super apostle card on you and make you feel like I have some super walk. I'm on a different plane than everyone else. I'm just like everyone else And I want you to judge me based on what you hear me teach and what you see in my life, not on special dreams and visions. That's how I want you to judge me. And by the way, God does not want people going around bragging about their dreams and visions. You say, how do you know that? Because look in verse 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Paul said, you know what God did? Just so that I wouldn't be proud through these abundant revelations that God gave to me, God decided to humble me, to keep me down. And how did he do that? He gave me a thorn in the flesh. And why did he give that thorn in the flesh? Because of all these revelations I have. Because these things I have have a tendency to make me proud and cause me to boast. And God doesn't want a proud servant, He wants a humble servant. And so Paul said, God gave me a thorn in the flesh to keep me humble before the Lord. Now all that to say that this experience doesn't match some of the so-called visions and dreams and mystical experiences that we hear from other people regarding this this whole thing. Now I have five minutes for the main body of the sermon. And I'm not going to get there. I'm just I'm just not going to even try. Maybe I will. Let me just give you two things real quick. So there are two elements in this warning about mysticism. Number one, and I want to talk about recognize the distinctives of mysticism. Go back to Colossians real quick and we'll spend just a few minutes just giving you in summary what Paul is warning us about here regarding mysticism. Number one, recognize the distinctives. What are the distinctives? Well, here's one, spiritual intimidation. Look again in verse 18. Let no man beguile you of your reward The word beguil was a word used of a judge in an athletic comp contest, a a referee, an umpire, a judge. At every athletic contest there would be a judge, and sometimes he would have a stick in his hand And if a person got out of line, if an athlete competed not according to the rules, the judge would render them disqualified. Sometimes he would even hammer him with a stick if they got out of line And so this is the word that's used here. It's a word that's used in context of an athletic compet competition. And what he's saying is don't let anyone be your umpire or be your referee to declare you disqualified Because you didn't have these extra spiritual mystical experiences. Don't let anyone do that to you That's spiritual intimidations. Paul said, don't let the legalists condemn you and don't let the mystics intimidate you. Don't let them call you disqualified. If you don't have these experiences, stop letting people act as your umpire to disqualify you, one writer translate this, or beguiling you of your prize. And we see this in the Christian life, right? There are people that say, Oh, you have to have this, and this has to happen. You have to get a second this and another this. When friend, all that you need, you have in Jesus Christ. You don't need an extra anything. You have Jesus Christ. You want a second blessing? You just understand everything you've got in the first blessing. You explore that. You learn that through the Word of God, through Scripture. That's all that you need. So there's spiritual intimidation, but then there's superficial humiliation. Look again in verse 18. Let no man beguil you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worship of angels. That was all a part of that whole system The word voluntary here means to delight in. These people were delighting in their humility. They were so happy to be humble. Like the man who went to church, they gave him a humility badge, and when he wore it, they took it away from him These people were proud of their humility. And they would go around and you say, what kind of humility? It was kind of the aesthetic thing where they would go on a fast to prepare themselves for revision and they would let everybody know that. Oh I'm humbling myself and I'm very proud of this, what I'm doing. It's a superficial humility. It's a false humility. But then this strange veneration. Look again in verse 18. And worship of angels, this was all part of that. They would worship angels. And by the way, we know, according to some studies, that angel worship was prevalent in that region of Colossae. And so Paul says, don't get involved in all that. And again, Gnosticism taught you had to get ascending spirit beings. In order to get to God. And part of that false humility was, oh, we can't get into the presence of God ourselves. We have to talk to these angels. We have to go through these angels. We have to get knowledge from these angels That will put us into the presence of God, and they were rejecting the one true mediator between God and man, which is Jesus Christ And so it was the worship of angels. And by the way, there are still uh uh uh some in the world today that have uh this this fetish for angels, and let me again qualify there is a spiritual world. There is an unseen world. It is very real. All of that is very real. But friend, if you have a unhealthy preoccupation with angels Then that is taking you away from your focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so there was the worship of angels And then there was the next thing, suspicious revelation. Look at verse 18. And intruding into those things which he has not seen. That is, they go on in detail about visions, and Paul says they haven't really seen that. The word intruding is very interesting. It's a word that was used in mystery religions to talk about going into the inner sanctuary, being initiated into the mysteries and going into the inner sanctuary. And it's like you're going into the inner sanctuary. They were giving these visions about being into the presence of God. And being in the inner sanctuary. And Paul says they're talking about all these things. You know what? They're talking about things they haven't really seen. It's not real. Again, and we read this in Christianity. I've read of one well-known charismatic pastor who claimed that in the morning when he's shaving, Jesus comes into his bathroom and puts his arm around him and they have a conversation. In the morning. Now does he expect us to believe that? Beloved, you can't get any more intimate with the Lord Jesus Christ, then when you're on your knees in the Word of God, yielded to the Holy Spirit, allowing God to speak to you through the Word of God, you can't get any more close to Jesus when you're having those times. And yet here this man says he comes into the bathroom and uh while he's shaving, Jesus talks to him. Let me tell you something, friend. In the book of Revelation, when John saw the glorified Lord, you know what the Bible says he did? He fell down as what? As a dead man. I have a suspicion that that's what we will do when we see Jesus and all of his glory. Suspicious revelation, but then there's sinful exaltation. Look again at verse 18. Vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind. That is, again, they're not of the Spirit of God. They're being controlled by the flesh. They are self-promoting. They are puffed up and they're proud of all of those experiences. And they'll even use those experiences for their own good for their own selfish purpose. Some of you might remember years ago Earl Roberts told his followers that in a vision God came to him and said if he didn't raise eight million dollars that God was going to kill him My friend, that is just ridiculous. And that is be using vision or mysticism to accomplish your own personal selfish agenda. And it's a spiritual abuse to do that. Now let me give you the second point quickly. Recognize the distinctives, but then here's the second thing I want you to see. Realize the danger of mysticism. What's the real danger? Look at verse 19 And not holding the head. What is the head? Notice the head is capitalized. You say, what's that referring to? Well, look back to chapter 1. Look at verse 18. It says, and he is the head. Who is he? That's Christ. Christ is the head. And so when he says not holding to the head, he's talking about Christ And he's going back to that old imagery of the church being the body and Christ being the head. And he says when a person or a church gets off into this kind of mysticism, what are they doing? They're getting disconnected from the head. You're walking away from Christ. And the head is where the body gets life. This is where you get your life. This is where you get your nourishment. This is where you get your spiritual vitality. This is where you get your spiritual power. Not through outside visions, but being connected to the head who is Jesus Christ. And Paul says, look, when you do this, you disconnect from the head. You disconnect the head from the church, the head from the body. Now I want to ask you a question, friend. When you disconnect the head from the body, what happens to the body? The body dies because there's no more life. You know why? Because the body can the head controls everything about the body. All of the life comes from the body, or from the head rather. All of the growth comes from The head. Did you know that at the base of your skull you have a gland called the pituitary gland, and that gland controls the growth of the body? All of your growth in your body is controlled by that one gland, by the head. And did you know the growth and the strength of the Christian and the body of the church comes from Jesus Christ? And friend, that's our source of life. You can't get a better spiritual experience by outside revelation. Or mysticism. That life comes from Christ. Look again in verse 19 and not holding the head from which all the body by joints and bands. He's talking about the sinews, he's talking about the ligaments that hold the body together. He's saying that in verse 19, having nourished, ministered, and knit together increases with the increase of God. That is, you grow with the growth of God And so what does mysticism do? It disconnects people from the head, the source of real life and power, Christ. It divides the unity of the church. When he talks about the joints and the bands, there's an implication there that it will disrupt and divide the body, but then it disrupts the growth of the church. Listen, you increase with the increase of God by your relationship to Jesus Christ. He is the one who gives you that increase, that growth. And so to sum it all up, what's Paul saying? Christ is all you need. Christ is all you need. You don't need to look for these outside experiences. Now again, let me qualify. Don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that a believer will never have a legitimate supernatural experience with God because God does those things. He may choose to do those things. But we don't live and we don't seek for those things. God providentially will bring them into our life when he chooses, if he chooses For friend, we live day by day abiding in the Lord Jesus Christ, getting our strength from Jesus Christ, learning from him through the pages of Scripture Now let me show you one passage and I'm going to be done. Go to 2 Peter chapter 1, and I want to show you how to have a real mountaintop experience with Jesus. A real mountaintop experience. Look at 2 Peter chapter 1 and look at verse 12. And Peter is going to relate an experience that he had, and he's going to give us some advice. Peter says, wherefore I'll not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things. Peter said, I want to remind you of something you already know. In verse 14, he says, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle. I'm going to die shortly And the Lord showed me that. But then look at verse number 16. For we have not followed cunningly devised fables. When we made note unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, for we're eyewitnesses of His majesty. Verse 17, for we received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard, and we were with him in the Holy Mount Now what's he describing there? Some of you who studied this and read this, you already know. What's he describing? The Mount Transfiguration Experience. Remember that? The gospel talks about that in Matthew 17, where Jesus went up to Mount Hermon and he was there, and he had Peter, James, and John, and while he was there, he showed the inward glory. He began to light up with the glory of God And all that inward glory came out, and the disciples were there, and they saw it, Peter, James, and John. And not only did Peter say, We saw his majesty, we saw the glory of Jesus, but then he said, We heard the voice He actually heard a voice, the voice of God the Father, saying, what? This is my beloved son. Now friend, that mountaintop experience is pretty good. To see the glory of Jesus, to hear the voice of God the Father. You say, man, I wish I was there. Okay, well, let me tell you, there's something better for you. You say, what is it? Look at verse 19. After saying all that, notice what he says. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. What is he talking about? He's talking about the word of God. You want to have an experience with Jesus Christ, you have a more sure word of prophecy. Notice what it says, a more sure word of prophecy in verse number 19. Whereunto ye do well that you take heed You do well by getting into this word, by taking heed to the word. Why? What happens? As unto a light that shines in a dark place until the day dawn the day dawn and the day star arise in your heart. That is, when you get into the scripture And you study the Word of God, you know what happens? The Holy Spirit begins to illuminate you, and you begin to see, and you have light, and you know who you see, the day star. Who is that? That's Jesus Christ. You see Christ. You see the glory of Christ. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 says this. But we with an open face. Beholding as in a glass, what's the glass? The word of God. We with an open face, we look into the glass of the Word of God, the mirror of God's Word, and what do we see? We see the glory of the Lord. We see the glory of Jesus Christ. And what happens when we focus on that glory? The Holy Spirit will lift us to new levels of spiritual growth and glory. We go from glory to glory. Hell by seeing Jesus Christ in the scripture. That's how. And friend, I want to tell you something. There's not a better spiritual experience than that. When you're in the Word of God. That's why I love to hear preachers preach the Word. I love to hear preachers exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you, there's been times when I've been in meetings and I've heard a preacher expound the word and preach Jesus Christ, and I have felt the presence of Christ. And I'm telling you, it's the most wonderful spiritual experience to see the beauty of Christ through the glass, the image of the Word of God. And to be lifted to new levels of glory. Friend, that's the experience that we want. That is conforming us into the image of Christ-likeness. Why in the world would anyone want to leave the spiritual transformation that takes place through the Word of God, through Jesus Christ? To go off into some mystical exploration, which is a maze that leads to nowhere and gives you nothing. I want to close with this. There was a dog walking across a bridge over to a stream, and the dog stopped and he looked into the stream, and you know what he saw? He saw a reflection. But he thought it was another dog. And the dog looked like he had a bigger bone. So you know what the dog did? He dropped his bone to get the bigger bone. And by doing so, he lost both. Because what he saw was a reflection that wasn't real. Don't fall for something that's not real and lose what you already have. Stay with Jesus Christ. He's the reality. Do you know him? That's the question. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for this word that the Apostle Paul gives us. Help us to realize again this message that is so clear that Christ is sufficient. That we're complete in Him. And what we need to seek is to know more of Christ, to grow in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, to see His glory through Scripture. And be conformed to that image and go from glory to glory through the pages of God's Word. Father, may this be our our heart, our prayer, our desire. Help us, Lord, to beware of anything that would distract us, that would pull us away, that would disconnect us from the head, from which we get where we get all of our life. All of our strength. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.