Uh the whole plan of redemption is a plan of real people, historical figures that did real things in real places. Our whole plan of salvation is based on historical fact, and the Bible is a history book. And not only is it a history book, it's a reliable history book. So when you have people that start taking shots against the historicity of Scripture, basically they'll take a back-handed attack against the Scripture and say, well, you know, this is just a fable or a story that was given. We really don't have any evidence to support thus and such and they go down along that line. And what that does is that attacks the scripture. And so what biblical archaeology does is that it supports the historical reliability of the Bible. And that's really the whole point that I want you to see today. Now You know, the the place that we where we dug, and again, let me let me say one other thing. The first part of this study or you know, show and tell or lecture, whatever you want to call it I'm going to be giving a foundation of why biblical archaeology is important. And I'm going to go through this really quickly. In fact, you won't be able to read the slides because I'm going to get through that quick. And then I want to show you some of the things that we found. while I participated with Associates of Biblical Research while I was over there in um in Israel. Um and so the first part of this is going to be biblical archaeology, just some basic understanding about it. And then based on that, I'll show you our discoveries. I think it'll help uh make it clearer to you. The reason we want to go about that way. Kerbat El-Makadr is an Arabic expression and it simply means ruins of the rising smoke. Kerbit means ruin, Elma Catar of the Rising Smoke. Now, that was a title that was given to the locals at this certain region where this excavation took place And they think it goes all the way back to the time of the biblical Ai, because you remember that in the Bible, in the book of Joshua, when Joshua went into Canaan, there were only three cities that they burned with fire. You remember what they were, that was Jericho, of course, and then up north it was Hazor or Hazor, and then it was of course the city of Ai. Now they didn't burn a lot of cities simply because, you know, they were actually inheriting uh things in that land. The the the children of Israel were gonna t take over houses and and and properties and and the spoils of war they wanted to be theirs. And so obviously they didn't burn a lot, so they only burned three cities in all of the land of Canaan during the conquest of the land of Canaan. So it's interesting that this title goes all the way back and it means the ruins of the rising smoke. So let me talk to you a little bit about archaeology and give you a basic definition here about it. Archaeology is that branch of historical research which draws its evidence from surviving material traces and remains of past human activity. That's one technical definition. Another definition would be archaeology is the science or art which is concerned with the material remains of man's past There are two aspects to the archaeologist concern. The first of these is discovery and reclamation of the ancient remains. This involves field excavation or at least surface collecting. The second concern is analysis, interpretation, and then finally those things are publicized. So really just excavation or Cleaning back those remains and then affirming after you analyze it and then publication. And which is some of the things that we did over there are going to be published. Now What what is the raw material of archaeology? What are some of the things? Well human remains would be part of that. We learned a lot in archaeology through the years. based on a lot of the human remains that have been found and a lot of these digs. Also um there's botanical remains. Um when the archaeologists do digs they find uh places where Uh uh a lot of botanical remains are left behind. For example, in Jericho, when they studied the ruins of Jericho, they found that great storehouses of of grain were left behind. What does that suggest that the siege of Jericho was quickly, it didn't last a long time, otherwise that grain would have been eaten and it would have been gone. And that supports the biblical record. And then there's objects of art, cult objects that are found And then of course there are buildings that are left behind, like this first century synagogue here. These are all parts of the things that are discovered in biblical archaeology and earthworks. That's another part of it. And then also inscriptions here. Now, some of you, this is uh uh an important find here. Some of you may not have uh heard of this, but this is called the James Ossuary. What is an ossuary? An ossuary is a bone box. You see, when the Jews would bury their dead, they would first of all sprinkle a little lime on the body, wrap it up with spices And then after that would help decom decomposition take place quickly. And then after about 18 months, they would go back to the grave and they would take the bones that were left behind and they would place those bones in a box And uh on the side of the box, they would normally inscribe the name of the person that was in that box. And those bone boxes were called ossuaries. Well a few years back this was this this bone box was discovered, and you can't see the uh inscription on the side, but it's written in first century Aramaic here, Ya'a ako bar Yosif Akiyesus, which simply means James, uh son of Joseph, brother of Jesus. And that's a very interesting find because Normally on the ossuary the brother of the person was never included in the inscription. It would be the person, maybe the son of, but never the brother Unless that brother was a very, very important person. And here we know that name, brother of Jesus. So this was Proven to be authentic, they went all through through all kind of testings, and this was the box that held the bones of James, who of course we know is the half-brother of Now when this found this find was made, uh there was a big, big uh uh kickback from it. And there was all this work to try to debunk this and say this is false. And one of the reasons for this is very obvious, the Roman Catholic Church did not like the fact that it says that James was the brother of Jesus because what does that mean about Mary? That she's no she's not a perpetual virgin. And so there was naturally a kickback against this discovery here. But these are just some of the things that go on in archaeology, and I wanted you to just know that. Also, potchards, these are pieces of uh pots uh that are clay. Once they break these, you know, when a pot was no longer useful or became according to the Old Testament ceremonially unclean They would just break it up and then they would use the the clay as kind of like scrap paper and they would write on the side of it. And so in archaeology they found all kind of potchards With inscriptions, receipts on the side, they found one that had the words on it to telestive. Does that sound familiar? It was a receipt to a bill of sale and of course the word means what? Paid in full. And that was the word that Jesus used of course on the cross. And so they find pot shirts, tablets with cuneiform writing have been found. And then papyrus fragments you see on the top there. This is a famous piece of fragment that contains part of the Gospel of John on the bottom. This is a Egyptian papyrus of an event that they call the Book of the Dead there. And then parchment, which is animal skin. This is other things that are found in archaeology. And then of course tools and weapons. When we were excavating there at Curva de El Micata, we found weapons. We found sling stones. These were perfectly round stones that were uh chiseled to be perfectly round, to be put in a sling about the size of a tennis ball. And we found several of these along with arrowheads and other things. And so tools and then coins. We found hundreds of coins where we were digging there at Kerbit Elma Cater. And so um these also have uh a lot of information. It tells us timeframes at certain levels and so on. And then pottery, of course. Pottery is a big part of archaeology. In fact they use the style of pottery to help date certain levels. Um and and and you know, for instance, g one of the archaeologists that was with that's a part of Association of Biblical Research that was on our trip was a man by the name of Bryant Wood. Bryant Wood is the foremost expert on pottery in the world today. Um, I remember going through seminary, happened to read a lot of his material to learn about dating and archaeology, thus and such. And can you and his whole PhD is in ancient pottery. Can you imagine studying ancient pottery all your life? I mean, you know, God bless him, thank God for 'em. uh but uh but basically pottery is a big part of helping to date things um and so on. And so um and this are just some of the tools of trade that are used in archaeology, photographers, artists, historians, and then so on, the list goes on of people that are used. Now just a few basic things here to give you some words that are used in archaeology and one is a curbit as we said curbit el Makadar Kerbit means ruins and a curbit just means a place where there are ruins all around. You don't necessarily have to dig because you'll see uh obvious ruins that are around and um that are surface level ruins. That's that's one part of archaeology. Another part of it is what is called a tell or actually a hill And and way back in the twenties, one archaeologist, a man by the name of Flenders Petri, went to Israel and he saw these hills. And he realized that in those hills are levels of ruins or levels of things from ancient civilizations of the past that have been covered over. And so he was the first one to know that. And so when they when they see a hill now over there, they just dig in it and they find different levels of civilization. And so a tell is simply a hill that is being dug because of the different levels that are in there. Okay, so just know that. And then of course the scope of archaeology, you know, uh the different peoples that are study are various and a lot of these of course are related to the scripture of the Bible. Okay. Just a list of some famous archaeologists, that's really not that important. I want you to memorize that for a quiz though for next week, okay Um just one big question here. What is the value of biblical archaeology? This is the big question. What what's why is it so valuable? Why is it so helpful? Well, first of all, it serves a hermeneutical purpose. You say, what does hermeneutical mean? Very simply, it means the science of interpretation. In other words, it's it's correctly interpreting the Bible So whenever a preacher stands up and preaches, he is interpreting the scripture. That's hermeneutics. And so archaeology helps us to better understand and correctly interpret the Bible. You say, why does it do that? Because it gives us understanding of the peoples and the cultures. and time frames in which the Bible was written. If you understand the cultural setting of a passage, it helps us to understand what it meant to the people back then and thus what it means to us today. So that's why archaeology serves a purpose, biblical archaeology I should say. Just for an example, why did Joseph shave? You remember in the book of Genesis when Joseph was in prison and finally Pharaoh sent for him, they rushed him. to Pharaoh, but before that they had him shaved. He completely shaved off all hair from his head and so on. Why did he do that? What's the significance behind that? Well, and by the way, back in these days back in this day, the the Mesopotamian people, they grew hair, they grew beards, there's relus And though this you might not be able to see this very well, but all these ancient relics that were discovered of Mesopotamian people have people with hair and beards, talking about men, of course. And then, you know, and all the uh the tomb paintings that they find, uh there are people that have hair. However, there are some, and this might be hard to see, these are Egyptians here, and what do you find that they're bald, they're shaven. This is a certain group of Egyptians. These are Egyptian leaders or Egyptian priests. Why is that so? They were completely shaven. And again I'm going to go through these quick. I don't have time to uh to to to comment on all of it. But here's an e here's an Egyptian razor blade that was discovered. These are pretty big razor blades, right? Who did that name? Um and again the passage that they sent for Joseph and he shaved. Well, what they have found through study, through archaeology, is that Egyptian priests would never go into a temple before their God unless they were completely saved because that was ritual purity And Pharaoh, did you know this? Pharaoh was considered a living God. He wasn't just a man. He was a living God. And you couldn't appear before Pharaoh and his house was considered to be a temple. His whole palace was considered to be a temple where he was the god. And so Joseph couldn't appear before him unless he was shaven. Where do we learn that? That was part of the culture back then. And by the way, that's that also might describe and by the way that not only did they shave, but they also used a lot of makeup, Egyptians, we learned this from archaeology, and they wore wigs. Can you imagine that? They would shave And when they weren't going into the temple, they would wear wigs, you know, and so um and big headdresses. And this could help us understand why Joseph's brothers did not recognize Joseph. Um, you know, you remember that story where he finally reveals himself to him. Well first of all, Joseph was probably had was shaven, then he had makeup on. And this was many years later as well, and he had a wig on, so it was easy for them not to recognize him. And when Joseph finally reveals himself to his brothers, you can just the way I picture it in my mind is Joseph comes down from the platform because he was standing on a eating on a platform higher than his guests. That was typical. And then he tells everybody else to leave Even the interpreter up until this point, Joseph had been speaking to his brothers through an Egyptian interpreter, um speaking Egyptian to the he uh or to Hebrew too through an interpreter to his brothers And now I can imagine the brothers just standing there going, now how are we going to talk? The interpreter's gone. And Joseph speaks in the Hebrew tongue to these guys. I I think he takes off his wig, you know, brushes off the makeup And says in the Hebrew tongue, Anaki Yosepha Kakim, I am Joseph, your brother. Talk about a shock. But again, studying these things helps us to understand the cultures and the people. Um there were there were some tablets discovered at a place called Newsie, 4,000 tablets. Why was this a big thing? Because back in um uh it it helps us to understand that some of the cultural patterns that we see in the book of Genesis were part of that culture back then. Again, what's the big overall point? That this shows that the Bible is historically accurate. Because what we discover in archaeology about cultural patterns of human behavior match perfectly what the Bible says Perfectly. And this all supports the historicity of the Scripture. Okay? So these tablets parallels customs that we see in the Old Testament. Here's a quote from Cyrus Gordon Old Testament scholar, thanks to the newsie tablets, we may feel confident that the social institutions have come down to us authentically. That is, he's referring to the Scripture. Everything that the social customs that we see in the Scripture match perfectly what has been discovered, and so this is historically authentic. For example, and again I'm going to go through this quickly because I want to get to what we discovered at Kerbit El Makata. The adoption of slaves, you remember Abram was wondering, you know, Lord, you haven't given me a natural son, am I to adopt Eliezer, my chief steward? Did you know that that was part of the custom back then? And again, this was found and this is a a writing from one of the newsy tablets, how that it was customary for uh someone to adopt their chief steward Um if they had no natural born children, but if a natural born son came along, then he got the inheritance instead of the chief steward. And so and then Sarah giving Hagar to Abraham You remember that in the Bible? This was testified. This was a cultural phenomena back in that day and on the below point here you see this is written on on a tablet here of giving um a handmaid to a husband. Sarah driving out Hagar and Ishmael, this is actually what this shows is that this was going against culture for Sarah to do this. But that was part of the culture that you didn't do that. The sale of uh Esau's birthright is testified on one of these tablets. This also took place back then. Um Isaac's blessing, Jacob You remember that story where that um Isaac blesses Jacob and there was a tablet discovered and one of the tablets shows that a father's deathbed blessing is legally binding, that you can't go back on it. That was testified in the newsy tablets and so on. So we can just go go on there. What about Rachel's theft of Laban's gods? You remember when Rachel left with Jacob? Um remember she took the family teraphim with her? Why would she do that? Well it was discovered in the news and tablets that whatever child had the family teraphim Inherited all the father's wealth and possessions. That's why she took it. And again, this is testified in the New Zealand tablets. Now, if you want these PowerPoints, I can send them to you. We're not going to stop and go through any of these in detail, but you can certainly just email me. I'll email them. You can stop and read these all you want to But again, we get back to the question, what is the value of biblical archaeology? First of all, it serves a hermeneutical purpose It helps us to understand the Bible better when we understand the people and the cultures. But then the second thing is that it serves an apologetic purpose. It helps us in the area of apologetics. Now, when we say apologetics, we're not saying we're apologizing for being Christians, all right? Apologetics is simply the word, the Greek word from apologia, that means a defense. And we defend the scripture. And biblical archaeology helps us to do this. It offers evidence that affirms historical reliability. And again, why is this important? Um well because during the Enlightenment it had a negative in effect on biblical interpretation. What was the Enlightenment? The Enlightenment was a European intellectual movement of the late 17th and 18th centuries emphasizing reason and individualism rather than tradition. In other words, to say it like this, it emphasized reason over the scripture. In other words, human reason judge the Bible rather than the Bible standing over human reason Okay, that's what was taking place. And so the motto of the Enlightenment was Homo mensura, which is man is the measure. The emphasis again was upon human reason as the best criteria and chief source of knowledge. So human reason became God Now, you may have read this, but this was during the time which Thomas Paine, a man by the name of Thomas Paine, wrote a book called The Age of Reason. And in that book, he basically debunks the Bible. And he he exalts human reason as preeminent, as God. Okay? And so whether something was true or not was determined by whether or not it measured up to human reason. Human reason became preeminent. Okay? And so during this era, human reason judged that man lived in a closed system Run by natural processes and therefore God does not intervene. So therefore there is nothing supernatural. If that means there's nothing supernatural, that means the miracles in the Bible can't be right. And this is what Enlightenment thinking did to the Scripture. And so Enlightenment scholars argued that there's nothing special or unique about the Bible. It's like any other book. Human reason had judged that Scripture had errors in it. And so this is a again, this attack upon the scripture, and we still see it today. And so the Bible loses its unique status Which meant that the Bible no longer stood in judgment over human reason, but human reason stood in judgment over the Bible. Now out of this enlightenment thinking Came a group of people called minimalists. Okay? What is a minimalist? A minimalist is an Old Testament scholar, or archaeologist even, who says that the Bible uh uh that the the history in the bible is minimal. It's minimally reliable. They would say something like this, well You know, some of the Bible might be historically okay, but we can't use the Bible for history I mean that in fact they would argue something like this. They would say, when you come to learn real history, you have to leave your Bible at the door. Don't let your theology interpret for you the history. And so they would debunk the Bible in that way. And so um so they would say that very little of what the Bible has to say is historically accurate Um, you know, they would say something like this. Uh they would say there's no historical evidence to support that the b what the Bible says regarding the Exodus. The Sinai wanderings, the conquest of the land of Canaan, and so on. And so biblical archaeology challenges these assumptions, and defends the historical reliability of the scripture. Okay? It challenges all of those assumptions. Okay? Just here's an example. Did you know in the 19th century liberals tried to prove the Bible wrong? You know how they did that? They said there was no Hittite civilization. That was one of the arguments that was used against the Bible. Oh, there's no such thing as the Hittites. The Bible talks about the Hittites. They would say there's no evidence whatsoever that these people ever even existed. And so therefore this was made up. This is one of those legends. This is one of those fables. Since then, archaeology has proven that there was indeed a Hittite civilization In fact, when I was over in London last October for my daughter Abby's wedding, I had the opportunity to go to the British Museum. And um I went through that thing. I took a whole day, I told the family, just stay away from me for one day, let me go through this museum Because you know in the British Museum they have all of these discoveries that they that archaeologists have given. And did you know that they have a whole floor and a whole hallway dedicated to guess what? Hittite civilization This is what the Liberals said were did not exist before. And yet, since then it's been proven wrong. They found a hittite capital Although um Hittites are mentioned often in the Old Testament, they say there was nothing in modern times, and then of course they find uh the place where all of this existed where it took place and so on. And so now you can discover you can look at some of the things that were discovered. Um and I'm just cr going through this really quickly again because this is a another lecture for another time. But just know that the Hittites did exist the way the Bible says. Now let's get to the point. Now let's go to where we were in in in Israel at the place called Kerbat El-Makadr Now the the excavations at this certain site are very important for several reasons. First of all, because it supports the biblical record of the conquest of the land of Canaan under Joshua. Remember what minimalists say? They say we have no record of a conquest. They say, you know, we have no record that it happened just the way the Bible says. Well, that's why this dig was important. You know, why? Because We find evidence that supports exactly what the Scripture says. And also it supports Another issue that's very big in study of the scripture, especially in Old Testament studies, and that is it supports the Exodus as recorded in the Bible. Okay, again, what do minimalists and others say when they attack the Bible? They say, oh, there's no evidence of the Exodus the way the Bible says And so they say it didn't happen that way. They talk more about a migration of Jews into Palestine rather than an exodus the way the Bible says. And then there are others that say, well, that there was it was a later date than when it took place. There's a big debate over the date of the Exodus over 14 forty six BC as opposed to the late date of 1260 B. C. Most critical scholars, and when I say critical scholar, I'm talking about those who are critical against the Bible, who are minimalists, who don't look at the Bible as reliable. Most critical scholars will talk about a late date of the Exodus, and even then they won't talk about an Exodus, they'll talk about a migration. And so again, they're attacking the scripture. Okay? And now you might ask this question, what is the big deal about an early date as opposed to a late date? Well, the Bible gives us the date of the Exodus, and it gives us the early date. So that's the big deal. It's whether you believe what the Bible says or not, as opposed to when this happened. Okay? Since critical scholars don't believe in the historical reliability of the Bible, they discard the early date. He said, now wait a minute, where does the Bible give us the date of the Exodus? Well, you might want to write down 1 Kings. I don't know if you can see this very well. 1 Kings 6 verse 1. There's a very important verse there. And what it this verse does is it describes the building of Solomon's temple. Okay? And it tells us when he built this temple. And it says now it came about in the 480th eightieth year after the sons of Israel came out of the land of Egypt. And the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel in the month of Ziv, which is the second month that he began to build the temple or or to build the house of the Lord. So it tells us very specifically when Solomon began to build the temple, but also it tells us it was what? 480 years after what? The Exodus. Now we know that Solomon built the temple in 966 BC. I don't know if you can see that date there. We know he built it then. So if you just do the math and you add, because remember you're counting down, you know, when you're BC, you know, you're counting backwards. So you add 480, and you come up with the date of the Exodus, which is 1446 B. C. That's what the Bible says. Okay? But again, liberal scholars and minimalists doubt that and they say this is when it actually took place. And you know why they'll say that? They'll say because They'll say, well, we don't really have much evidence. Or all the evidence that we collect supports a late date Now what's the problem? The problem is, first of all, they don't look at the Bible as being reliable, so they don't use it as a guide for any of their archaeological gigs or discoveries And the other problem is that therefore they're digging in the wrong places and the wrong times. No wonder they don't have any evidence, because they begin with the presupposition that the Bible is not reliable. Now, um, this is why associates of biblical research and what they do is so very important. You know why? Because it was started by a man by the name of David Livingston David Livingston, not the missionary from Africa, okay, this is a different David Livingston. Um he he was burdened by all this and he began ABR, Associates of Biblical Research with the idea that we're going to do archaeology from the basis that the Bible is reliable. And we're going to use the Bible as our guide. when we do all of our archaeology. Now, getting back to Curbidomakar, if the date of the Exodus is 1446 B. C. , that means that the conquest of Canaan would begin around 1406 B. Which means if Kerbid al-Makadr is indeed the biblical AI, and this is what we b we believe, ABR and of course they convinced me that this is true. If if it indeed is the biblical AI, then it's likely that there would be evidence of fire there, because the Bible talks about that. and evidence of the destruction of the city in the late Bronze Age I. You say, now wait a minute, what's you just lost me. What's the late Bronze Age 1? That's the way archaeologists date uh history BC, okay? They have a dating system, all right? And I'll talk to you a little bit more about that. But that would be around the time of Joshua, okay? So for decades, did you know that secular liberal archaeologists have dismissed the biblical account of Joshua's battle at Ai? They said it just didn't happen. You know, and why would they say that? because they excavated at a site called Etel, which they claimed was the biblical Ai. And the evidence from the site does not line up well with the Bible, so they concluded that the biblical account was an error. After all, they couldn't be wrong. I mean they were smart guys, right? I mean smart guys can't be wrong. That's that's what they said. They said, well, you know, we did all the stuff, you know, we dug here, there's no evidence. Uh it couldn't be that we're digging in the wrong spot. It's got to be that the Bible is wrong. And that's the kind of arrogance that exists a lot of time in scholarship today. And here's a quote just to let you know the kind of the thought, the mindset. Archaeology has wiped out the historical credibility of the conquest of AI as reported in Joshua 7 and 8. So there's a shot against the Bible there. Archaeology has wiped out historical credibility. Archaeology shows that the Bible is wrong. That's what he's saying there. Now, let me just again emphasize this one point. Anytime scholars point to evidence that they claim contradict scripture, you can bank on one thing. The Bible is not an error. It's not. The problem has to lie elsewhere. There are always alternative interpretations. And again, in this case, was it possible that they were just digging in the wrong place? Could it be possible, Mr. Scholar, that maybe you weren't digging in the right spot? Well, of course, they would say no. We would disagree. Now again, led by Bryant Wood, ABR identified another spot as the location of AI, and it's a spot nine miles north of Jerusalem where we dug called Kerbit El-Makadr. The geography fits the biblical account very well. And so ABR began excavations there again. So again, this shows you the kind of the dating system. This is just a part of it You know, you've got early bronze era, middle bronze, late bronze one, and late bronze two, and then iron one and iron two and so on. So what we were looking for is evidence around the late Bronze I era. Where we were digging there at Kerbid Elmakata. If this is the biblical AI, then the evidence that we would have would be from the late bronze era, okay? Uh around the time frame of Joshua, okay And again, after excavation, we believe that ABR has uncovered the lost city of AI, you can say it that way. The ABR believes the discovered evidence confirms the biblical account Curbidel Makar fits every single requirement demanded by the biblical text. And I'll show you that. But let's talk about the trip. When I went over there, um You know, I didn't realize how much work this was going to be. I probably wouldn't have gone had I realized that up front. Uh this was a lot of hard work, it really was. And um the f first thing we would do four o'clock in the morning, have breakfast. I'm not even sure my digestive system is awake at four o'clock in the morning But we would eat breakfast at four um and then five o'clock we were on a bus that took us to a location. It got us there about five twenty-five. The first thing we had to do every morning was to climb a hill upward For about a mile going up. Okay? And um so whenever I read in the Bible that Joshua and the men went up to Ai, I'll never read that passage the same ever again I totally understand what it means to go up. Because we went up every day. And by the way, you're carrying a backpack with water because you have to have at least a gallon of water because it got to be about ninety to a hundred degrees But when I got to the top of the hill every morning, this was the sight that I would see. This is a picture I took at the top of the hill every morning. The sun was just coming up there Um every morning, you know, there's a beautiful, beautiful scene that was there. And what the hill looks like during the day, by the way, this is the same hill That is referenced in Genesis 13, 1 through 4, when Abram first went into the land of Canaan. The Bible says that he dwelt on a hill between Bethel and Ai And that was the hill right here that I took this picture from. And you remember that story in Genesis 13 where Lot looks eastward? until the well watered plains. This is a picture that I took looking eastward from that hill. So this is roughly what Lot would have been seeing as he looked out um somewhere around that same vicinity that was there. Once we would get there we would put up a big everyone and by the way there were sixty-five total people digging. Sixty-five And they were divided up into smaller groups. We had a group of about ten in our group. You would put up a big canopy around the square. There would be certain locations where you were given this square, and you would begin to dig. And so there we are putting up the um the uh the canopy around us beginning to dig there. Wearing my Indiana Jones hat there, you know. And we're getting ready to dig with a group of people there. And after we would dig, we would by the way, it's just not like taking a shovel shovel and just digging and then just throwing it. You would have to use the pick, loose the dirt, and scrape it back And the way you would have to dig, I guess the best analogy would be, let's just say here's a bathtub full of water and there are toys in the bathtub, you know, and then when you drain the bathtub, the w the level goes down evenly, revealing what's there in the water. That's the way you would dig. You would have to go down evenly. Okay? We started at ground level and we went down about 25 feet. during that whole time. And again, it's going down level, you would scrape back layers, and then you would have to sift through. We would have piles with dirt where we were digging. You would have to sift through those uh the dirt to see things. This is where we would find different little things, coins and and pottery and and so on as we're as we're digging there. This is kind of what uh the end result of of some of the digging that we did. We saw a big wall here connected to a tower that was cons considered to be connected to the uh the wall or the gate of the city, the ancient city of Ai. Some of the other things that were there on the site was uh what is called a mikvah. This is a kind of a bath, a ritual bath Jews would this would be filled with water and Jews would daily take ritual baths there and these these mikflash. Also what we saw there were cisterns. These would store water And these were all over that site there, cisterns. Also, we found an entrance to an olive press. There was a wall at the bottom of it. When you break through the wall, this is what it looks like at the bottom. It was an old olive press And in this olive press they they found coins, first century Roman coins, and they found some some human remains in there from the first century. And what they devised was that during the Jewish revolt Um the Romans uh there were some Jews hiding here in this this olive press and the Romans broke through and slaughtered them anyway. Um but this is a little sign there in the olive press in that area This is a coin detector, this is or metal detector rather, and this is how we would find coins that were there on that site. And this is a coin here, kind of hard to see, it's very dirty And they would have to clean it off before they could, of course, read anything. But hundreds of these coins were found there at the site, first century coins This is part of what the site looked like as we continue to dig. And of course I leave some of the harder digging to the younger backs that are there, as you see in this in this picture here But these are just various shots of the wall that we found there that was connected. Now one of the things that was found there that's very interesting, and to me this was perhaps the most interesting thing that we found, and that is this is a um This is a bedrock stone. And on this bedrock stone is a blueprint of the little village that was there on that site. Now you would like it like this, you know, a carpenter sometimes when he's building something, he might draw on a piece of wood what he's trying to build, a little blueprint. And that's really what I compare this to. And also what we discovered Was that on one level there's Ai, but on the upper level, there's the old the New Testament city of Ephraim About six feet down, you find on this level, the New Testament city of Ephraim, lower down, it overlaps the Old Testament biblical Ai. Now, Ephraim is very important. You know why? Because if you look in John 11, 54, and you can do that sometime, you're going to find that Jesus and his disciples stayed in Ephraim Just before he went to Jericho and then to Jerusalem on the triumphal entry and then to the cross. Okay? Now, what's interesting about this is that According to the blueprint and what was discovered there on that site, this little village literally had 13 Israelite houses in it. That's how small the village was. 13 Israelite houses. Now think about this, Jesus and twelve disciples in thirteen houses. So I mean do the math yourself. I can just picture Jesus saying, you're going to stay here And Peter, you're going to stay over here. And Andrew, you're going to stay here. And they're all staying in. And these houses weren't big enough to hold a bunch of people. So I could just think that one person per house, they each had a place to stay. And this was the place That Jesus stayed. We're not exactly sure how long the Bible doesn't say, but uh it was probably uh if you read the text and think about it, I would say it was probably at least two weeks before He went to Jerusalem. Hostility was mounting against him. He wanted to get away. And so this was a very interesting. By the way, this rock was dug up was um cut Was was cut and was dug up while we were there and now it's being sent around to museums in the U. S. because this was very unique. Nothing like this in archaeology has ever been discovered And so that was a very unique find that was there. But let's get back to proving that Ai, uh Kerbid al-Makadr is the biblical Ai. What are the evidences? Well one, the Bible speaks about a hill north of Ai. If we read the text carefully, Joshua's army encamped on the north side of Ai with a valley between them and Ai. And that's referenced here in Joshua 8, 11. And also in Joshua 8. 13. This matches again the site that we have. Due north of our site is a hill called Jebel, Abu, Amar It is the highest hill in the region and provides an excellent tactical position for military operations to be carried out. And that's just a picture of that hill if you can see in the beyond what we're talking about there. Okay? And of course here's another picture of that. So it matches that's that factor. The fortress gate facing north, when Joshua arrived at Ai with his army, he stood in front of Ai on the north side, Joshua 8. 11. The front of the city would be the wall with a gate. Now ABR discovered the remains of the gate on the north side of the city wall, fulfilling a very precise requirement for AI Our team discovered socket stones, which held the doorposts of the gate in place. Okay? Here's kind of a shot of the fortress gate facing north. I know it's kind of hard to see there Another another shot of it that's right behind me, the ruins of that gate is right there behind me. Um and again, uh uh this is what you see as you're standing in front of it. And when it talks about uh socket stones that were discovered, this is what a socket stone looks like. What is a socket stone for? This would be a stone that would be used from upper and lower as a hinge, a pole in between Where gates would kind of be hinged on these socket stones. Just kind of give you a reference. That's what the socket stone is, that's how big it is. That's me standing there by it. It was our team that found these socket stones here by by the um by the gate area. And by the way, w you know gates back there back in that day, when we think of a gate today, we think of it opening up and going straight into the city. That's not how gates were designed. When the gate would open up, you would come against another wall. Why? It would force you to turn. And then you would come around to another chamber where there would be another gate. And so there's evidence that this was a two-chamber gate or even four-chamber gate for defensive purposes. So therefore you would find many of these socket stones that would hold the gates in place there. By the way, this is dated, and I'm not, of course, the expert on this. I'm tagging along learning all these things to understand. But Dr. Bryant Wood and other archaeologists who are the experts dated these to be late Bronze Age I socket stones during the time of Joshua. Fits perfectly. And then a spot for the ambush to hide. If you read through Joshua 7 and 8 We see that the Lord told Joshua to split up his army, and Joshua obeyed and set up an ambush force to the west. A candidate for AI must have a viable location to prepare for attack but remain unseen. Due west of Makata, where we were digging, is a very steep valley called the Wadi Shaban. This valley is close to Ai and steep enough to easily hide Joshua's ambush force. So you have the gate here, then you have one hill behind it, and then behind that hill there's a deeper valley And uh the man that you see here is Dr. Boyd Siever. He is a teacher of Old Testament at Northwestern University in St. Paul, Minnesota. He wrote a book called War in the Old Testament, a very good book. um that deals with warfare in the Old Testament. And there he's describing um what the ambush, how it had taken place. And this was a video but it doesn't work, so you know, again if you want it the PowerPoint I can send it to you. Where he's explaining how all this took place And uh how it would take just five minutes from just behind the hill of the gate for an army to get to the city of Ai, to ambush it, just like the Bible says in Joshua 7 and 8. And so again, this matches greatly what the scripture says about a spot for the ambush. And then you would expect to find artifacts from the time of Joshua. Ai had to be occupied at the time of the Israelite entry into Canaan in the late fifteenth century BC, and the best way to verify such an occupation is to find pottery that can be dated to that same time period. And by the way, that's exactly what was found there. Late Bronze Age I pottery was found at this location. Okay? Again, supporting the biblical account. Storage jars, rims, jar rims, slingstones, other artifacts similar to those from Joshua's time were all discovered there. The west wall of the city has been uncovered measures up to 12 feet thick. Both the pottery near the wall and the size and style of the wall match the time period of Joshua's wall. There's another thing. The Bible says that there were women at Ai. This is in Joshua 825. It indicates that women lived in the area, despite the fact that women did not normally live at a military fortress. Remember Ai was a military fortress kind of protecting some of the key areas there in the land of Canaan. Why would women be at the uh a military fortress? Well the Bible says that there were women there. Were is there any evidence found at Kerbid El Makadr that women were there Yes, and let me just go through this quickly because we're going to get about ten minutes. They found a jar here. You can see this in this picture here. This is a jar. Inside this jar were the remains of an infant baby. Obviously then this jar was used as a little coffin to bury an infant child. Okay? Now that is evidence of women being there at AI. The fact that they found w they found this jar and they found the skeletal remains of an infant there in that jar as a burial. And it was some kind of a ritual burial for this infant child right there on that spot. Again, that supports the fact that there were women there at this spot. Again, it supports that this is the biblical AI Evidence of a fire. That's more evidence. Joshua indicates that the Israelites burned three cities in Canaan, as I said before, Tazor, Jericho, and Ai. At Makar we found evidence for fire in the form of ash layers, heated uh bedrock, burnstones, and re-fired pottery. I meant to bring some of that, I have some of that. It's in my car. I meant to bring it in and show it to you, but I forgot. But I have pottery that's called refired pottery. Um that this this is pottery that has once it's been heated in an oven You know, that's when pottery gets hard. But if it's uh suffers intense heat again, it makes it as hard as rock. That's called refire pottery. Okay? And um this was found there, refired pottery from Joshua's timeframe, from late Bronze Age I, pottery that had been subject to intense heat. What does that suggest? That whatever happened at this location, there was a fire there at this time. All of this is evidence that supports the biblical record of a conquest just like Joshua talked about there. And um if you y maybe after church if you come to me I'll I'll get some of it and I meant to pass out some of it um just so you can handle it. But this is pottery that would actually be from the the city of AI during the destruction of of Joshua's army. Also other thing that was found there, a Christian memorial. The Byzantines were famous for building churches and monasteries in places where they believed biblical events took place. What was found there at Kerbid almakata on the top of the on the top of the hill, there's a Byzantine monastery that was likely built to commemorate the momentous events of Joshua 7 and 8. And that's the ruins of the monastery that we saw there at Curbid El Makatar. Okay? And then of course there are other evidences that I don't have time to go over. We got five minutes The city had to be smaller than Gibeon according to Joshua 10. 2. And again, Kerbidobacter fits that perfectly. Near Beth-Aven, Joshua 7. 2, it fits that. East of Bethel, Joshua 7. 2. Near Bethel, um Joshua twelve nine, a desolate place to this day, and but it is desolate. I can testify to that. Have a valley north of Ai shallow enough for the King of Ai to observe Joshua and his men. These are other evidences that all line up Exactly the way the Bible says, this location where we are. And so the conclusion is this is the biblical AI. It supports a early date of the Exodus, because this is all late Bronze Age I evidence that we found. It supports the biblical date and it supports a conquest just like the Bible says. What's the sum total of it all? This is reliable, beloved. The Bible is reliable. Historically reliable. Let me give you one other thing and then I'll be done. Actually two others. If I got five minutes to do it. The ruins of Jericho. Behind me here in this picture is what is called Rahab's Wall. I had the opportunity to go to the ruins of Jericho while I was over there. By the way, most people don't realize there are three Jerichos. There's a Jericho of the Old Testament where Joshua destroyed. There's a Jericho of the New Testament where Jesus saw Zacchaeus and his sycamore tree and said, Come down, I'm going to your house. Then there's the modern-day Jericho today, three different locations. The Old Testament ruins of Jericho are still there. And so I had the opportunity to go there with Dr. Bryantwood, who is the authority on that, and go around him pointing out all these different things. But behind me here is Rahab's wall. And did you know that if you read the biblical account, that when the wall fell down, Rahab and her family were lived in a house on the city wall? So the question is, how did they survive? Well, in 1903, an archaeologist named Ernest Selling, who was a German archaeologist, the first serious excavation of Jericho took place under him. He took meticulous notes. And north of the city he found that there was a certain section of the city wall where that had houses on that wall. And that there was a small section of that wall did not crumble. like the rest of the walls. And that's right behind me what is called Rahab's wall. Even the ruins of Jericho to this day testify that the Bible is historically accurate. Because why didn't it fall? Because we know why it didn't fall, because God made a promise that he would spare Rahab and her family, all that were in that house there. And then one other thing that I would just point out, while I was there, I had the opportunity to go to Hezekiah's tunnel. These verses here talk about the tunnel that Hezekiah built. He built this tunnel in 701 BC This was due to the impending Assyrian invasion. The Assyrians were going to invade Jerusalem and he wanted to have water for the invasion. And so outside of the city walls of Jerusalem there was a spring called the Gihon Spring. And he had a team of diggers with picks and axes begin tunneling. This is a hundred feet below Jerusalem They would they dug a tunnel on one end. He had actually two groups. He had one start inside by the pool of Siloam, one on the outside by the spring of Gihon, and they dug and they met in the middle This tunnel was 1,750 feet long. And the Bible talks about this very tunnel that was there. I I learned about this when I was studying a seminary, so I put on the bucket list. This is one of the things I wanted to do, where I can check it off because I did walk through that tunnel All seventeen hundred and fifty feet of it, I think I had told you about it before. It just keeps going down, down, down, finally you get to the bottom, and then I'm walking through the tunnel there and um and this is what you know this is the water. It's about shin deep or knee deep in some places here. And just kind of picture by the way I had a selfie stick. I'm not on an ego trip. My daughter gave me a selfie stick. And uh I was learning how to use it while I was there taking pictures of everything. So if you can picture me walking through this tunnel holding a flashlight and a selfie stick, you know trying to walk through this tunnel and it got so narrow at some places my shoulders were scraping and it got really low and I was bending down and I was thinking this may not have been a good idea I might need to turn around and go back, but I didn't have enough room to turn around, so I had to push on. But I could just imagine the next day's papers. Jerusalem Post says uh fat Baptist Preacher stops up waters in Jerusalem You know, if you get stuck in there. But anyway, uh I say all that to say it was a joy just to see biblical history there. And and and to see that tunnel that the Bible speaks about. And at the end there's they found an inscription here. Um This is called the Siloam inscription. And again, you can't read this, of course, but it talks about what it was like for these two groups of men tunneling, finally meeting in the middle, and the water breaking through. At the end of the tunnel, there that inscription was found there. And it and it's just an incredible thing to see that. One more thing before we pray, and that is um these were first century Roman nails. That were found at the site of Curved Elmakara. That's my hand there. It kind of shows you how big the nails were. Undoubtedly, these were the size of the nails that were used at the crucifixion of our Lord, our Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to end thinking about Jesus. Because again, everything that we're talking about here is real history. Our salvation is all based on real history. Historical events, a real place, a real person by the name of Jesus. It wasn't a legend, it's true. And again, the overall message I want you to get from this is that the Bible is reliable. Forget about all the attacks out there. The Bible can stand up under the most intense scrutiny, and it is historically reliable. I've seen that I believe that with all my heart. I believe it more now today than I ever have. We have the divine revelation of God that tells us about Jesus and about our salvation. Let's have a word of prayer. Let's all stand together actually and we'll have a word of prayer and we'll be done for today. And so, Father, we thank you that we do have the revelation of God, the written word of God. Thank you, Lord, that it teaches us about our Savior, Jesus Christ. And thank you, Lord, that although the Bible has come under such severe attack, that it has withstood all of those attacks. And that Lord, whenever the spade is turned over in the Holy Land by archaeologists, it just supports the Bible more and more and shows the Bible to be reliable. Whenever there's an excavation, whenever there's a dig, the Bible Turns out to be again exalted as it should be. It is your very word. Lord, help us to have total, complete confidence. And your revelation, your written revelation. Thank you for this church that stands firmly on the word. Bless us now. Bless the service to follow and pastor as he preaches. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.