Good evening. Good to see you all here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to Psalm 119? We're going to begin a new series through Psalm 119. So look at verse number one. That's where we're going to start, right at the very beginning tonight. Psalm 119, verse number one. Do you want to be blessed? You want to know how to be blessed? I think all of us want to be blessed, and many times we pray, Lord, bless me. But maybe the prayer we ought to pray is, Lord, make me blessable. Because the reason God doesn't bless us sometimes is not because he doesn't want to bless us. God delights in blessing his people. But many times we're not in a place where God can bless us. So this is where Psalm 119, the first eight verses, can help us. It tells us how to get into a position where God can bless us. Notice we see the word blessed in verse one. Blessed blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. And then again in verse number two, blessed are they that keep his testimonies that seek him with the whole heart. Two times in the first two verses we see this word blessed. And it's the Hebrew word um ashra where we get the name Asher. And it just means happy or happiness. It refers to a state of prosperity. It's normally used to speak of favor that a superior bestows on someone. And when this is used in the Bible, this is talking about most of the time God bestowing favor on someone or blessing someone with prosperity. We we we I think of Joseph in the Old Testament, it seems no matter what circumstance he was in, God still blessed him and gave him favor, whether he was in a pit or in a uh at Potiphar's house or in prison or in Pharaoh's court. It just seemed like the Lord was blessing Joseph. And wouldn't you like to have that for your life? Wouldn't you like to receive God's blessings? Well the psalmist shows us how, and it's right at the very beginning in verse number one, the key is on the front door. Again in verse one Blessed are the undefiled in the way. And the word unfiled here simply means blameless. So we could say a blameless life brings blessings. This word undefiled is used many times in the Old Testament to describe a spotless animal. an animal that was without blemish. In fact, that's how this word is translated many times without blemish. And so There's blessings for those who are blameless. Now when we hear the word blameless, we may get intimidated because we can we might say, How can I be blameless? I mean it seems impossible to live a blameless life sometimes. We kind of want to throw up our hands before we even start. But remember, blameless doesn't mean sinless. The only person that was sinless was our Savior Jesus, right? But this Hebrew word sometimes is translated as sincere. or uprightly or integrity. And we have examples in scriptures of in the scripture of people that were blameless just to show us that it's possible. For example, this word is used to speak of Job. It's used to speak of Abraham. It used to speak of Noah. For example, in Genesis 9. 6, it says, Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. It's used to speak of David in 2 Samuel 22, 24. David said, I was blameless before him. But also in the New Testament, we see this word used. It's really a reference to the qualifications for a pastor. The Bible says in 1 Timothy 3. 2, a bishop then must be what? Must be blameless, right? But also for deacons. In 1 Timothy 3 10, let them use the office of a deacon being found blameless. You say, ah, that puts me off the hook. I'm not a pastor or a deacon. Well, not really, because this word is also used to speak about believers, the way we should live. Paul said to the Philippians, that you might be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom you shine as lights And Paul prayed for the Thessalonians. He said that you might be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord. So God calls us as his people to be blameless, to live blameless. lives. And if you live a blameless life, you're going to live a blessed life. So how can we be blameless? Well the psalmist is going to give us some characteristics of a blameless life. I see six of them here in verses one to eight. Let me go over these with you. Number one, a blameless person seeks to live according to God's word. Again, we see this in verse one. Blessed are the undefiled in the way. And in the way is one word. It's used to describe God's word. And really the second line interprets the first in verse 1, who walk in the law of the Lord. The psalmist is using Hebrew parallelism. That's characteristic of Hebrew poetry. And so, what is it to be undefiled in the way? It is to walk in the law of the Lord. Walk in scripture is used to speak of a pattern of life. And the law of the Lord, of course, is just another name for God's word. Now when we think of the law, we think uh we normally think in negative terms. You know, we hear people say, well, we're not under law, we're under grace. We don't live under the law, we live under the new covenant, not the old covenant And of course that is true. But as believers, um the law is our guide, it is our standard. Jesus taught that the law of God will not be abolished, but only fulfilled. And Paul said the law is good if a man use it what? Use it lawfully. So there's a purpose for the law. God's law guides us in the what pleases God. Martin Luther said it like this. He said, you know, the law is a rod and a staff. Before we're saved, it's the rod that beats us down, that brings conviction to us. After we're saved, it is the staff. That is a walking stick that helps us to walk in God's way. It guides us and shows us what God expects of us. So, to live a blameless life means that we want to live according to God's word. We want to be guided by the principles of God's word. We want to be guided by the law of God. Because that is the blessed life, to live according to the Word of God. You see The Bible and blessing are inseparably linked. And what you do with the Bible will determine what God does with you. But here's number two. A blameless person not only seeks to live according to God's word, but a blameless person seeks God with a wholehearted devotion. Look at verse number two. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies that seek him with the whole heart. Now the word keep yours means to obey, of course, to follow. And again, what does that mean keeping it? Again, the second line helps us understand the first, that seek him with the whole heart. You see, you don't passively obey God, or you don't drift into holiness. You know, if you want to live an obedient life, if you want to live a sanctified holy life, it's going to have to be on purpose. You're going to have to put out effort. In fact, you know what it's going to require? It's going to require your whole heart. It's going to require all of you to put out that kind of effort. You have to pursue it. It requires diligence on your part, diligent effort. That's what the psalmist is telling us here. And this is what the psalmist is seeking to do. In fact, this is what Psalm 119 really is all about. I mean, this whole chapter is an expression of the psalmist's heart, his desire to seek God, to seek God through his word. And to seek him with all of his heart. Now we have to ask ourselves when we come to this chapter, who is the author, who wrote this chapter, and there's really no way to know for sure. There's been several ideas put out there. Some say it was David. Some say it was Hezekiah, some say it was Jeremiah that wrote Psalm one nineteen. I think the most plausible explanation for authorship is that this chapter was written by one of the young Jewish men that were that was taken away as an exile during the Babylonian captivity. He was taken out of Jerusalem and he made that long march to Babylon and was kept as an exile This could have been uh Daniel, it could have been uh Ezekiel, it could have been Ezra. All of these have been suggested by as possible authors for this. Whoever it was, I believe that they were taken as a captive. During Nebuchadnezzar's third um siege of Jerusalem and then the deportation of captives to Babylon that followed immediately after that And you remember that in that time of Is Israel's history, God was punishing Israel because of their disobedience to God's word. In five eighty-eight BC Nebuchadnezzar took his troops there to Jerusalem. He surrounded the city. After many days they broke through the walls. The invaders poured in to the city. They plundered, they slaughtered Young people watched soldiers as they grabbed babies by the heels and dashed them against the against the stones. It was horrible. The troops ramsacked and torched Solomon's temple, which stood there as a the place of worship for Israel for four hundred years at that time. And they burned to the ground what was left of the city. They leveled the walls that surrounded the city of Jerusalem. And from the surviving Jews, the young choice Men from aristocratic families that were able to make that five hundred mile journey to Babylon. They were chained to the neck and they were taken as captives on that long trip. You remember Jeremiah the prophet warned Jerusalem and Judah about this impending judgment if they continued in disobedience. And Jeremiah the prophet watched the city of Jerusalem as it was being destroyed. uh from a cave, uh tradition tells us a nearby cave called Jeremiah's Grotto, and it was there that he wrote the Book of Lamentations. And only when Jeremiah recalled the promises of God's word was he able to have hope. He wrote in Lamentations 3. 21, and this I recalled to my mind Therefore I have hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed because his compassions they fail not. It was referring there to the promises of God's word. And I can just imagine Jeremiah as the captives were being carried away out of Jerusalem eastward towards Babylon. I can just hear Jeremiah crying out to those captives, remember the word of the Lord. Remember the word of God. And I think at least there is one young man among those captives that said, I will remember the word of God. And Psalm 119 is the diary of his meditation. Psalm 119, the whole aim of it is again, it's all about God's word. And again, it's the expression of his heart, the psalmist's heart, to seek God through his word, to not forget God's testimonies, to not forget God's word. And he basically writes it all out. He Psalm 119 forms an acrostic, just like the Book of Lamentations This captive begins to work his way through the Hebrew alphabet from A to Z. And of course the Hebrew alphabet has 22 letters. Ours has 26. That's why you have twenty-two sections in Psalm 119. Uh that's why and also there's eight verses for each section. That's why this is the longest chapter in all the Bible, 176 verses. We're gonna we're gonna go section by section through twenty-two to twenty-thwo sections. You might think that's going to take a long time. I picked up a commentary not too long ago of a Puritan preacher, Thomas Manson, who preached a sermon on every verse of Psalm 119. 176 verses. And I'm not going to put you through that. But I'm going to go through. I'm not that good a preacher. I'm not a Thomas Manton. Let me just say it that way. Okay. But we're going to go through the 22 sections and look at the psalmist's love for God's word and his desire to seek God with all his heart. That's really what this is all about. God is referred to in every verse in Psalm 119. The number eight is stamped all over this Psalm. There are eight special names. for God's word. There are eight symbols for God's word given. The believer has eight responsibilities to God's Word in Psalm 119. There are eight basic titles of the Bible for In the first nine verses, it's called the law of the Lord, the testimonies, ways, precepts, statutes, commandments, judgments, and word. Eight different titles for God's Word. And these are all repeated throughout this Psalm, these eight titles. The word eight in Hebrew means enough. It may be that the writer is kind of in a subtle way implying to everyone that God's word is enough God's word is sufficient. You have all that you need for life and godliness. Now each section is subtitled by the Hebrew letter. For example, right above verse number one, you see the subtitle of the Hebrew letter, Oliph. Can you see that? In Psalm 119, right above verse 1, and then above verse number 9, there's Beit, and above verse 17, there's Gimel, and above verse 25, there's D Dalith, these are the Hebrew letters And in Hebrew, every verse that follows the subtitle begins with that letter. So in verses 1 through 8, in Hebrew, if you were able to read this in Hebrew, you would see that every verse begins with the letter equivalent to our letter A. And um let me give you a little Example, look in verse number 65 under the Tate section, verse 65, and you'll notice that every Verse in this section begins with the letter T, except for verse sixty-seven and verse seventy-one. But if we change the beginning of verse sixty-seven to say till I was afflicted instead of before. In verse 71 to say, 'tis good for me. And every verse there would begin with the letter T. And that is the Hebrew letter Tate. And so that's the way it is in Hebrew. Verses 1 to 8 begin with the letter A. And verses 9 through 16 begin with the Hebrew letter bait or B. Now another interesting thing about Psalm 119 is that each Hebrew letter out in the out of the alphabet represents a picture. Remember before the alphabet evolved to letters. They were actually actually pictures that represented sounds. And so these letters represented pitchers. For example, Olaf was an ox. And Abate was the picture of a house, and Gimel was a camel And Dalit was a door. And I think sometimes in these sections, the psalmist will make subtle references to what the letter stands for. Let me give you an example of that. Look in verse number 73 of Psalm 119. Look at right above it, it's the letter Yod. And in Hebrew, Yod means hand. And verse 71 he says, thy hands have made me and fashioned me. I don't think it's an accident that right after Yodhi has a wordplay on hands there. And then in verse number 113, there is the letter Samak, which is uh mean in Hebrew means pillar. And it's interesting to me in verse 116 he says, uphold me. And then in verse 117 he says, hold thou me up. That's exactly what a pillar does. And then in verse 121, Ain in Hebrew is I. And in verse 123, he says, mine eyes fail. for thy salvation. In verse 137, Zadai section. Zadai in Hebrew is righteousness. And you see this is the key word in this section. Righteous art thou, O Lord. And then in verse 138, he says, Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous. Verse 142, thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. And then in verse 144. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting. Those are just some of the interesting things about this chapter But each of the twenty-two sections confirms the message that Jeremiah the prophet had hammered over and over before Judah's fall, and that is the only thing that can sustain a nation or an individual is the word of God. It's the word of God. And if you want to seek God, you have to seek God through His Word. And the psalmist is seeking God with all of his heart. And this whole chapter represents his passionate seeking after God. If you want to be a blameless person, you have to seek God with all your heart. But then here's number three A blameless person doesn't practice sin. Look at verse 3. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. They also do know iniquity. Again, this doesn't mean to be sinless. The word do here, peal, which is simply means to practice. We can translate it really like this. They do not practice iniquity. So a blameless person is not sinless, but they don't continue in a pattern of sin, an unbroken pattern of sin in their life. A blameless person doesn't practice iniquity. That's not the way they live their life. Again, the second part of the verse helps interpret the first line. They walk in his ways. In other words, the pattern of a blameless person is not sinning. That's not his practice. He doesn't live in sin. The pattern of his life is he lives in what? In obedience. That should be the pattern of a child of God. We may have lapses where we may disobey every now and then, but that's not going to be the pattern of our life When we disobey, we're going to confess it and we're going to ask God to forgive us and we're going to continue in obedience. We may lapse into sin, but we don't love it. In fact, that's the difference between a believer and an unbeliever. A believer will lapse into sin and he will loathe it. An unbeliever will leap into sin and he will love it. A true believer is running from sin. An unbeliever is running into sin and captures it. A true believer is trying to obey God constantly. An unbeliever has no concern about obeying the Lord whatsoever. And so they're not going to live in a They're not going to live in a pattern of unbroken pattern of sin, having no thought about obeying God. No, a blameless person is going to desire to obey God every day of their life. That's going to be their earnest heart. But here's the fourth thing. A blameless person takes God's commandments seriously. Look at verse number four. Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. What I want you to notice in Psalm 119 is four times the word keep is used. In these eight verses. In verse 2, keep his testimonies. Verse 4, keep thy precepts. Verse 5, keep thy statutes. And again, we see that in verse number 8. This psalmist is obsessed with keeping God's word. The word keep here to watch over something of great value. God commands us to guard the word diligently with great fervor, to keep it, to watch it, to live it, to obey it. That's the idea here. Maybe the psalmist, who was a captive, I think, was remembering the consequences that he was going through and the nation of Israel was going through because they failed to Guard the word of God, to keep it. They were experiencing the judgment of God because of their disobedience. And he was a part of that. The problem was the people of Israel had the Word of God, but they didn't really appreciate it. And they didn't take God's commandments to heart. Better be careful, believer, that you don't get into that kind of thinking. You better take God's word seriously. You better take God's commandments seriously. You better appreciate what you have in the Word of God. And this psalmist is determined not to make the same mistake as his countrymen. Even though he's going to be taken to a pagan land, even though he's going to live among idolatrous people, he's determined to keep God's word, to take it seriously. This makes me think about Daniel. Remember when Daniel was carried away into captivity to Babylon? They changed his name to Belshazzar. They enrolled him into the University of Babylon. They were trying to brainwash him, uh get him to live the good life. They fed him the king's meat. This had to be good stuff. Talk about Memphis barbecue here This was this was good stuff. And uh they were gonna feed him this. This was a cunning strategy, you know, feed him royal food. They wanted him to be accustomed to the good life. So he would never want to go back to the old ways, to the Jewish way of living. But for Daniel, there was a problem with this. There were actually two problems. First of all, the meat did not meet Mosaic requirements. But secondly The meat was offered sacrificially to Babylonian gods. And for Daniel to partake of this meat, that was an act of worship to pagan deities. Which is also part of the plan that King Nebuchadnezzar had, forsake your old God and begin worshiping our gods. And Daniel couldn't do that Daniel, in fact, he refused. What does the Bible say? Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not what? Defile himself. He's not going to be un he's going to live undefiled. He's not going to be defiled by disobeying God's word or not taking God's commandments seriously. You know what Daniel had? He had conviction. He was a man of conviction. A conviction is a Bible-based belief or duty that God requires of us. God expects us to have conviction. He expects us to take his word seriously. And we see this all throughout Psalm 119, and it'll come up over and over again. For example, in verse 106, I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. I'm going to keep your word, God. Psalm 119, verse 115. Depart from me, ye evildoers, for I will keep the commandments of my God. That is conviction. Speaking with conviction. Those who do not live by conviction will live by circumstance or convenience, and they'll just go with the flow. E. Stanley Jones said, if you don't make up your mind, your unmade mind will unmake you. A person of conviction is someone who will swim upstream. Who will stand against the flow of the world. And that was Daniel. Daniel was held captive by his allegiance to the word of God. He took it seriously. And so must we. We must take God's word seriously. When Martin Luther stood before the deed of worms, he said, Unless I can be shown from scripture and plain reason, I cannot recant my conscience. is held captive to the word of God. A conviction will hold you captive. So Here's the next thing. A blameless person seeks to live according to God's word, seeks God with a wholehearted devotion. Doesn't practice sin. A blameless person takes God's word seriously. But here's number five. A blameless person groans over their own sinfulness. Groans over their own sinfulness. Look at verse number five. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. And so these verses here form a brief lament from the psalmist. What is he lamenting here? He's lamenting his own sinfulness. He wishes his heart was perfectly able to obey God and not sin. He wants to be perfectly obedient in his walk. Yet he knows the sinfulness of his own heart, and this is his struggle. In fact, there are many times he indicates here that his sin causes him shame. Then will I not be ashamed? There's been times when he's done things and he's ashamed of himself because he lapsed. That's been your experience, I'm sure it's been mine. There's been times where I'm ashamed where I was I gave in and I was weak and didn't obey God when I should have. Again, a blameless person is not sinless, but a blameless person grieves deeply over their own sins. And what does this imply? That he's not going with the flow. This implies that he has declared war against his sin and his sin nature. He's not going to give up. In fact, he's going to let the sorrow of of that grief do its work and give him an even greater determination to war against sin in his life. But here's this lament. He laments the fact that he has sin and he wants to obey it more. What does this remind you of? Reminds you of Paul in Romans 7, doesn't it? That's what it reminds me of. Remember when Paul said Paul had a desire for what I would, you know, you know, he wanted to live according to God's law. He knew that the law was spiritual, but he also said, but I'm carnally sold under sin. And I want to obey God's law. The law is spiritual. Nothing wrong with the law. The problem is me. The problem is I am carnal and uh I have this sin nature. And then Paul's desire turns to a determination. He says, I know that as in me dwelleth no good thing. He determines to live according to God's law, but he also knows that he has this sin nature. That's the problem. He says, to will is present with me. I have the determination to do it. But then he says, but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would, I do not. For the evil that I would not, that I do. Can you relate to that? I certainly can. This is not this is not Paul before salvation, as some people try to say. This is If he were not a believer, or if Paul were an unbeliever, he wouldn't say, I delight in the law of God, because unbelievers certainly don't delight in the law of God. No, he he loved God's law. He wanted to obey it, but he also knew that he was given over to sin. And then there's Paul's discovery in verse 21 in Romans 7. Paul says, I find then a law, or we could say a principle. That when I would do good, evil is present with me. Paul said, here's a principle that I learned. When I try to do good, when I try to obey God, there's evil lurking there in the background. It's right there and it pulls me down. Did you ever you ever have that experience? Man, you you obey God, you want to do good, but man, there's the you can just sense that sin nature that's right there. In fact, when I do something good, my sin nature is right there saying, Really good job, Jerry. Really good. Man, you're something else, dude. And then the next thing you know, I'm sinning because of my pride. Or or or there's or there's you know the something a bad desire that might rise up. The sin nature saying, hey, do this, do this. You you've earned it. That's the sin nature. And Paul said, I find a principle when I would do good, evil lies close at hand. Evil battles every good thought, evil battles every good word, evil battles every good deed. And finally in verse 24 of Of Romans chapter 7, Paul says, Oh, what wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me? That I think is what we're reading here in Psalm 119. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. And so we see the same kind of dynamic here in this psalm where the psalmist wants to Do good. He delights in the law of God. He loves God's word on one hand, but on the other hand, he also realizes his own sinfulness. For example, look in Psalm 119, look down at verse number 20. My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath under thy judgment. Man, my I'm I'm I'm really trying hard. My my soul breaks. I'm I'm really My heart is broken because I long so much to do what you want me to do, God. He has holy desires, but yet look at verse 25. My soul cleaveth unto the what? under the dust. Yet I also know that my soul cleaves to dust there is a poetic expression for sin and depravity. There's a part of me that loves God's word and I want to do it. And I also know there's a part of me that cleaves to my sin nature. But you said what do we learn from all this? Here's the here's the here's what you I want you to pull away. Here's the bottom line. The blameless person is engaged in active warfare against his sin nature. That's the whole point. We are in warfare against it. We don't give up. We don't passively give in. We are at war. And that's why he groans over his own sinfulness. But let me give you the last thing. A blameless person seeks to live according to God's word A blameless person seeks God with a whole heart of devotion. A blameless person doesn't practice sin. A blameless person takes God's commandments seriously. A blameless person groans over their own sinfulness. Here's the last one. A blameless person is determined to worship God with integrity. Look down at verse number seven. I will praise thee with a brightness of heart when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. I will keep thy statutes, O forsake me not utterly. And the word praise here describes an act of worship, of giving thanks to God, of bringing your thanksgiving offering to the Lord in worship. Uprightness just simply means a pure heart, an obedient heart. Acceptable worship and obedience go hand in hand. You can't do one without the other. You can't live in sin and disobedience and expect to worship God. I think we've redefined what worship is in the church in America today. A lot of people think it's just coming to church and feeling good. uh you know, singing songs that you like and then going out and living like you want. That's not worship. Worship begins with obedience. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with you know, expressive worship, emotion and worship. I can't worship without God without the emotion. It's nothing wrong with that. But you can't divorce that from obedience to God. In fact, if you're not obeying God, you're not worshiping. That's the whole point. Remember Saul? Remember what God said to Saul? Saul, go and utterly smite Amalek, destroy everything, don't let anyone walk away. God had declared holy war against Amalek because of what they did to Israel. And God said, You're the you're the you're to Pronounce my judgment on everyone, all the Amalekites, and you're not to leave any livestock alive. You're to kill all the animals, everyone. Nothing is to be alive when you leave. That was a severe judgment from Almighty God. And you remember Saul disobeys. Saul went out and he slaughtered But the Bible says he spared the best of the sheep and the best of the oxen oxen and King Agag, the king of the Amalekites. Why did Saul do that? Well, he was bringing back trophies and spoils from the war for his own Praise. And on the way back, remember Samuel met him, and Saul greets him and says, Praise the Lord. I've done the commandments of God. And Samuel says, Really? Well, how come I hear the bleeding of sheep and the lowing of oxen? Oh, you talk about them. Oh, hey We're gonna kill 'em. I mean I know I'm supposed to kill them, and we're going to do that. In fact, I I I brought the best so we can have a really huge sacrifice. It's going to be a big thanksgiving offering to God. We're going to kill them all It's gonna be great. We're gonna have a great praise service. We're gonna have a great worship service. I mean I got the praise team ready. I got the smoke ready. We're gonna have a great time. You know, what is what did Samuel say to him And Samuel said, Hath the Lord his great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. If you're not going to obey God, you can keep your thanksgiving offering. You can keep your worship if you're not living an obedient life. Doesn't mean anything to God. It's shallow. It's not worship at all. And so this the psalmist here says, you know, I'm going to worship you, Lord, but it's going to be from an upright heart. And I'm going to learn your word. That's why I'm going to learn your word. Verse number seven. When I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. And here the psalmist knows that he has a lot to learn from the word, but he's determined to learn it. I think the most important thing in learning God's Word is not your head or your IQ, it's your heart. It's your heart. If you want to learn it, that's the key. It's a heart issue. And by the way, you don't have to go to seminary to learn God's Word. You just have to have an earnest heart, a desire to learn God's Word. You can do it in many different contexts, but Here the psalmist just has a desire to learn God's word. Why? That he might live it out. Look at verse number eight. I will keep thy statutes. We learn it so that we can live it out. It does us no good to fill our mind with theology and doctrine if it doesn't change us. If it doesn't change who we are, if we don't live it out, A. W. Tozer wrote, theological truth is useless until it's obeyed. The purpose behind all doctrine is to secure moral action. George Mueller The 19th century British preacher and leader in Bristol, he warned that the Word of God can be studied but not obeyed, just as water can run through a pipe and not be absorbed. And that's so true. Some people let the word of God run through them, but that's about it. But they don't absorb it. We need to allow God's Word to cleanse us and change our lives. We need to absorb it. And so the last stanza ends with this, where he says, Oh, forsake me not utterly. In English we would say it like this, don't abandon me, Lord. Never abandon me. In other words, the psalmist knew that he was going to need God's help in this pagan land. With all these pagan influences around them, he has this holy determination to live a blameless life and to follow God's word, to take it seriously. But he knows that he's going to need God's help. So he cries out to God, oh Lord, forsake me not utterly. And so a blameless person seeks to live according to God's word, seeks God with a whole heart of devotion, doesn't practice sin, takes God's word seriously, groans over their own sinfulness, and is determined to worship God. With integrity. Your blessedness is according to your blamelessness. And your blamelessness is according to your relationship to the Word of God So you want to be blessed, then you need to focus on being a blameless person through God's word. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this encouragement from your word. Lord, help us to have the heart of this psalmist Same passion, the same determination to not forget your word. To apply your the principles of God's word to our life That we may be blessed. Lord, give us the same wholehearted seeking after you as the psalmist had And Lord, I pray that as a result, Lord, you'll be honored, you'll be glorified. We we live equally, Lord, in a world with so many terrible, bad influences, and we need your help, Lord. So help us to live and walk blamelessly before you. For your honor and your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.