Thank you so very much. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Book of Ephesians, the New Testament book of Ephesians. Uh Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, General Electric Power Company. That's how I remember that. Let's all stand together. We're going to read a f first few verses out of chapter one. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you in peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love having predestinated us into the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our heart. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the richness of Scripture and what it teaches us. Would you please help us, Lord, to comprehend the truth of your word? And we need the help of the Holy Spirit to do that. So give us attentive ears. And open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things out of your word. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. I want to begin a series through the Galatians, through the epistle to the Galatians here with you on Sunday morning. And this morning I want to talk about being blessed beyond measure. Hattie Green was a woman who was known as America's greatest miser. I think I may have told you about her before. When she died in 1916, she was worth over $100 million. That's when a million dollars was a million dollars. Let me tell you how she lived. She ate cold oatmeal because it cost to heat it. Rather than buy new clothes, she would stuff newspaper in her old clothes. When she bought a newspaper, she would resell it. When she would buy a ticket to a Pullman coach, she would rather than buy the kind where you can lay down and sleep, she would rather sit up all night in a in a upright chair um an upright seat rather than play paying the extra for a sleeping compartment. Um she would uh spend all night in the attic of her factory sorting out rags, white in one pile colored in another because she found out she could get a penny a pound more for white rags. She had a business in New York, but rather than buy a house in New York, she rent she would rent a flat under a different name so she wouldn't have to pay income taxes. And her son had to suffer a leg amputation because she delayed so long in looking for a free clinic. When she lay dying, uh the nurses around her had to put on street clothes because uh she didn't want to pay Just to take care of her. When we read about a woman like this, we shake our heads and say, How foolish. Here's a woman who was rich, and yet she lived like she was a pauper. How can anyone be so foolish? But the truth of the matter is there are many Christians who, spiritually speaking, are like Hetty Green. They have limitless wealth at their disposal, and yet they live like spiritual paupers. Now this is the issue that Paul is going to address here in the book of Ephesians. Paul, of course, is the writer of this letter. We see in verse number one, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. He wrote this letter to the church at Ephesus a church that he started on his third missionary journey. He stayed in that city for about two years preaching the gospel. He saw the whole area evangelize. That whole city was dedicated to the worship of a goddess called Diana. And when Paul's ministry made an impact on their false worship, it created a riot there. In fact, you can read all about that in Acts chapter 19. Paul's ministry had a tremendous impact. Now each book of the Bible was written for a different purpose. Genesis is the book that tells us all about the beginnings. Matthew is the book that tells us all about Christ being the king. Galatians is the book that tells us about our liberty in Christ. What is the theme? What is the purpose of this letter of Ephesians? Well, we can see it in verse number three. Look at verse three again. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. So it's all about the believers' riches in Christ. We could say that the book of Ephesians is the believer's treasure chest. Now, why does Paul write about this? Well, this is uh ten years after he started this church. Paul is now in a Roman prison. Um this is one of Paul's prison epistles. And Paul heard that there was a heresy that was beginning in that region to impact and infiltrate churches. And it was an early form of Gnosticism. And Gnosticism basically taught that believers need more than what Christ can give. They needed knowledge that exceeded the knowledge that you have in Jesus Christ. Simply put, Christ isn't enough. It's good to have Christ, but you need more spiritual knowledge than Christ can give you. Your resources in Christ are limited, is what they were saying. So in order to refute that kind of thinking, the Apostle Paul wanted to share with these believers the great truth. truth of their riches in Christ. He wants these believers to understand how spiritually rich they really are. And God wants you to understand that as well. Most Christians don't know that they are rich. And most Christians live in spiritual poverty. Now the background of Ephesians Uh in order to communicate this idea, Paul is going to use a temple as the backdrop of this uh letter, this idea. Did you know that the ancient city of Ephesus was known for a famous temple there, the temple of Diana? It was one of the seven wonders of the world. It was uh a a shrine to this goddess. It was 45 feet in uh 425 feet in length. It was 220 feet in breadth. Architecturally, it had 127 white marble columns, each 62 feet high. It was opulently decorated with ornate paintings and carvings. But the chief attraction to this whole temple was a statue of Diana that they say dropped down from heaven. Now, did you also know that temples were used not just as a place of worship, but temples were used as a place to deposit your wealth? They kind of functioned like banks do today. So people would entrust their wealth to the temple. So this temple was a huge treasury. Now, Paul uses this temple idea as a backdrop to the writing of this letter because God also has a temple But it's a spiritual temple. In the Old Testament, God had a temple for his people. In the New Testament, God has a people for his temple. You are now the temple of God. You are part of God's spiritual temple. And did you know that God has also invested or entrusted in you wealth? Spiritual riches. You are rich. You are invested with limitless wealth. You are blessed. The Christian life is really just a treasure hunt. Did you know that? We basically progressively discover the vast wealth that we had been given in Jesus Christ. And that's w what it means to grow in the knowledge of Christ. We discover the treasure that God has given us. God has bequeathed on us, as Paul writes, every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. And what Paul does in the first chapter here of Ephesians is he opens up the treasure chest to reveal to us all the treasures that we have in Christ. Now when I was a kid growing up and learning uh in school, my English teacher taught me never to write run-on sentences You ever you ever remember being taught that? Where you place one independent clause after another after another after another? You know, that's that's not good English. Run-on sentences might not be good English, but it's good theology when it comes to describing your bul your wealth in Christ. Because let me tell you something. Look at verse 3. Look at the beginning of verse 3. And then go all the way down, let your finger go down the page, all the way down to the end of verse number 14. That's one sentence in the Greek. That's one long sentence in Greek. You talk about a run-on sentence. This is the king of run-on sentences here And some Greek scholars have called it one of the most complex Greek sentences in the entire Bible to sort out. Paul just piles on phrase upon phrase to explain what some of the spiritual blessings that we have. in Christ really consists of what they are. And this sentence really can be divided into three sections that are really focusing on different persons in the Trinity. Verses three to six centered on the Father. Verses six to twelve. The second part of verse 6 to verse 12 centered on the Son. Verses 13 and 14 centered on the Holy Spirit. Paul takes us to the very throne room of God to show us the greatness and the vastness of the blessings and the treasures that belong to those who are in the Lord Jesus Christ Now, we're not going to be able to handle this whole sentence today. But I do want to point out just a few things at the very beginning of it. I want you to see three aspects of the blessings that we have in Christ. First of all, just write down the gracious source of these blessings. Again, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places? Three times in verse 3, we see the word blessed. And Paul pointed to the source of all these blessings. It is God the Father. So notice these blessings come first of all from God. The idea in verse 3 is that God is to be praised. God is to be spoken well of, we could say. God is to be blessed. Why? Because God is the source of every blessing that you and I have. And why does God bless us with all these spiritual blessings in Christ? It is so that we in turn might bless Him. So that we in turn might glorify Him, the giver of every good and perfect gift. In other words, blessed by God, we bless God. That's why Paul breaks out into this doxology in verse 3, blessed be the God. and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us. And so we bless God. Part of that is giving him thanks. Part of that is talking to others about how good God is, how God has blessed you. Part of that is singing and praising Him in public worship. That's why we worship. That's why we come here. We come here to bless God because of all the spiritual blessings that we have been given. It comes by God, but also It comes not only from God, but by grace. Back up to verse 2. Grace be to you, and peace from God. Our Father. Look at the word grace. This is the action of God towards us in giving us these blessings. The word grace caris describes God's love and favor. towards us. God is so very gracious. God is the giver of every good and perfect gift, as James likes to say in James 1 verse 17. Now most people have a distorted picture of God. God is often thought of like a tyrant who is, you know, just kind of moving us around in life like checkers on a board. Or they picture God as a judge with a long stick ready to whack us anytime we get out of line. Or some picture God as some impersonal force that we can't really relate to on a on a personal level. But that's not the biblical picture of God. How does Paul describe him in verse 2 again? Grace be to you and peace from God our Father. He's a father. The picture that Paul gives here of God is as a gracious, loving father. He's not a tyrant. He's not an impersonal force. He's not a distant supervisor. He is our gracious Father who loves us and longs to bless us God has given me the privilege of being a father and now a grandfather. I thank God for each one of my children and grandchildren. They're not perfect. But I want the best for them, and I'm going to do everything in my power to provide what is best for them. And when they hurt, I hurt And when they experience success, I share that joy. And when they experience disappointment, I hurt with them in that experience. I feed them, I care for them. I love them, encourage them in every way. Why? Well, because I'm their father. And I know that you feel the same way as parents. If we being sinful can give that kind of love to our children, how much more does our Heavenly Father love us and long Jesus said it like this, if ye being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give good things to them that Ask him. God is constantly pouring out rich blessings to his children Our blessings don't come from our own ability, from our own intellect, from our own achievements. It comes because we are graciously blessed by our Father. So these blessings come from the Father by grace but also through Christ. Now the question that we have to ask is, how do we access all of these spiritual riches that we have? It's one thing to have millions in the bank, it's another thing to have access to those funds. You know, at at Faith Theological Seminary we're we're working to get our accreditation from the Maryland Higher Education Commission and we had to set aside some money to do that and About a year ago they told us, hey, some of that money you set aside, now you can have it back. It's all set aside in the bank account. We can you you know those funds are now yours. But a funny thing, for a year and a half we've been trying to figure out how to access those funds and we can't access them What what good is it by the way pray about that? What good is it to have funds in a bank account that you can't access? If you have no access to them. Alright? What good is it to be have millions if you have no way to access those riches? So the question is, if God has given us all of these spiritual riches, how do we access them? How do we tap into this wealth And Paul tells us here in the book of Ephesians that all of this spiritual wealth that you have, you access it through Jesus Christ. Christ is the key to the treasure chest. Christ is the way in which we get these spiritual riches. He unlocks all of them. Again in verse 2, grace be to you and peace from God our Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ. And notice in verse 3, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places In Christ. Just circle that expression in Christ. To experience and have access to these spiritual blessings, you must be in Christ. That's a key statement that Paul uses in all of his letters. Seventy-four times we see in the New Testament Paul using this expression in Christ. In Christ. Nineteen times he uses the expression in him. This is the sum and the substance of all of Paul's theology. And Paul would basically summarize humanity into two groups. You're either in Adam or you're in Christ. And if you're in Adam, you get all that Adam has. And that's not really good. Because those who are in Adam, what do they get? They get what Adam has, which is sin, original sin, judgment, condemnation, fear, alienation, and Adam all die. If you're in Adam, you're in a bad way, you're in a bad position. But humanity's either in Adam or when you get saved, you are now in Christ And because you're in Christ now, we possess all that He possesses, righteousness and holiness and eternal life, and justification and adoption, peace and power. all manner of blessing. Every spiritual blessing comes from being in Christ. That's the thing that we have to understand. We are new creatures in Christ. Our salvation flows from this. Our completeness and grace flows from this. The Bible says you are complete in Christ. Truth is in Christ. He is our sanctification. All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden in Christ. Christ is our wisdom. Christ is our encouragement. Christ is our fellowship. All of these things are spiritual blessings that you have. But it's not just being in Christ, but it's also being in Christ and being in fellowship with Him, abiding in Him, because there are many Christians, many people that are in Christ, but you're unaware of all the riches that you have. And rather than abiding in Christ and looking to Him for this source of great riches and wisdom spiritually, you're looking to other places. You're going to other places. You don't know that you already have what you're looking for. And so many Christians are like spiritual pulpers. Why? Because they're not daily abiding in Christ. And one of the beautiful pictures that Jesus gave about this relationship of being in Christ and being one with him when we are saved, it is this in John 15, Jesus said, I am the vine and you are the what? Branches. And if a branch is cut off from the vine, Jesus said, you can do nothing. A branch is someone who is abiding in Christ and has the life and power of Christ flowing through them. And are giving all of the fruit of being in Christ. And so the question is, are you abiding in Christ? We have a cut-off generation of Christians Like cut off flowers, you know. People cut off flowers, put them in a vase with water. No matter how much water you might give those flowers, they're in the process of dying and they're gonna wither eventually. Use all the ingenious ways you can to try to make them look like they're alive, they're dead now. Because they've been cut off. Many Christians are cut themselves off from the flow of all of the resources that they have in Christ. But God wants you to utilize all of these resources. He wants you to know that they're available to you. He wants to enrich you with all these spiritual blessings, and Christ is the key that opens up the treasure chest to all of these blessings that you rightfully have because you're in Christ. But here's number two, not only the gracious source, but write down the generous scope of these blessings. Look again at verse 3 where it says, Who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings? Now I want to focus on this phrase all spiritual blessings. Notice that the blessings are spiritual, not material. We're trained to think about riches and wealth in terms of material things. When I said this morning you're rich, I got some of your attention. You got excited because, you know, you're thinking, where's my money? But that's not the riches I'm talking about. In this earth of life, we're trained to think that way, even Christians. We even have false teachers out there promoting this heresy that God wants you to have all the money that you want. He wants you to have nothing but health and wealth and prosperity in this life. These false teachers live in huge mansions and they drive around in expensive cars. And they indulge themselves in every luxury that the world can give, every f fleshly desire, and they tried to lure Christians to do the same. But that's all anti-Christian. Look, God promises to meet our basic needs, don't get me wrong, and God does that very well. But God knows that the greatest need that you have and I have are not physical needs. They're spiritual. Our greatest need is to be rightly related to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he blesses us with spiritual blessings. in heavenly places. Why? Because this life on earth is short and eternity is long. You either spend eternity in heaven or in hell. I would rather be a pulper materially here on earth and have spiritual wealth in eternity than to have all that this earthly material world can give me and not know Jesus Christ. Or as the Apostle John puts it, love not the world, neither the things are in the world. Then he goes on to say, why? Well the world is passing away and the lust thereof. But he who does the will of God abides forever. Now you might be thinking, what good are spiritual blessings to me if I can't live comfortably now in this life? After all, those who are focused on heavenly blessings, they're not much earthly good. Well, actually it's the opposite that is true. C. S. Lewis wrote this. He said, the Christians who did the most for the present world are precisely those who thought the most of the next. It is since Christians have begun thinking less of the o of the other world that they have become to be they have become so ineffective in this world. You go on to say, aim at heaven and you get earth thrown in, aim at earth and you get nothing. That's why Paul said, look, set your affections on things above, where Christ is seated. And so our treasures or blessings are all in Christ, and they are in heavenly places. Now, if you're thinking this morning that this is so impractical, Keep in mind that when Paul wrote this letter, he was in prison. He was in prison. And uh every time he moved, he could hear and feel the heavy chains clanking around his wrist and his ankle. Now he could have been depressed and complaining about his circumstances. He could have said, you know, I don't need spiritual blessings right now. I need to get out of this cell. I need to get out of these chains. I need to have my physical needs met Is that what Paul says? No. Instead of that, what does Paul do? He breaks out into a doxology in verse 3 and says, Blessed be God. Who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places? If understanding those blessings could sustain Paul in a Roman prison And give him the hope that he exudes in these letters, then that's about as practical as you can get right now. And understanding the blessings, the spiritual blessings that you have in Christ can sustain you as as well through whatever difficulty you may be going through. So these blessings are spiritual, not material, but also notice not some, but all. All not some All these blessings come to us in the person of Jesus Christ. In him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Write down 2 Peter 1. 3, according as his divine power has given unus all things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that called us to glory and virtue. These promises tell us that God has given us all that we need in Christ to face whatever problem that you might have in life. Now, either these promises are true and trustworthy, or they have no practical value. And by the way, that's what a lot of quote-unquote Christian psychologists and counselors will say That, you know, these verses in the Bible, well it's good to have them in the Bible, but they can't help you through some of your problems. You know. God does not say My spirit will produce love in all of you except for those of you that never been loved at all. You have an anger problem and you have to work through that through therapy before I can help you. God doesn't say that, does he? God does not say, I'll give you joy to all of you, except for for those of you that are clinically depressed, you might need to get on Prozac. Before it'll work for you. He doesn't say, you know, my peace I give to you Except for those with anxiety disorders, you might need to go to Carl Rogers and get some help from him before I can give you peace. Now, hear me out, folks. I'm not saying that counseling is wrong or that the use of psychotrophic drugs is always wrong, but I don't think they for a Christian should be the first resort, however. I'm saying that psychology has infiltrated the church, and its effect has not been to direct hurting people to their spiritual blessings in Christ. but rather to human wisdom and how to cope with problems apart from reliance on God and repentance from sin. I've even heard of Christian psychologists who say that to give Bible verses to hurting people or to tell them to trust God, they say, well, that's cruel or that's worthless. A Christian counselor, if they're truly a Christian counselor, should be directing you to the all-sufficient Lord Jesus Christ and to the spiritual riches that you have in Christ. All I'm saying is that before you take a drug to get over your problem, make sure you've allowed your problem to drive you to a greater dependence upon Jesus Christ. Make sure you've allowed your problem to do that. I read the story of a Christian woman suffering from severe anxiety and depression. And she went to her pastor with the problem. And even before probing for the causes of her problem, her pastor told her to go to a doctor and get an antidepressant. And she followed his advice and felt better within a few weeks But she didn't ever confront the sin in her life. That was the root of all of her problems. It was only years later when she started attending a church that preached the word of God where sin is called sin and where people are held accountable for their own sins, that she realized what it was and she confessed her sin to God. And she began to be to get truly healed by the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, God directs trials into our life so that we'll learn not to trust in ourselves, but in God and in his mighty power, so that we will not trust in human resources. But that we will learn to detrust in divine resources. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 1, he said, For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble Which came to us in Asia that we were pressed out of measure above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life. Can you imagine the Apostle Paul saying that? We were so pressed out of measure We had so much trouble that we we despaired even of life. We were so depressed we didn't think we were going to live. So what did Paul do? Did he get some Xanax? Did he go to a psychologist? Did he try a behavioral modification? No. He said that we had we had the sentence of death in ourselves. Why, Paul? That we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raises the dead. God uses trials to make us examine our own self in a deeper way. So that we will root out of our life selfishness and pride and sin. And so that We will find resources in in Christ. If we try to solve our problems without digging into the treasure chest of spiritual riches that God has given us, we have missed the purpose of why God sent those trials to us in the first place. God sends trials into your life so you'll open up the treasure chest and begin to look to see the resources you have in Christ that you can use to get you through whatever problem you're facing. So make it your lifelong quest to understand and be satisfied with Jesus Christ. And know that all that God has, all that you need, is in Jesus Christ. God has made Christ for you. Here's a person that loses a spouse, and they're lonely, and they're sorrowing You know what, there's something in the treasure chest for you. If you dig deep. Here's a person suffering that suffered a traumatic event in their life. So much so that it left them afterwards with panic attacks and anxiety. And their doctor prescribes to them Xanax and said, look, whenever you see you feel anxiety coming on, just take one of these But before you start taking that pill, why don't you look into your treasure chest? Now again I'm not saying that there are not crises that come in a person's life. For a period of time where they might need some kind of physical help with that, but you do not want them to be dependent on that instead of being dependent on Christ. God wants you to be to be dependent on Him. And the fear that you're having that's causing you to have these panic attacks and that anxiety, you can rely upon Jesus Christ to take that fear from you. And give you peace instead of that. That's part of the rich resources that you have in Christ. Here's a person that has some kind of an addiction, whether it be drugs or alcohol, or maybe they're just battling with depression, and they turn to the world and they turn to human wisdom for help. They try self-help meetings, prescriptions, psychiatry. But you know what? There's something in the treasure chest for you if you'll look. You can find divine resources in Christ that will help you through that. To where you don't need to depend upon that other stuff. I hear people saying, oh Pastor, second blessing. We need to get the second blessing. You know, as if there's some extra baptism of the Spirit that you get. Let me tell you what the second blessing is It is understanding and discovering all that you got in the first blessing. That's what it is. The Christian life is a life of discovery. Of the strength and the resources that you have in Jesus Christ. And learning to depend upon him I tell you, I've had trials come into my life, and when the trial came, it hurt so much, and I ran to Jesus. And you know what I found? I found peace and strength that I did not know I had. And indeed I didn't have it because it was Christ. And I had such a fellowship and a closeness that I experienced with Jesus Christ, I didn't want the trial to go away. And I remember saying, Lord, I I I don't want to be what I was before this trial came. I don't want to revert back to that. Because God has given you that trial that you might find you're all in all in Jesus Christ, who is the source of every spiritual blessing. God wants you to discover the wealth that you have in Christ. Let me give you the third point, even though I'm out of time. I might have to cut it off here, but number three, not only the generous source or the gracious source and the generous scope, we have all spiritual blessings. in Christ, but then the glorious subjects of these blessings. The question is, who are the recipients? And notice the emphasis is on the word us in these verses. Verse 3. who has blessed us. Verse 4. He chose us in him. Verse 5. Having predestinated us. Verse 6, wherein he has made us accepted in the beloved. And the main idea here is that you need to understand your identity in Christ. Did you know there's a real identity crisis going on today? People don't know who they are or what they are. Satan is the author of all this. He's the author of confusion. But this is also true spiritually for Christians. Satan doesn't want you to know who you are in Christ. He doesn't want you to know that. Because once you find out who you are in Christ, You know your true spiritual identity. That is part of the key of unlocking all of these blessings that you have in Christ. So he doesn't want you to understand that. Your identity, who you are, is not based on what you do, what we do, but who we belong to. Your identity is inseparably linked to who you belong to. And who do you belong to? We are children of God. You'll never figure out who you are if you cut yourself off from God. That's why we have all this confusion in the world. You know, people don't want to believe there is a God. And is it any surprise that they can't figure out who they are now? Because if you cut yourself off from God, you'll never figure out who you really are. You'll be open up to whatever lie the devil wants to give you about who you are. But with God, we are children of the king if you're a child of God. And there are two words that Paul uses in here. That we need to understand about who we are. We are the adopted. Look down at verse number four. According as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Verse 5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ. You're a child of God by way of adoption. God chose you in him before the foundation of the world. Now having children is so very special. I remember every one of our children when they were born and how special that was. Having natural child born children is wonderful. But you know there's something even more special about adoption. When a father adopts a child, he chooses that child. He makes that child his special choice. He sets his love and his affection on that child. And he does it according to his own good pleasure. That's how we're saved in verse number five. Why did God choose you as his child? Verse 5, having predestinated us to the adoption of children to Jesus Christ, by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the pleasure of his will. It was not because he's something valuable in you and lovable in you, it was according to his own good pleasure. You see, friend, we are the object of God's love. And uh I counsel people all the time that wrestle with their low self-esteem. When you really understand who you are in Christ. That God, that you are his. And that God didn't love you because you're valuable. You're valuable because God loves you And your identity, your self-worth is directly associated with the fact that you are God's You are his child. You are the adopted one. Now, this is the doctrine of election, and people get all concerned about the doctrine of election. They get all bent out of shape about it. And part of that is because they don't understand it. And it's misapplied. The doctrine of election is not a doctrine we apply to evangelism. As if we're only to take the uh the gospel to those who are elect. Well, I don't know who's elect and who's not. I just know this if you're hungry, just come on to the table because the bread's right here. And the Bible says that whosoever will may come. If you want Jesus, come on. We don't apply the doctrine of election to evangelism. It's applied to you to understand your identity. God wants you to know how loved you are. He wants you to know how special you are. You ever hear a parent say, I loved you before you were ever born? That's what God says to us. I loved you before you were ever born. In fact, before the foundations of the earth, I loved you and you're mine. It affirms that salvation begins with God. It affirms his incredible love of God to us. And so if you have that kind of understanding, and that's why God wants you to know all of the blessings that you have in Christ that are applied to you. And he's given you resources. And now you need to learn those things and you need to tap into it. You are the adopted, but then the accepted in verse number six. To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he has made us accepted in the beloved. We are the adopted. We the were the accepted. You say, Well, I don't feel accepted by this group or that group or this. Look, you don't need their acceptance You're accepted by God. You're accepted into the beloved. You're in the inner group of people called the beloved of God. You're beloved by God. And that's the greatest blessing in the world, to be accepted by God because of Christ. I tell you, friend, we are blessed beyond measure We're blessed beyond measure. And that's why Paul breaks out in the doxology in verse 3: Blessed be God. who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ. When my children were little, they would like to bless me with some sort of birthday gift or Christmas gift. Where did they get the money from? They give me that gift. They got it from dear old dad. I gave them the money. I bless them. So they in turn can bless me. And there's a sense in which God says, look, I'm giving you all these blessings. They're all in Christ. You need to figure them out. You need to discover them. So that we in turn will bless God for being blessed beyond measure. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the rich resources that we have in Christ. Lord, may we learn to draw upon them. Because Lord, you don't want us to live in this life without your strength and wisdom and peace and joy. All the abundant resources you give us that can help us face every and any problem that comes in life. Lord, help us to open up the treasure chest and to fully understand and see who we are and what we have been given in Christ. And for those that are here today that have never trusted Christ, I pray, Lord, that today they would see the beauty of Christ and of salvation, that they would come to Jesus Christ. broken over their sin, repentant, putting their full faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And friend, if that's your prayer here today If you want to know Jesus, would you just simply reach out in prayer and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner? And you know what? He'll accept you in the beloved. Paul said we didn't have time to look at it, but here in Ephesians it says, you know, he talks about those who first believed, who first trusted in Christ. We all have a responsibility. Every man, God commands us all to repent. He commands us to believe. Salvation is something that we must do. We have to exercise our own will and trust in Christ. Would you do that today? Father, bless hearing hearts. Use your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.