It's so good to be in the house of the Lord tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open, please, to First Corinthians chapter twelve. And we're going to pick up our study here in First Corinthians. And the title of my sermon tonight is Body Language. Because uh that's what the Apostle Paul is really going to be talking about here tonight uh in First Corinthians twelve as we deal with the issue of spiritual gifts Now, there was a third grader who was asked to write an essay on the subject of the human body. And so he submitted his masterpiece to the teacher. And I'd like to read to you what this third grader had to say about This is a quote from him. He said, Your head is kind of round and hard, and your brains are in it, and your hair is on it. Your face is in front of your head where you can eat and make faces. Your stomach is something that if you don't eat often enough it hurts. And spinach don't help none. Your arms you gotta have to throw a ball with So you can reach the butt and also so you can reach the butter. Your fingers stick out of your hands so you can throw a curve and add arithmetic. Your feet are what you run on and your toes are always what's getting stubbed. That's all there is of you, except what's on the inside, and I never saw that Well that's a pretty good essay, I guess. But there is a little bit more to the human body than that. With uh the body that God has given us uh to think that God created uh Adam from the dust of the ground. And of course the uh the Bible tells us we were crazy Created from dust and to dust we will return. A mother was teaching her son that very thing, and he later came in and said, Mom, did you say we're created from dust and will return to dust? She said, Yes. He said, Well I just looked under my bed and someone is coming or going. Well, the human body is a picture of the church, the body of Christ. And what we're going to see here In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, is the Apostle Paul is going to use this analogy of the human body to talk about the body of Christ. Now there's a problem that the Apostle Paul is dealing with here in 1 Corinthians 12, and We talked about this a bit last time, and that is that the Corinthians were misunderstanding the use of spiritual gifts. And in many cases they were abusing spiritual gifts. Evidently there were some in the church assembly that were Placing some gifts above others. They were elevating some spiritual gifts and saying these are the really important gifts, and they were looking at other spiritual gifts and saying they were of less importance. And really we can divide spiritual gifts into three categories. There are the speaking gifts, of course that would include teaching and prophesying or proclaiming truth. There are the serving gifts, which would include administration and giving and mercy and helps and so on. And then there is a third category of the sign gifts that were used to speak, uh give signs regarding the confirmation of the scripture, tongues and miracles and healing and so on. Now the Corinthians felt that there were some that were more important than others. And there were some gifts that they really wanted. They coveted after some gifts. They were the more showy gifts. They were on the forefront. They took more of the spotlight And as a result, there were some in the church that were not content with the gift that they had. or the more showy gifts. They wanted to look more important, more spiritual, and some in the church felt inferior because they did not, for instance, have the perhaps the gift of And so rather than being content with the gift that God had given them, and I'm not sure if you're not sure. People began to seek gifts and they began to use a gift or try to ha uh show a gift that they really didn't have. Let me tell you something. It's very frustrating to try to operate in a spiritual these um these reality shows these people that you know uh try to uh audition or sing what are they called America's got talent and American Idol you ever uh You know, I remember one time my kids were watching that and they said, Dad, you gotta see this. And these are all these people coming in thinking they're gonna be the next superstar singer or American Idol. And these people audition and when some of them sing it is really bad. And you talk about people having blind spots. These people think they have a gift that they really don't have. And sometimes That it can be true in the church. And the people in Corinth were abusing spiritual gifts by thinking they had a certain gift, pretending to have a gift and yet not having it, not being content With the spiritual gift that God had given them, and by boasting as if they had something that they really didn't have. And so it was a very frustrating thing. And so Paul wants to call Correct the situation. He wants to give a perspective on this thing of spiritual gifts. And what he's going to do is he's going to use the analogy of the human body and he's going to apply it to the church. The church is the body of Christ. We are all members of that body. Every member is important in the body. All are necessary in order to function correctly. And so Paul Paul will use this analogy to show how that every person in the church is valuable. Every person in the church has a spiritual gift that has been given to them by God. And you should find that gift and use that gift and be content to use that gift for the glory of God. Now what he's going to do here is he's going to fancy different members of the body talking to one another another about their discontentment and their perceived lack of importance. We'll kind of see how silly that is, but the message is pretty clear. The Corinthians were acting acting this way and by acting this way really they were being silly and the way they were perceiving their gifts. And so really this whole chapter or the rest of the chapter twelve it kind of fits Neatly into two parts. There's the analogy that Paul gives about the human body, and then secondly, there's the application of what he's going to say. But what I want you to see are just three basic ideas that we can learn From what Paul's going to say here. And here's the first one. That is, we belong to each other. We belong to each other. This is the first thing we need to see. Look at verse number 12. For as the body is one And have many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. Now you have one body, it all has many members, and And we would say parts to it. We would agree to that, right? I mean the body is not just one big part, it's not one big uh single cell amoeba, or neither are we composed of all the same parts That would be a kind of a bizarre looking body. But the analogy Paul focuses on here is that of oneness. There is diversity, there's diverse parts, and yet all of these come together to form one One human body. And really when you think about it, the body is an amazing thing. For beauty, the human body is unmatched as a machine. It's really amazing when you think about it. I don't want to turn this into a science class, but just consider these facts here. Each body has about one hundred trillion cells. And that's a mi they are each mini chemical factories performing about 10,000 chemical functions. Listen to this. Every cell has one trillion bits of data. That would be equal to the number of letters in 10 million books. And each in addition, each cell replaces itself every seven years. And each cell is independent. Yet it cooperates with millions and millions of other cells. 13 super tankers. It never sleeps, and it normally the average lifespan beats 2. 5 billion times. That's amazing when you think about And this is the body that God has made. The lungs can t contain about 1,000 million capillaries. And on we could go. There's all kind of other facts. But just think about this. The brain is a computer that is unmatched. Man has not yet made a computer that matches the human brain. The the eye is a three D color motion picture camera. The ear is a stereo Sound system. The larnix is a speech box. The lungs is a gas exchange plant. The heart is a pumping station. The stomach and the intestines are food processing and absorption factory, the spleen is a defense system, the kidneys are a filtration plant, the liver is a processing, purification, and storage factory. Hormones are the timekeeper and the messenger. The nervous system is a communication network. The circular system is a transportation network, and touch is a set is a sensory plant. And all these different parts of the body They all work together and they all do what the head wants it to do. What the head wishes for it to do. And notice what Paul says in verse number twelve. So also is Christ. We could say it like this. So also it is in the body of Christ. Christ is the head and we are the various parts of the body, but we're one body under the The head called Christ. And that's the analogy that Paul is using here. The head gives orders, and we are to work together to obey the commands of the head. And so we see one by But then one baptism. Look at verse 13. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jew or Gentile, whether we be bond or free, we have all been made to drink into one spirit. So again, he's emphasizing oneness here, and he's saying, now we are all uh members, but we're all baptized into one body. There's diversity, and yet there's unity. We've all been Placed into this one body. That's where all this unity comes from. We've been baptized by one spirit. Or we could say with one spirit. Jesus is the baptizer here. And basically the Spirit is the agency, and so Jesus baptizes us with the Spirit into one body. The word baptism here is not referring to water baptism. The word baptism simply means immersion When you're baptized, you are immersed in water, but when you're saved, you are immersed into the body of Christ. And it's done by Christ, it's done with the Spirit. Remember John the Baptist. said when Jesus came he would baptize us with the Spirit and with fire. And so Jesus baptizes us into the body of Christ. And notice the people that make up the body of Christ in verse 13, Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, that is, we are all one, no matter the background, the racial distinction All those barriers are torn down, all the social barriers, racial barriers, religious barriers, cultural barriers. We are all one in the body of Christ. And also Notice again where it says, for we're all made to drink into one spirit, and that is to say that we are in Spirit, we are possessed by the Spirit. That is, the Holy Spirit lives inside of us. That's why unity is a very natural thing in the church. Because we've all been placed in the same body By the same Spirit, baptized in there by the same Christ, and we all have the same Holy Spirit that's living inside of us. And so there's this wonderful oneness where we belong to each other other in the body of Christ. But here's the second thing. Not only do we belong to each other, but number two, we need each other. We need each other. And that's what Paul's going to show from verses 14 on down To verse number twenty-five. And as I stated before, the problem in the church is that some looked down on others because they didn't possess certain gifts. And those who didn't possess these showy gifts were uh were Envious of those who did. And Paul is going to argue here that one should never feel inferior to another who may have a more desirable gift. That's his whole argument here. We all need each other. No one has a lesser gift in the body of Christ. No one can say I don't need you or you're not this important. In fact, all of the members Of our human body are important. Are you willing to say that? Every member of your human body is important? Are you willing to say that? Sure. And so it is in the body of Christ. I'm not willing to say, well, you know, I can do without this foot Don't need it. I can do without this hand. I can do without this eye. You know, and so on. You used to say that doctors would say there are certain parts of the body that are not that significant They used to have a list. That list is about gone today as medical science has progressed. And so notice the diversity of the body in verse 14. For the body Is not one member but many? And if the foot shall say shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And so the article Argument here is pretty clear. Uh if your members of your body don't cooperate together, then you won't be able to function. And Paul uses really the absurd to make this point What if your human body acted like the church at Corinth? What if your foot were envious of your hand And the foot said, Well, you know, I'm I'm not that important. I'm just down here in this shoe. No one really sees me, or back in that day, I guess it was a sandal. And I'm always getting dirty, you know, and I'm not a hand, so since I'm not a hand, well I'm not really the body, and the foot feels left out. You say that's ridiculous. It's meant to be ridiculous. Paul's trying to make that very point there And then he says in verse number sixteen, and if the ear shall say, Because I am not of the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? What if the ear were envious of the The I and said, Oh, since you know, I'm not the I, I'm just this big old thing here on the side of the head, you know, and I really am not the I. I'm not as important as the I Then I feel left out, and I'm not really that important. And so again, you see the re how ridiculous that is to even think like that for these members Where we're the smelling we need every part of the body, not just one or two. Now I love baseball and I love to watch the O's play Uh I was a bit disappointed in last season, of course. I love to hear about Adam Jones, who is a all-star outfielder. And it's been said of Adam Jones that he has Great hands. You ever hear that? Oh, he has great hands. But I want to say that that's not fair to the rest of his body. To say that a person has great hands. And what they may mean by that is that he can really catch a fly ball. When a person is said to have great ends, that means he can really catch and that's why he was an all-star outfielder because anything hit in center field, he's able to catch it. He's even jumped up to the wall and made spectacular catches against the wall. But think about all that has to happen. Think about all the body parts that have to work in order for Adam Jones to catch a fly Ball. Think about that. First, when the ball is hit, the brain has to decide to catch that ball. And then the brain sends out a command to the rest of the body. He says, Hey, you guys Catch that ball. And then what happens after that? Well the eyes, they have to locate it, right? And then the the feet and the legs they have to get in involved because he has to run to wherever that ball's gonna be. And then the lungs have to work because you know the lungs are gonna have to give him more air in order to run. You have to have more air and so the lungs are gonna have to work harder And the heart is going to have to pump faster because you have to have oxygen throughout your body. And so the the heart has to work faster and the lungs have to work faster and the eye has to locate the ball and when his feet finally get to where the ball is So to say that he has great hands really doesn't do it justice, does it? Because really it's the whole body. Now if that ball were hit in the air and the and the head of the said Get that ball and the feet say, Well, you know, not today. Let the hands do it. After all, the hands get all the glory I mean he's got great hands. So let the hands do it? I'm gonna stay right here? Guess what? There would be no catching there. If the feet didn't work together with the legs and the heart and the lungs and the eyes and obey what the head says, then you will not be able to catch that ball. And you don't That's the way it works in the body of Christ. Our head, our commander, says to his body, catch that sinner. Go after that person who doesn't know the Lord. And you know what? The only way we're really going to reach people for Christ is if everyone in the body works together. And everyone does the thing that they're supposed to do. Perhaps the reason the church is not winning as many people to Christ as we should is because there are certain members that are saying, let somebody else do it. Else to it. And so this is the point that Paul's making here. Just think if the members of your body acted like the members of the average church, what would happen to your physical body? Your physical body probably would die if it acted like the church at Corinth was acting. And you know what a dead body is? It's a body that no No longer responds to the head. If you're no longer responding to the head, then you are a dead member of the body. And so we see the diversity of the body. But notice the designer of the body. Look at verse 18. But now hath God set the members, every one of them in the body. Listen to this. As it has pleased who? Him. God's the one who designed the body. God is the one who made the various parts. This is God's design And and again remember we're we're applying this to the the church. God is the one who puts members in the church and gives members their gifts. This is all the design of God. God the same God that divine that designed the human body and their various part and put them into the right places. This this great creator, this great designer. Sometimes we think we know how to design something better than God. We think we know better than God. Someone said this, do you know why God created man first than woman? Because God didn't want any advice on how to create a man That's a very mean thing to say, and I I just want you to know, ladies, I disagree with that. God knows how to And when you're not content with the gift that God gives you, what you're implying is God made a mistake. He made a mistake. God when you made me and you made me thus, you made a mistake, and that is not true. God knows what he's doing. God makes no mistakes Mistakes, but the Corinthians they thought that perhaps that that he did and that they could on their own get their own gi gift and by thinking this way, what did they do? They really opened them What spiritual gift that they could have when that's really something that God does, they fail to realize that God sovereignly dispenses spiritual gifts just as And so notice in fact go back to chapter twelve. Look at verse eleven. He just listed all these gifts, but look in verse eleven, but all All these worketh that one and the selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. Who's the he there? That's God. God will give out. Guess And he will give out the power and the measure of faith to exercise those gifts just according to how he wants to do it, according to his own will. And again the church at Corinth, they were placing the showy gifts on a pedestal, and the less showy gifts they were kind of demeaning, they were putting it as if they were There was really nothing much to that. I heard about a reporter that came to a quarterback and he says you have a big game tomorrow, how's the team? And he said, Well the team's great. He said is it y Unified? Oh yeah, the team's unified. He said, How do you know that? He said, because all forty-four players want to play quarterback. That's not a unified team. That's a dysfunctional team That's a team that's going to lose. And that would be a dysfunctional church. If everybody wants the same gift. And look at what he says in verse 19. And if they were all One member where were the body? If everybody wants to be the same member or the same part, or had perhaps we could say the same spiritual gift How's that going to affect the human body if everybody wants to be the same part? It's just not going to work. Verse 20, but now that are they many members yet but one And so we see the designer of the body, but also think about the dependence of the body. Look in verse 21. And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee. God has designed a body with various members so that each And so it's the wrong it's wrong to have an attitude that says, I don't need them. Wrong to say, oh, they don't need me. If you're here tonight and you say, oh, you know, I'm not really an important member of the church, how wrong you are. You're a very important member. God puts you here He gave you a gift, and he wants you to utilize and employ that gift because you are important to the body of Christ. And the body will never be all that it could be if you're not functioning and using the gift That God has given you. And whoever's also in the church and says, oh, you know, we this person's dispensable. We don't need them, that's a wrong attitude as well. We need all the members of the church. We need all the members of the body. We're not to look down on any member. That's what we see in verse number twenty-one. Uh and the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee. We're to understand that all members are necessary We saw that in verse twenty-two. Nay, much more those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. Even those little members that you think are feeble and you know were really are not that important. God says they're very important. You know, again, re using an analogy from the sports world, the Baltimore Ravens, remember the great linebacker Ray Lewis Did you know that during the twenty eleven season he missed four games? And you know why he missed four games? Because his toe hurt. Think about that. Those big rough football players that endure all this pain. And, you know, he couldn't play four games. Why? Because his toe hurt His toe put him out of four games. There was nothing wrong with the rest of his body. He was fine. But because he had one toe that was messed up, you know what? He couldn't push off. And if you can't push off against a 300-pound lineman, you know what? You can't play. But it was that one little feeble member That determined the rest of the body. And that's really the point that the Apostle Paul is making here. That is, there's no such thing as a small, feeble member. Every member is important. Notice the argument he uses in verse 23. He says we give attention and honor to those less members. Look at verse 23. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable Upon these we bestow more abundant honor, and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. For our comely parts have no need, but God has tempered the body together. other words but what he's saying is you know these less honorable he's probably referring to the parts of our body that are not so particularly attractive perhaps he could be referring to the torso or things that we don't see when he uses the word bestow He says that really means to put around. And I think what he's referring to here is that we spend time and money putting clothes on these other parts of our body These are parts of the body that Paul says may be less honorable, or he uses the expression here in verse uh number twenty-three. Verse uh twenty four actually for our comely parts have no need, but God has tempered the body. Um actually uh what he's talking about is parts of the body That perhaps are private parts, shameful things, he would say. Actually, umcomely is the word I'm looking for there. And what he's saying is that we spend all this money dressing ourselves up Except for our face and our hands, which are you know perceived as the more important things, and yet we put all this money and honor into the rest of our body and the The point that Paul is making here is that just as we set value on these other parts of our body, God sets value on those lesser members in the mem in the body of Christ. Christ. That's his whole point. How so? Because one day at the great judgment, you know what? God is going to reward those quote unquote lesser members One day when we're at the judgment, you know what I think all of us are going to be surprised. Those who we thought were really significant in the body are not going to get as many gifts or as great a gifts as those Who were working behind the scenes that no one could see, those that were quote unquote the feeble members of the body. The Bible says in that day God is going to give them high value Just like we put high value on some of the parts of our body by putting them in clothes, even so God is going to clothe them with glory one day, those lesser members. And that's the point that He So we belong to each other. We need each other. And here's the third thing we learn from this. We affect each other. Look at verse 25. That there should be no schisms in the body. That the members should have the same care one for another. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. And so God God has made the body dependent upon each other so that there be no division. That's the whole point. Division is destructive to the body. And this was what was going on in the Church of Carl This misunderstanding of spiritual gifts was actually causing a schism, a division in the church, and it was destructive. That's what happens when division comes I don't think we understand how hurtful and how unhealthy division can be. You know what is cancer? Cancer is when the body turns on itself. When the body turns on itself. It's when cells in the body live completely independent of the body by following their own agenda rather than listening to the head. That's what happens. Dr. Paul Brand in the book Fearfully and Wonderfully Made says this quote some cells do choose to live In the body, sharing its benefits while maintaining complete independence, they become parasite or cancer cells He went on to say but the most traumatizing condition in the body occurs when disloyal cells defy inhibition. They multiply Without any checks on growth, spreading rapidly throughout the body, choking out other normal cells. And friend, that is cancer. It is when cells refuse to submit They refuse to unite. They refuse to submit to the head. They affect other cells. And what has to happen to a body that has that cancer in it? It has to be cut out You gotta get rid of it. And friend, that's what what cancer is to a human body. That's what division and schism is to the church. Because there are some people that are not submitting to the Head to Christ, to the Lordship of Christ. They have their own agenda. They want to do their own thing. They're not submitting to each other. They're not helping each other. They are actually pulling others Others their way. That's a cancer in the church. And friend, when that happens, a church is in trouble. And this is what was going on in the church at Corinth. This is exactly what Paul was trying to deal with. What are the signs are a healthy body? Well, if there's caring, look at verse twenty-five. That there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care one for another. You know, a healthy sign of a church is a church where we we care for each other. It doesn't matter who you are, where you're from, what spiritual gift you have, you're as important as anybody else. The Janit Is just as important as the pastor, the person who cleans uh the outside of the buildings or cuts the grass is just as important as any deacon. Everyone is valuable In the body of Christ. And when one person suffers, we all suffer. That's the next thing, suffering in verse 26. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. You know, again, that happens in the human body, right? When one member suffers, it all suffers. You ever smash yourself with a hammer on your thumb? Anybody ever say, well, that's the thumb's problem? That's his problem. I'm not gonna deal with that. I'll let him deal with it. No, your whole body Wraps around that thumb and you scream in pain and guess what the head's telling you man you're you're in great pain and the rest of the body comes around that's what happens in the Body of Christ. We all suffer together. When one person suffers, we all suffer. And then there's rejoicing again in verse 26. All the members rejoice with it. When one person When one member is honored, we rejoice with it. That's a little harder maybe sometimes because we are prone to selfishness and we want you know to sometimes to be recognized. But when one member of the body is Is honored. We should rejoice as if it happened to us. With the same joy. With the same rejoicing. We all honor together. We all uh Rejoice together, but then also serving. Now look down at verse number 27. Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular, and God has set some in the church First apostles, and then secondarily prophets, and thirdly teachers, and after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps and governments, diversities of tongues. And so here's a Again, another list of some of the gifts Paul had already mentioned some in chapter twelve, and there are others in other places. And again, this is not exhaustive, but it's a simple list that illustrates what Paul should Trying to say, and that is in serving, we all have our gift, and we all take the gift that God has given us, and we use that for the benefit of others. And there's unity in that. This diversity where God has appointed these things, God has sovereignly appointed apostles in the early church. The apostles had the privilege to lay the foundation of the church to receive and declare revelation, the revelation of God's word, and then to give confirmation of that word through signs and wonders and miracles. And then there's also teachers, the Bible says Master teacher. That's another gift that God's given to the church. And then there are other gifts that are listed all here. These are all gifts that God says you use for the better betterment of the Bible But notice what he says here. Now Paul's going to make an argument. Look at verse 29. Are all apostles? Look at that. Look at verse 29. Are all prophets? Are all Teachers are all workers of miracles? What's the implied answer to that question? What is it? No. No. Not everybody's an apostle. God didn't make everybody to be the apostles. God didn't make everybody to have the gift of prophecy or to be prophets. Not everybody has the gift of teaching or all teachers, no No. Are all workers of miracles? No. Have all the gift of healing? No. Do all speak with tongues? No. Do all interpret? No No to all those things. And in this early church setting, God says these gifts are given to specific people. Not everyone has these gifts, but God God has sovereignly dispensed these gifts to the church. Not everyone has the same gift. Everybody are not apostles and so on, because God has given these different And notice what he says in verse thirty one. But covet earnestly the best gifts. With reference to this, this verse really seems to be contradicting everything that Paul has been saying. He's been arguing in the whole chapter to be content with the gift that God sovereignly gives you. And it looks like here This last verse where Paul seems to be commanding them covet earnestly the best gifts. Now if that's really the way we're to render that, then really it's it it makes everything that he just said, it kind of cancels it out. Because Paul just got done saying God sovereignly gives a gift. Be content with the gift God gives you. He doesn't give everybody the same gift It's all of God. So what does he mean when he says covet earnestly the best gifts? Well, here's how we're to understand it. This is where I think remember I told you that a lot of times when you're going to a passage, the verbs uh kind of carry the weight and you have to understand the mood and the tense of the verb and really to to understand what And this is another case of this here in verse number thirty-one, where the word covet there is a Greek verb Zelu, and basically uh there are four different moods. You don't mind a little Greek lesson here? You guys okay with this? This is easy. Alright? There are four different moods in Greek. There's the imperative which is command There's indicative, which is the mood of fact. There's subjunction, which is the mood of a maybe. And then there's optative, which is the mood of a wish. We say it like this. John Throw the ball, that's a command. John, throw the ball, that's an imperative. So when a Greek writer wanted to give a command, he would put it in the imperative mood. And then there's the mood of indicative, which is just a fact. John John threw the ball. That's just a fact. Then there's subjunctive, which is a maybe. John might throw the ball. And then there's the wish. I wish John would throw the ball. Now here's the thing. Each verb had its own mood. But a lot of times in Greek, the imperative mood and the indicative mood Would have the same form. They their endings were exactly the same. So you would have to ask a question, is this in the imperative mood? Or is this in the indicative mood? Is this a command Or is it simply a fact? And the way you determine that is by the context of the passage. So whenever a translator came to a verb like this and they wanted to determine if it was imperative or indicative, they would have to take into consideration the whole context of the argument in that passage. And so I want to ask you what is the context Is this indicative or is it imperative? Covet the best gifts, because if that were true, that would undo everything he just said. This can't be an imperative. This can't be a command. So what is it? It's a fact. Indicative. Paul is basically saying this. You are coveting the best gifts. But look at the rest of verse 31. Yet I will Or we could say it like this: I am showing you a more excellent way. Here's the better way. You are coveting the best gifts You are coveting the showy gifts, and yet I am showing you a more excellent way. Do you see the point there? Paul's not saying to chase after spiritual gifts. You are chasing after spiritual gifts. And that's what's wrong with you. Stop doing it. I want to show you in a more excellent way. I want to show you a better way. And he had just explained that better way. Submitting to what God has given you. And then He's going to tell us in chapter 13: if you really want to covet after something, if you really want to go after something, go after love And so we get the point here. And so Paul is saying in this we belong to each other, we're all part body and the way that we live and we show our love by our caring by suffering together by honoring one another by serving one another And so Paul is saying, listen, stop coveting the best gifts. This is a more excellent way. And submit to what God has given you and use it for the glory of God. for the help of others. And so I want to ask you, do you again, do you know your spiritual gift? Are you using that gift for the glory of God, for the good of his church? Let's let's bow offer prayer together tonight. And so Father, we thank you for the precious gifts that That you give us so freely. We thank you for the gift of salvation. And with that gift of salvation, the Holy Spirit that you planted in Side of us. We all have that same spirit. We all have that wonderful unity in the body of Christ. Thank you for baptizing us into the body of Christ. And thank you, Father, for For entrusting to us a spiritual gift that we can use for the benefit of others. And I pray, Lord, that you would impress upon the hearts of all these your servants that they are to get busy. Find that gift that you've entrusted to them. That they would employ that gift. For the salvation of souls, for the edifying of the church, and Lord, most of all, for your own glory's sake, so that one day when we stand before you At the judgment seat of Christ, no one in here will hear you say you hid your gift, you buried your talent. You didn't use it for me. Lord, may we all get involved in doing what you have called us to do. Use these words to speak to hearts. And we pray in Jesus' precious holy name. Amen.