Thank you for coming. And I invite you to take your Bibles, please, tonight and open to the book of Colossians. As you know, we're studying through this uh epistle on Sunday night. It's been a few weeks since we've been into it. I was out one week and last week we had a wonderful speaker, David Parson. But we pick up now where we left off as we're going through this great book. It's a privilege to study this book. It is so rich. And part of the problem that uh a preacher has when he goes through a book like this is uh, you know, you can literally spend uh years in Colossians because there's so much there. But we want to make some progress through it. I'd like to preach through paragraphs of Pericope, which is a complete argument. And we go from paragraph to paragraph, looking at great truth. And we're going to be in verse 24 tonight, down to verse 29. And let me read these verses tonight. Verse 24, who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church Whereof I am made a minister according to the dispensations of God, which is given to me for you to fulfill the Word of God. Even the mystery which has been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints. to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of the of the mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you the hope of glory. Whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working. which worketh in me mightily. Now, I'm sure you all know who Snoopy is. uh the the cartoon character in the uh cartoon the peanuts. Snoop Snoopy had broken his leg and he was laying on top of his doghouse uh with a big old cast on his leg, philosophizing about what had happened to him. And this is what he said. He said, my body blames my foot for not being able to go places. My foot says it was my head's fault. My head blames my eyes. My eyes say my feet are clumsy, and my right foot says not to blame him for what the left foot did. And then Snoopy looks at the audience and he says, I don't want to say anything because I don't want to get involved. There are many metaphors that the scripture uses for the church. The church As we see it here, one of the metaphors that the Apostle Paul uses, the church is the body of Christ. We saw that already in verse 18, where it says, and he is the head of the body, the church. And we see this again down in verse number 24, where he said, where he talks about at the end of verse 24, for his body's sake, which is the church. So the church is called the body. Christ is the head. You as believers, you make up the body of Christ. Sadly, there are some who don't want to get involved. in the body or things about the body. But whether you like it or not, you're in the body, and we're involved in the things of the body of Christ. Augustine, the great church father, said this, you are the body of Christ. In you and through you, the work of the incarnation must go forward. Think about what he said there. Jesus is no longer here. He came down as the incarnate Son of God. He's gone, and yet there's a sense in which his body is still here. How is that? It's through you, the church. You are the body of Christ. We should love the church. I heard sometimes I hear people say, Jesus, yes, but the church no. I love Jesus, but I just don't love his church. How can you say that? How can you love Christ and not love his church? How can you say I love the head but I don't love the body? Try that with someone and see how they respond. I love your head, I just don't love your body. That doesn't work. It's all one. So to love Christ is to love his body, the church. And in fact, this is what Paul is talking about here. All that he does for the body, Paul's love for Christ is expressed and what he does for the body. And the key phrase that we see here is in verse 24, at the end of verse 24, which he where he says, for his body's sake, which is the church. Paul did all that he did for the sake of the church, for the sake of the body. He devoted his life to building the church. He endured what he had to endure for the sake of the church. Paul said in 2 Timothy 2. 10, therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. The elector, of course, is just a synonymous term for the church, the body of Christ. Now all of us are in the body, and God has called all of us to be a part of building the body of Christ. And so I want us to see just tonight in this passage Three basic principles that we should know and understand that will help us as we serve in the body of Christ. And I'm going to give them to you under three headings. First of all, I'm going to talk about the ministry to the body. And then secondly, I want to talk about the mystery about the body. And then thirdly, we're going to consider the maturity of the body. So here's the first thing, the ministry to the body. Again, we've all been called to minister to the body of Christ in some way. And the question you must ask yourself is, am I serving? Adrian Rogers used to say, some saints, they get saved, they sit, and they soak. And they sour because they're not serving. They're not doing anything in the body. One of the greatest privileges that we have as believers is to serve Christ in his body Angels envy what we do. One time a great preacher, Alexander White, wrote to a discouraged pastor, and he said this: the angels around the throne envy your great work. Angels would love to serve God in the body and the church because they see what a tremendous privilege that is. And so I want us to consider that we need to minister in the body of Christ. Now let me give you again the context of what we're talking about, because it's been a while since we've been in it Remember that Paul is emphasizing the preeminence of Christ and the sufficiency of Christ. And remember also that he is refuting Gnostic heresy. And this heresy taught essentially in some that Jesus was not enough, that you needed more in order to get to spiritual completeness or perfection, you needed more than Christ. And so Paul refutes this whole idea. And we saw in chapter 1 where he prays that all the believers might be filled with the knowledge of his will and wisdom and spiritual understanding. We saw that the Apostle Paul pointed out that Christ is sufficient, and it's seen in the gospel message itself. The gospel is translating people out of darkness into the kingdom of his Son. And the sufficiency of Christ is seen in the character of Christ. He is the visible manifestation of the invisible God in verse number 15. And then the sufficiency of Christ is seen in the ministry of reconciliation. Well, let me back up. It's seen in the creation. Jesus is the creator of everything and the sustainer of everything. And then his sufficiency is seen in the ministry of reconciliation. God, through Christ, is reconciling everything unto Christ. That's what happens at the cross. The cross is the means by which God uh gives peace to all things, and all things are being reconciled to Christ. Also, the sufficiency of Christ is seen in the successful spread of the gospel. The gospel is moving out and people are being converted. Look in verse 21. And you, talking to the Colossians, that were sometimes alienated in enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. In other words, Paul is saying, you are evidence of the sufficiency of Christ. Look at your own life. Now you are reconciled to God. Look at what God has done through you. Now, in verse 24, Paul anticipates what the Colossians might be thinking. And here's the thought. If the gospel is so successful and if it's spreading so rapidly, Then why are you in prison, Paul? That's the kind of anticipated question that he's thinking about. It might seem ironic that Paul's talking about the success of the gospel while he himself is writing from where? He's writing from prison. And so he's quick to explain that what he is doing in prison, even that itself, God is using to spread the gospel even more. And here's one way that we serve the body, that we minister to the body, and here's one way as a sufferer. We're going to see three ways that Paul mentions in verse 24 and 25, as a sufferer, as a servant, and as a steward. But first he talks about as a sufferer. Look again in verse twenty-four, who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh, for his body's sake, which is the church. Paul suffered for the sake of God's people, and in verse 24 he says, I do it with joy. That's an incredible thing. I suffer, but I do it with joy. I want you to know I rejoice in my sufferings. How many of us can say that? Now again, Paul wrote this letter from the Roman prison, but he rejoices even in that imprisonment. And you'll notice in his epistles, he never calls himself the prisoner of Rome. He's always the prisoner of Jesus Christ. Because he knows that the Lord is in control and the Lord has put him there. And he considered it a privilege to suffer. The early church believers always considered it a privilege to suffer for Jesus Christ. Now, today we think we shouldn't suffer Today we live in such a self-indulgent society that we don't think that we should ever have to suffer as the people of faith. But beloved, that's just a wrong idea. Write down Philippians 1. 29. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. In that verse, there are two things that the Lord graciously gives. One is the ability to believe, and the other is the ability to suffer for Christ. Those things are gracious gifts. And so Paul says, I consider it a joy to suffer. If God has called upon me to do this, then I do it with joy. Why? Well, suffering brings us closer to Jesus Christ. Paul said in Philippians 3, that I may know him, that's the person And the power of his resurrection, that's the power. And the fellowship of his suffering, that's the persecution. And these to me are three levels of intimacy. The person, the power, and then the persecution When you suffer on behalf of Christ, there's a level of intimacy that you attain to that you don't get any other way. And you get to know him more. Suffering assures the believer that he or she belongs to Christ. Let me ask you a question. Have you suffered for Christ? If you have If the world has seen Christ in you and you suffer for it, you know what you should be doing to say, why? Because you don't ever have to question whether or not you're really a believer. Because there's a sense in which the world furnishes that knowledge for you. They see Christ in you, therefore they persecute you. So there is such a thing as getting assurance from the persecution that you receive. And that's a reason to rejoice. And that's what John said in 1 John, right? Marvel not if the world hates you. Because they see Christ in you. But also, we rejoice because suffering brings future reward. The sufferings of this present life are not to be compared with the glories that shall be revealed in us. But here's another reason to rejoice in suffering, and that is that our suffering can result in the salvation of others. And I think this is what Paul has in mind here in verse 24 when he says, Who now rejoice in my suffering for you There's a sense in which God, in his infinite wisdom and in his economy, uses the suffering of his servants to further the gospel and bring other people into the kingdom. And so that's why Paul rejoices. And church history is filled with the counts of those who came to Christ after they watched other people suffer. And so ask yourself this question, would I be willing to suffer if it meant that other people would get saved? Would God use that to bring others into the kingdom? And Paul sees that in his own life. He sees it in his own ministry. In fact, where is he writing this from? A Roman prison. What other letters did he write from this Roman prison? Well, he wrote also the book of Philippians He wrote a letter to the Philippians, and remember what he said there? He said, Look, don't worry about me. Whatever happened to me has fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. There are more people getting saved because I'm in this Rome in prison than if I were not in here And because that's true, I rejoice. I rejoice in these sufferings. But another reason we should rejoice in it is because suffering frustrates Satan He hates it. You know why? He wants us to suffer because he feels like that's going to be a hindrance to us. And what happens is that our suffering is not a hindrance, it's actually a incentive. It is something that causes more growth in the kingdom, and that frustrates him. Because his purposes are being thwarted. Now, the question we come to, however, in verse 24 is this. Look again in verse 24. where it says, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church. What does Paul mean when he says, we fill up that which is behind? Whereas some people translate that or read this, that which is lacking. in the afflictions of Christ in my flesh. What does Paul mean by that? What does he mean, something that is behind in the suffering of Christ? Or something that is lack excuse me, lacking in the suffering of Christ. By the way, this verse has caused some confusion, as you might imagine, as to what this might mean. And there have been some several erroneous doctrines that have come out of a misunderstanding of what Paul is saying here in this verse. For example, did you know that the Roman Catholic uh idea of purgatory. A lot of Roman Catholics find justification for the idea of purgatory here in verse number 24. They imagine here a reference to people suffering in purgatory to complete the atonement for their sin And so they get that, or they had that doctrine, but they use this verse in a way to support that And so the idea that they teach is that Christians somehow have to make up that which is lacking in the sufferings of Christ through their own suffering. And what is that idea then? That Somehow, some way they think that the atonement, the suffering of Christ, wasn't fully sufficient to atone for sin. So we have to take up our part and we have to do what we have to do to further expiate sin in our life. And I want you to know that's a heresy, beloved. That's a complete false doctrine. And if Paul were saying that, that would be a fatal blow to what he has already said. Because what is the theme of Colossians? The sufficiency of Christ. That you're complete in Christ. And look what he said already in verse number 20, verse 20. Where it says, uh, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself. And drop down to verse number twenty-two, that in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. In other words The death of Christ on the cross was sufficient to make you blameless before God. Blameless, unblamable, unreprovable. That is, no one can bring a condemnation against you. So if Paul is teaching that we need to add to the atonement of Christ, it undoes everything that he has already said, and of course he's not teaching that. That is not at all what he's saying. Okay? Let me just say this. When Jesus died on the cross and he said it is finished, he meant it. He meant it. There was nothing else he had to do. There was no other act that was necessary to atone for our sin. He didn't have to go to hell. I've heard preachers say, well, Jesus had to descend to hell and suffer in hell. No, he suffered hell on the cross. All of the eternities of all people were basically placed on Jesus, were compressed upon Jesus on the cross. He who is infinite Suffered in a finite period of time what we being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time if we went to hell. All of the hell was placed on Jesus on the cross. He didn't have to go to hell to do anything else. He didn't have to go to heaven to do anything else. He didn't have to do anything in heaven or in hell or anywhere else to further the atonement or to do something to add to the atonement. It was all taken care of there at the cross, and when Jesus said it is finished, he meant it. It's finished. Nothing else had to be done. So you say, well then what does he mean here when he says to fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ? Well, this is what it means. It doesn't mean there's anything lacking in the atonement. But what it does mean is that the enemies of Christ were never satisfied with what they did to Jesus. They wanted to do more. They hated Jesus with an insatiable hate. They wanted to add to his sufferings. So when Jesus ascended back to heaven, he was not there for them to cause them any more suffering. They couldn't persecute him anymore. They couldn't crucify him again. But what was left behind? The church, his body. And so since the world can't persecute Christ directly, who do they persecute? They persecute the church. They whip the church. They burn Christians. They throw them to the lions in the early church. Why? Because they hated Christ individually. And now we as the church, his body, we stand in his place here on this earth. And so the world still wants to di to punch and to persecute and to dole out all this suffering and so now they do it to us. And the Apostle Paul is saying, I gladly listen, if Jesus were here And someone was going to take a punch at Jesus, Paul said, I would gladly stand in front and take that shot for Christ. There's a sense in which that's what's going on We are absorbing the persecution that the world would give to Jesus because they're not done. And Paul says, that gives me joy. I'll gladly take the blows for Christ That makes me happy that I can do that. That's what Paul meant in first and Galatians 6. 17, for I bear in my body the marks Listen, the marks of the Lord Jesus. These were blows that were meant for Jesus, but I bear these marks on my body. The stigmata is the Greek word. I bear the stigmata of the Lord Jesus. And so I take it upon myself. In other words, the blows that I've received from the world were meant for Christ, but I gladly take them upon myself. And that's what Paul meant also when he said, the fellowship of his sufferings, that I might know the fellowship of his sufferings. Listen, when you are persecuted for Christ and you take the abuse that the world dolls out towards Christ and you take it in Christ's stead, there's a sense in which now there's a closeness, there's a rich fellowship that you have In Christ that is unlike any other fellowship that you've ever experienced. The presence of Christ just comes. Now you're all looking at me here tonight like I can't relate to this. I can't get this because we've never been persecuted for Christ. Well hang on. Just hang on, and you be faithful. And just remember when they throw me in jail, you guys gotta bring me some care packages, all right? And and I don't say that uh you know, in a kinda in a funny way, but here's the point. Listen, in these days, if you're going to stand for Christ and stand for his word, you will take some abuse. Amen. If you're going to stand for truth, you will Take some persecution. All of us who are faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I hope that I can remain faithful to Christ. And so there's a sense then in which all of us are going to face this if the Lord tarries. But however, there is a oneness with Christ when that happens. So much so that it makes it a joy. It's a joy. Now, where did Paul get this idea of Christ suffering with his people? Remember on the road to Damascus, what did the Lord said? Paul, Paul, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute? Me. You're persecuting me. When you're taking blows at my people, you're actually persecuting me. This is where Paul, I think, first learned this idea. And so there's a joy that we're taking the blows for Christ, that we're filling up that which is behind. That the world still wants to dull out that persecution and we can stand in the stead of Christ. He who was in our stead on the cross, who was our substitute on the cross, now we can be his substitute in taking the persecution from the world. I was reading a story about a missionary, Dr. Helen Rosevere, who was a British medical doctor and served in Zaire, Africa for 20 years. And the first twelve and a half years of her service there was wonderful. She was the only doctor in an area that was uh had about half a million people, and uh she was just uh enjoying serving and sharing with the Lord. But however There came a time when revolution took place and they were she was overwhelmed with uh persecution. She and her co-laborers were thrown into a prison. They suffered for five and a half months almost unbelievable brutality and torture. At one time uh when Dr. Rosier was on the verge of being executed, a young teenage boy stood up And defended her. And all the hostility went towards him, and they kicked him around until they left him for dead. And this made this Tender missionary is so very heartsick to see this happen. At one point, for a moment, she had this thought in her mind, God, you have forsaken me here. But she said at that moment there was a sense in which God stepped in. And she was overwhelmed at that moment with the presence of the Lord. Have you ever experienced something like that, the presence of God? The overwhelming presence of the Lord. And what happened? That the Lord began to speak to her heart. This is what she said. He said something like this Twenty years ago you asked me for the privilege of being a missionary, the privilege of being identified with me. These are not your sufferings, these are my sufferings And the force of that hit home with her. That she was actually suffering for Christ. And this was a great privilege. And so all the Fear turned to joy. And she was filled with rejoicing that she had the privilege to fill up that which is lacking in the sufferings of Christ, to suffer for him. And so it made all the difference for her. And this is what Paul's talking about here. Sometimes in the body of Christ, God will call upon us to suffer for his sake. But let me move on, not only as a sufferer, but as a servant. Look at verse 25. Whereof I am made a minister. Look at that word minister there. Think of the word minister there, we think of a a title, we think of something of distinction. You know, a minister is a very distinguished word in our day, but this word minister is a Greek word that just means a slave Or a or a lowly servant. It's dicon uh dikonos. Actually where we get the word deacon. It just means to perform all kind of menial, mundane things. Just whatever it is, the smallest thing. And Paul said, look, I made a minister. This wasn't my idea. The Lord did this to me. He put me into the ministry. He has given me the opportunity to serve And so I enjoy doing the menial things, the humble things. Whatever I have to do, I do, because it's such a privilege to serve the Lord. And so we need as Believers to follow Paul's example, we need not look for a spotlight or a limelight. We need to look for a towel and be willing to perform even the most menial things knowing for whom we do them. Paul said, I made a minister. God did this. He put me here. This wasn't my idea. He served as a sufferer, as a servant, but also as a steward Look again in verse twenty five, where I made a minister according to the dispensation of God. Now the word dispensation is a word uh from two words, okois, which means house, nomas, which means law. Literally then, it means to rule a house. And it's the idea of a person who's been given a stewardship in a big house. That house doesn't belong to the steward. He doesn't own anything. He's been given charge of everything there. Now this was something that was very common in Paul's day. A steward would be given total responsibility for everything in a large household. He would take care of employment, wages, supplies This was a very great responsibility. And there's a sense in which Paul's saying, now God has given me this stewardship in the church. I have been given this charge. God has entrusted to me all these things. You see, as ministers, when we serve in the church, we realize that the church doesn't belong to us. This is not our church. And we are stewards. This is the Lord's church. Jesus purchased this church with his own blood. It belongs to him. We're just stewards. And guess what? We are all going to have to give an account for the stewardship that God has given to us. And how we've responded. You say, how does that apply to me? God has entrusted to you as a believer resources And you're going to give an account for how you've used those resources. You say what resources? Well, you've got the Holy Spirit, right? Are you yielding to Him? Are you living under his leadership. You have been given spiritual gifts, every person here. I've talked about that before. Are you using those gifts? Do you even know what your gift is And have you employed that gift? And guess what? Gifts are not for you, it's for others. If you don't use your gift, you're not going to suffer. Other people are going to suffer. Other people are going to be lacking in a sense because God put you in the body so you can use your gift to bless others, and one day you're going to have to give an account of that stewardship to God. So we're stewards. And the Bible says, moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Now let me move on here. Look at the next point I want to talk about. Not only the ministry of the body, but secondly, I want to talk about the mystery about the body. And I just saw the time and realize I will never get this sermon done. But just write this down quickly, the mystery about the body. Look in verse 26. Even the mystery which has been hid from ages And from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints, to whom God would make known what is the riches of his glory, of the mystery among you among the Gentiles Now remember Paul was an apostle to the Gentiles, and now Paul has a special message to the Gentiles, and he calls it a mystery. Now we think about a mystery today. We think about something that's eerie, something that might be frightening, you know, a mystery novel or something like that. But that's not how it's used here. And by the way, remember the context. Remember he's refuting Gnosticism. And what did Gnostics teach? That they had secret knowledge. They had mysterious knowledge. And if you want to be complete, if you want to ascend or evolve into spiritual perfection, you have to learn our mysteries. You have to learn our secret knowledge. And Paul debunts all that he says, look, here's the mystery that you need to know about. This is the one mystery that you need to know They don't have secret knowledge, but God is the one who has given you knowledge that has been hidden, secrets that have been covered for ages, and now God reveals them to you as a believer. Notice first of all the mystery concealed in verse 26. Even the mystery which has been hid from ages and from generations. The word hid here is Apo Crypto, it's where we get the word cryptic, appo away, crypto to hide, to hide away. God says these things have been hidden away for a long time, for ages. In fact, the word here is perfect tense, which emphasizes the longevity of hiding the mystery. It's been veiled, it's been hidden for a long time. Now, beloved, God has some secrets that He doesn't reveal to anyone Deuteronomy twenty-nine twenty-nine, the secret things belong to the Lord our God. There are some mysteries and secrets we'll never know. And then there are some mysteries that God reveals to certain people. Psalm 25, 14, where it says, the secret of the Lord is with those that fear him, and that he shares his secrets with the righteous, there are some that he might Bring in and let them know what he's doing. But then there's also secrets which have been hidden that God now reveals to his saints. Us, the believers in the New Testament, and that's what he's talking about here. What is the mystery? Look at verse 27 to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. Here it is, which is Christ in you What? The hope of glory. You say, what's the mystery? That's been revealed. Here it is, that Christ is now in you. That he dwells in you. Now the Jews in the Old Testament understood that the Messiah was going to come, but they never fathomed in their mind that the Messiah would dwell in them. That they would have his indwelling presence. Nothing like that would ever come to their mind. This was something that was hidden. And why does the Apostle Paul call it the hope of glory? Because there's a sense in which in the Old Testament God's glory dwelt on the temple, and now in the New Testament, you are the temple. And God's glory now dwells on you through Christ who is in you. Understand that? In the Old Testament, God had a temple for his people, and now in the New Testament, God has a people for his temple. We're now the temple. And by the way, what does God always try to do throughout Old Testament history? Reveal his glory. What is his glory? That Shekinah light that all of his attributes are somehow mysteriously wrapped up in there when God reveals himself physically it's in a in a in a beautiful light of glory. And I believe Adam saw that glory in the garden, and when he sinned, God kicked him out, and he no longer saw the glory of God. He couldn't reveal see that full glory of God. But there's a sense in which God still wanted to reveal it And so God's glory dwelt on the face of Moses. Remember, he went up into the mountain. He saw the glory of God. He got lit up like a light bulb, came down to the people, and the people saw him and said, Whoa, they saw God's glory on Moses' face. And then they saw God's glory in the wilderness, that pillar of cloud and pillar of fire that led them through the wilderness that would hover above the tabernacle. And they would sometimes come down into the tabernacle. And then in the temple. Remember when Solomon dedicated the temple in 1 Kings 8? The Bible says the glory of God came down in that temple so greatly that the priest had to get out of there. Because his glory overwhelmed them. And they couldn't endure to be in that full glory, that full manifestation. And by the way, did you know that's God's glory in the past? What about the future? You know that all of us are going to behold the glory of God one day in heaven? Do you understand that? That's why there's no sun and moon. We don't need a sun in heaven. Why? Because the glory of God is going to light that whole thing up. And we will see the glory of God in heaven. Excuse me. You say, what about the presence? We've seen it in the past in the Old Testament. We're going to see it in the future. What about the present? The only way this world is ever going to see the glory of God is in the church. That's why it's called the hope of glory. You say, how so? Well remember when Jesus came, he was the glory of God in the flesh. John said, and we beheld him, we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Now there is a sense in which during his earthly ministry his glory was somewhat veiled through the flesh But there were certain times where his glory was manifested and people got to see that glory. But he was the glory of God. And now that glory of God that ascended to heaven, he now lives in all of us So when people look at us, what should they see? They should see Jesus in us. They should see the glory of Christ in the believer. That's why we're the hope of glory. By the way, do you have any idea of the riches that that is? Do you have any idea of the privilege that that is? That you have Christ in you. That if the world's going to see the glory of God today, they have to see it in you. And that is such a tremendous thing. Christ in you, the hope of glory. Elizabeth Elliott wrote, I don't know of any more incredible truth in the Bible than this one. And I think that she's right. It is an incredible thing. When Paul talks about our riches, this is what he's talking about. When Paul says you have this treasure and earth and vessels, that's what he's talking about. We have the treasure of the glory of Christ in this earthen vessel. So that's the mystery. That's revealed. Christ in you. Now let me move on, because again, I'm running out of time here. Let me give you the last thing, the maturity of the body. The maturity of the body. Look at verse 28. Actually, I want you to look down in uh um where it says in verse 28, whom we preach warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, watch this, that we may present every man what? perfect in Christ. So Paul's saying, here's our goal. This is what we want in the body of Christ. We want to build the body of Christ so that every man in the body is presented Perfect. Of course, when he says many, he's talking about everyone. In a generic way, everyone will be perfect. Now this word perfect again is one of these Gnostic words that they love to throw around. You can become perfect You can have spiritual perfection. And Paul snatches that word and says, listen, the only way that you'll ever be perfect is through Christ. And this is what our goal is. The word perfect is telios, fully mature, fully complete, having arrived finally at the purpose for which it was given. It's the idea of of of a full maturity in a man or in anything that's fully grown And that's what God's desire for the church is. That's what his desire for you, all of the believers here. That's what his desire is for you, that all of you would be fully mature in Christ. And by the way, that's why you come. You say, why do we come to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night? Because we're pressing towards this one goal right here. You have to be mature in Christ. God's bringing out spiritual maturity in you. That's why Epaphras traveled from Colossae all the way to Rome to get advice from Paul. Because of this heresy that was invading the church, because it threatened to subdue the growth of this church, the spiritual growth. And so God wants maturity in all of us. But there are so many Christians that are not maturing. There's no spiritual maturing taking place. I heard about a little boy who fell out of bed. And he was crying, his mother came, picked him up, said, What happened? He said, I fell asleep too close to where I got in. And there are a lot of believers that fall asleep too close to where they got in salvation They get in salvation and they fall asleep. Rather than growing and progressing, they're asleep. And God wants us to grow. He wants full maturity. How does he do that? Look in verse 28. Whom we preach How's it done? Preaching? Notice it says whom we preach, not what we preach. The gospel is not what we preach, it's whom we preach. And who is it? It's Christ You say, how does maturity come? Preaching Christ. That's why we preach Christ here. We exalt Christ. Why? Because the more you see of Christ, the more you're matured into his image. And so it's Christ. We preach Christ. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 4 5, we preach not ourselves, but Christ, Jesus the Lord. Now the false teachers, they exalted themselves, but Paul exalted Christ. They taught a system, but Paul preached a person. They preached the philosophy of empty tradition. Paul proclaimed Jesus Christ. They preached rituals and rules and asceticism and do's and don'ts. Paul preached Christ. That's what brings spiritual maturity. So preaching Christ, but notice also warning, look again in verse 28. It says, whom we preach warning every man. That's the other thing we have to do to bring you to full maturity. We have to warn you. Now the word warning is nutheto, and it's where we get the word neuthetic. Pastor Johnson has talked about Jay Adams, you know, he's kind of a the authority on counseling, and he put out the book confidential counsel. And he branded a kind of counseling. It's a biblical counseling. And you know what he called it? Neuthetic counseling. Where did he get the word? He got it from this word here. Because it what does it mean to admonish? It has the idea of getting into someone's attention. I was going to say getting into their face, but that's not a good way to say it. It's getting their attention And warning them in a firm way but in a loving way. It's what a parent does when a parent says, Look, if you do that, this is what's going to happen to you. You ever have your parents say that? You keep making that face, it's going to get stuck. Or something like that. You keep playing out there and you're gonna get hurt. It's it's kind of a parental warning where you're admonishing, you're counseling. And that's what Paul is saying here. There are times when we have to warn the church. You know why? We're living in a day when we had all this bizarre theology, all this crazy stuff coming down the line. And we have to warn people from that. But then here's the third thing, not only preaching and warning, but then teaching. Look again, verse 28. It says, whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom. And the word teaching is a Didasco. where we get the word didactic, and it just simply means explaining doctrine, explaining truth. It's the idea of a logical, ordered presentation of the truth. This word was used about Jesus when he went all through Galilee. Didasco teaching. Didesco teaching in their synagogues. And it says on the Sermon on the Mount, he opened his mouth and began to teach them. Divasco, same word. Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, the things you've learned from me among many witnesses, the same you commit to faithful men. Who will be able to, Didasco, teach others. And so this is just simple, ordinary, clear presentation of Christian doctrine. It is through learning the truth that you grow And that's how you are conformed to the image of God. Let me give you this last thing. Look at verse 29. Whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. Paul said, this is why I labor. This is why I strive. The word labor papeo, that is to labor to the point of exhaustion. It's present tense. I continually, constantly labor to exhaustion. This word was also used from an athlete who was diligently preparing for an event It has the idea of sweat and exhaustion. And that's what serving sometimes requires. Sometimes people say, I don't want to do that. That's too much work. Well, that's what service to Christ entails. If you're not willing to work, then don't even try to do it because, and by the way, the Lord is worthy of our best efforts, not our leftovers. He's worthy of our best. And Paul said, I I just give all the energy I have, I labor. But now notice it's not just him. He says, I labor striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. God does not work instead of our working, he works through our working. God does not energize instead of our own energy, He energizes our energy. He gives us the ability. You say, where do you get the strength to do what you do? God does it. Now we do it, but God does it. I like to say it's our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. It is his strength that is working through us. So that we can serve the body of Christ. And that's what Paul said, I do everything for the body. I serve for the church. And so as we come to a passage like this, we have to ask ourselves, how much am I doing for the body of Christ? How am I serving in the body of Christ? Let's bow for prayer tonight, as we're out of time. And so, Lord, this is a very convicting passage. And Lord, it forces me to ask this question to my own heart: Am I doing all that I can do for the body of Christ? Am I giving it maximum effort? Am I being faithful to the stewardship that you have entrusted to me? And Lord, I know that there's areas lacking in my own life. And Lord, I want to be the best servant that I can be for you. So Lord, help me. And Lord, thank you that if Perhaps sometime in the future or whenever, you may call upon people in your church to suffer, to fill up the afflictions of that which is lacking for Christ. That Lord, we would do it with joy. We would do it with a sense of great privilege, of great calling. Because we know, Lord, you use suffering in the body. You use it to enrich our fellowship. To bring such an intimacy that we can't describe. And also to further and advance your kingdom and see other people come to Christ. So Lord, if ever in your providence you call upon us to suffer, may we be faithful. Help us to prepare now for that time. And Lord, help us to strive for what the apostle wrote of this maturity, this perfection that you want in all of us. Help us to labor for that. To see Christ in us, that the world would see the hope of glory, the glory of Christ in us. Heads are bowed, mass are closed. Let me just Ask you this here tonight. Before we close, I want to ask you, do you have a total assurance in your heart that you're a believer, that you're a child of God? Because friend, this is where it starts right here. Everything that we do here in this church, all the service that we do, even the things that God might call upon us to endure. It's so that people will come to know Jesus Christ. That's why God has done what He's done here. He's concerned about your soul He wants you to know him. So I want to ask you and ask yourself this question. Am I absolutely, totally sure that I'm a child of God? Have you trusted Jesus and Jesus alone? And if not, friend, there's another opportunity right now, right while you're seated there. Christ is again calling out to you, come unto me All ye that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Are you tired of the burden of sin that you carry? Are you willing to throw it down at the foot of the cross? Call upon Christ to save you. See Him as sufficient The sufficient Savior who died for your sins. And would you be willing to pray? And just pray this prayer in your heart and mean it. God, I realize I'm a sinner. And I know that Jesus Christ was my substitute, that he bore all of my sin on the cross. And so I turn from my sin now. And I receive the gift of eternal life purchased by Jesus. Lord, save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it. God will forgive you. He'll give you eternal life. And you know what? He'll start the work in you of perfecting you and making you complete in Christ. So Father, take these words, challenge our hearts. And Lord, for those who are Christians who are here, some of them may be going through a a degree of suffering in their life. I pray that this will encourage them to know that you call upon us to endure at times. And may we be faithful. May this encourage their hearts. And may this challenge us, Lord, to service to a greater degree for your glory's sake. And Father, we pray all these things in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.