Well, if you take your Bibles tonight, I invite you to open to the book of Romans, chapter 15. As you know, we've been studying Romans for a while, and we come to chapter 15 tonight, and we're going to look at verses 14 down to verse 22. And I want to speak tonight about how to be bold for Christ. Or we could also call this bold, but not boasting. One time I had the privilege when I was over in England to visit a church in Cambridge, England, a church that was built in the 11th century. And there were people that still worship and meet at that church building. But in the uh in the 1500s, there was a great preacher there, a man by the name of Hugh Latimer. And if you don't know anything about, if you never heard that name or know anything about him Let me just say that he was one of the martyrs of uh for the faith. Uh he was actually uh burned at the stake um for his faith. But one time it was told it was, and by the way, it was a privilege just to go in that church and to see the place where he pastored, and the actual pulpit that he preached from was still there. Can you believe that? I mean that that pulpit that he preached from in the fifteen hundreds. And back then you had to climb into the pulpit um to preach and it was pr it was up high. And uh for a fleeting moment I thought about climbing those steps, but I thought if I do that it'll break. And I'll be blamed for this. Um, so I just touched it. Um But a story is told of Hugh Latimer once uh when He was preaching and King Henry VIII was in the audience to hear his sermon. And if you don't know anything about Henry VIII, he wasn't um a choir boy. He was uh he was a pretty rough guy. And he had done many things that were wrong. And and the preaching of Hugh Latimer was so bold and it was so convicting that Henry VIII got angry and followed this following the sermon. He uh asked for an apology by way of letter to Hugh Latimer for some of the things that he had preached, and he told him that in the future he should be careful about the way he preached. Well, the next Sunday after that, he was going to preach again, and again there was Henry VIII that was there to hear it. And I just want to read you how he began his sermon. This is what he said. Talking to himself, Hugh Latimer, dost thou know before whom thou art this day to speak, to the high and mighty monarch, the king's most excellent majesty, who can take away thy life if thou offendest Therefore take heed that thou speaketh not a word that may displease. But then consider well, Hugh, dost that now dost that not thou know from whence thou art thou comest, upon whose message thou art sent, even by the great and mighty God, who is all present, and who beholdeth all thy ways, and who is able to cast thy soul into hell Therefore, take careful that thou deliverest thy message faithfully. And then he proceeded to preach the same sermon that he preached the week before, only with more boldness and more conviction. Such was the boldness of Hugh Latimer. When I read of men like that in history, uh I'm kind of convicted because I asked myself the question, are you are you that bold? Are you willing to stand for truth? Are you willing to be bold in the Lord Jesus Christ? And may I just say that in this day in which we live, we need Christians who will be bold for Jesus Christ. And I think that as the time draws nearer and nearer to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, we're going to need this even more. We're going to need churches that are stand boldly on the truth of God's word. Christians who are bold to witness and not be ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, friend, but I'm not ashamed to be a Christian. I'm so thankful to be a Christian. I wonder where would I be today had not Jesus Christ come into my life? I'm so thankful for his forgiveness, for all the blessings that he has given me in my life. Now what we learn today from this passage of Scripture is that Paul was a man like Hugh Latimer. Before there was Hugh Latimer, there was the Apostle Paul. And he was a man who was characterized by boldness. He wanted to be bold as he presented the claims of Christ. And if you read anything about Paul in the New Testament, indeed he was very bold. Luke recorded that At Damascus, Paul had spoken out boldly in the name of Jesus. He records that in Acts 9. 27. Acts thirteen, twenty-six says Paul waxed bold in the cities of Galatia and in the synagogue of Ephesus. Everywhere where Paul went, he boldly presented the claims of Christ. And that wasn't easy back in that day. Today we can speak and we have freedom of speech. It wasn't necessarily so back in Paul's day A lot of places he went to speak boldly was to risk your life. You remember when Paul went to Philippi, you remember the story, he was beaten at Philippi. And the Bible says he went from Philippi to Thessalonica. And even after he was beaten in Philippi, I don't know about you, but if I was beaten in the last city for what I said, probably the next city I went to, I'd be a little bit careful about how I spoke But not the Apostle Paul. The Bible says in 1 Thessalonians 2 2, but even after that we had suffered before and were shamefully entreated, as you know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God. with much contention. The fact that he suffered a little bit of reproach and persecution and even physical beating didn't stop Paul. He was bold in the next place he went. Uh he was without fear. Paul determined to be bold. He you remember that he was put in prison in Rome and he was there waiting to stand before Caesar, and the Philippian church was concerned about him, and he gave him this request. He said, According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed But with that all boldness as always, so now Christ will be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. You know what he's saying there? I just want to be bold when I stand before Caesar I don't want there to be any hesitation in me whatsoever to speak for Christ. And even if it means my life, if if it if it'll magnify Christ more by me dying, then I'm willing to give my life. But if it will magnify Christ more by my life, then I'm willing to live for him. And later he said right after that, for me to live is what? Christ. And to die is gain. So whatever it takes, he just wanted to be bold. In Ephesians 6. 19, he says, As for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly. To make known the mystery of the gospel. Paul said, I just want, when I speak, I want to do it with boldness, to make known the mystery of the gospel. And by the way, did you know the boldness is a sign of being filled with the Holy Spirit? Remember in Acts chapter 4, after Peter and John were beaten and they were said, they were charged by the government, don't speak anymore. In the name of Jesus Christ. They went back, they had a prayer meeting, and the Bible says when they prayed, the place was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and from there they went out and they spoke the word of God with boldness. You know what we need in the church? We need bold Christians who are filled with the Holy Spirit that are willing to go out and speak the gospel, not worrying about the reproach of the world. Not worrying about what people think, but boldly speaking the message of Christ. And by the way, did you know that when the world sees our boldness, you know what that's a message to them of? That the message that we preach is true That it's true. Paul said that. It's a sign that the gospel is true. In Philippians 1:28, he said, and nothing terrified by your adversaries Which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation. And Paul was saying to the Philippians, don't be afraid when you speak the word of God. Don't be terrified. Don't be intimidated. If you speak it with boldness, that's a sign to them. That heaven and hell are real. And if they don't repent, for them it's perdition, but for you it's salvation. Our boldness is a sign to the world that the message that we preach is true. So at the end of this letter here in Romans, Paul writes kind of a justification for his boldness. I mean he understands that when he wrote this letter, he was bold in the way he presented it. That was characteristic of Paul in his writings. If you ever read Paul's letters, you're going to find out, uh, he's very bold in the way he writes. Uh he doesn't shrink back from anything. And so he wants the Romans to understand the reasons for his boldness. In fact, the key verse, look at verse 15. Nevertheless, brethren I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace That is given to me of God. We could say that this is kind of Paul's justification to the Romans for why he wrote in such a bold manner to people that he's never even met before. You have to remember that when Paul wrote this letter to this church in Rome, Paul hadn't met these Christians yet. He had never been there at this point in his life. He wanted to visit there. He wanted to establish a relationship with these believers there at Rome because he wanted that church to take them on and help him to send them out on the other side of the Mediterranean so that Paul could go to places that where they had not heard the gospel before. And missionaries, they need the help of the church. They can't do it on their own. They need the support of the church. They need the resources of the church. They need the help of a strong body of believers. And Paul was writing to this church at Rome, a church he had never seen before And he was giving them the gospel. He was giving them his treatise of the gospel because he wants the church at Rome to know what he believes and where he stands. You know that here at Grace, we have missionaries come through from time to time, and we don't take on a missionary until we know absolutely what they believe and what they teach. We want to know their theology, we want to know their doctrine, we want to know that they're orthodox and not just orthodox, we want to know that they have a passion for the gospel and that they will serve faithfully We certainly wouldn't waste resources on people who were not investable. We have to know about them. And so Paul, he's presenting himself to the church at Rome. And that's why he writes this letter He writes because he wants them to know where he was theologically. He wanted them ultimately to help him. And he had desired to come to Rome many times, but he was hindered. From one perspective, probably from the perspective of the Romans, they were probably thinking, you know, here's this guy, we never met him. He's promised to come to us before, but he hasn't come, he hasn't showed up. Maybe he was wondering whether they questioned Paul or they questioned his calling. Why had he not visited Rome already? And what gives him the right to write us a letter with such boldness, having never met us ever And so, really, in these verses here, Paul is going to defend himself. He's going to defend the writing of this letter. And he gives reasons for writing this letter in such a bold manner. Now the book of Romans, it doesn't really contain any rebukes. It doesn't really contain any reprimands, but it does give some serious Cautions. I mean, he starts out the letter calling everybody sinners. That's not necessarily a good way to get on somebody's good side. He said, the wrath of God is revealed against all sinners. He admonished them to consider themselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God. He told them to not let sin reign in their immortal bodies. He told them if anyone has not the Spirit of God, they're none of his He warned the Gentiles in the church about against being proud. And Paul warned every believer in the church not to think of themselves more highly than they ought to think, but to think soberly and to think rightly. He told them to be in submission in submission to the government, who at that time was the Roman government, was led by the cruel Nemp Emperor Nero. And Paul told them that they were to respect that authority and that they were to pay their taxes and they were to give tribute to whom tribute is due. He told the weak and the strong to receive one another. And so he was forceful in a lot of what he said here in the letter. But that again, that was characteristic of Paul In 2 Corinthians 10, 10, the Corinthians said, For his letters, they say are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak and his speech. contemptible. That's what that's how the Corinthians criticized. They said, boy, his letters are pretty powerful. They're pretty bold. But when you see him in person, he's not he doesn't really impress you so much. They weren't impressed by his bodily presence. Paul was probably perhaps a small guy. He probably had eye problems. He didn't use Greek rhetorical skills that they prized in Corinth. He just was very straightforward when he presented the gospel. But he was again very bold in the way he wrote. Why was he so bold? And what can we learn from his boldness? Again, I say that as Christians we need to learn this. We need to learn to be bold in our God, not proud, not boastful, but a humble boldness. For the Lord. Well, I want you to see real quickly tonight, in the time that we have left, four elements of boldness. I think these are things that cause us to be bold for Christ. Four elements. And here's number one: confidence. Confidence. Look at verse 14. And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness. Look at the word persuaded there. This is a Greek word translated many times as having confidence. Paul was totally confident in them. He says, My brethren, here he acknowledges their salvation. He knows that they're children of God for what he's heard of them. But when he says he has confidence in them, really what he's saying is he's confident of the work of God that God is doing in their life. Now, although Paul had not personally ministered among them, he had confidence. You know why? He had confidence in the power of the word of God and in the power of the Spirit of God, he knew that God was at work in their heart. You know what gives me confidence? uh as a preacher is to know that God's word does the work. And that if you are God's people, and I believe you are, that the Holy Spirit of God is the one working in you, you know, thank God it's not all dependent on me. Because if it's all dependent on me, we're in big trouble. But guess what, friend? It's not. And my confidence, as I learned from the Apostle Paul here, is to have confidence in God's sanctifying work. And the power of the Word of God to get the work done. Confidence in that. And this is really the same thing that Paul said to the Philippians, write down Philippians 1:6. Being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. I am very confident, beloved, that the work that God began in you when he saved you, he's continuing that work, and he's going to continue that work until he calls your own. And I thank God for that. In 2 Corinthians 7. 11, Paul said, I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things. Paul wasn't expressing confidence in human nature because he knows the nature of human nature. He was confident in the work of God and what God was doing. In Galatians 5:10, he said, I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine. And so he knew although Christians go through problems and that you go through these difficulties in your growth in Christ, don't raise your hand, but how many of you experienced that, right? That it's not an easy road in this process of sanctification, but he had confidence that God wasn't going to give up. And let me just say this, beloved, God's not giving up on you. He's going to continue his work in you. And so Paul was confident that the sanctifying work of God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, would continue in them. He was confident in the power of the Word of God to do the work in the lives of believers. And he rested in that. And there's a lesson for me, and that is I need to rest in the power of Scripture and the power of the Word of God. You heard me say it before. The message is not in the power is not in me. The power is in the message itself. And so what I strive to do is just make this clear, to unleash what God says, so that God will do his work in your heart. So there's confidence. And by the way, notice what he's confident in. I think these are really criteria of the church. Look what he says in verse one. That ye also are full of goodness. And the word goodness here refers to ethical goodness, kindness, thoughtfulness, charity. He says, filled with all knowledge, morally they were filled with goodness. This is kind of a fruit of the Spirit. And by the way, I commend the people here, Grace, for your goodness one to another, and your goodness to others. Intellectually. He says they were complete in knowledge, filled with all knowledge. This is not talking about academic knowledge. He's talking about a spiritual understanding of the things of God. You can have a lot of knowledge about the facts and not really uh grow, but this knowledge here is a knowledge given to them, not book learning, but a knowledge where the Holy Spirit has opened their eyes to understand the things of God. Practically, he says you're able to admonish one another. Look at that. Able to admonish the word admonish here from the Greek word neutheo which carries the idea of warning or counseling. And in this context it refers to coming along each other and Counseling each other and encouraging each other in the things of God. And you understand that's what the church is about. When you come to God's house, I'm not the only one ministering. That's not the way it should be. When you come to God's house, you come alongside each other and you admonish one another. Look at that phrase: evil also to admonish one another. That's among God's people, right? Sometimes I I'll counsel people, and some of the issues that I deal with a lot in counseling is the issue of depression. People are, you know, I'm always down, I'm I'm fighting depression. And uh I'll I'll try to diagnose the reason for their depression. Is it spiritual? Is it uh circumstantial? Uh is it temperamental? But one of the things I always say to a person is depressed, are you faithful in church? No. Well, if you want good therapy, go to God's house. That's where the therapy is. That's where you get encouraged. And you know, people keep coming to me, oh I'm depressed, I'm depressed. Well, I haven't seen you in church. And you want me to continue to counsel you, by the way, I don't charge, I think I'm going to start charging some of these folks. You keep coming and coming. I keep telling you the same thing over and over again, but you're not coming to God's house. You're not faithful. This is where your therapy takes place, right here. This is where you get encouragement, not just from me, but from other of God's people in the church Who know the Lord, who have the wisdom of God, who can encourage you in the things of God. I can't tell you how many times growing in my in this church, growing up in this church, coming to this church, having the saints of God in this church. admonish me and counsel me and encourage me. And let me tell you something, beloved. When you see new people come in, don't just let them alone. You go to them. You get to know them. You encourage them. You draw them in. You show them the love of Christ. You know why? Because people need that encouragement. That's what the church is all about. And this is what Paul's saying. to the church there. He says, you know, I'm I'm I'm confident in you, I know that you're saved because I see in you uh your goodness, I see in you your knowledge, I see in you that you're able to admonish one another. Unfortunately, we're under this idea that the only people capable of counseling are psychologists out there. That's just that's just wrong. And let me just quote you what one guy says here. This is not my words, these are his words, but I wish I had said this. He said, there's no such thing as a psychological problem. All personal problems are either spiritual, spiritual, or physical Anyone who suggests that so-called psychological problems can exist apart from or between those two realms of human existence does not understand either the nature of man And the power of sin or the nature and power of God's Word and God's Spirit. And I think he's right. I really believe he's right there. And so when we come to God's house, we admonish one another, we encourage one another. And so Paul says to this church, I'm confident, I'm confident in you, I'm confident in the work that God has done in you because I see these things in your life. And this is what makes me bold. Confidence. But here's number two, consecration. Consecration. Look at verse 16. That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified. By the Holy Spirit. Look at the word minister there in verse 16. He uses the word minister and ministering there. Well, this is not the normal word that Paul uses for serving. Sometimes he'll use the word dulas, which is a word that simply means a slave. I'm a dulas of Jesus. Sometimes he'll use the word dikanos It's where we get the word deacon from, and that again it means to serve. But Paul doesn't use those two words. Those are the two common words that he uses. But he doesn't use that word here. He uses a different word. It's a very interesting word It's the word liturgos, and it's where we get our word liturgy. A liturgy is something that's used in a worship context. And this is a word that really is a priest's word. Speaking about what a priest will do in the Old Testament when he would offer up a sacrifice before the Lord. This is the word that Paul uses here. He understands that in his service to the Lord that he's really a priest. Now we know in the Old Testament only certain people could serve as priests and do priestly duties, but now in the New Testament All those people who are saved now, did you know that we are priests unto God? We are all priests, you know? Uh one time I met a a Catholic priest, he was wearing the collar, and uh he asked me, he said, What do you do? I said, Well I'm a priest too. Of course, I explained to him what I meant by that, not the same thing. But as a child of God, we have our direct access to God. And when you come to God's house, you are bringing your sacrifices to the Lord. Your service to God, your consecration to Him, and your service to Him, it is an act of worship to Almighty God. Everything you do, you do it as a priest, you do it as unto the Lord, you're offering it unto the Lord. Everything that you do Even this sermon that I preach, when I teach expository preaching in seminary, I tell all the students there, look, every sermon that you preach is an act of worship to Almighty God. It should be pleasing to him first and foremost. Every service that you do here in this church, no matter how small it might seem, is an act of worship to God. So do it with excellence. That is if you collect an offering or if you hand out a bulletin or whatever you do, you know, we saw a video this morning that Lisa's folks put together. It's a beautiful video of all the people that have worked to put all this tree together. And again, I don't want to go down the list of names because I'll forget because there have been so many people that have done just things to make this all happen You know what I did to make this happen? I said, let's have a tree. That's about it. I do believe I carried in one of the pieces of the Christmas tree. In fact we got a picture of it to prove it. If you don't believe me, I'll show you the picture. That's all I did. But you know what? Everyone else did the work. And you know what? Everything that you did is an act of worship unto God. Every service that you render is an act of worship. It's a consecrated act of worship. And Paul understood this. He understood that God had sent into the Gentiles And he understood that whenever he shared the gospel, he was offering up a sacrifice in the Lord. That's what he's saying here, that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable Being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Every time Paul said, I witness to a Gentile, and a Gentile receives the Lord, every time I do that, that's an offering unto God. Everything you do as a Christian is an offering unto God. That's what made Paul bold. His confidence, his consecration. But here's the third thing, calling. Calling. Look at verse 17. I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God. For I will dare not to speak of any of those things which Christ has not wrought by me to make the Gentiles obedient by word and deed. And what Paul's saying here is that Paul understands his calling as a gospel. In fact, he kind of clarifies his ministry really in verse number 15. He says, because of the grace that is given unto me In other words, anything that Paul was able to do, he understands it was only through God's grace that he was able to do any of that. And that's why he says here that he says, I dare not speak of any of those things which God, which Christ has not wrought by me. Paul says, I don't want to brag about anything in my life. If it was something that the Lord didn't do through me, you know, we all had a tendency to want to glory, to want to brag about things. Paul says, look, I don't want to brag about anything. I have nothing to brag about. I dare not speak of any of those things when Christ has not wrought by me. Paul never spoke of his accomplishments that were outside of Christ. He only spoke of those things that Christ brought about, and Paul knew salvation was all of God, and Paul knew that if God was using him and the gospel was spreading, he knew that it wasn't him. He knew it was God. He knew it was because the call that God put on his life. And beloved, I could say the same thing. If anything good comes from this pulpit through me, I know it's not me. It's all the grace of God. It is the calling of God. And that's why Paul would later say In the New Testament, God forbid that I should glory or boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Understand that my calling is from the Lord. Understand that God is doing all this. And we we all know that the same thing. If God does anything, it is not because of us. A lot of times, it's in spite of us, because God in his grace chooses to use uh less than perfect creatures to get his will done. So I'm not gonna brag. It would be futile To do that reminds me of the little boy, the little leaguer. You heard this story? Just a little guy. He's up at the plate, the pitcher throws the ball, he swings the bat. He hits the ball barely. It kind of dribbles out halfway to the pitcher's mound. The little guy starts running the first. The pitcher runs. He kind of fumbles the ball. He Overthrows it to the first baseman. Little guy rounds first, he heads to second. They retrieve the ball. They overthrow it to second. So the little guy turns around, he rounds second, he comes to third. They overthrow it at third. He rounds third, he's running home, he's got a huge smile on his face. He taps home play and he says, that's the first time I ever hit a home run. Did he really hit a home run? No. That's what I feel like it would be if I ever tried to brag. Friend, it's it's not me. I haven't done anything. And that's how Paul felt. He knew it was all of God. And so he chose to glory in the Lord. Whenever he would go back to Antioch to give a report on his missionary journey, he was always careful to talk about what God has done, the doors that God had opened. It was all of the Lord. And notice in verse 19, God is the one who confirmed his ministry. Watch this through mighty signs and wonders by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and round about into I lyricum, I had fully preached the gospel of Christ. God confirmed his ministry by doing great things through the power of the Spirit Affirming the word of God that he preached. And we see Paul's completion of his ministry. So he says that he went roundabout fully preaching the gospel. And what he meant by that is that He had covered everywhere that he needed to cover by the will of God on that side of the Mediterranean. By the way, that's why he was writing to the Romans because he wanted help so that he can go on and watch this Notice this will be the next thing, courage. He wanted to go farther out. Look at verse 20. Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation. Paul had this other thing. He had courage. This was his gift. He had the courage to go to places and minister the gospel where it had not been preached before, where Christ had not been named. He didn't want to build on another man's foundation. Because he had the gift of being a pioneer of starting something. I can't help but read this verse and I can't help but think about Pastor Johnson. He used to quote this verse a lot. Do you remember that? Where he talked about not wanting to build on another man's foundation. And that was the way that God had gifted Pastor Johnson. He he in a lot of his life he started churches. Because that was his gifting. He had the courage to do that. And this was like Paul. Paul said, I want to go to other places. I want to go to places where the gospel has not yet been preached. So I can just kind of lay the foundation of the gospel. And then maybe later on others will come and build on that foundation because people are gifted in different ways. And Paul had this gift, but he had the courage to want to step out in faith and do that. And so that's where his boldness came from. It came from his confidence. As a pastor, we could say. His consecration kind of like a priest offering a sacrifice to the Lord. His calling as a preacher, he understood that it was God's call on his life. And God was the one accomplishing these things. His courage as a pioneer, we could say, he wanted to step out and go to places where Christ had not been named. And so you say, how do we apply this tonight? Well, just look at your own life. Do you exude these things, this confidence in the Word of God. Are you consecrated? Are you willing to offer sacrifice to the Lord with your service to Him? Do you have a sense of calling on your life? Because I want to tell you if you're a Christian, God hasn't called you just to come to church and as one country preacher said, Sit, soak, and sour. He's called you to get involved. He's called you to do something for him. And then the courage to step out in faith. And do something for him. That's what made Paul bold. And these are the same things that we need if we will be bold for our God. And do what he has called us to do. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, I pray that you will help us to learn from this great apostle. This man that was so greatly used of you. And Lord, as we think about these verses, may we ask ourselves, do we have confidence as a believer in the sanctifying power of your word in our life? Lord, do we believe it's sufficient to give us what we need? Are we busy offering up spiritual sacrifices to God? in our prayer, in our good works, in our witness, in our thanksgiving. Are we, Lord, taking credit for things that, Lord, you have accomplished Are we committed to truly boasting in you and you alone? Lord, I pray that you'll speak to us through this. May this be our Testimony. May we be like Paul in this, saying, Lord, help us for your namesake to be bold. In our God, to be bold in our sharing of the Word of God, to stand firmly on the power of Scripture. Make us bold for you, Father I pray that, Lord, that through us, through this church, and through the believers here, that you'll do great and mighty things for your glory's sake. How many with heads bowed and eyes closed will say, that's my prayer tonight? God will just use me. I want to offer spiritual sacrifices to the Lord. I want to be used by God. That's my prayer. Would you just raise your hand and say, that's me? me. Maybe take a moment here in quietness and just tell the Lord that. Just say that to the Lord. And so, Father, use again your word to do your work in us, to make us for the people that you have called us to be. And Father, we pray all of this in Jesus' wonderful and matchless name. Amen.