Well it's good to be in God's house, and I'm so glad to see you here. I want you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 1, as you know this is the epistle that we're dealing with here on Sunday night. And we're going to look tonight at verse 22 down to verse 25. And I want to talk tonight about being born again and loving it. This is what Peter's going to talk about. He's going to talk about this issue of being born again. And he says in verse 23, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. Now we live in a culture today that has kind of taken that word away from the Christians in a way, and they've kind of redefined it. That's why polls say that over fifty percent of Americans will say that if you ask them the question, are you born again? And everyone will say, you know, yes, we are born again. I say everyone, but over fifty percent of Americans today claim to be born again. The problem is that they don't really understand what the Bible has to say about that issue. Born again is a f is a statement that has kind of been taken away. um and used and redefined and cheapens so that it no longer means what the Bible says it means And uh, for example, when they take the term born again, the media uses it to describe anyone who kind of makes a comeback or a fresh start in their life. They'll say someone like that has been born again You know, they'll use this sports announcers will talk about a team that's been dwelling in the bottom of the division and they start winning games and they'll talk about that team as being born again. You know, by the way, pray for the Orioles to be born again. Um at the bottom. But they'll take a term like that and they'll they'll say, well, they've been born again. Uh a a company uh that has been on the brink of bankruptcy will suddenly get a surge of business. For example, years ago I read the b biography of Lee Icoca, who took over Chrysler when they were on the verge of bankruptcy, and then he kind of turned that whole thing around and the corporation was said to be in that book to be born again. And so they use this phrase all the time. That's why in a way that the Bible doesn't use it. That's why it's not surprising that when you ask somebody, Are you born again? they'll say, Oh yes. But they'll take our word and they'll attribute their definition to it. What Peter is going to talk to us about here is what it really means to be born again. And he's going to talk about how and how wonderful it is to be born again. And also he's going to talk about some of the marks, what happens as a result. of someone being born again. Now remember that Peter is writing to a group of believers who are scattered abroad and there's some of them are suffering. He's writing to believers in Rome that are suffering under the fierce persecution of Nero, that that cruel emperor. And during that time of suffering, I think it's possible for uh during these intense times of suffering for small irritations to kind of turn into conflict, to be triggers of friction that otherwise might not exist within a church. When people were going through suffering They're going through a difficult time. They can be a bit irritable. And in a church body, there can be a lack of forbearance to where there's conflict that might grow in the church. And let me just say this that as believers, we don't need to be afraid of the persecution on the outside of the church. We're going to survive that because the church has survived that through the years. But what's even more dangerous, however, is the disunity that might exist inside the church. If you ask me, that's more dangerous than any attack from without. It's the friction or the conflict that can exist from within. And so perhaps Peter is writing to a group of believers, they're suffering from without But there may be a little bit of friction from within. And so the message that Peter gives here in these verses is that part of being born again is that you will have a love, a fervent love for the brethren, for each other and the church. This is what he's going to talk about. Christians must love because they've been born again by the incorruptible, eternal word of God, and the result of that is fervent love. for the body of Christ. And so this is what we're going to look at. So I want to really look at it in three ways, three ideas that we have to understand. If we're going to understand what it is to be born again. So I want to talk then about the manner of being born again. Then I want to talk about the marks of being born again. And then I want to talk about the means of being born again, because that's what I see here in these verses. Number one, if you're taking notes, think first of all about the manner of being born again. Look in verse number 22. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth. Through the Spirit, under unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a perfect heart fervently. So Peter, first of all, is going to talk about what I want to call the cleansing. What does Peter mean when he says, you have purified your souls? Now look at the word purified there. Hagnizo is the word, and it just simply means to cleanse. This is a word that's used in the Old Testament, it was actually used in the Septuagint, to talk about a ceremonial purification And so here Peter is using it with the idea of a moral or a spiritual cleansing. You know what happens when you come to Christ is that you are made clean. You're made absolutely clean. You're absolutely pure. You're made that way by God. There's a total spiritual cleansing. that happens in your life when you come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. That's part of being born again. As a matter of fact, the word here is a verb And it's a perfect tense. Remember, I don't know if sometimes I'll tell you about these Greek verbs because they are so very important that you understand the tense And remember I said in Greek, the tenses in Greek don't necessarily talk about the time of action as much as the type of action. And a perfect tense is this kind of action. Something that was completed in the past That has continuing results in the present and on into the future. Has an event ever happened in your life that was complete, yet you're still being impacted by that event And this is what Peter's using, the type of action he's using here, to talk about being born again. When you were born again, that happened in the past, but has the influence and impact of that event gone away as a Christian? No. The influence of that, the impact of that, we continue to feel in our life each and every day that we live That's why I don't understand someone who says they've been born again. They might claim to have an experience in the past, but there's no evidence of any impact of that experience in their life in the present. Friend, that's not really salvation. When a person gets born again, it happens in the past, but there's a continuing result in their life every day in the future. And so Peter says, this is what happens. You've been purified. When he says, purifying your souls, that's a term that's synonymous with salvation. That's what happens when you get saved. You are purified. You're cleansed of all of your sins, past, present, and future, and with that, God gives you a capacity to live a pure life. Now remember, Peter just got done talking about holiness and that we're to be holy because God is holy. But here he reminds us that when we were born again, we were purified. And then he gives us the capacity to live a clean life because of the work of God in us. Now, Ezekiel, you might want to write this verse down if you don't have it in your margin. Write it down. Ezekiel 36, verse 25. He kind of looked forward to this when he prophesied this. He said, Then will I cle uh sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you And a new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart from out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes. And ye shall keep my judgments and do them. This is a great prophecy from Ezekiel that looks forward to that work of regeneration in the heart when God would purify us And then he would give us a heart that will desire to walk in his ways, to serve him. We will be given his spirit. This is all a work of God. So we see here the cleansing. But I want you to see the next thing, the circumstances. Look again in verse 22. Seeing ye have purified your souls, watch this, and obeying the truth. Now the there's a preposition here in obeying the truth. We could say it like this by obeying the truth. And the truth that Peter is talking about here is the truth of the gospel. When a person hears the gospel And response to that gospel message with obedience, that is the then the result is you are cleansed, you're born again. That's when the purification takes place. You hear the gospel, you respond to that gospel in obedience, and God does his work of purifying the soul. Now, I've said this before. The gospel is not so much an invitation to accept as much as it is a command to obey You know, a lot of times we say, well, we invite people to come to Jesus, and we do. And Jesus invited people to come unto him. But friend, the gospel is a command. The Bible commands all men everywhere to repent. And if you disobey that command of God, then you will suffer the consequences of that. And so when Peter says you've obeyed the truth, he's talking about that moment when you heard the gospel and you heard the call of the gospel, the command of the gospel, and you obeyed that call, that command. And as a result, God did his work in your heart. The disobedient are called unbelievers. In 1 Peter 2:8 and 3. 1, he refers to unbelievers as those Who have been disobedient to the word. And again, specifically, what word is he talking about? He's talking about the gospel there. Unbelievers are those who obey not the gospel. In Romans 1. 5, Paul described the goal of his mission. Listen to this: to bring about the obedience of faith among the Gentiles. Paul said, here's my goal. I want to go and preach the gospel, and as a result, I want there to be an obedience. to that message, to that faith. In Romans 10, 16, he says that not all will heed, and he uses the word obey, not all will obey the gospel when they hear it. Again, that's the idea of a command that you must obey. And to prove that, he cites Isaiah 53. 1 when he says, Who hath believed our report? He's quoting from the Old Testament. Who will believe the message of the gospel? Who will obey the message? And so it's the idea of obedience. So purification happens. As a person hears the truth of the gospel and they obey that gospel, but you don't just obey one time. Obedience then becomes the pattern of your life That's why a true Christian is not someone who obeys once and that's it. But they obey the gospel and they continue now in a life of obedience to the Word of God. What did John say in 1 John 2, 3? Hereby we do know that we know him. Here's how you know that you really know him. If we keep his commandments. This is the test of whether you're truly a child of God. Are you obedient? That's why sometimes people will come to me and say, you know, how can I know that I'm truly a believer? Give it to me very simply. I'll say it's one word, obedience Are you obedient to Christ? Because that's what John says. He that says, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar. And the word and the truth is not in him. And so there will be this initial obedience to the message of the gospel, to the call of it, but then there will be after that a pattern of obeying the word of God, obeying the truth. This is the circumstances about being born again. You hear the gospel, you obey the gospel, obedience becomes a pattern of your life. And the reason I emphasize this is because There is this uh pernicious error that I hear sometimes being taught that you can come to Jesus for salvation and make Jesus your Savior, but you don't have to call upon him as your Lord. He doesn't have to be the Lord of your life as if you have to obey him the rest of your life. You can get that fire insurance And be safe from hell and still live all you know the way you want to. Later on now, if you want to up the ante, if you want to be his disciple, then you can make him your Lord. And then you can pick up the cross and you can practice self-denial. That's a whole nother level of Christianity. But if you want to be saved, all you have to do is make him your Savior. And you can make him your Lord later. Friend, there's no such dichotomy in the Bible. I don't see that in Scripture anywhere. The Bible says if you believe, if you call in Jesus Christ, you call upon him as the Lord. If thou believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead, if you believe that he's Lord, the Bible says if you call upon the Lord Jesus Christ, then you will be saved. We can't separate Jesus and say, oh Jesus, I want you as my Savior. I don't necessarily want you as my Lord. Now I don't want to obey everything that you tell me. I don't want to go to hell But I will accept your gift of eternal life, and then I'll let you know later on whether or not I want to obey you. Friend, that's not being born again. That's not true Christianity. What will happen to a person is they will obey the message of the gospel, and then obedience will be the normal pattern of their life. That's why John says, here's how you know if you know him. If you keep his commandments. There are all kinds of people that say, I know Jesus, I'm born again, but they're not obeying him. They're not keeping his commandments. And so there is the obedience that will mark them. But notice next, not only the cleansing and the circumstances, but notice the cause. Look again in verse 22. Seeing ye have purified your souls And obeying the truth, and notice the next phrase through the Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit who does this work of regeneration. Make no mistake about it. It's not caused by man, it's caused by the Spirit of God doing that work of regeneration in the heart. Friend, I don't have the ability to save anyone. No preacher has the ability to bring salvation. It is a work of the Holy Spirit of God. He does that. That's why Jesus said to Nicodemus, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And then he went on to talk about the Spirit. That which is born of flesh is flesh. That which is born of spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. And then Jesus said, the wind blows wherever it wants to, and you can hear the sound. You don't but you can't tell when it's going to come or whether it's going to go. I can't predict the wind. The wind uh is his own master. And friends, so it is with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is sovereign, he does the work And uh I can't see the Holy Spirit, but I can see the effects of the Spirit. And I can see when He moves in a person's life, that person is not the same ever again. That is the work of regeneration of the Holy Spirit. And so there's the manner of being born again. But then I want you to write down number two. The mark of being born again. Look at the rest of verse 22. Seeing you purified your souls and obeying the truth through the Spirit. Watch this, unto unfeigned love of the brethren. See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. And so here Peter points to this something that's very simple, very, very simple. And it's this, true love is the natural result of being given a new life. This is just natural. This is Christianity 101. When the Holy Spirit does that work in your heart, you're going to have a love, a new love. I read this week about a man at Judson College. Uh who lived near there on the Fox River in Illinois. And this man would go and feed the ducks every winter Even especially during those frigid months, he would be out there seen along the banks of that river, standing alone in that frigid weather. He would feed these ducks. He would cut through the ice to open up an area of water for them to swim in. In short, he would just meet their every need. during those winter months and that cold season. And one day a boy who noticed this asked his dad, he said, Dot Dad, why does that man Care for those ducks so much. Why does he love those ducks? And the father told the son why. He said, Let me tell you why, son. He said, That man fought in Vietnam. And he said that while he was in Vietnam, ducks saved his life. And the father said, here's how it happened. His unit had been ambushed Many of his friends were killed during this ambush. And while he had not been shot, he lay there among his friends as if he had been shot. He wanted to make it look as if he was dead. But the Vietnamese would come along and they would uh put a bullet in every soldier that they saw laying there just to make sure That they were dead. And here this man lay there pretending to be dead, hoping that they wouldn't see him, or for some reason they would pass over him. And just when they were getting close to him Suddenly a covey of ducks flew out of the field and flew up close to those soldiers. And those soldiers' attentions was distracted. They began to try to shoot those ducks instead of the men. And in the end, they stopped checking the field for soldiers. And they simply left. And because of those ducks, that man's life was spared. And so that's why that man for the rest of his life loved ducks. And the story is very simple. He loves Because he lives, because of the life that he was given, the life that he was spared. Or we could say there was deliverance there. There became as a result of that a natural And really, I think of this passage when I think of that story, this is Peter's point here. You know, we have been delivered from a horrible death because of what God has done for us And as a result of that, there should be in us this natural love. Love is the natural result of being born again. It is the mark. of the Christian. Romans 5. 5 says, and hope maketh not a shame, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Now again, Peter's readers that he was writing to, they were suffering. They were aliens in a foreign world. Just imagine if you were American living in a foreign country, just say you were living in Iran And uh you were being hounded and persecuted because you were an American and you heard that there was another American in that same city, you know what you would probably do? You would probably seek him out You would cling to that person as one who understood what you were going through. And then, this would be especially true if that person were a blood relative, if they were part of your family. This is Peter's point here. Peter is saying that you know that now that you're born again, now all of you believers, you're in the same family. You might be going through suffering and difficulty and persecution. What that should cause you to do is seek each other out And cling to each other and love each other and help each other through this difficult time. That's the implication of what Peter is talking about here in verses 22 and 23. Love is a natural. result of being born again. But now let me just also emphasize this point. Just because it's natural, it's a necessary result of the new birth, It doesn't mean that we don't work on our love, that we don't nurture it. You know, we have to do our part. I would just compare it to this. Here's a man who they say, well, you ever hear someone say, well, that person is just a natural athlete? They have natural gifts. They have natural abilities. Does that mean that athlete can go and compete in the Olympics and win just because he's a natural athlete without practice? No, of course not. He has that natural ability, but what he has to do is he has to refine that even more. He has to take that ability that he's been given, and he has to work on it. And make himself an even better athlete. This is the principle. Just because as believers you have this love that God has placed in your heart, it doesn't mean that it's automatic all the time We have to work on it. We have to be fervent. This is what Peter is saying. Be fervent in your love. In fact, Paul said this. In first Thessalonians four nine he said, But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another, and indeed ye do it Towards all the brethren which are in Macedonia. But listen to this now. But we beseech you, brethren, that you increase more and more. You're already taught how to love. You're already doing it But I want to encourage you to do it even more. In other words, he's saying work on it even more. You've been given this love, but just keep the pedal to the metal. Keep working on this. Keep refining this thing of love. And by the way, what does the Bible mean when it talks about love? I think it's a sac a self-sacrificing, a caring commitment. Which shows itself in seeking the highest good of the person or the one who is loved. Love is not primarily a sentimental feeling. It might include feelings But a lot of people today when they talk about love they want to attribute it to just a some kind of a romantic notion or a sentimental feeling, and again it does include that But it's so much deeper than that, it's so much more than that. It is self-sacrificial and it's seeking the highest good for that person That is love. That means that sometimes the love that you might show to that person might be painful, but it's needful because you're seeking the highest good of that person. You know, if I had a choice between a doctor who was nice and who gave me lots of hugs, but he never really helped me, I never got well. But he loved me a lot. He hugged me a lot. He was very sentimental. And then I had another doctor who was kind of gruff and he said, Look, you're going to have to go through a lot of pain, but I would I guarantee you in the end you're going to be healed. What doctor would you rather have? I would rather have doctor number two. Because you're seeking my highest good. It might be painful in the process. But I know that in the end I'll be well. And so it is a lot of times with with love in Scripture. Now notice the characteristics that Peter talks about in this love. First of all, it's a sincere love. Look again in verse number 22. He says, unfeigned love of the brethren. This is unfeigned. And again, the Greek word here is from two two words really. It's where the word ho kritos, it's where we get the word hypocrite. And back then that was someone who wore a mask like an actor. But what you we see here in the Greek is it adds the alpha negative. Whenever there's the alpha negative added to the front of a word, it negates that word. You know. A theist is someone who believes in God, but a atheist Is someone who doesn't believe in God. A millennialist is someone who believes in a thousand-year reign, but a a millennialist is someone who does not believe in a thousand-year reign And the alpha negative is in the front of this word. It is a hypocritas. We could say it like this, not a hypocrite. This is someone who's very sincere in the way they show their love. This is someone who's not outwardly gushing and affirming, but When they're not in front of you, there's a different story there. That's someone who's trying to uh to manipulate you uh to get their own way, to use it for an advantage. That's not real biblical love It is very sincere. It's a sincere love that he's talking about here. And then notice also with a pure heart, we could say a spotless love. He says, unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a pure heart. And again, this is catharis, where we get the word catheterise, to be free of contamination. In other words, this isn't this is an in this is a love that's not impure, it is a pure love You can't love with sin, unconfessed sin in your heart. It is love that comes from a clean heart, is the idea there. So it's a sincere love, a spotless love, but we also could say it is a strong love, because look at the end of verse 22, with a pure heart, fervently. Fervently. This is a physiological term meaning to stretch to the furthest limit of someone's muscle capacity. It's the idea of going all out. You know, you ever see an athlete when they're running a race and at the end of the race they're kind of stretching out to get to that finish line? To pass through that, to break that tape at the finish line. And in order to do that, they stretch out there at the end. That's the idea of this word here. This is a love that is fervent. It is stretching out It's a gracious love. Peter will use this word again. In fact, look at 1 Peter chapter 4 and look at verse number 8. I quote this verse from time to time. Look in verse 8 where it says, And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover a multitude of sins. That's the idea there. Love covers a multitude of sins. God wants our love to stretch way out so that it graciously forgives and covers sins among other believers. And you heard me say this before That as believers, this is our default mode, isn't it? When someone does something against me, I automatically forgive them. Why? Because love covers a multitude of sins and I'm I'm fervent in my love, I'm stretching out here to cover that and say it's it's it's not a problem. If someone insults me does something against me, even though it might be you know very, very hard, I'm just gonna let's let that go. I don't confront that person. I don't need to confront them. I think that there is an unconditional love as our default mode as believers. There are times when our forgiveness has to be conditional, and the Bible does make that clear. But remember I said that in those cases, I'm doing that. I have to confront someone because of their offense. Not because it hurts me, because it hurts them. It's against maybe the church. It's against the glory and the name of God. Or it's a pattern of behavior that's going to hurt them ultimately. Now in that situation, I have to be conditional in my forgiveness. I have to confront them. I have to elicit a uh a recognition of that offense and a repentant spirit, an apology, because I don't want that pattern of behavior to continue in their life. But other than that I'm just loving all the time. And I'm forgiving all the time. And if you do an offense against me, I'm just gonna let it go Because love covers a multitude of sin. And this is exactly how Peter is using the word. This is what he means when he says that we're to love fervently. We're to love stretched out. With all of our capacity, with all of our might. And so the mark of being born again is this love. So we see the manner of being born again, we see the mark. Let me give you the third and final point here. The means. The means of being born again. Look at verse 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed. But of incorruptible by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever. Now notice being born again there, Anakinea, same Word used in verse 3 of chapter 1 when Peter talked about being born again unto a lively hope, a living hope. He uses the same word here. Again, this is a perfect tense, something that happens in the past with a continuing result in the present. When a person is truly born again, that impact continues in their life. And what Peter is doing now here is he's comparing spiritual birth with physical birth in God's creation. When God created this world He created everything with the capacity to reproduce. When God created everything with by divine fiat And when I say fiat, where in the Old Testament it says where God says, let there be light, and there was light. And God said, Let there be trees and vegetation and there was, and let there be, and so on, that's divine fiat. God's word is so powerful that when God speaks, it takes place. Now, when God created this world, he created it, a fully mature earth. A fully mature universe, I believe. A lot of times I'll hear these arguments against creation and say, well, you know, um according to our scientific studies, the earth is this old. Let me just say for the record, I'm a young earth. create six-day creationists, I believe that the earth is not that old. Uh it's not gonna last that much longer. I know a lot of the laws that we get from the government today are based on the idea that we have to be here for you know millions of years longer. No, we're not going to be here that long, friends. Jesus is going to come again And so I believe using up the resources of this earth, I believe it's okay to walk on the grass and kill a deer. I believe it's okay to do those things. I get I believe it's okay to drill now, go ahead and use that, bring those gas prices down Because God has given us this earth for us to enjoy and to use. And when God created the earth, he created it as a fully mature planet. A fully mature creation? And you the science can't date things today with accuracy. Let me tell you why. If you were in the Garden of Eden the day after Adam was created, I would ask you, how old does Adam look to you? Oh, he looks about 33 years old. According to my according let's get a scientist there. Oh, according to my calculations, I did a full checkup on Adam, and according to my calculations of science and facts and so on, he's 33 years old. Well no Mr. Scientist, he's one day old. You see, because you can't use your science to prove the things that God has done. And that's why I say I'm a young earth creationist because I simply believe what the Bible says. Now, when God created the earth, then he created a fully mature Earth. He didn't create uh you know seed, he didn't put seeds in the ground and earth and uh trees grow from that. He created trees and fruits, and out of that there were seeds. And seeds are the key of reproduction. When God created the earth, he created the earth with the power to reproduce after its own kind. And apple seeds produce apple trees, which produces apples, and orange seeds produce orange trees that produces oranges and so on. And so in this physical creation, seeds are the power of life. They give life. There's only one problem, however. The seeds in this created order now, although powerful as they are, they're corruptible. And whatever they reproduce, it's all temporary. Those seeds are temporary. What they reproduce are temporary because it's all going to go away. It's going to die in the end. And so they're corruptible seeds, we could say. And that would include even us. We are the product of our parents, our physical birth. Came through corruptible seed. That's why all of us are dying. I hate to say that. You didn't come here to hear that tonight, did you But each day we are one closer step closer, I should say, to the grave. But thank God I have good news for you. Although physically you've been born with corruptible seeds, spiritually You have been born again with incorruptible seed. And this is Peter's point here. He's making a comparison. He's giving a contrast. Spiritually you have life Spiritually, you've been born again, but it's not with corruptible seed. It's with incorruptible seed. What is that incorruptible seed? Look again in verse 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed But of incorruptible by the word of God, and I love this, which liveth and abideth forever. God's word is alive, It is imperishable. It is forever. Therefore, whatever comes from it is alive and it is eternal. And so we are born again by this incorruptible seed. And by the way, this idea of the seed being the word This is nothing new, and this is not original with Peter. Peter was there that day when Jesus gave that parable in Matthew 13 about the sower who would sow seeds. And in that parable, what does the seed represent? It's the word of God that brings life. Perhaps Peter's thinking about that when he mentions this. The seed is the Word of God. It is incorruptible seed. So therefore, the life that we receive from this incorruptible seed is eternal life, because the seed itself is eternal. So here's the good news. If you're born again, physically you may die, but spiritually you never will. You are eternal. The spiritual birth that you have is an eternal birth. And you will have eternal life. That's what Peter is telling us here. Because look again, he's giving the contrast to really hammer it. Look at verse 24. For all flesh is as grass And all the glory of man as the flower of grass. He says, you know, we in this physical temporal life, we're like grass. You know, anybody ever cut your grass? Of course we have. You know, grass, the life of grass is very short. It grows up, we cut it down, it withers away, all within a few days. It's there, and then it's gone And that's really what our physical life here is like. You know, in the scheme of things, we don't really live a long time on this earth, relatively speaking. Every once in a while we'll have a funeral service here. And sometimes there will be a PowerPoint presentation of that person's life, and the slides will play through in that slideshow. And normally it will begin with that person being very young, perhaps as a child, an infant And then we'll see scenes and pictures of that person growing and maturing and getting older, older, and right before our very eyes within the span of just a few minutes. We'll see the lifetime of that person and we'll see the aging take place there right before us because that's the reality. That's the reality is we're this physical life of ours is just temporary. We won't be here physically forever. And that's what Peter does when he quotes, he's emphasizing when he quotes Isaiah. In verse number 24, when he says, all flesh is as grass, he's quoting there from the book of Isaiah, chapter 40. Uh talking about how how short our life is. It's here today, it's gone tomorrow. Isaiah 40 verse 8 is where he's quoting from there And uh he says, you know, our our life is like that grass, the glory of man is the flower of grass. But notice the end part of verse 24. The grass withereth and the flower thereof falleth away. But look at verse 25. But The word of the Lord endureth forever. And this seed of God's word that is living and abiding and perishable. That is the seed by which we are born again. And so therefore we have this beautiful, wonderful, eternal life that God has given us. And so really what I want you to see are just really two characteristics then of God's Word. It's incorruptible. As Peter shows us here, but also it's indispensable. Look at verse 25. But the word of the Lord endureth forever, and watch the last phrase, and this is the word by which the gospel Is preached unto you. This eternal word is the means by which the gospel is preached and it gives life. It's alive. There's no way to bring spiritual life aside from the Word of God. No way. Man's wisdom can't produce this Philosophy can't produce this. God doesn't save people by the wisdom of the philosopher. Man's religion can't do this. Religious rituals can't do this. It is the word of God that brings life. That's why we here at grace, we believe in the power of the word of God. This is what gives life to people. That's what Paul meant when he said the preaching of the cross to those that perish is foolishness, but unto us which are saved, this is the power of God. This is the power of God. I was reading a story this week about a man by the name of Little Bilney. That's a funny sounding name, but this is a man who was an English Christian who was born again actually in 1495. He has a unique life story, but he studied the law and he was very rigorous in all of his efforts at religion. But it really brought nothing. There was no life within him. Until one day it happens that he received a Latin translation Of the Greek text written by Erasmus. That's the Greek text upon which our King James Version is translated. And he being a very educated man Picked up that text and he began to read. And this is what he says. Let me read you what happened. He said it in chance upon this sentence of St. Paul. In 1 Timothy 1, that is, he came upon this passage in 1 Timothy 1. It is a true saying and worthy of all uh acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. He read that verse. Then he said, This This one sentence, through God's instruction and inward looking, which I did not then perceive, did so exhilarate my heart. Being before wounded with the guilt of my sins, and being almost in despair, that immediately I felt a marvelous comfort and quietness, insomuch That my bones left for joy. You know what happened there at that moment when he read that verse? He felt the guilt of his sin, the burden of his sin. And he placed faith in Christ. And he was born again at that moment. The scriptures, he said, after this, the scriptures began to be more pleasant to me than the honey of the honeycomb. It was just simply reading the Word of God. And it gave them life. That's what God's Word does. It just gives us life. People are transformed by the Word of God. Let me let me give you this one other story that I read. It's so interesting. There was a skeptic once who told a man, this man, his name was Gaylord. He was the general secretary of the Bible Society in Zimbabwe. And Gaylord wanted to give this man this five. Well, actually he tried to sell it to him at first, but then when the man didn't want to buy it, he said, Well, I just want to give it to you. And the man said this, he said, if you give me that New Testament, I will roll the pages and use them to make cigarettes. And Gaylord said to him, he said, I understand that. He said, but at least promise to read the page of the New Testament before you smoke it. I'll give it to you if you promise me to read that page before you smoke it. And when the man agreed, Gay Lord gave him the New Testament. And he said, that was the last time I saw that man for 15 years. Fifteen years later, Gaylord was attending a Methodist convention in Zimbabwe. And the speaker on the platform suddenly spotted him and pointed him out to the audience. And the speaker said, This, this man doesn't remember me, but fifteen years ago he tried to sell me a New Testament And when I refused to buy it, he gave it to me, even though I told him I would use the pages to roll cigarettes. He said, I smoked Matthew. And I smoked Mark. And I smoked Luke. He said, but when I got to John 3. 16, I couldn't smoke anymore. He said, at that moment my life was changed. And I called upon Jesus. And that man is now a full-time evangelist, preaching the word of God he once smoked. Preaching the Word of God to people. Why? Because it is the Word of God that brings new life. That's why I'm committed to preaching the Word of God. So we see the manner of being born again. We see the mark. Of being born again. We see the means of being born again. It is a wonderful thing to know that you know Jesus. To know that you're born again. Friend, do you know that? Is it real within you? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I pray that you will take your word, your living word, your word that never returns void, it is effective. It is authoritative. I pray that you'll take this word and lodge it in the hearts of your people. And may it do for us, Lord, a life-giving spiritual sanctification may it encourage us more to pursue purity in our life because Lord you've given us that capacity. May it encourage us, Lord, to be fervent in our love. Even though we have this natural love as a result of being born again, we need to be fervent and work on that. And Lord, I pray that this would be also a time of examination for many who may be here, that they would know for sure that they are truly born again, that they don't just take the words And make them theirs, that they speak the words without having true transformation in the heart. And we know that this is nothing that no one can do but the Holy Spirit of God. As a result of our obedience to the message of the gospel. So I pray, Lord, if there's someone here that doesn't know you, may they truly reach out in obedience to that call of the gospel. And come to Christ and be born again. And may those of us who know we are, may Lord, we live out what Peter is saying here. May we be fervent in our love. Especially in these days. Oh, how we need to love one another. So bless these words to our heart. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And how many say, God has used this in my heart tonight? And I praise him. Would you pray for me that I can indeed live out what Peter is saying here? Be fervent in love. Pursue purity in my life. And friend, if there's any doubt about your soul's standing before God, just know that we're here. We're here to help you. All I do is I'm pointing you to Christ, friend. And you can pray right there where you are You can just call upon Jesus right there where you are. He's just a prayer way. It was Jesus who said, Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. If you want rest from the burden of sin, there's Jesus. He's right here. And all you do is call upon him and you say, Lord Jesus, deliver me from this burden of sin. I turn to you today with all my heart I believe on you for my salvation. And I ask you to save me. And friend, if you'll pray that with all your heart He'll save you. Lord, do your work in hearts and lives for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.