Amen. Would you take uh your hymn book now and open to the book of Revelation? Uh their hymn book, it's all about Him. It's the Bible, right? So open to the book of Revelation, chapter number 15, and uh we're gonna pick up our study in Revelation and chapter fifteen. Actually we're gonna look tonight at two chapters together because I really think that these are twin chapters they go together. They speak about the same judgment. For example, we see in Revelation 15, 1, and I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is filled up the wrath of God. And then we can compare it to chapter sixteen, verse one, where it says, I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the seven vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And so what we see here then is again a series of judgments that God is pouring out on the earth. One of the things that we see in the book of Revelation is the wrath of God. It's a very solemn section that we're dealing with. In fact, many of the chapters that we see, we see the wrath of God that God is going to pour out upon a wicked world. Now in Revelation we saw a series of sevens, we saw seven seals, and we looked at those seals were open, and then out of that we saw seven trumpets, and as those trumpets were blown, judgments came upon the earth, and then we saw seven thunders. And now we're going to look at these two chapters. There are seven vials, or we could say seven bowls. These are bowls that are filled to the brim with the wrath of God. that is ready to be poured out upon the earth. And so Revelation chapter fifteen and chapter sixteen deal with that In Revelation chapter 15, we see the bowls that are presented in heaven. In Revelation chapter 16, we see the bowls poured out on the earth. In Revelation chapter 15, we see the sanctity of the worship of God, and then in Revelation chapter 16, we see the severity of the wrath of God. In chapter 15, we uh the temple doors are open in heaven, they're open wide for us to see. We see these bowls of wrath that are filled up to the brim. ready to be poured out. And as uh they're seen, there's worship in heaven, there's glory in heaven, there's praise in heaven. In fact, look in chapter fifteen, look at verse seven. And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever. And the temple was filled with the smoke from the glory of God and from his power. And no man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. And so we see then that these these vials, these bowls are presented there in heaven, and when that happens, God's is glorified. God's uh is seen as being righteous, a righteous judge, and there's praise in heaven. Now some might consider it to be an odd thing that the worship of God and the wrath of God are seen here side by side But really they're two sides of the same coin, if you ask me. They're both deal with the issue of God's holiness. You see, the worship of God And the wrath of God are both expressions or or we could say observations as well of God's holy character And I think if you don't see anything else in the book of Revelation, especially these two chapters, I hope that you'll see God's holiness because God's wrath is an expression of his holy, righteous nature. And so it worship is God's holiness observed. When we observe God in his holiness, worship is a natural outflow of that. Amen. But when God's holiness is offended, that's wrath. Wrath is God's holiness offended. Worship is God's holiness observed So in heaven there's worship because they observe and see the holiness and righteousness of God on earth. There's wrath because his holiness has been So in Revelation 15 they worship because all of heaven recognizes that what God is about to do to the earth is a part of his holy nature. Now we don't like to talk about the wrath of God. Uh we have a generation wants to hear about the love of God. You know, God's this merciful, loving God. And indeed, God is a God of love. He is a God of mercy. And as you've heard me say before, I love the fact that we have a merciful God, so gracious and kind. But that's not the full picture of God. God is also a God of wrath. And it's something, again, people don't like to recognize, they don't like to talk about. But in Romans, when Paul begins to speak about the gospel, he doesn't begin with the love of God, he begins with the wrath of God. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Paul establishes the fact that God is a God who reveals his wrath against those who do not rightfully observe him, understand him, know him, uh for those who don't uh recognize him, give thanks to him, that provokes divine wrath. And Paul said God's wrath is revealed all the time. And we're going to see it here in Revelation again, God's wrath being poured out. This is eschatological wrath being poured out upon a world that refuses to acknowledge God and refuses to give thanks to God. And so that's why his glory fills heaven's temple in verse 8, because wherever we recognize that God's wrath is right, his judgment is just, his anger is righteous, then we praise him for it, and he is glorified. So we see in chapter 15 God's wrath, the bulls are filled up, and then in chapter 16, God's wrath is revealed. the bowls are poured out. And notice that they're called in chapter 15, verse 1, the seven last plagues. Why? After this series of judgments are complete, the tribulation period will be over. God's wrath will be abated. So I want you to look at this. So let's look in, first of all, chapter 15. I call this number one preparation. That should be the first point if you're taking notes. Number one preparation. We see God preparing to pour out his wrath. And notice a sign in heaven. Look in verse 1. And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is filled up the wrath of God. All of what John sees anticipates the bold judgments that will be poured out. And he sees a sign. Notice this is another sign. This is the third sign that John sees here in Revelation, the chapters 12 verse 1, we saw that he saw a woman clothed with the sun, and then he saw the great red dragon. Now this. And notice he says that this sign is great and marvelous. This expresses the enormous importance of what he sees. It contains these final outpourings of God's wrath. And then he sees the seven angels again in verse One, seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them is filled up the wrath of God. So you see seven angels with seven bulls in their hands. In these bulls are plagues. The word for plague literally means blow or wound. This word is used in other places to speak about a fatal wound that is given. And so these are we could say just blows that God is going to bring against the earth. These are not diseases or ep epidemics, but powerful Blows that will strike the earth. When and when again when God is finished with this, he will be done his wrath. When these bulls come. They come poured out one after the other, fast and furious. When I read this, it kind of reminds me of uh you know, you you go to a fireworks display, you know the f the finale when all of them go off real quickly, you know. That's kind of the way I read this here. And these last plagues that come upon the earth, they come fast, they come furious, these seven bulls. And notice John sees a sea of glass mingled with fire in verse two, and I saw as it were a sea of glass. Mingle with fire, and them that had gotten the victory over the beasts. And so the sea of glass, this is not an ocean, but a transparent crystal platform before the throne of God Now you remember back in chapter four we saw a sea of glass that's right before the throne of gl of God. But here this the glass is mixed with fire. And I think fire here is a symbol of God's judgment, again, that will be poured out The Bible says of God in Hebrews 12, 29, that our God is a consuming fire. And so scripture associates often fire with God's judgment. Now notice in verse 2, standing on the sea are believers who have been redeemed out of the tribulation period, the Bible says, and them that had gotten the victory over the beast Over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the glass sea of glass, having the harps of God. These are the ones victorious over the beasts. These are the ones that had the undying faith. They refuse to worship the beast. They refuse the mark. These are saints who who were martyrs, but now they are holding harps. And this indicates that they are rejoicing, they are praising God. They rejoice because their prayers for God's vengeance are now being answered. You remember in Revelation 6, some of the martyred saints said, you know, Lord, when, when are you going to Take vengeance on those. Well, here is the answer to their prayers because their persecutors are about to be judged. So we see the sign in heaven. But notice the next thing, the song of Moses, I call it. Look in verse 3. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God. And the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty, just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints. It's interesting that they sing the song of Moses. This is uh just tells me that the the music in heaven will be blended. Uh they'll they'll sing old songs and they'll sing new songs. So right? The old song here is a song of Moses. Now remember they sing a new song. We saw that. The 144,000 sing a new song. We saw in Revelation 4 and 5, they're singing a new song here They're singing an old song, the song of Moses, one of the first songs sung in the Old Testament. This is recorded in Exodus chapter 15, verses 1 This is a psalm of victory over the enemies of God's people. And this was sung right after God destroyed Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea. Moses composed the song recounting the mighty works of God. Now this is an appropriate song to sing at this time, and let me tell you why, because a lot of the Bold judgments that will see poured out parallel the plagues that will fall, that did fall upon Egypt. Some of the same things will take place. And so it's appropriate that they sing the song of Moses. But also they sing the song of the Lamb. Like this song of Moses, it expresses the themes of God's faithfulness, his deliverance to his people, his judgment over his enemies. The words are not exactly the same, but the themes are. They praise God, they praise the work of God. emphasizing his power. They praise the ways of God, emphasizing his plan. They praise the worthiness of God, emphasizing his perfection. They praise the worship of God, emphasizing his purpose. So we see the the sign in heaven. And we see the song of Moses, but here's the next thing, the scene in the temple. Look again again down in verse number five. And after that I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle, the testimony in heaven, was opened. So the temple there in heaven is open. Now some debate this passage. They say, is there a literal temple in heaven? You know, this this passage, you know, that seems to indicate that there is a temple there in heaven if we're to take this Literally, Hebrews chapters eight and nine seem to argue that the earthly temple is patterned after the heavenly temple. But notice the appearance of these angels again in verse Six, and the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles. And so these angels come out. They have these seven bowls. In the bowls are the seven plagues. They're clothed in pure white. with a golden sash around their chest. Clothing reminds us of the purity and the righteousness of God And John sees that they have these bowls in their hand. The word for bowl here, there's some debate as to what this really means. There are some that actually think this is a chalice. that what they're carrying here. But the Greek word here I think refers to shallow saucers, not deep bulls, but just kind of shallow saucers. And their contents are not slowly poured out, but they're dumped quickly out. That's the idea. It's kind of like hurling the contents down violently. And so this is what's taking place here. These judgments will be hurled down upon the earth. And notice verse number Um eight, and the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no man was able to enter into the temple. Till the seven plagues or the seven angels were fulfilled. So we see what's going on there in this vision that John has of God preparing to pour out his wrath. This wrath of God, as it says in verse 7, the wrath of God who liveth forever and ever, this holy and righteous God is about to pour out these Fierce judgments and wrath upon the earth. He is glorified in his righteous judgment. And in the temple in heaven, no one's able to enter in Because of the glory of God that fills the temple. And I think this is taken right out of 1 Kings chapter 8. You might remember that when Solomon dedicated the temple there That the glory of the Lord so filled the holy place there that the priest couldn't even stand to minister. They had to get out. And here in heaven, we see the same thing. God is glorified because this holy and righteous God will pour out wrath. and judgment upon a wicked world. So we see in chapter 15 then the preparation. But here's chapter 16. I call this the pouring out. The preparation and now the pouring out. And I want you to see these judgments as they are poured out upon the earth. Now let me just say some writers see these bull judgments kind of as a repeating of the seal and trumpet judgments, and we have to admit that there are similarities, but there are more differences. Especially to the degree of devastation that we see when these bold judgments are poured out. The bold judgments are universal. They are more intense. than the previous judgments, and they are called the last judgments. Again, which puts a difference it shows that they do not go back in time and repeat the earlier plagues. These are the last judgments that God puts upon the earth. Now again in verse number one we John says this I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways. Pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And so John hears this great voice, again emphasizing the magnitude. And the angels are told to go and pour out these bowls and the contents of these bowls upon the earth. So let's go through these seven bowls of wrath that are poured out. Here's bowl number one. I call this contagious sores. Look in verse number two. And the first went and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men, which had the mark of the beast. and upon them which worship his image. The first bowl here are sewers. These are not ordinary sewers. These will be horrif horrible Putrefying sores, a form of malignancy. The word here actually is a word that means abscessed or malignant. Um these w uh had every indication these are incurable. There's nothing that can help these source. Um the in the Septuagint, the same word is used in the Septuagint to talk about the sixth plague of Egypt. the boils, the sores that were upon them. It's used to speak about Job's sores. If you remember in the book of Job, they Uh his sores were uh the Bible describes them not very well, not not very pleasant in the way it describes them, I should say. Terrible odor, darkened skin, disfigured so much his friends could hardly recognize Job And so these will be horrible sores. The same word again is used of uh in Luke 16 of the of the uh beggar, which was full of sores, Lazarus the beggar. And so the idea here is physical pain, physical torment. But notice also in the in this verse, these sores are not for everyone at this time. Notice it says in verse 2 That it came upon the men which ha which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image. These swords will not affect believers. Those who are devoted and loyal to the Lamb of God, these will be source that will affect only those who follow the Antichrist and who receive the mark of the beast. So imagine What it will be like to have these, you know, unable to sleep or rest, constant pain, ugly, disfigured faces. People want to feel good, they want to look good. These things will be taken away. That's bull number one. But then notice bowl number two. I call this contaminated seas. Look in verse 3. And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man. And every living soul died in the sea. Now, in Moses' day, the Nile was turned into blood. But here the seas, all the seas of the earth, everything in the sea dies, the heaving billows. become one vast stench of crimson red. Red waves roll in front on the coastlines of the world, heating up dead animals and dead things. And so uh someone will ask, will this be literal blood? Well look again in verse 3 where it says, as the blood of a dead man. God could be using here a simile or a metaphor. It might be something that resembles blood. Um I was reading uh one commentator who talked about the red tide. John Phillips wrote this. He said, from time to time off the coast of California and elsewhere A phenomenon known as the red tide occurs. These red tides kill millions of fish and poison those who eat contaminated shellfish. In nineteen forty-nine he writes, one of these red tides hit the coast of Florida. First the water turned yellow, but by midsummer it was thick and viscous with countless Billions of dinoflagellates, tiny one-cell organisms. Sixty-mile windrows of stinking fish foul the beaches, he writes. Much marine life was wiped out. Even bait used by fishermen died upon the hooks. Eventually the red tide subsided, only to appear again the following year. And then he writes this eating fish contaminated by the time produce several symptoms caused by a potent nerve gas or excuse me, nerve poison, excuse me, a few grams of which distributed at a rate could easily kill everyone in the world. An unchecked population explosion of toxic dinoflagellates would kill all the fish in the sea. The phenomenon is well known, but scientists do not know what causes the proliferation of these creatures and what normally limits it. So could it be something like this? It's very possible The Bible says this he becomes as the blood of a dead man. And you can imagine if something like that happened, it doesn't take a lot to imagine how this would affect the world. Shipping would be halted. No more seafood But then we see bowl number three, corrupted streams. Look again in verse number four. The third vial, the third bowl is poured out And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and the fountains of waters, and they became blood. Now, this is the fresh waters that are affected. Not only will the sea be turned to blood, but the fresh water too. The streams will be corrupted and polluted. And now no fresh water to drink. This will be a staggering blow to humanity at that time. You know, our Lord Jesus in his first miracle turned water to wine here. God will turn water to blood Now you might remember in Revelation chapter 8 on the third trumpet judgment that one third of all the fresh water was poisoned. Now this all water will be polluted and poisoned during this time. And just to think about the hardship and the destruction and the suffering that something like this would cause, it's just incredible, the destruction. It's unimaginable the horror that will take place. And sometimes people will read something like this and say, how could a God of mercy, of compassion, do such a judgment? Well, the Bible tells us here, look in verse number five, and I heard the angel of the water say Again, thou art righteous, O Lord, which art and wast and shall be, because thou hast judged thus. In case there's any question about the righteousness and the holiness of God in this severe judgment, this angel speaks up. and defends the righteous character of God. God, you are righteous and holy in bringing this judgment. Now again, why? Look at verse 6, for they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. Hear this angel of the waters, as he's identified here, who seems to have authority over this area, the waters. In Revelation 71, we saw four angels who guarded the four winds of the earth. Here this angel is the angel of the waters, and he recognizes the righteousness of God. Why? Because he says God These are this earth, the people there, the wicked there, they are so bloodthirsty. They have killed your servants. They have uh blasphemed your name. They have shed the blood of saints and prophets. It's almost as if he's saying, if they're so bloodthirsty, here's blood to drink. This is God's righteous judgment on a world that has rejected his son, that has rejected his servants, that has rejected his people, and has martyred them and killed them. And now the earth is blood red because of the blood of the martyrs, the blood that they shed upon the earth. This is God again his righteous judgment. Now there's bowl number four. Notice the next one. I call this consuming sun. Look down and Verse 8. And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun. And power was given unto him to scorch men with fire. And the men were scorched with great heat. So the fourth angel pours out his bowl in the sun, and the sun burns hot. Hotter than Nebuchadnezzar's furnace. You know, Jesus on the when he was on the cross, the sun hid. The Bible says it became dark. But here at the second coming of Christ, the sun will be unable to be withheld. In fact, it'll turn up its heat and it will scorch the people of the earth. You think we're having a heat wave in the summer now? That'll be nothing. You know, as I was over in England, I remember we were getting ready to take this trip over to London and England, and they were all saying, Oh, there's a heat wave over in London, there's a heat wave, it's a heat wave, it's terrible. And I was thinking, they don't know what a heat wave is over there. You know, that w weather over there, it's always cool. And I wasn't really worried about it until I got off the plane. It was over a hundred degrees. I said, this is a heat wave here It was pretty bad. But you know what the bad thing is over there? They don't know what air conditioning is over there. They say they have air conditioning, trust me, they don't have air conditioning. They only think they have it. You know, we we stayed the first night in Abbey's House. It was so hot. Actually we didn't stay there, it was so hot We couldn't get cool. I went ahead and and booked some rooms at a hotel hoping that we would cool off in the hotel. We booked rooms in the hotel. Guess what? And by the way they advertise, oh we have nice air conditioning mates. There was no air conditioning in that hotel. They thought it was. It was hot. I mean it was terribly hot. I want to tell you something. That's nothing compared to what's going to happen here. When God scorches the earth. You ever been in the midst of a dry heat wave here? It begins to bake the inhabitants of the earth. The Bible says with a scorching heat To scorch men with fire. The Bible says the men were scorched with great heat, and they blaspheme the name of God. I was reading about solar flares. Let me read you a little bit about this. The sun has solar flares all the time. Scientists tell us they occur in sequence at times. Great tongues of fire leap out from the sun. Let me read you what happened to at a solar flare that took place in 1960. They say it occurred at 237 p. m. on November 12, 1960 They wrote the resulting cloud of solar hydrogen gas measured 10 million miles across, trailed halfway back to the sun. 93 million miles away, I'm bombarded the Earth at a speed of 4,000 miles a second. It goes on to say it set off violent week-long disturbances on and around the earth. and precipitated an electrical and magnetic storm of enormous proportions. Countless needles wavered erratically, communications were blacked out, and the northern lights flared majestically Yet that was a mere ripple in the steady flow of energy from the sun. It would be very easy for God just to scorch this earth, to do something like that. And imagine what will happen. The the resulting rise in the ocean's water level because of the the flooding, maybe because of m melting polar caps and all that. You can just imagine the widespread damage that will take place in the earth because of this. And you would think that at times like that There'll be uh, you know, a time when everything will be halted. This is obviously something supernatural. That's going to take place. I know we've kind of given maybe some explanations of things that could happen, but really the when you read the scripture, this all seems to me to be something that is supernatural from God Could be that God uses some of these natural things, but what is undeniable is that these are judgments from God. And during this heat wave that will take place during this time, no transportation by cars or vehicle, they'll all overheat, no water to cool. People, the water will all be contaminated, death from heat stroke all over the world. And you would think That at such a time of severe judgment, people would recognize this as being the judgment of God and they would repent, but that's not what happens. The Bible tells us in verse 9 that they blaspheme the name of God, which hath power over these plagues, and they repented not to give him glory. The heart of men will be so hard even in that time that still they will not repent. They will curse God. They will not give him glory. And they will not turn to him. This shows the blind blasphemous hardness of the heart of man. It is incredible. They continue to rebel But then let me give you the fifth bowl. We see contagious sores, contaminated seas, corrupted streams, consuming sun. But then I call this bowl number five, confounded sinners. Look at verse number ten. And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seed of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnawed their tongues for pain. So what does it mean here where it says it pours out this bowl on the seed of the beast? The word for seed here, thronos, where we get the word throne. Now a lot of commentators disagree over what this really means here. Some think this will be the actual throne that the beast or the antichrist sits on. Others think it'll be the capital city of Babylon. Others think his entire kingdom. I think it's best to see the throne as a reference to the whole kingdom. And what happens is there's darkness that comes upon that kingdom full of darkness, the Bible says there in verse number 10. And again, this is parallels one of the judgments, one of the plagues that God poured out in the time of Moses to the Egyptians when it all turned dark. God just turned the lights out. And there's nothing but darkness. Darkness will engulf the whole earth. Listen, the Bible says this in Joel 2. 2. A day of darkness. Talk about this day of the Lord. A day of gloominess. A day of clouds and thick darkness, the Bible says, in Zephaniah one fifteen, that day is a day of wrath A day of trouble, a day of waste to wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness. And so while these plagues bombard the earth People will look to the beast for help, uh, but they will not find any help. It says again in verse ten, The fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seed of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness, and they gnauled their tongues for pain, and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores. and repented not of their deeds. Nothing could be done to hide themselves from the fierceness of God's. The people at that time will be left completely without hope in darkness, in pain, and in misery. John says that the people gnaw their tongues, and this is the idea of pain and misery at that time, but still. They would not repent. But then notice bull number six in verses twelve to sixteen. And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates. And the waters thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet For they are spirits of devils working miracles which go forth into the kings of the earth and of the whole world to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. And so the next um wrath poured out is onto the great river Euphrates, and what happens is the river dries up, the Bible says. Now I think that This is in preparation for the great battle that is to come that the Bible calls Armageddon. The Eastern armies will cross the Euphrates to reach their destination. there at Armageddon in the land of Palestine. God's drying up that great river Euphrates is not an act of kindness towards the kings, but one of judgment. Actually, he's sending them in. Because this will be the time when Christ will return and he will defeat these armies. And we read about this already of the the the blood that will flow. It'll be a slaughter when Christ comes back and defeats all of these enemies. But we see in verse 13 Well, these three unclean spirits like frogs that come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophets. Some call these three the unholy trinity, you know. God has a holy trinity. Satan has an unholy trinity. The dragon is the anti-God. The Beast is the Antichrist, the false prophet is the anti-spirit. And what will these demons do to come out of them? They will unite the world against Christ. Against God, against Israel, God's people, and they will mobilize these armies, the armies of the world, their contingent of all the armies of the nations of the world, there at that place for that great battle. And uh and they're and they will have them there at the time of when Christ comes. Don't notice in verse 15, behold I come as a thief. This will be, I think, uh this is a verse I think in reference to the coming of Christ. His second coming when he comes back to defeat these armies. Look at verse 16, and he gathered them together in a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. Arm again. Again, the Bible prophesies this. Listen to Joel 3. 2. And I also I will also gather all nations and will bring them down into the valley of Jehosaphat. And will plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations. Again in Joel chapter 3, verse 9, proclaim ye this among the Gentiles. Prepare war. Wake up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come. Beat your plough shares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say I am strong. Assemble yourselves, come ye heathen, and gather yourselves together round about Thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O Lord. Let the heathen be awakened, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about Put ye in the sickle for the harvest is ripe. Remember we saw the harvest, the grape harvest in chapter 14, and the blood will flow. Come, get you down, for the press is full. The fats overflow, for their wickedness is great. And so they will gather these armies together there at that place called Armageddon. Armageddon means hill of Megiddo. Megiddo means place of the slaughter, and that's an appropriate title because when Antichrist and his armies come there they will be slaughtered there at that place. Look in chat jump up to verse twenty uh twenty. Excuse me, go back to uh Revelation chapter fourteen, verse number twenty. And the wine press was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the wine press, even under the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furloughs. It's going to be a bloodbath. It's going to be a slaughter when the Lord Jesus defeats all of his enemies there at that place. But let me give you bull number seven. I call this convulsive storms. Look at verse 17. And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air, and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake and so great. And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and Great Babylon came in remembrance before God. to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent, and men blaspheme God because of the plagues of the hail, for the plague thereof was exceeding great. So here this angel pours out his bull in the air, and it causes storms and disasters and a great earthquake and cities will be destroyed. The Bible says islands will sink and mountains will be leveled and Babylon will be destroyed. Now again, the question that people ask is Babylon, is this literal? Is this literal Babylon? Is this talking about Iraq? the Babylon there. Is this figurative? Is this talking about the city of Jerusalem only? Or is this talking about something wider than that? Again, there are differences of interpretation of this. Futurists say this is a reference to the evil in the world at that time. This represents the whole world's evil system. There are some futurists who interpret Babylon to be literal. There are some I've read where they believe that there will be a rise of of of Babylon and Iraq, that it will become a world power Again, before the time of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, Charles Dyer wrote a book called The Rise of Babylon. Mark Hitchcock also wrote a book about this where he believes, they believe, that Babylon will become before the Lord comes back a dominant world power again, and this will be a judgment on the literal Babylon. They argue that the judgments that God wrote about in the Old Testament with reference to Babylon, if you read them, they have not come to pass just yet if you take those literal. And so they argue that this Babylon could be rebuilt. You know, you might have heard of some of that happening. You know, the government giving Iraq money to rebuild Babylon. There's been articles about that. There are some scholars that say this is literal. Again, preterists interpret Babylon to stand for either Jerusalem or Rome. They can't agree on it Some say this is Jerusalem, some say no, this is re reference to Rome. You know, these judgments will take place in seventy AD and so when they try to apply everything of that time. But regardless, this will be God's judgment upon the world. Some speculate that this Babylon could stand for America, uh, and so on. There it takes a little bit of hermeneutical somersaults to get there, I think. But regardless of that, let's wait and see. But the judgment will be severe. And the Bible says that great hail out of heaven. Came down about the weight of a talent. That's interesting. How much is a talent? A talent's about 120 pounds. Can you imagine hailstones falling from heaven weighing 120 pounds? I mean, that could do some damage. I I was reading that at at Wiki Atoll where they tested the atom bomb after the atom bomb went into the atmosphere. They say that hailstones fell out of the sky, some weighing as much as 20 pounds. So severe were these hailstones that they dented navy ships with huge holes. What will hailstones 120 pounds do? But that's part of the wrath of God that will fall upon the earth. I don't want to be there when that takes place. I don't want to be here when God pours out his wrath upon the earth. You say, I don't either. How how can I be sure that I don't? Well go back to verse 15. We'll end with this. I think verse 15 is like a star that shines on a dark backdrop. of these two chapters. Look at verse 15. And behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame. This is the Lord pronouncing the third of seven beatitudes that we'll read about in the book of Revelation. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments. This describes those that will be prepared for his arrival. I think the imagery here that we see in verse 15 is that of soldiers that are alert, that are on duty, that are prepared. Only a soldier stays awake and keeps his clothes ready for combat. This emphasizes the readiness For the Lord's return. And you know what that means? That means, first of all, we have the garments given to us, the garments of righteousness, you know You know the best way to be ready for the coming of Jesus Christ to make sure that you're wearing the righteousness of Christ. That righteousness that is given to us at salvation. The moment we put our full faith in what Christ has done for us, we are given the righteousness of Christ. And the Bible says these are robes, these are clothes that we wear. And we we wear these garments and we keep those garments. That is, we walk in righteousness. We're clothed and ready. For the time when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, the Bible says he's coming like a thief. A thief doesn't announce his coming. He comes Surprisingly, he comes quickly. So we always have to be ready for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as we look at these two chapters again, what it should cause us to do is to, it should fill our hearts with fear of God, the fear of the wrath of God. Our God is a holy God, and He will judge sin. He will judge evil. And we need to run to the only refuge we have from God's wrath, and that's to Christ. To make sure you know Christ. And to share Christ with everyone around us. Again, you know, for me to study the book of Revelation, it should stir us up and our desire to see people come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, because again, it reminds us that the wrath of God is very real. When we're saved, what are we saved from? We're saved from God's righteous wrath as sinners. We're delivered from the wrath to come, the Bible says. And that's what salvation is all about. And so that's the only way a person can be ready. And so again, I ask you tonight, search your hearts. Are you ready? Are you wearing the garments of righteousness given to you by Christ? And are you sharing Christ with those around us so that they can flee from the wrath to come? Let's bow for prayer tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm just going to ask you to take a minute and think about what we've read tonight. Think about these two chapters. Chapter 15, preparation for God's wrath to be poured out. Chapter 16, God's righteous wrath being poured out. And all the things that are going to take place, these judgments. It all speaks to us of the character of God. Our God is holy. And He hates sin. And he will judge sin. Again, I remind you, I've told you before, not one half of one sin will go unpunished. And God's wrath will judge sinners who refuse Christ and refuse the gospel, has blasphemed his name. We're living in a world today where Christ, the name of Christ, is blasphemed all the time. Where God's people are being persecuted and martyred all over the earth. You think God's going to let those things go unpunished? No, there's coming a day of judgment There's coming a day of wrath. It's a solemn day. It's a serious day. Don't think that this is not going to take place. This will happen. And friend, we need to be ready for it. So are you ready? Have you run to Christ? And if you don't have a burden for the loss, would you just take a moment there and just say, God Help me to think not just of myself. Give me a burden to see other people come to know Christ, not face his wrath. Give me a desire to see souls saved. You know, it's so easy to come together and look inward and not look and rem not think of those that don't know him. But God has left us in this world so that for the very purpose of getting out the gospel. We are lights in a dark world. We're here to share Christ with a world that's perishing. And this should remind us of that. We love the book of Revelation, but we need to allow it to get our feet on the pavement of evangelism and soul winning. And to tell others about him. Father, I pray that you'll use your word to sober us up, stir our hearts, give us a burden and a passion for the lost. And may it cause us to again examine our hearts, to make sure that we are ready. We are wearing the garments of righteousness provided by our Savior Jesus Christ. Not a righteousness of our own, but a righteousness that is his, that is given to us. The moment we put all of our faith in what you've done. Father, bless this word to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name, amen.