Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open to 1 Peter chapter number 4 as we continue our study in 1 Peter. And we come to chapter 4, and verses 1 through 6. So, 1 Peter chapter 4, and let me just read these verses for you, verse 1 of chapter 4. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. And for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, and that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit So I want to talk tonight about Breaking Sin's grip. Tommy Lisorter was the former manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers, and he once described his battle with bad habits. He said, I took a pack of cigarettes from my pocket and stared at it and said, Who's stronger you or me? And the answer was me, and I stopped smoking. He said, Then I took a Vatkam Mortini and said to it, Who's stronger, you or me? Again the answer was me, and I quit drinking. He said, I looked at a big plate of linguine with clam sauce and said, Who's stronger, you or me? And the little clam looked up at me and said, I am. Tommy Lasorda said I couldn't beat Linguini. You might relate to that. I think all of us can relate to that. There's something that we can't just beat. All of us as Christians, we're in this battle against sin, aren't we? And there are some sins that kind of get us in its grit And this is something that we're going to be doing all our life until the Lord calls us home, and that is we're constantly battling against sin. You know, uh now in our salvation we uh have a new sensitivity to sin, whereas before we were saved, we really didn't care about these things, but now that we are Christians, we have a new sensitivity to sin and we have a desire to live for holiness. And that's really the belief uh the difference between a believer and a non-believer. A believer uh is running from sin. A non-believer leaps into sin and loves it A believer lapses into sin and they loathe it. That's the difference. And so while we're running from sin, there are times when sin is very fast and catches up and gets us into its grip. Erwin Lutzer wrote a good book about this called Winning the Inner War. He said this sinful habits begin innocently enough, but if we don't master them, they will surely master us He went on to describe the war that we face. He said, We have all experienced the cycle of enjoying a forbidden pleasure. We feel the guilt, determined never to do it again Take pride in a brief moment of victory and self-control, and then fall once more. And he said each time the pattern repeats, the ruts are cut a bit deeper, and the chains pull tighter. All of us are warring against sin. We have besetting sins. The Bible says in Hebrews, let us lay aside the sin that thus so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Even Jesus said to his disciples, He said, I say unto you, watch. He said, watch out. Be careful. Take heed that your hearts be not weighed down. David at one point said, you know, I have kept myself from mine iniquity. But then later on he would have to say, Lord, make me to know the measure of my days and how frail that I am after he was defeated by that sin. So the question is, how does Peter help us? Peter is going to help us here in this passage. Now remember, he's writing to believers who are going through severe persecution. And the idea here in this passage is as these believers are enduring, they're persevering, they're trying to be faithful to the Lord, there are their former friends who are looking at them and they are inviting them to continue to do what they used to do. And the persecution that these believers are going through is making them wonder, why am I enduring all this? Why not just go with the flow, go with the world, and do what they do? Uh why not just grab all the gusto you can, like the one commercial says, you only live once, you only go around once. Why not grab all the gusto that you can Well now Peter will counter this kind of mentality by saying, Yeah, you only go around once, but just remember this, you're going to be judged. One day you're going to stand before the Lord. And in light of that, you better uh focus on holiness. Any suffering you encounter for Christ's sake should steal you to live for the will of God, not for the lust of men. That's the whole point that he's trying to make here. And what I want to show you here tonight in this passage are just six principles that will help us to break sin's grip. that will help us in this warfare that we face against sin. And let me give you the first one. Number one, meditate on the sufferings of Christ You want to break sin's grip, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Look again in verse 1. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh. Now, one of the dominant themes of this letter is suffering. And as we saw before, Peter is constantly pointing to the sufferings of Christ as a means to encourage believers who are likewise suffering. And he points out again that Christ suffered in the flesh. That is to say, he suffered in his human body. Peter again is referring to the Passion of Christ, his crucifixion And remember that when we looked at this passage before, we said that when Christ suffered, he suffered vicariously, which simply has the idea of he suffered in our place. He took our place The Apostle Paul writes in Galatians 3. 13, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. And the for us in the Greek there, remember, is the word hooper. Remember I told you Karl Barth, a great theologian, said one of the most important words in the Greek is the word hooper, which means in the place of, in the stead of And it's the idea that Christ suffered in the place of us, in the stead of us. He became a curse in our place. We are the ones that should have borne the curse of the s of sin and the curse of the law, which we know in Galatians Paul said, If you don't obey the law, then the law will curse you and you have to bear its curse. Rather than us bearing that curse, it was Christ who bore that curse. And that's the idea there. The Lord Jesus Christ on the cross became a curse literally because he bore our sins. Now remember in the Jewish mind, in the Old Testament, whenever they wanted to uh uh show that someone was accursed of God, uh their means to do that was to hang them on a tree. We see that in the Old Testament. And the fact that the Jews saw that Christ hung on a tree suggested to them that he became a curse. And Paul's pointing that out. Yes, he did become a curse, but it wasn't because of anything that he did wrong. It was because of our sins. He bore that curse for us. And so the idea then is that Christ did it in our in our place. In the old rugged cross, we see the wrath of God against sin. We see the curse of the law being on the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know about you, but it still boggles my mind when we think about that. I think of the uh the words of the song, What wondrous love is this, oh my soul, oh my soul, that cr that that caused the Lord of bliss to bear the dreadful curse for my soul. But now the question is this, how does this suffering of Christ affect our relationship to sin? And the idea that Peter is giving us here is that because Christ suffered for our sins on the cross, our relationship to sin has to change. That's the whole point. Or at least it should change. In view of Christ's sufferings on the cross, that he took our sins, we can no longer Look at sin the same way. Why? Because it was that sin that caused Christ to suffer so much. How could we ever look at sin the same way that we used to before salvation? The fact that Christ suffered on the cross for us so violently, so viciously, should cause us to hate sin. The thing that we once loved, we now hate. The thing that we once tolerated, we can no longer tolerate. We can't tolerate sin. We can't make peace with sin because of what sin did to Christ on the cross. How can a parent make peace with cancer when that cancer just killed their only son? Neither can we make peace with sin. Because of what sin did to our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. And so here's the point. Next time that you're tempted, think about the sufferings of Christ. Next time that you uh feel like you may fall into sin's grip, think about how Jesus suffered on the cross. Think about the sufferings of Christ. Now by the way, the New Testament calls upon us as believers to do that often. And by the way, that's why we have the Lord's Supper, because we're reminded of the sufferings of This is a good spiritual exercise for believers to go through to think about the sufferings of the Lord Jesus Christ. So there's the first thing. Meditate on the sufferings of Christ. But here's number two. Arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Look at the rest of the For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, notice the rest of it, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For He that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So Peter says, look, arm yourselves. This is a military term Arm yourselves is like a warrior putting on his armor, preparing for battle. The word mine means intention. In other words, arm yourselves with this same intention, this intention that you see from Christ. Now the next part of this verse here has generated a lot of different interpretations. Look at the next part of verse 1. For he that has uh that hath suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. What exactly does that mean? Well there are four different views on it and let me just Give these to you quickly without getting too much into the technicalities. One view says this, that Peter is teaching that suffering purges the believer from sin. That is the idea that whenever we suffer, we're purged from sin. We sin less when we suffer Now the problem with that is look at the word cease there. That verb is a perfect tense in the Greek. Let me remind you what a perfect tense is. That's something that is completed in the past, but it has continuing results. So if this is true, that means that whenever you suffer, that means you're going to cease from sin completely. That means that you'll be sinlessly perfect after you suffer. Would to God that that was true. But that's not what Peter intends to say here. So that's the problem with that view. Then there's a second view that says that this is referring to the believers' physical death. When it says that they suffered in the flesh That's the idea that the believers we're going to die one day, and when we die, we will be completely through with sin. So while we live here, let's just live for the will of God. That's another view that of this. The problem with this view is that it's kind of an awkward way to say that. But then there's a third view And this understands this phrase in the same way that Paul talks about our union with Christ in Romans chapter 6. Where it says that he that has uh suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. It's the idea that the believer we suffered with Christ, we're united, we're our union with Christ, suffered with him, and that therefore Because of that we cease from sin. But again, there's a problem with that view. And that is the word he there. Look at the word he in verse number one. He that hath suffered. The he there is not singular as in one person. Or excuse me, I should say, let me back up. The he there is singular as in one person. The he is not plural as in a group. So this can't be referring to all of us. It has to be referring to one person. So we can't take that view. Then here's the fourth view. And what's what is this? That this is talking about Christ. Again, uh just as Peter said Christ has suffered in the first part of the verse. The he there at the end of the verse, he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. That is to say, Christ, when he suffered in the flesh, ceased from sin. Now this raises a natural question. And what's the question? Christ, what does it mean that he ceased from sin? That almost implies That if he ceased from sin, that means he had had to sin before. And that's the problem that a lot of people have with this. Is Peter saying that Christ sinned before? And therefore, after he suffered for sin, he ceased from sin. Well, of course we know that that's not the case. Several times in this letter, Peter said that Jesus was sinless, right? He affirmed that twice in chapter 2, verse 22, where it says, who did no sin? Christ never sinned. And so we know that that's the fact. He never sinned. So then, how can we say that this is referring to Christ? Well, let me just give you this argument. This doesn't have to mean, or it doesn't have to imply that Christ ever sinned. What this is implying is that he had a relationship with sin. And what was that relationship? His relationship with sin was not that he ever committed sin because he was sinless What was his relationship with sin? He was the sin bearer. He came to this earth to identify with sinners And to take upon himself their sin. So his relationship with sin was as the sin bearer And once he died for man's sin after that, he has no more relationship with sin. He's done with it When Jesus was in the garden, remember when he prayed, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And I told you before that that's the natural reaction of holiness towards bearing sin. He saw the bitter cup of s of sin. and how he would have to bear sin and he was reluctant because holiness doesn't like the thought of bearing sin Nevertheless, what did he say? Not my will, but thine be done, and Jesus then became the sin bearer. But after that He had, and this is what Peter is saying, no more relationship whatsoever with sin His mindset is that he wants nothing to do with sin. After Jesus died for sin on the cross, his mind was this: I want nothing ever to do with sin ever again That's the whole point. That's the mind of Christ that Peter here is talking about. And we should have, what is Peter saying is we have to arm ourselves with the same mind with the same attitude. Just like Jesus said, I want nothing to do with sin ever again after I was a sin bearer. As believers we have to say I want nothing to do with sin ever again. I have to arm myself with the mind of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now every once in a while I'll hear a believer. piously say, you know, oh I lay my sins at the feet of Jesus. Well friend, don't lay your sins at the feet of Jesus. Jesus doesn't want anything more to do with your sins. He already took your sins upon his shoulders. There's no need for you to lay your sins at the feet of Jesus. Try this. Just stop doing it. Just stop it. Have no more to do with it. And by the way, as a believer, you have the power by the Holy Spirit to do that. Because of the Holy Spirit living inside you, you have the power to say no. And so you need to arm yourself with a mind of Christ which says, I want nothing to do with sin anymore in my life. And that's what Peter is saying here. This is a formidable weapon. Put on, in your battle against sin, in trying to break sin's grip, put on the mind of Christ, which says, I'll have nothing to do with it. I'll have nothing to do with it. And by the way, the idea here of putting on the mind of Christ, this is kind of parallel to what Paul said in Ephesians when he said, put on the whole armor of God. And Paul names the pieces, the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness, the belt of truth, the feet shot with the gospel of peace and the sword of the spirit. These are all pieces that you are to arm yourself with. But for Peter, The one weapon that you need to arm yourself with in this battle against sin and Satan is the mind of Christ. Arm yourself with that. Whose attitude is, I hate sin and I want nothing to do with sin. Let me give you the third thing. If you want to break sin's grip, you meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Number two, you arm yourself with the mind of Christ But here's number three, focus on doing the will of God. Look at verse two. That he should know he should no longer live the rest of his time in the flesh. to the lust of men, but to the will of God. And where it says that he should live, that's an expression of purpose. We could say it like this, s in order that, so that. When we put on the mind of Christ, it is so that After that, we focus now on doing what? Living for the will of God. That's the next thing We live the rest, it says live the rest of his time. This is referring to the rest of our days on earth. All the rest of your days on earth are not living to fulfill the lusts of the flesh. But what? Living to fulfill the will of God. And that's what he's saying here. And really, this is what Peter's saying. There's really only two ways to live. You either live for yourself or you live for the will of God. You either live for the lust of the flesh or you live to fulfill whatever God's will is for you in your life. That's it. And we know that the lust of the flesh is a very strong war. Peter told us in chapter 2, verse 11 that we are to wage war. against these fleshly lusts. We know that we're going to have them with us all the time. We know that we still have this sin nature. Would to God it would be eradicated, but it's not going to happen. We're going to have this sin nature, so we're going to have this war. And we In this war, we need to put on the mind of Christ and we need to focus, is what he's saying, on doing the will of God. That's the next thing. Focus on doing the will of God. And those who focus on that are not easily tempted. You see, if you're so busy doing God's will, you're going to be a hard target for Satan. You know, it was Spurgeon that said, An idle man tempts the devil to tempt him. But if you're busy living out the will of God, trying to do the will of God, I'm not saying that you can't be tempted, but it's going to be a harder to happen if you're totally focused on doing what God wants you to do. And by the way, this also reflects the mind of Christ, doesn't it? Because the whole time Jesus was here on earth, what was he saying constantly? I'm here to do the will of my Father. And Matthew 12, 15, he said, This for whosoever shall do the will of my Father in heaven, the same as my brother and my sister and my mother. Jesus said, You want to know who my true family members are? It's those who are committed like me to doing the will of the Father. In John 4, 34, Jesus said, My meet is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his In John 6. 38, Jesus said, For I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him that sent me. And so, beloved, if you're totally focused on fulfilling the will of God for your life, there's a sense that even that mindset can break sin's grip in your life. So let me give you the fourth thing. We meditate on the sufferings of Christ, we arm ourselves with the mind of Christ, we focus on doing the will of God. But here's number four: remember what you were before you met Christ. Remember what you were before you met Christ. Look at verse 3. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles When we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries And what Peter's doing here is he's telling these believers, look back over your past life and remember what you used to be. Remember what sin did to you in the past. You know, there are times when looking back at your past would be wrong. And I would say that normally, if you're constantly living in the past, you're probably not making a whole lot of progress in the future. But there are times spiritually when it's okay to look in the bat and the past. In fact, God tells us to do that from time to time. God urged Israel to remember that they were at once slaves in Israel. Remember what you were before I delivered you out of Egypt. And here, Peter is saying, look, it's a good idea when you're trying to break the grip of sin in your life, is to look in days past at what sin did to you. And how you were an enslaved to sin, and how God has delivered you from that. Remember that. That's the idea. Look where it says, for the time past of our life. That really means we've spent enough time in the past doing these things for the time past of our life may suffice us. That is to say, Peter's saying, look, you know what? You spent enough time in your past life doing all these sins. In fact, you spent too much time. Think of all the wasted time in your life, in my life, where that in the past we weren't focused on doing the will of God. We were living for ourselves. We were living in sin. And it's like Peter saying, you have wasted enough years living for sin and the devil already in the past. It's like he's saying enough already. Notice where he says to have wrought the will of the Gentiles in verse number three. And when he uses the word Gentiles here, he's using that to speak of those who are pagan, those who don't know Christ, the heathen. And Peter's saying, you've lived like a heathen long enough in the past. Doing the will of the Gentiles, living like those who don't know the Lord. And what were some of the sins? And Peter catalogues a few of them. Look in verse number three. When we walked in lasciviousness, what's that? That is behavior that is lacking in moral restraint. It is outrageous, sin. That would shock even the public. By the way, nowadays it's kind of hard to shock the public about anything. But here he's talking about an absolute lack of moral restraint The word lost there is referring to sinful desires, a general word, excess of wine, that is simple drunkenness. Revelings refers to wild parties banqueting, again a drinking party where he talks about abominable idolatries Did you know in ancient Rome they were known for their Bacchanellian feast? What was that? That was when they actually worshipped the god Bacchus, who was the god of wine, and they thought that when they got drunk And they kind of l kind of lost their senses in a way, lost their control. There's a sense in which they were getting in touch with their deity through their drunkenness. And so they would run headlong into this drunkenness, ridding themselves of any restraint of conscience at all. And these wild parties. And Peter said, that's what characterizes those who don't know the Lord. That characterizes the heathen. And look again in verse 4, wherein they think it's strange that you run not with them into the same excess of riot. You ever notice that when you come to know the Lord, your old friends wonder what in the world happened to you? And why aren't you doing what we do anymore? And that's what Peter is referring to here. They look at you now and they wonder why? Why won't you join us in this reveling? And as a Christian, we know that God changes our desires and we have no more desire to do those things. What's that song we teach in Sunday school? The things I used to do? I don't do them anymore. Places I used to go, things I used to say Because when you come to Christ, God changes all of that. There's a great change, and now the lost look at you And they are amazed. Actually, the word strange there means shocked or astonished with the idea of taking an offense. They see that you don't run with them, and they're offended at that They're offended in the fact that you won't do what they do. And sometimes they'll try to drag you down with them. But they're offended. They're shocked. And then Peter says in verse number four, and then they start to speak evil of you. Who do you think you are, holy roller? You think you're better than me? Well, only because Christ made me better. I don't do those things anymore. And Peter's reminding them that's what that's their mindset against you. And don't be persuaded by those kind of arguments. Take your stand. I think I've told you before about Augustine, the early church father. Before he was saved, he was a very immoral man. He lived a very wild and wasteful life. He fathered many illegitimate children, but he had a Christian mother named Monica, and she fervently prayed for her son to come to know the Lord. And one day while he was with a friend in Rome He was in the friend's garden sitting on a bench and next to him was a Bible and he just picked up that Bible. It was already open, and the verses were open to Romans 13 Verses thirteen and fourteen where it says, Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh And at that moment Augustine was convicted over his sin. He repented, and then he wrote later, No further would I read Nor did I need, for instantly, as the sentence ended, by a light, as it were, of security infused into my heart, and all the gloom vanished away. You see, he was living an immoral, loose life, and none of that brought him any happiness, none of that brought him any satisfaction, it brought him misery, it brought him emptiness, just like it does to people today And when he found the Lord Jesus Christ, his heart was filled. He had this joy that God gave him And later on he was walking down the street in Rome, and there was one of his old friends, a woman, and when he saw her, he turned and he ran the other way. And she said, Augustine, it is I. He said, yes, but it is no longer I. As he ran away. This is what Peter's saying. They're going to think it's strange that you don't want to do these things with them. But, friend, you remember what you were before you met Christ. And that will help to break sin's grip. So we meditate on the sufferings of Christ. We arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. We focus on doing the will of God. We remember what we were before we came to Christ. But here's the fifth thing. Don't forget about the coming judgment. Don't forget about the coming judgment. Look at verse five. Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead? Those who live for this present world, those who live for the lustful human desires, they're going to give an account Peter says. They're going to give an account. And the word account here is a courtroom word. There's going to be a final judgment. Where when it says the living and the dead, this is just and I've read a lot of different views on this. I don't think Peter's trying to make any statements on the end times here. He's just trying to be all inclusive. What he's trying to say is no one is going to escape judgment. Living or dead. Those who already died, they can't escape judgment. Those of you that are alive, you're not going to escape judgment. Everyone is going to be judged. No one's going to escape it. Paul Harvey gives the illustration. About a man by the name of Gary Tyndall. He was charged with armed robbery. He was standing in the courtroom of a judge in a California court. The judge was named Armando Rodriguez. When Tyndall was standing before the judge, Tyndall asked the judge if he could go to the restroom. And he was escorted upstairs to go to the bathroom. The guard stood outside the door of the bathroom. And Tyndall thought that he was going to escape. He saw a little place in the ceiling where he thought that he could escape. So he climbed up a pole. He climbed through the opening there in the ceiling. And he began to crawl south in the ceiling, thinking, I'm going to get out of here. And he crawled 30 feet When suddenly the ceiling panels broke under him and he dropped down out of the ceiling right in front of the judge in the courtroom. You know what? You're not gonna escape judgment. Can't do it. That's what Peter's saying here. Those who are out there living somehow, the mind of some people is that somehow they think they're going to escape being judged by God. They don't remember there is a judgment. It is coming. They're not going to escape it. None of us will. The Bible says in Hebrews 9. 27, it is appointed unto men once to die, and after that the what? The judgment. So it's going to come to all of us. Now let me give you the last thing. Meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Focus on doing the will of God. Remember what you were before you met Christ. Don't forget about the coming judgment, but here's the last principle. Think about the purpose of the gospel. Think about the purpose of the gospel. Look in verse 6. For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, and that they might live, that they might Be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. And Peter is reminding believers to think about the whole purpose of the gospel. The reason that the gospel was preached was to give you eternal life. That's the whole reason for it. When he says, even to them that are dead, What does that mean? Again, this is there's a lot of different interpretations. I don't want to weigh you down with all the different things said about this. Some interpret this to mean that Christ will preach the gospel to people after they die. Can you believe that? Post mortem evangelism, after a person dies, you know, where it says that for the gospel for for the was preached also to them that are dead. They kind of refer back to where Christ preached unto the spirits, and they try to link these two verses together, and they try to say, well, you know, this means that there's going to be an opportunity for someone after they die. Christ is going to preach to them again. Friend, that's not what this is talking about. Remember what we said, it's appointed on the men once to die, and after that, another opportunity? After that, the judgment. Death ends any opportunity. So when he says here that the gospel was preached also to them that are dead, what's he talking about? He's and Peter's just talking about those at the time when he wrote this letter who have already died. You see you have to remember that in the early church There was a concern on believers. Believers were still learning in their in the theology of the second coming. They were learning about these things. And people that lived in the early church wondered what happened to their loved ones that already died. In some way, will they miss some of the blessings of God? Will they miss the promise of glory if they've already died? And Peter's reminding them, no. This is the reason the whole gospel was preached unto those, those who heard the gospel, those who responded to it, and those who were already dead. What he was reminding them is that they are already in glory. They're already with God in heaven. Where it said that they might live according to God in the Spirit That's kind of parallel to uh to where it says um in verse number six, that according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. And the whole idea here is this that There will be those that will judge you according to the flesh. Their judgment doesn't really count. The only judgment that counts is the judgment that God gives. And if you have trusted Jesus as your Savior Then you're going to heaven. Even those who already died, who heard the gospel, they're already there living in the Spirit, according to God. They're already enjoying the glory of heaven. And so Peter is reminding them of the hope of eternal life. And this is the whole purpose of the gospel. There's a sense in which he's saying, look, don't worry about your loved ones, they're already there. And this in itself, this should be an incentive for you to keep living for God. Think about your loved ones that are already there in heaven. Think about the joy that they're experiencing right now in heaven. Is that not a blessing to your heart to think about that? And should that not provoke you to holiness? Right here and right now, the fact that they're there already, they're enjoying the presence of the Lord. You don't have to worry about them. You just keep living for the Lord. You know, when I was a teenager, I read a book that really had a big impact on my life. It was a book uh called Torture for Your Faith The story of uh Harlan Pophoff. I don't know if anyone's ever read that book, but it's a he was a Bulgarian pastor, and he uh during the uh the communist takeover of Bulgaria, he was called in to what was the Bulgarian KGB you might say, and he was questioned And they decided that they were going to keep him because he was too much of a force as a as a pastor to let him loose. So they put him in a communist, they they they they trumbed up some charges against him that were false And they put him in a communist prison and there he stayed for 13 years. For 13 years he didn't see his wife, didn't see his children. They were still living by themselves. And he wondered about them. He worried over them. He was wondering how they were doing. And he was wondering what the communist government will do to them And while he was in there, he would share his faith, but he was very careful about what he did because he didn't want to anger the officials, and he didn't want that to go against his family. And so he was very cautious. He was faithful, but cautious. And then one day word came to him that his wife and children had escaped Bulgaria and they were safe in Switzerland. And when he got that word, I remember reading in the book where it says, Now they can do nothing to me. Now I'm free. And after that, he became this mighty evangelist there in that communist prison, sharing the gospel Memorizing, he literally memorized the whole New Testament while he was in there. He found a New Testament one day. He started winning men to the Lord And they started getting saved and he prayed and he said, Lord, I need to get these men the word of God somehow And he knew that praying and asking God for a Bible in a Bulgarian prison was near impossible. But one day he saw a prison guard. Rolling a cigarette, he saw him take a book out of his pocket and tear a page out of that book and begin to roll a cigarette. And when he but when he looked closely at the book, it was a New Testament He couldn't believe it. And he said to the guard, I'll give you everything I have, which wasn't much. If you'll just give me that book. And tears began to come. Down his eye uh his cheeks and the guard when he saw his reaction said, If this book means that much to you, I'll go ahead and just give it to you. And there he was in that prison with the New Testament And he knew that he wasn't going to be able to keep it long because the guards would come in and check his things regularly, and he would hide it in different spaces And so he knew that he had to hide it in a place where it would never be found. And he said, that place would be in my heart. So he started to memorize. The New Testament. And he began to minister to those men, and he became a mighty evangelist to all of those men that were there in that communist prison. You know why? Because he was freed. He knew that his family was safe. And that provoked in him a zeal to live for God. And this is Peter's whole point. Peter's saying, look, don't worry about your loved ones. They're already in heaven. They're enjoying the glory of heaven. And the thought of that should provoke in us zeal for the Lord Not only to break the grip of sin, but to live to do the will of God, to live for God as much as we possibly can while we can before the Lord returns. And so And so this is what the call is. This is what Peter is saying to these believers. Let me just close with this one illustration. I read about a small animal called the ermine. It has a snow white fur. It lives in the forest of North Europe. And God put into that animal this instinctive drive. to protect his glossy white pure white coat from becoming soiled. And hunters capitalize on this trait in that animal. You know how a hunter will catch this little ermine and and and take and take that beautiful white fur. You know how they would catch it? This is what they would do. Instead of setting a mechanical trap They would find the ermine's home in a cleft of a rock somewhere or in a hollow tree, and when they found the ermine's home, they would put tar all around the entrance of the home. And then when they would find this ermine out in the woods, the dogs would pick up the scent and start chasing this little animal, and this little animal would run to its home But when it got to the home and saw the tar smeared around the entrance, instinctively it would not go any further. Because the instinct in this animal to keep itself pure white was so strong that the animal would rather face the fierce dogs and try to fight them off. than to soil its white coat. And then the hunter would come and catch the animal. Is that how much holiness means to you? Would you rather die than soil your character? I think, you know, if we are going to break the grip of sin, it's not going to happen automatically. We have to determine to follow these principles in our life. To break the grip of sin. And I pray that you will arm yourself with the mind of Christ and break the grip of sin. May God help us. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, I pray that you will help us to apply these things that Peter tells us. Lord, we all struggle. and war against this world, this fallen world, and the and our own fallen nature that still is so much a part of us. And in this war against sin, Lord, help us to break its grip. We know that we won't be sinlessly perfect, but Lord, you will arm us with your mind. So that we can break the grip of sin and we can live in a pattern of victory in our life, totally focused on doing your will. Lord, help us to live this way. Give us the grace and the strength to live this way in our Christian walk until you come. And we pray this in Jesus' matchless name. Amen.