And it's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please. Open to uh 1 Peter chapter 4. I want to speak to you from 1 Peter chapter 4 tonight, verses 1 through 6. 1 Peter 4 verses 1 through 6. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. I want to talk tonight about breaking sin's grip. Tommy Lasorda, the former Los Angeles Dodgers manager, once described his battle with bad habits in his life. And he said this, he said, I took a pack of cigarettes from my pocket, stared at it, and said, Who's stronger, you or me? And the answer was me, he said, and I stopped smoking. He said, Then I took a Vaco Martini and said to it, Who's stronger, you or me? And the answer was me, he said, and I quit drinking. He said, then I went on a diet and I looked at a big plate of linguine with clam sauce and said, Who's stronger, you or me? And he said, a little clam looked up at me and said, I am. Tommy LaSorda said, I can't beat Languini. How many of you can identify with uh Tommy Lasorda? How many of you have done battle with some bad habit or sin only to find out that you couldn't beat it? I think all of us can relate to that. All of us as Christians do battle against sin in our life. Before salvation, our concern was uh never really about being victorious over sin. We really didn't uh concern ourselves with that. But now as Christians, we have a new sensitivity to sin and we desire to walk in the light. If you're anything like me, I grieve over indwelling sin. I grieve over sin that gets the best of me in my life many times. And this is the difference between a true believer and a non-believer. A non-believer leaps into sin and loves it. A true believer lapses into sin and he loves it. As Christians, we're not running towards sin anymore. We're running from it. But sometimes sin runs fast and it catches us. In fact, there are times when sin gets a grip on us, and it's hard for us to break that grip. Erwin Lutzer, uh, in his book Winning the Inner War, was right when he said this sinful habits begin innocently enough, but they but if we don't master them, he said, they will surely master us. And he's right. We all have the setting, sins. The writer of Hebrews, chapter twelve, verse one, said to lay aside the sin that thus so easily beset us. We all seem to have particular sins that seem to trip us up in the race of life. And in this we have to know our moments when we're most vulnerable were most susceptible to sin. Jesus said to his disciples, he said, I say unto you, watch. He said, take heed or your hearts will be weighed down. David recognized his weaknesses, the times when he was weak, and he wrote this in Psalm 18, verse 23: I have kept myself from mine iniquity. There were times when David was able to recognize his vulnerability and keep himself from his iniquity. He watched out for all ways and means by which his iniquity was likely to rise up against him. But he also had to admit at times, like in Psalm 39, verse 4, Lord, make me to know mine end, the measure of my days, what it is that I may know how frail I am. He understood his weakness. He understood his failure in that area. So the question is, is it possible to overcome the stubborn sins that dominate us at times and that cast us down. Now Peter's going to offer some help with this issue, and I I think that this is Of all the chapters in the New Testament, I think one of the most practical that will help us to break the grip of sin that sometimes gets a hold of us as believers. Remember, Peter is writing to believers that were going through a time of persecution. Some of them were being ridiculed by their former friends. Their former friends were wondering, why aren't you doing the things that you used to do? Why aren't you no longer drinking and and partying with us The persecution was making the believers themselves wonder, why am I enduring this? Why am I going through all the things that I'm going through? And so they probably you know, one writer said this, they they probably had a first century version of the of the beer commercial that we know of today, which says, you know, grab all the gusto you can, because you only live once But Peter's response to that kind of thinking would go like this. Yeah, you only go around once, but guess what? After that you face the judgment. You're going to have to go to be judged. In light of that, your intention must be one of holiness. Any suffering you encounter for Christ's sake should steal you to live according to the will of God and to deny sin and the lust of the flesh. And so this whole passage of scripture here, chapter 4, verses 1 to 6, presents us with motivations. To break sin's grip in our life. And what I want you to see are six principles from this passage that will help us if we apply them Will help us to break the grip of sin. Here's the first one. Number one, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Look at verse one. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh. This is one of the dominant themes in Peter's letter, the sufferings of Christ. Peter's constantly pointing towards the sufferings of Christ as a way to motivate the believers that were going through suffering. Christ suffered in the flesh. He suffered in his human body. And Peter emphasizes this, the sufferings of Christ at the cross. And he's emphasizing now the fact that Christ suffered for us vicariously. That is, that he took upon him our sin, that he suffered in our place. Paul said it like this in Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on the tree. Jesus on the cross bore the real curse of the law, the curse of sin. He bore the curse of God's wrath. That wrath that was placed upon Christ should have been placed upon me. It should have been placed upon you. But Christ was made a curse for us, the Bible says. So Hebrew word, or excuse me, the Greek word there uh in the place of or on the behalf of, Christ became a curse on the behalf of me. He became a curse on the behalf of you. That's why on the cross when Jesus took all the sin of the world upon himself, we Know the cry of their eliction, which said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because it was at that moment that Christ took the sins of the world upon himself. He was the scapegoat, using the Old Testament illustration of the scapegoat that bore the sin. He was the one that was cursed because he was hung on a tree. Jews believed that anyone hung on a tree bore the curse of God. They could not figure out why Jesus, who claimed to be the Messiah, would be cursed by God being hung on a tree. Paul referred to that. Cursed is anyone who hangs on a tree. He's quoting from Deuteronomy 21 verse 23. The Jews didn't crucify, they stoned, and then they hung a criminal on the tree, signifying that he was bearing the curse of God. But Paul was saying, look, yeah, Jesus actually did become a curse, but that was not because of his sin. That was because of my sin. That was because of your sin. He bore all of God's wrath on the cross. It boggles the mind, really, when you think about it. You know, I think of the hymn that we sing, O wondrous love is this, O my soul, O my soul. That Christ would bear the dreadful curse. For my soul. That boggles the mind. But the question here is this: how does the sufferings of Christ affect our relationship to sin? We're talking about breaking sin's grip in our own life. And the point of the passage is this, because Christ suffered so much for sin on the cross, our relationship to sin now should be radically changed. At least it should be. In view of the cross, in view of Christ's sufferings, our relationship to sin has to change. It means that I can't live the way I used to. The cross calls us to a different lifestyle. The things I once Loved I I now hate. The things I once tolerated, those things now I can't stand How can I ever make peace with sin, the sin that caused Christ to suffer so greatly and to become a curse for me on the cross. How can I make peace with sin that caused my Savior to suffer so much on the cross? That's the whole point here. You know, will a parent make peace with cancer that killed their child? Of course not. Neither can we make peace with sin when it brought the curse of God's wrath upon our Lord Jesus Christ. So here's the point. When you're tempted to sin, think about the sufferings of Christ for you. Let your mind go to the cross. Think about what Jesus did for you when he bore the curse of sin for you. We need to constantly dwell on the cross. We need to constantly meditate on the sufferings of Christ for us. That should make us hate sin. We should despise the sin that placed Christ there on the cross. And the Bible calls us to do this again and again. That's why we have the Lord's Supper, because we remember what Christ did. That's why we sing hymns about the cross. That's why we come to church and we remember what Jesus did on the cross. All of that has a sanctifying influence on the believer. All of that helps us to put to death sin in our heart. So we have to focus on the cross. But here's the second thing, number two, arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Look again at verse 1. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. Now what does he mean by that? Arm yourselves with the same with the mind of Christ. Arm yourselves is a military term for a warrior putting on his armor in preparation for battle. And the word for mine here means intention. And and the we see this really spelled out in verse number two of chapter four, when it says that he no longer should live the rest of his life in the f and the in in the flesh to the lust of men. And notice the next phrase in verse number one. Back up there. Notice the phrase, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. This this last phrase is actually the important one, but it it presents some interpretive difficulties. There's there's several ways that you can take this where it says he has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, for he that has suffered in the flesh. Now the question is, who is the he there? This is what uh people debate, scholars debate. Is the he there talking about the believer? Does it mean that when the believer suffers in the flesh, that that will help us to get victory over sin? I don't think that the he there is talking about believers. I think the he here is singular But the next phrase helps to interpret that when it says it says this, it says, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin that he should no longer live the rest of his time in the f in the flesh. So I think the he there is referring not to uh believers. I think that he there is referring to Christ. You know, the antecedent really is pointing to Christ. As we back up at the beginning of verse 1, for Christ has suffered in the flesh. The he then I think is Christ. But this also presents another problem. When it says he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, what does that imply? You say, now wait a minute. When it says he, and I'm saying that's Christ, has suffered in the flesh, ceased from sin, someone would say, wait a minute, that implies that Jesus sinned. But it doesn't have to mean that Now we know that Jesus was sinless, amen. In fact, Peter mentions that. He mentioned that earlier in the epistle, how that Christ was sinless in chapter 2, verse 22, and in chapter 3, verse 18. He absolutely did no sin. We know that. Well, if that he there is Christ, he that has suffered in the flesh, has ceased from sin. What does it mean when it says he ceased from sin? Christ never sinned. What that simply means is that Christ, although he did not sin, he had a relationship with sin. You say, what was the relationship that he had with sin? It was not as a sinner But as the sin bearer. You see, Jesus, his relationship was to come and die for sin. We just talked about how that he bore on the cross the sins of the world and became a curse in our place. And so the relationship that Jesus had with sin was as the one who would be the sin bearer. Even Paul said that. He said, He who knew no sin, what? Became sin for us. He became the sin bearer. That was the relationship that Jesus had with sin. And when he died for sin and he paid the penalty for sins committed, he paid sin's debt. On the cross, what did he say? It is finished. It's finished. The price for salvation was paid for on the cross. From that moment on, Jesus had no more to do with sin. His relationship to sin ceased. You could say he ceased from sin. That is to say, he ceased any relationship anymore with sin whatsoever. Because he was a sin marriage. In other words, that was his mind. In other words, when Jesus died for sin, Jesus said, you know what? That's it with me in sin. I want nothing more to do with sin whatsoever. I was the sin bearer, and that's it. And this makes sense because in the Garden of Gethsemane, when Jesus was praying, you remember what he prayed, Father, if it's if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. That is the natural response of someone who is holy, who is about to be the sin bearer. Is there any way that I any other way that I can just not have to do this? But of course he was willing, and he said, Not my will, but thine be done. But there we see the holy nature of Christ shrinking back from sin. And we would expect that from a holy Savior, a holy God. But after Jesus died for sin on the cross, his mind was, I want nothing more to do with sin. I want nothing more to do with it. It's over. You know, that's it. And Peter is saying here to believers now. You need to arm yourself likewise with the same mind. You have to have the mind of Christ when it comes to sin. What is the mind of Christ? I want nothing to do with it. I want nothing more to do with it. As a believer, that should be your constant mindset against sin. I want nothing to do with it. That's what Jesus' mind is. That's what your mind is to be. Every once in a while I'll hear a Christian Who is trying to live victorious over sin in their life, and they'll say something that sounds so very pious and so very spiritual, and they say, you know, I've learned to lay my sins at Jesus' feet. Don't do that. He's done with your sins. He already had him laid on his shoulders on the cross. God already laid your sins on him at the cross. He wants nothing more to do with your sin. And so don't come up with this pious notion that I'm laying my sins at Jesus' feet. No, he already paid for those sins. Here's what you need to do. Just stop doing it. Just stop doing it. Have the mind of Christ. that says, I no longer want anything to do with sin in my life. That should be our default mode as believers. That should be our mindset. And that's what Peter is trying to tell us to do. You say, well, I can't. Let me tell you something. If you're a Christian, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit lives inside of you, he gives you the power to say no to the flesh. He gives you the power to say no to the world. He gives you the power to say no to sin because in Christ You now are dead to sin. That is to say, that former relationship that you had with sin as an unbeliever, that relationship has been severed You could say it like this. You are divorced from sin. You were once married to it, but when you got saved, guess what happened? You got a divorce. And you know what? Now that you're divorced from sin, you don't have to listen to your old master. You don't have to listen to that old partner. Because they no longer have sin no longer has authority over you. Sin no longer can tell you what to do. Now if you choose to yield to it, that's that's your part. But you're dead to sin. That relationship has been severed. And what you need to do now is take the mind of Christ towards sin and say, I want nothing more to do with it in my life. And that's what Peter is saying here. Arm yourself against sin with the mind of Christ, the mind that says, I'm ceasing from it. I don't want anything to do with it. And again, God, through his Holy Spirit, through the indwelling Spirit of God, if you're a believer, has given you the power to do that. But then here's the third principle here. Focus on doing the will of God. Look at verse 2. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. Uh that he should live is an expression of purpose. W we could say it like this, so that in order that you can live the rest of His time. This is referring to the rest of a person's days on earth. All of the rest of your days on earth are not living to fulfill the lust of men, but you're living to fulfill the will of God. That's my whole purpose. Whereas before I was living to fulfill all of the lusts that I had. Now that I'm saved, I arm myself with the mind of Christ that says I want nothing more to do with sin in my life. And now I'm committed to not fulfilling the lust of the flesh like I did before, but now my whole life is committed to fulfilling the will of God. That's what Peter is saying here. He's really teaching us that there's only two ways to live. You can live either for the lust of the flesh or the lust of men, or you can live to the will of God. And that's your choice. So we must arm ourselves to be holy because there's this fierce struggle that is involved. As Peter put it in chapter 2, verse 11. Go back to chapter 2, verse 11, real quick. Look at this. 1 Peter 2, 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. We all have this battle, beloved. All of us. We all fight against fleshly lust. And Peter knew that And this is why we all need to be reminded of this from time to time. We have a war in us, but Peter here is saying, I beseech you, I plead with you. Abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. The fact that Peter commands that, what does that imply? That you have the ability to abstain. God has given you through his grace and through the power of the Holy Spirit the ability to abstain from fleshly lust. Otherwise, why would he be pleading them to do it? You know, he he's only pleading with them because he knows that because of Christ and the Spirit of God inside them, that they have the power to do that. And so, whether you call it the old man or the flesh, there's this strong inner desire towards sin that is with us. It will be with us until we meet the Lord Jesus Christ. But you have to remember as a believer God has given you the ability to overcome. You're dead to sin. That old partner is no longer in charge. You have a new master. You know what the Bible says? You know, people talk about addiction. Let me give you the biblical word, slave. It's slavery. And the Bible says you are a slave to whoever or whatever you yield yourself to. It's as simple as that. Whereas before you yield yourself to the lust of the flesh, now as a believer, you yield yourself unto God. You yield yourself unto Christ and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, the Bible says in Romans chapter 6. And so we are engaged in this lifelong war against these sinful desires that dwell in us, and if we want to grow spiritually, then we have to understand this battle is there and By the power of the Holy Spirit, not yield to the old man. Not yield to the flesh. But you know one way that will help you in that battle? Focus on doing the will of God. And that's what Peter is saying here. If you're focused and consumed each day with fulfilling the will of God, temptation will have less of a pull in you. That's the whole point here. Spurgeon said, An idle man tempts the devil to tempt him. Don't be idle. The believer is to be committed to doing the will of God. And that also reflects The mindset of Christ because Jesus, during his earthly ministry, he was absolutely totally committed to doing the will of the Father. And we see that all throughout the Gospels. So to break sin's grip, number one, we have to meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Number two, we have to arm ourselves with the mind of Christ that says, I want nothing more to do with sin. Number three, we have to focus on doing the will of God. That will help us in resisting the battle against the flesh in us. But here's number four. Peter tells us, remember what you were before you met Christ. Look in verse three. For the ti for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lust Excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. And so Peter here is saying, look, remember what you were. You know, there are times when looking back in your past can be wrong. It's wrong a lot of times for us to dwell in the past because Satan could use those memories to discourage you. We understand that. But however, there's also a way of looking at the past that can actually be helpful as it to a believer. And that's what Peter's saying here. You know, God urged Israel to remember what they once were in Egypt before they were redeemed. God would say, remember what you were in Egypt. Paul remembered many times that he was a persecutor of the church. This encouraged him to do even more for Christ. When we sometimes forget the bondage of sin and remember only the passing pleasures of sin, then the temptation of sin grows in us. It's good to remember what we were before God saved us. And to appreciate the salvation that God has given us. When it says here for the time past of our life, what he means is we spent enough time in the past doing these things. Think of all the wasted days and times in your life when you were engaged in doing some of these things. Wouldn't you like to have that time back? That's what Peter's saying here. You know, you wasted enough years living for the devil. You had a long enough time in sin. Any time in sin is too long. And Peter essentially is saying, look, enough already. Enough. You spent enough time in that. You spent enough time doing that. Again, he says here in verse number four. He says, We're in day uh excuse me, verse three, for in the time past of our life many suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When he says will of the Gentiles here, he's actually using the word Gentiles to talk about those who don't know the Lord, the heathen. Again, he's saying, look, you live like a heathen long enough, doing what the heathen want to do. It's time to put all that stuff behind you. It's time to put all that stuff in the rearview mirror. What stuff will Peter catalogs the sins in verse number three when he says lasciviousness That's behavior that lacks moral restraint, outrageous sins, lusts, that's sinful desires, excessive wine, that simple drunkenness literally refers to habitual intoxication. Also can refer to the effects of narcotic use, revelings, that's wild parties, orgies that they had back in that time. And banqueting that is a a drinking party where people just, you know, we've we've heard of people that like to party and and get drunk and engage in all that. Abominable idolatries Ancient Rome was known for these what they called Bacchandalian drunken feasts dedicated to the God of wine. You know, and he's he's mentioning all these things. And look at verse number four, where it says, Wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Peter's talking to some of the believers here that have been converted, and now their old friends are looking at them thinking that they're weird because they don't want to run out and party just like they do. What's wrong with you? Why aren't you doing what we do? Why don't you used to like to do these things, but now you don't run to do them anymore and they think that they're strange. They think that they're weird. You know, I've encouraged believers, once you get saved, separate from your old friends. But the truth of the matter is, once you get saved, you should be living for Christ so much that they want to separate from you. That they think that you're strange. You know. Someone asked me when I got saved, did you separate from your friends? I said, No, I didn't have to. They didn't want to be around me anymore. Because all I would do is just preach to them. I'd share the gospel with them, and they got sick of hearing it So they don't want to hang around me anymore, you know. And Peter's saying, look, these folks who do these things, they should look at you and be amazed that you don't engage in that stuff anymore. Because of the way that you live. So that's that's part of it. You know, we just don't Engage in those things. One of my favorite stories is the story of Augustine, one of the early church fathers. He was uh born into a pagan family. Actually, his mother became a Christian. She prayed for him to be saved. And um but he lived a wild life. He lived an immoral life. And one day he was at a friend's house sitting in the garden on a bench. Next to him was a Bible. And he basically um was kind of running from God, but God had been convicting his heart. But he was there in that garden and sitting on that bench with a Bible next to him, opened up To a passage of scripture, and there were children in the background that were playing, you know, like one of those games that children played, like, you know, something like Ring Around the Rosie, you know. But they were in this little game that they were playing, they were repeating a word in a in a song, pick up and read, pick up and read was what they were singing. So here he is sitting in the garden, sitting on a bench, Bible next to him, in the background, children are singing, pick up and read. So what does he do? He reaches down, he picks up the Bible, and he starts to read it, and the verse that he read where it was opened was Romans thirteen, verse three. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. And that was exactly what Augustine needed to hear At that moment, he prayed and he put on the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, Jesus, I hear now put you on my life And he was saved right there at that time. And notice the rest of the verse. Make no provision for the flesh. Listen, if you want to get victory over Sin in your life, don't make it easy. Make no provision for the flesh. Some Christians remind me of the guy who went on a diet. And uh he was behaving himself doing really well, but he was every day he passed by a Krispy Kreme donut shop on the way to work And he said, you know, Lord, if it's your will for me to have a donut, let there be a parking spot right there in front of the Krispy Kreme. And he said, sure enough, on the seventh lap around, there was a parking spot right there. Listen, make no provision for the flesh. Don't yield to it Let us walk honestly, it says, and put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's number five. Number one, I said, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. A mind that says, I'm done with this. Focus on doing the will of God. Remember what you were before you met Christ. Here's number five. Don't forget about the coming judgment. Look at verse five. Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. All those that think you're strange because you don't run out into excess the way they are, just remember they're going to have to give an account to him that is ready to judge. Just remember, beloved, there will be a judgment. There's going to be a final judgment. When Jesus comes, he will judge the living and the dead. And so the idea here is that no one, no one is going to escape judgment. No one. Reminds me of the the the the story that Paul Harvey tells. He's talking about a man named Gary Tyndall who was charged with robbery. He was standing in in the courtroom in California before Judge Rodriguez, and Tyndall asked permission to go to the restroom. Well the guards escorted him to the bathroom where he went inside, locked the door, he got up into the ceiling panels. and and decided he was going to crawl through the ceiling panels and get away. And he crawled about 30 feet and the ceiling panels gave way and he fell down right in front of the judge's bench in the courtroom. Right before the judge. You can't escape judgment is the lesson of that story there. And this is what Peter is saying here. Sooner or later, the wheels of God's righteousness will right every wrong, he'll balance the scale, he'll correct every injustice in the world. Judgment will come. All will be judged. And Peter is saying you better remember that. Don't forget the judgment And so, to break sin's grip, meditate on the sufferings of Christ, arm yourself with the mind of Christ, focus on doing the will of God. Remember what you were before you met Christ. Don't forget about the coming judgment. But finally, let me give you the last principle Peter gives us here. Think about the purpose of the gospel. Look down at verse number six. For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. And so Peter here in this last part, this verse here we're dealing with, reminds believers to think about the purpose of the gospel. The reason that the gospel was preached was to give you eternal life. When he says, even to them that are dead, he means those Christians that have already died. Some interpret this to mean that Christ preaches the gospel to people after they die. You'll get another chance to hear. And they kind of connect this to 1 Peter 3 verse 19 about Christ preaching to the spirits, you know, some kind of post-mortem evangelism, but no, that's not what he's referring to here. Peter is referring to those believers who already heard the gospel, they've already died. at the time that he's writing this letter. Now, at that moment, they are enjoying eternal life. That is the purpose of the gospel. Judged according to the flesh. This is parallel to living according to God in the Spirit. The meaning is that men may judge you according to their standards in this life, but it's God's judgment that counts. It's his judgment that counts. And if you trusted Christ as your Savior, God has judged your sins on the cross in Jesus Christ, and he gives you eternal life If you're trusting in Christ. That's the purpose of the gospel. That's the reward of the gospel. We have to remember that the early church had many questions. about family members. You know, I talked about this this morning in 1 Thessalonians. There were questions about, you know, what about the believers that already died? And are they going to miss the coming of the Lord? Have they missed the promise of glory? And Peter is reminding the believers here in this letter that they are already there. They're already enjoying the hope of eternal life. That is the purpose of the gospel. And should that not make us want to go out and fight against sin all the more? The fact that our loved ones are already there in heaven, enjoying eternal life, enjoying all the blessings of God, that makes me want to fight against sin more. Because thank God for the grace of the gospel. Where will we be without it? Where will we be without that wonderful gospel? You know, you know, last year my father went to heaven, and I know he's there with the Lord. And you know, when I think about God's grace in my father's life, I'm so filled with gratitude to God. Because I know where he is. I know he's enjoying heaven. I know that he's Has an an unspeakable joy in the presence of the Lord. And when I get down at times, I think about that, and you know what? That arms me. That inspires me to live for the Lord all the more. Because I know my father is there and I know that one day because of Jesus Christ I'm gonna be there with him. When I was a teenager I read a book that really had a b impact on me. It was called Torture for His Faith. It was a story of Harlan Popoff. He was a Bulgarian pastor. He was arrested by the communists, and he was put into a communist prison for 13 years. And during that time he was tortured in prison. And uh but while he was there, he was always cautious not to make the uh the the officials angry at him. He would witness, he would share his faith, but he was always very cautious, sometimes even fearful in the way that he shared Christ with those around him. But one day he got news. that his wife and his children were able to get out of Bulgaria and they were able to make it to Switzerland And they were not in danger in any way by the communists. Part of the reason why he was very careful was because they used that. If you don't do this, we'll go get your wife, we'll get your children. And so he was very careful. But when he received the news that his wife and his children were safe, that nothing could happen to them, that they were out of harm completely. He said that moment changed him. No longer was he cautious. No longer was he afraid. He became a bold witness for Christ in that prison. So much so that many, many people got saved. This is what Peter is saying to the suffering believers that are there. Saying, look Just know this. The purpose of the gospel is to give eternal life. And those of your family members that have died in Christ, they're already enjoying heaven. Shouldn't that give you a determination to live for Christ all the more And to be bold for Christ, that should be a motivation for all of us as believers. And so Peter says, look. This is how you get victory over sin. Meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Arm yourself with the mind of Christ. Focus on doing the will of God. Remember what you were before you met Christ. Don't forget about the coming judgment. And then think about the purpose of the gospel. Think about the blessings. that is brought in your life. That should steal you. That should encourage you to live with a holy intent that you're going to break. the grip of sin in your life. You're going to live for the will of God all your days. May God help us. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we come before you as needy people, weak people, Lord. We are wrestling in our life every day, Lord, against indwelling sin. It grieves us. It causes us to mourn at times. At times gets the best of us. All we can do, Lord, is run to the cross, thank you for your grace, and live according to the Word of God with the strength that's given to us by the Holy Spirit. Lord, help us not to give up. Help us not to lay down. Let sin dominate us. You've called us the holy living. You've called us to perfect holiness in the fear of God. So Lord, give us the determination that Peter writes about here in these verses. Give us a determination to focus on the sufferings of Christ. And to have the mind of Christ, the desire to cease from sin, and or to remember the judgment that we will all face one day in your presence. That we would Totally be focused on doing your will and be blessed by the grace of the gospel and what it has done in our lives and in the lives of those that we love. Father, help us in this holy war that we must engage in every day. And by your grace, Lord, give us victory. Help us to be, Lord, what you've called us to be, to be like Christ. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I I just want you to take a moment there. I'm not going to ask anyone to raise your hand or anything like that, but I want you to just meditate on these verses that we talked about tonight. And and and take a moment and pray and ask God to help you in this war that no doubt you face as what every believer faces Ask the Lord to give you that mind of Christ. That mind that says, I want nothing to do with sin. The mind that says, I'm focused on doing the will of God. You know, he'll give you victory if you ask him So Father, thank you for your word. Speak to hearts. Strengthen your people for your honor and your glory. I pray in Jesus' name.