Take your Bibles now, and I want you to open to Matthew, the book of Matthew this morning, Matthew chapter nine, and verse one. And I know we're are normally in first John, but I wanna in light of the the announcement I made about in uh that special Sunday we're gonna have on October fifteen about inviting others to Christ. I wanted to kind of kind of accentuate that with a message about bringing people to Jesus. And this is a beautiful story here in the Bible. familiar with it's good to remind ourselves of the things that Jesus did and follow his example. Heard about a church that had a fire and the fire was uh very damaging. There was a beautiful painting in the church of of Christ that was endangered and some men went into the church and they rescued that painting and brought it out into the street. People had gathered together to s to look at the fire. But when the fire was put out, people still remained and they were just intrigued by that portrait uh that portrait of Jesus. And finally, one man said, you know, when the church caught fire and moved Christ into the streets, people were interested. you know, kind of a parable there. Well, really, I want us to catch fire with evangelism and bring Jesus out into the streets. That's really what we want to do. And uh you know the greatest privilege we have is bringing others to Christ. It is such a great privilege. Spurgeon said this. He said, I would rather bring one soul to Jesus Christ than uncover all the mysteries of the divine word. So true. Just to bring one person to Christ. The greatest joy we have is pointing others to Christ. If you've ever pointed someone to Jesus, if you've ever invited someone to church and watched them get saved, you know the joy that that is. is that the Lord would use you in the life of someone else to point them to Jesus Christ, the greatest responsibility we have. Is in bringing others to Christ. John Wesley said this: you have one business on earth to bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Christ. You are here today because somebody cared about you. You're here today because somebody invited you or someone pointed you to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it's your turn to Point somebody else to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to look at this story and I want you to see six essentials that will bring that that we need to have to bring people to Jesus. And in Matthew chapter 9, we're going to look at these. If you're taking notes, here's the first one. Number one, write this down. Be ready to take advantage of God-given opportunities. Be ready to take advantage of God-given opportunities. Look in Matthew chapter 9 and look at verse 1. And he that is Jesus entered into a ship and passed over, excuse me. And came into his own city. Jesus, here in this opening chapter, he gets into a boat And the Bible says he goes to his own city. Well, let me give you a little context. Where was Jesus coming from? Jesus had just taken a short trip into an area called the The decapolis, which means the ten cities. This is an area where he was going into to preach the gospel of the kingdom. And you remember the story of the man who is demon-possessed. The man of Gatherene, the demoniac of Gadderene, the Bible says. And you remember that story, how that Jesus cast the demons out of this man And those demons went into a herd of pigs, a herd of swine. And you remember what happened to those swine? The Bible says they ran down a cliff. And they jumped into the ocean and they uh drowned in the ocean like one country preacher said they committed suicide. Yeah. Thank you for that courtesy laugh there. And right after that, the people of the town didn't appreciate that. That was a serious economic loss for them. This is a Jewish people in a in a town there, and this happened and and uh the local economy took a hit with losing two thousand pigs, you know, no bacon for a long time I guess. You know, what are Jews doing farming pigs anyway? Uh if you read the Old Testament, that's not part of their dietary law. But this just goes to show you they were not really concerned about the Word of God. And so really, if you look in chapter 9, verse 1, if you back up to the previous verse, chapter 8, verse 34. We get the result of that, and it says, and behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they besought him that he would depart out of their coast. Just imagine that. Here's the whole town coming to Jesus and saying, would you please leave? Would you please depart? Just go away. This was A universal cry. Luke in his gospel says they all agreed in one heart with total agreement for Jesus to leave. That's shocking. You imagine asking Jesus to leave? Would you please go away? You've cost us. Concerned. They were more concerned about their economy. And so Jesus is a gentleman. He doesn't debate. The Bible says in chapter 9, verse 1, and he entered into a ship and passed over and came into his own city. What is his own city? Someone says, well that's Nazareth. No, that's not Nazareth. Nazareth was the city where he grew up. That was his hometown, but it was no longer his hometown. Why? Because if you read in Luke chapter four, when Jesus went to Nazareth to preach uh a sermon, the people didn't like the message too much and they tried to kill him. They tried to push him off a cliff. He was a prophet without honor in his own country. And so Jesus made Capernaum his own hometown, Capernaum became his headquarters. This is where Jesus set up his headquarters during his Galilean ministry And according to the laws back then, if a person stayed in a town for a full year, they could claim citizenship in that town and call it their home their own town. And so Jesus calls Capernaum his own. And that's where he stayed. That was his headquarters. He lived in Peter's house with Peter. And the Bible kind of makes that clear in Mark chapter two verse one. This was Peter's house. In fact, I want you to hold your place in Matthew 9. Go to Mark chapter 2, verse 1, and actually hold your place in Mark 2, because we're going to flip back and forth a few times. Because this is the parallel account of the same story, the same event. If you look in Mark chapter 2, verse 1, it says that again he entered into Capernaum. After some days, and it was noise that he was in the house, not just a house, the house, what house? The house where he stayed. This was Peter's house. And so here's the bottom line. Gadera's loss was Capernaum's gain. Suddenly the people of Capernaum are blessed to have Jesus back in town. And as a result of finding out that Jesus was back in town, he's there at the house. And the Bible says many people gathered to come and see him. In Luke chapter 5, verse 17, it says Jesus was teaching there in that house on a certain And there were many in the house. There were Pharisees, there were doctors of law from every town that had come there to Capernaum to hear Jesus. teach and you talk about an opportunity. Here's an opportunity. Jesus is back in Capernaum He's back in that house. He's teaching the Word of God. People are coming in. They're swarming this place. And as we'll see, the house is filled. And we're going to also see that there were four men that saw an opportunity to bring someone to Christ. That was an opportunity, an appointment. You know, we have to keep our eyes open to opportunities that God gives us that are all around us to share Christ with others. Don't Don't think lightly of those opportunities. Don't let those opportunities pass by if the Lord gives you an opportunity to bring someone to Jesus. Take full advantage of that. This is what we're going to see happens here in this story. These men take full advantage of a God-given opportunity that was presented to them. I was reading about Billy Graham in his autobiography, Just As I Am, very good book, and in it he makes uh A confession of a regret that he had in his life. In nineteen sixty three he was invited to speak at the National Prayer Breakfast. uh at that prayer breakfast the uh the new president John F. Kennedy and after Billy Graham was done with his message uh he and President Kennedy walked out of the hotel together And President Kennedy turned to Billy Graham and he said, listen, would you please come to the White House with me? I would really like to talk to you. And Billy Graham says, I remember that I had the flu. I wasn't feeling very well. I was standing out there in the cold. It was a cold snowy day. I didn't have my overcoat on. And he says, I said to the president, Mr. President, President, I I'm really not feeling very well, and I don't want to give you whatever I have. Could we do this at some other time? And Billy Graham, when he said that, he said the president being gracious And he got into his car and he left. And of course, there was no more opportunity after that because later that year he was killed. And in his book, Billy Graham writes this, his hesitation at the car door and his request haunts me still. What was on his mind? Should I have gone with him? It was an irrecoverable moment. I thought that's a very honest confession from a great evangelist. Who's telling us in essence, don't give up God-given opportunities to share Christ with other people that are around you. Be ready and to take advantage of every God-given opportunity. But here's number two, write this down. Be willing to overcome every obstacle. Be willing to overcome every obstacle. Look in again in chapter 9, look in verse 2. And behold, they brought to him, we're in Matthew 9, verse 2, they brought to him that is to Jesus a man sick of the They bring this man to Jesus. Now who is the they here? You know, Matthew doesn't elaborate on who the they are. But again, looking at other gospels, we we can see, if we look in Mark chapter two, again in verse three, it says that he would this they brought this man, he was born of four. That is, there were four people carrying this man to Jesus. Jesus. This man could not get there on his own. These four men brought him. Four men carrying this man who was sick of the palsy. These men were unusual men. We don't know their names, but heaven does. These men were willing to break through any barriers they could to get this man to Jesus said. Well, what was the problem? Well, first of all, there was the crowd factor The Bible tells us this house was so crowded that you couldn't even get in. You couldn't get into the house And Jesus is there and he's teaching the word of God and there's people crammed in there, and here they have this man that has such a great need, and they come to the house and it's so crowded that they can't even make it through the the door to bring this man to the Lord Jesus Christ. Luke chapter 5, verse 19 says they could not find a way to get the man through the crowd. So there's a sense in which even the crowd there is blocking this man from Jesus. Now in that crowd there are people who are there simply to hear. They're not really there to believe on him. In fact there were some Pharisees. In that crowd, and they were looking for a reason to use Jesus' words against him. There was a hostility mounting up against Jesus. And so you could say that some of these teachers of the law and some of these Pharisees that were there in the crowd were actually blocking. Jesus was a miracle worker. They wanted to see something like that. They were kind of the mania crowd. They wanted to see something spectacular. And there's a sense in which some of them were blocking this man's way to Jesus. And then of course there were the genuine helpers, these four men who were desperately trying to get this person before the Lord. I want to tell you this, I don't ever want to hinder anybody from coming to Jesus Christ. Christ. I don't ever want to be a part of the crowd that hinders anyone from coming to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I think I told you before that Gandhi, the great Indian leader decided that Christianity was the right thing for his people. And he decided to visit a church. And when he went to the church, he was met at the door with by ushers who said, This church is only for Europeans, sir. You're not welcome here. And Mahatma Gandhi left. And he said, I'll have nothing to do with Christianity. He said, I would be a Christian if it were not for other Christians. What a sad testimony that we would ever block anybody from coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. There was the crowd factor, but then there was the cooperation factor. Here, these men, these four men, had to carry this man to Jesus. You ever ask yourself, why did it take four men? Surely this guy wasn't that heavy. I mean, why four men? Why couldn't just two carry this man, one on each end? But four men had to cooperate. They had to work together. to get this man through the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, why why so many? Well I think there's a clue. If you go back to Matthew chapter 8 Verse 16. Again, Jesus is in Capernaum in these these verses here, and he just healed Peter's mother-in-law from a fever. He touched her hand and and the fever left. But look at verse sixteen of Matthew eight. And when even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils, and that cast out spirits with his word. And notice this next phrase, and he healed all. That were sick. Oh. Don't pass over that so quickly. How many people did Jesus heal that were there in Capernaum? Oh. That was the healthiest village in Galilee. Because Jesus healed everybody that was sick. Everyone So where did this man come from? He obviously wasn't from Capernaum, because everybody in Capernaum were already healed. This suggests to me that this man came from a long distance away. He had a long trip, perhaps, and there was no way he could get there on his own. That's why it took four men. It required four men, because perhaps this man had to be carried such a long way. to get to Jesus. And so perhaps what started out maybe as one man's burden, seeing this crippled man and saying, man, I need to get into Jesus And him trying to do it, another man coming along and saying, well, let me help you. And then two's not enough. And so they recruit some others and say, let's get this man too, Jesus. And so four men, the Bible says, carry him along. Four men in unity, working together. You know what helps bring people to Jesus, the church, working together in unity and cooperation? Working together like one great army with one purpose in mind, and that is to get people to come to the Lord Jesus Christ And so they had this wonderful cooperation, this wonderful unity. And again, let me just say this what destroys people from coming to Christ is the lack of cooperation. And the lack of unity in the church. Folks, we have to be unified to bring people to Christ. We have to cooperate together I heard about a story on the plains of western Canada early in the fall one year during the weed harvest. A three-year-old girl was lost in the field. Night was coming. those fur f just incredibly f cold nights of Canada, there was a search party that was sent out of people looking through that field. They were combing through that field looking for that little girl And they couldn't find her, and finally someone said, Let's all join hands and let's become one great line and we'll comb through these fields to find her. And sure enough they all joined their hands. They formed one huge long line and they began combing through the field and in just a few minutes they found. That little girl cuddled up, but it was too late. She had passed away. And the cry went up immediately. If only we had joined hands sooner. If only we had cooperated and joined hands sooner. There has to be cooperation. We have to all be together. Here are these four men, and they're all pulling in the same direction. Can you imagine if they were pulling in four different directions, they would have never gotten that man to Jesus But they were all working together. They were bringing this man. So we have to be willing to overcome every obstacle. But here's number three. Be willing to go to the center. And look again in verse 2 where it says, And they brought, and behold, they brought to him Jesus, a man sick of a palsy. He's lying on a bed. And the thing I want to point out to here is that this man had absolutely no way to get to Jesus on his own. If it were left up to him, he would never make it. The word for palsy here is a Greek word where we get our word, paralyzed. He was paralyzed. He had no motor functions in his body. Perhaps this was something that he was born with, perhaps it was a sickness later, or he had some kind of a neck or back injury, we don't know. But we know this, this man couldn't move. He couldn't make it. He was confined to that bed there. And on his own, he could never make it to Christ. Absolutely, completely, physically paralyzed. And this is really a picture. of the spiritual paralysis that every person without Christ has. Do you know that people without the Lord Jesus in and of themselves and on their own, they can't make it to Jesus. They need someone to help them get there The grace of God and other people that God uses are the instruments that God uses to bring people to himself. The Bible tells us that. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them. Jesus said, Apart me, ye can do nothing. It was the grace of God that sought you out and aided and others who, aided by the grace of God, who pointed you to Jesus and brought you to Christ, without them we we wouldn't be saved. And friend, no one will come to Jesus unless we help get them to him. That's why the Lord leads us in this world. That's why we're here. The problem is that people don't think biblically about this issue. You know, here's the average thought of people that come to church. Well, you know, it's the pastor and the pastoral staff's job to get people to uh church, you know, we're we're paying them a salary, and so they're supposed to get out there and they're supposed to get people to church. But the only problem with that is that's not a biblical principle. The principle is that the Bible says that God gives to the church pastor teachers. Why? For the perfecting of the saints, that is the building up of the saints. Why? So that they can do the work of the ministry. And what is the work of the ministry? Bringing people to Jesus. So why are am I here? I'm here to teach you God's word because Because God's word is able to build you up in your faith so that you in turn can go and do the work of bringing others to Jesus. It's not just one person's job. And by the way, I have to lead. I have to be the example of that. But friend, it's just not the job of one person or or or just a staff of people. It's everybody's responsibility. It's everybody's job to do that very thing. For the edifying, for the building up of the body of Christ. Vance Habner said the gospel is not something we come to church to hear. It is something we go from church to tell. We come to church and we worship. Why? Because worship ignites our passion for Jesus so that when we leave, we leave to witness We gather to worship. We scatter to witness. That's the biblical pattern. And so we have to understand that. Um there are many statistics that say that about n uh Well I can just read you some here. I don't want to read you a lot. But here's one. 95% of all Christians have never won a soul to Christ. Eighty percent of all Christians do not consistently witness for Christ. And friend, those statistics are not designed to throw you on a guilt trip. It's just designed to show you that we need to get it busy. Here's the fourth thing. Number one, be ready to take advantage of every God given opportunity. Number two, be willing to overcome every obstacle. Number three, be willing to go to the center. Number four, be wise in developing an effective. Strategy. Because look what the Bible says. Look again in verse 2, chapter 9 in Matthew. And behold, they brought to him a man sick of a palsy, lying on a bed. And notice this next phrase, and Jesus seeing their faith. Notice where it says he sees their faith. Now again, Matthew doesn't give much detail. But what does it mean when it says Jesus saw their faith? What did he see? He saw their determination. to get this man to Christ. He saw that the crowd prevented them, but they didn't give up. Their faith wouldn't quit. They didn't just push through. They began to think about it. Here's this crowd, we can't get this man in the in the house. How can we get him to Christ. They had a confident faith, but they also had a calculating faith. And so they they came up with a strategy. And the Bible says this in Luke chapter 5, verse 19: they went up to the housetop. Did you know that houses in Palestine back in that day had staircases that went up to the top of the roof? You know why? Because the rooftop back in that day was kind of like a porch People sometimes would go there just to rest, just to relax. You remember in Acts chapter 10, Peter went up to the housetop to pray, a place to go where he could pray. The Bible says in Proverbs 25, 24, it's better to dwell in the corner of the housetop than with a brolling woman in a white house. That's all I have to say about that verse. It's a place where you can retreat. You can go to be alone. And so the rooftops also in that day they were very simple. They had timbers that were laid parallel to each other about two or three feet apart. Sticks were then laid crosswise. And then they had the whole thing was kind of overlaid with about a foot of dirt. And so this roof was probably about two feet thick. These men, they they take the paralyzed man up to the top of the roof. And if you look in Mark chapter 2, verse 4, he says they uncover the roof. Mark chapter two verse four. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof. And literally it means they could dig through. They began to dig through that roof. These men were so determined to get this man to Jesus, they didn't care what it took. Even if it means getting your hands dirty. And that's literally what happened. Can you imagine being in church, all of a sudden somebody digging through the roof? Debris falling down. Picture this in your mind. Here are these Pharisees. The Pharisees, they love their robes. They love their religious garments. There they are sitting in the house. All of a sudden debris starts falling on them. Dirt starts falling down. You know, they look up and hear these men are digging through the roof. They were probably upset about that. You know, if you're going to bring people to Jesus, uh things might get a little dirty sometimes. You know, buildings might get a little bit used up. Don't be worried don't worry about that. Buildings are not monuments, they're tools to bring people to Christ And so here are these men, they're digging through. And by the way, did you ever think about this? How did they know where to dig the hole? How did they know where Jesus was in the house? It took some calculation on their part. They had to figure out where Jesus was teaching. Where exactly do they dig that hole in the roof? You know. It took some real calculation. Because the Bible says when they dug the hole in the roof, they lowered the man down, and guess where the man ended up? Right at the feet of Jesus. He was right there. I love that calculating faith. You know what they did? They developed a strategy. They said, here's what we need to do. This is what we should do to get this man to Christ. You know, if you look throughout the New Testament, what you're going to find are many strategies. To bring people to a knowledge of the Lord. There's just simple presentational evangelism. Remember in Acts chapter 8, Philip went over to the men and the and the uh chariot the Ethiopian he said do you understand what you're reading? How can I unless somebody helps me? That was just straightforward. Well let me show you Then there's invitational evangelism in John chapter 4. The woman at the well, she just said she just went to her friends and said, You gotta you gotta meet this guy. She said, just come here hear this man. She just invited her friends. There's relational evangelism. In Luke chapter 5, Matthew hosted a party where he invited all of his friends to come and meet Jesus. And then there's simple testimonial evangelism. The blind man in John chapter 9 says, look, all I know is this, I was blind. Now I see. Some people just need to hear from you what Jesus has done in your life. That's just simple testimonial evangelism. Evangelism. There is apologetic evangelism, the Apostle Paul on Mars Hill, where he's defending the gospel. There is congregational evangelism in Acts chapter 13, where the church in Jerusalem just sent out missionaries. But here's the key. The key is just having a desire. Having a desire. Let me ask you a question. Do you want God to use you to bring others to Christ? If the desire's there, you know what? You'll figure out a way to do it. I heard about one woman who determined to bake cookies and give them to her neighbors and invite them to church. Bake cookies, give them to our neighbors, and invite them to church. Now if you're a good cook, go ahead and do that. Just kidding, all ladies are good cooks. Take that back. I heard about one man who wanted to he wanted to reach his his neighbor for Christ, and so he decided to cut his grass all summer for no Nothing. And then the man said, You've been so kind. The guy said, You want to pay me back? Well how? Just come to church with me. Come to church. One person decided to have a neighborhood Bible study and offer refreshments for all who came. But here's the point. If you want to be used of God to invite others to Jesus, he'll use Use you. And you'll find a strategy. Let me give you the fifth thing. Be ready to take advantage of every opportunity. Be willing to overcome every obstacle. Be willing to go to the center. Number four, be wise in developing a strategy. But here's number five: be confident that Jesus is willing and able to save. Friend, I want to tell you: Jesus is a willing savior. Look what it says again in Matthew chapter 9 and verse number 2. When they Jesus seen their faith and unto the and said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer. Thy sins be forgiven thee. Jesus rewards their faith. Notice he says son, that's a word that means my child. Jesus smiled, I think, when he saw this. this crippled man and he sees the faith of these four men. What they believe that if they could just get this man to Jesus, that Jesus would heal him and do beyond that. And of course Jesus rewards that faith. But also there's the faith of this man himself. You see, they couldn't have faith for this man. This man himself, the crippled man, had to have faith in Jesus. And we have to assume that he desperately wanted to get to Jesus because he knew what Jesus could do for him. And Jesus knew this man's heart He knew the desire of his heart. That's why he says, my child, be of good cheer. That is, don't be afraid any longer, because Jesus is willing and able. He's willing and able to save. Let me show you something real quick. Go back to Matthew 8. Look at verse number 3. This is a leper that comes to Jesus. He comes and says, Lord, if you can, if you will, you can make me clean. Jesus, I know you have the power to make me clean. The question is, will you? And notice what Jesus said. And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him and said, What? I will. I will. That's Jesus. He's willing. All that come to me, Jesus says, I will no eyes cast out. He's willing to save. He's a willing savior. He has the power and he has the desire Now I want you to notice the reaction. Look at Matthew chapter 9, look at verse 3. And behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, this man blasphemes. They're saying he speaks blasphemy. Why did they say that? Because Jesus said, Thy sins be forgiven thee And they knew that only God had the power to forgive sin. We're talking about sin before God. We're talking about legal standing before God. No one can remove your sins And you and your legal standing before God. No man can do that. Who alone can do that? Only God can do that. And so when Jesus said, Your sins are forgiven you, they said, This man's blasphemy. me. In verse 3, when he says this man, actually in the Greek it's just this, the man is uh in your King James Version is there It's italicized, which means it was kind of added on to smooth it out. But literally the Greek is this, this one. It's more disdain. This one He commits blasphemy. How can he say your sins are forgiven you? Only God can do that. They got the point. What was Jesus claiming here? He's God. He is God. You know, I got so fed up in seminary reading some of these great New Testament. Scholars who would say Jesus never claimed to be God. It's so ridiculous to me because he did it all the time. And here Jesus is making that claim when he said, Your sins be forgiven you. And the Pharisees, they understood, they said he speaks And notice verse 4. And Jesus, knowing the thoughts, said, Wherefore think ye evil in your heart? That is, the fact that you don't believe that I'm God That I'm the son of God, that's evil. The fact that you would say that I'm blaspheming, why are you thinking such evil thoughts? And then what Jesus does is he gives them kind of a test here. He gives them kind of a test to show that he he is who he says he is. Look in verse five. For whether it is easier to say thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say arise and walk. Jesus said, listen, what's easier? Is it easier just to point to someone and say your sins are forgiven? Or is it easier to say arise and walk? What's obvious, it's easier just To say your sins are forgiven. Why? Because that's invisible. We don't see God in heaven erasing that person's sins out of the book in heaven. We can't see what happens there. So anyone can say to another person, your sins are forgiven. In fact, that happens all the time in religious rituals where one man will point to another and say your sins are forgiven, even though he doesn't have the authority to do that. Anyone can say that It's harder to say to a man, you, to a man who's paralyzed, you, get up and walk. That's much harder. And so Jesus says, look in verse 6. But that ye may know That the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. In other words, Jesus says, Here's how you can know that when I say your sins are forgiven, I have all the authority of heaven behind me to say that I am God. And here's And then he points to the man who's paralyzed and he says, Arise, take up thy bed, and go to thy house. And you know, what's amazing to me about this story is the man who's laying there, he doesn't say, you know, Lord, I I can't walk You know, I've been on this bed for a long time. You're telling me to get up and walk? He doesn't answer Jesus back. What does he do? This is faith. He hears the word of Christ. And he responds immediately. He gets up and he begins, he takes up his bed, and he begins to walk back to his house, probably a long distance. This wasn't a partial healing This was a complete total healing. So much so this man could get up, pick up his bed, and walk all the way back to his house, wherever it was. Jesus healed him. This is total healing from our Lord Jesus Christ. What an incredible miracle That is, Spurgeon says this. I think I see him. He sets one foot down to the glory of God. He plants the other to the same note. He walks to the glory of God. He carries his bed. To God's glory. He moves his whole body. He speaks, he shouts, he sings, he leaps to the praise of God. Can you imagine? Seeing that. When I was in Israel, we went to Capernaum. And archaeologists have uncovered this very house, Peter's house. Should know that. You can go to this house. And they've built a structure. Over this house to where you can look down on a glass floor, and you can look down and see in this house See the very spot where this took place. And I just remember being there and in my mind's eye seeing this thing happen Seeing this incredible miracle of God taking place there where this man gets up and he walks away. Such is the power of our Lord Jesus Christ. And here's the last thing. Be motivated by the glory that God receives. So look at the reaction. Look in verse 8. But when the multitude saw it, they marveled and glorified God, which had given such power. Unto men. They were just amazed. They were astonished. And they glorified God. You know why we do what we do? For the glory of God. That's it. You say, why do we have a want to have a Sunday where we want to invite your one, bring others to for the glory of God. Because Jesus Christ is willing and able to save. And when Jesus Christ changes the life, you know who gets the glory? God does. And another worshiper is added to that congregation of worshipers who sing the praise of Jesus Christ. And God gets the glory. That's why we're in this. We want God to be glorified. And so friend, I want you to make a commitment to the Lord Lord, for his glory, to get involved in bringing others to Christ and pointing others to Jesus. Let's bow for prayer. Together today. And so, Lord, we thank you. What a beautiful story. What a wonderful story. We see your power. See your mercy, your grace. We thank you that you are a willing Savior, that you're able to save. And Lord, we believe that in this story, this man not only walked away healed, but He walked away with saving faith because he believed in the Son of God. And you called him my child. Lord, beyond physical healing, we want spiritual healing. to take place in the lives of people. So many broken, hurting people all around us who need the touch of our Savior. Lord help us Make us mindful of the people around us so that we can bring others to Jesus. Lord, may be we be willing. To take advantage of every opportunity, to overcome every obstacle, to go to where the person is. To develop any strategy we need, knowing that our Savior is willing and able to save. And we do this, Lord, for your glory and your glory alone. So help us. Us. But heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give a brief invitation. Maybe that you're here today, and you yourself have not really come to faith in Christ. It's no accident that you're here. God's brought you here because He He's He wants to do a work in your heart. He wants to save you. And the Bible says, whoever comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Friend, if you want to come to Jesus He'll save you. He'll save you if you'll come to him. And would you be willing to pray right there where you are? Lord, I'm a sinner. I need a spiritual healing in my heart I'm here today because someone invited me, or I know someone here, and I'm asking you today, Lord Jesus, knowing that I'm not here by accident, that you would save me today. Today, come into my heart. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, would you be willing to pray that prayer right there? That simple prayer. Save me, Lord Jesus. Jesus. And friend, if you've prayed that, we want to pray with you. We want to encourage you. And then secondly, if you're here and you're a Christian, would you be willing to make a commitment with me to invite one to come to So that they might be introduced to the Savior? Would you be willing to make that commitment before the Lord God? I'm going to invite that one. Even now, maybe God is laying somebody on your heart. To place the face in your mind. Place somebody in your heart. God's saying, here's the person, here's your one. Here's the one I want you to invite. Here's the person I want you to pray for. Until they come to Christ. Maybe you just need to come to the altar today and say, I'm going to pray for this person. I'm going to make a commitment to bring them to Jesus I'm going overcome every obstacle to bring them to him. Let's all stand together We're gonna sing a stand of invitation hymn. If you need to use this altar, if you just need to come and pray for someone, if God's leading you To do that, or if you want to come to know more. Our ministers are going to come stand here. And if you need to talk to the one of them, you just come as we sing this hymn of invitation. Do what the Holy Spirit tells you today Just as I am. Just as I am with One, two, four. Sing it on the Lord. Just as I am waiting to win my soul. The law number should be Oh yeah, you Let's pray together. Father, again, thank you, Lord, for your word. The challenge that it gives us each time we open its pages, we're reminded again, afresh and anew, of what a great Savior. That we have. And what a great Savior that we have the opportunity to serve. So, Lord, speak to the hearts of your people and use these divinely inspired verses. To challenge us today, and we pray in the name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.