Good to see you here tonight. Take your Bibles, open to the book of Nehemiah. We're studying Nehemiah on Wednesday night, and we come to chapter 8 tonight, and the title of my sermon is Bring the Book. This is a wonderful chapter here in Nehemiah, and I hope it is something that will be an encouragement to us tonight I heard about two two little old ladies and they were walking out of the church one Sunday and one of them said, You know, my preacher certainly preaches for a long time. And her friend said, Well he doesn't really preach for a long time, it just seems like a long time I wonder what they would think of a service that actually lasted six hours. Can you imagine a service that lasted six hours long? And during that service of six hours, what if you had to stand for the whole six hours? Or you voluntarily stood. That's is what's going on here in Nehemiah chapter 8. And not only that, you know, you would think if a person came to a service and it lasted six hours and they had to stand for the whole service that perhaps they wouldn't come back the next day. But they all came back the next day. Now in our Bible conference, I got good news where you're not going to have to stand. It's not going to last for six hours. But here's a Bible conference where that happened. And it's just a remarkable situation here in Nehemiah chapter 8. And really what we're seeing here, what we're going to look at here in Nehemiah 8 is a time of revival for the nation of Israel. It's going to be a time of spiritual renewal in the life of this nation. Derek Kidner, in fact, he says this. He said this day was to prove a turning point. For now on the Jews would be predominantly a people. of the book. According to Derek Kidner, this this event that took place in the nation of Israel was a definite turning point. and the history of their nation. From here on out after this, they would be a people of the book And so really what we're going to see here in Nehemiah chapter 8 is that a strong emphasis on the Word of God is one of the primary marks of spiritual renewal or spiritual revival. Now, if you study church history, what you'll find is that down through the centuries there have been cycles where God's people have been negligent with reference to their spiritual walk and their spiritual life. And their spiritual condition at times in history seems to deteriorate. And then when those times come, God in his grace seems to send a renewal. But one of the marks of that time of renewal, however, is kind of a renewed emphasis or a renewed excitement over God's word. That's always a common denominator when revival or renewal comes. And we see this if you read throughout the Old Testament, even in the nation of Israel, when Israel languished under the reign of the evil king Manasseh and his son Ammon. And then Amon had a son and his name was Josiah, and you remember Josiah had a heart for God, and when he was sixteen he wanted to uh kind of renovate the temple and institute spiritual worship again and they found the word of God in the house of God and it was read before the king And he read it before the people, and this new emphasis on obeying the Word of God brought revival in the nation of Israel in years past. This same thing happened during the time of the Reformation in church history. When many people were languishing under the corrupt doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church, they weren't being taught God's word. Many of the Catholic priests didn't even know God's Word. They were teaching man's ideas And what happened was there was a rediscovery of the Word of God, uh men like uh William Tyndale Uh made sure to to translate the Bible into the language of the common man, English, and people began to read God's word. And there was this renewed emphasis on the preaching, the literal expository preaching of the Word of God. And again, this brought renewal and revival We're going to see this same thing here in Nehemiah chapter 8. Now let's remember the context. Nehemiah had come back to Jerusalem and he rebuilt the walls, but now his whole purpose has changed. Having completed the walls, now he wants to rebuild the nation. You see it was no good to have walls built If the people in the city of Jerusalem were not people that walked after the Word of God, we're godly people. You know, Jerusalem wasn't just to be another city, it was to be a city of people that were to fulfill their calling as God's light to the rest of the world. And so it was to be a spiritual capital. And in order for this to happen, a spiritual renewal had to take place there in the nation of Israel. And what you'll notice here in chapter 8, you know, if you read Nehemiah, the first seven chapters is really first person Nehemiah is giving his first person account of what's going on. I did this and I, you know, ha this happened, and he's giving a first-person blow-by-blow of the events. But when you get to chapter 8 Now it's third person. And Nehemiah is no longer the central figure. He's still in the background. He's still the leader. But there's another leader that steps forward. He becomes the central figure, and his name is Ezra. And so really it switches to third person about what's happening because Ezra is now the leader And Ezra and Nehemiah together are going to emphasize God's word and make God's word central in the life of a nation. And again, I say to you, if you want a spiritual renewal in your life, God's word has to be a priority. God's word has to be central. So what I want you to see here in chapter 8 are six ways to make God's word central in the life of any church or in your own personal life, and really, according to chapter 8, in the life of a nation. God's word has to be central. So let me just give you these six things. First of all, just write down the reading of the word The reading of the word. Look in verse 1 of chapter 8. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man. I love that expression. They all gathered as one man. There was a unity of purpose. There was an excitement. They gathered into the street that was before the Watergate. Before there was the Watergate in Washington, there was the Watergate in Jerusalem. And there's a revival that's going to take place here at this water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe, and to bring the book of the law. Which the Lord had commanded to Israel. Now notice the place. This is at the Watergate. This is on the east side of the city of Jerusalem, opposite the east gate. of the temple by the Gaihan Spring that is there. Archaeologists have discovered remnants of that gate area. This is the water gate because obviously that's where people went to to get water. Water was uh necessary for life It's interesting to me that this is the place where this renewal is going to happen, where the Word of God is going to be read. You know, water is a symbol, right, in the Word of God for the cleansing that God's Word gives us It's a life-giving source, and so it is with the Word of God. But notice the people, it says that they came as one man with his unity of purpose. And notice it was their request, because it says in verse 1, and they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law. Isn't that interesting? It's the people saying To Ezra. Bring the book. This is the attitude of the people. The people are saying, we want to hear the word of God Boy, that's a great congregation right there. And by the way, you're to be commended because I know you're a church that wants to hear the word of God. And this is what these people wanted. They said, bring the book The they is the people. Now you have to remember that in this day, now today we all have copies of the scripture. If you have a Bible, just hold it up. Thank God we all have a Bible, right? Some of you holding up your cell phones and your uh iPads. Good enough. Bring your bring the book. It doesn't say bring your iPad here in the Bible, right? It says bring the book. But the point is, you know what, we are so privileged to have a copy of God's Word. You know, back in this day, they didn't have their own copy. Uh the i if they wanted to hear the word of God, they had to listen to it being read from the priests. And and then back in this time it wasn't a a kind of a codex book, it was a scroll. They would unthrough the scroll and they would read from the word of God. And so they were excited about hearing it. They didn't have their own copy. They wanted to hear what the Word of God had to say. And so look in verse Number two, again the people and Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding. What does that mean? All that could hear with understanding Well, it's obvious men and women, but the all they could hear with understanding is I think a reference to even the children. Even those children that were able to come into the congregation and hear with understanding, they were there as well. So kind of picture in your mind families, men and women and children that were able to understand. By the way, I think as soon as a child is able to understand and comprehend the Word of God, they should be in the congregation of God's people. Now we have junior church and Sunday school classes, and that's all good and well, and we need that. We're talking about in the worship service, as soon as a child is able to comprehend, you know what, I sometimes we don't give children enough credit for what they can learn. In the congregation. I've had people come to me and say, you know what? My child has been quoting back to me things that you said in your sermon. You know, they're kind of preaching it back to me. You know, I had a a person tell me just this week, you know, my uh my child was just telling me uh what you had said on Sunday It's wonderful to know. And so here is a group of people that are together and they're hearing the word of God. And notice when it happens in verse number two. It says upon the first day of the seventh month It says on the end of verse 2. Upon the first day of the seventh month, this was the what would be really equivalent to our New Year's Day. This would be kind of the Jewish New Year. The seventh month was a special time on the Jewish calendar. This is a time when they would celebrate the Feast of the Trumpets. They would do that on the first day, and then the Day of Atonement was on the tenth day of the month. And then on the fifteenth day, there would be the Feast of the Tabernacles. So this was a very special month. This was a perfect time for a nation to come together and to get right with God and for there to be spiritual renewal. And look in verse number three. And he read therein Before the street that was before the water gate, from the morning until midday, before the men and women and those that could understand, and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. Think about that. He read from dawn until noonday. That's about six hours. Six hours. You know, now again, we don't want our services to go too long, and uh, you know, if we do, uh we may start to daydream a little bit. But notice that these people here, they were attentive, it says in verse number three. They didn't grow bored. They didn't grow indifferent. They were listening. They were attentive. And so we see that this was an important part. Of what God was doing spiritually new in the life of the church. It was just simply the reading of the scripture. This is important. Later on, Paul would say to Timothy in 1 Timothy 4. 13, Timothy, till I come, give attendance to reading. Give attendance to reading. Paul was giving Timothy instruction on how to lead God's church, how to behave in the church of God. And Paul said, Timothy, in the public worship service, you give attention to reading. That is, Timothy, you read the scripture in the public service. And again, we have to remember that people in that day did not have the Word of God in their hands like we do today. You know, until the invention of the printing press in the fifteenth century, the Bible had to be copied by hand. People would cop make handwritten copies. Often there was only one copy for large groups of people. Sometimes one copy in a city. And sometimes that copy would be chained to the pulpit That was common back in England in the early days. They would chain the copy of the Bible to the pulpit so no one would come and steal it, because that was the only copy. It was chained there. They were called the chain Bibles. And so it was very important the reading of the scripture. Nowadays, again, we have uh we have copies all over. And we're so privileged to have the Word of God in front of us. And you know, you think about it, God could have chosen to communicate His Word in different ways. He could have had angels come and just give it to people. But God's way was to have people write out the word of God. He wanted to share his revelation through the written word. And so in order for us to know what God wants us to know, we have to read this word. We have to study God's word. That's what God wants us to do. Read and study the Word of God. And I would argue this: that the strength of a church will be in direct proportion to the number of people who read and study God's Word. How many of us are really doing that today? We're really truly digging into the Scripture. I want to challenge you to do that. You know, I think sometimes We s we waste so much time. You know, social media can be a blessing, but it could also be a curse. And this technological generation with computers And all these things we have, it can be a blessing, it can be a tool, but it can also be a curse. Because a lot of times people are wasting time on these things when they could be studying and in the Word of God. And so we have to get into God's word. We have to read God's word. One of the marks of backsliding is that you lose your excitement for Scripture. And so there's the reading of the word. But now, right down here, number two, then there is the reverencing of God's word. Look at verse number four. And as were the scribes, stood upon a pulpit of wood Which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood, and I'm not going to go through all those names, these were the Levitical priests that were standing on his right hand and on his left And look down at verse number five. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people did what? They stood up. Now again, this was something that was uh voluntary on their part. The moment that Ezra got up there He was high above all the people. It's been estimated by scholars that there was perhaps 30 to 50,000 people assembled. There at the Watergate. That's a huge crowd. Thirty to fifty thousand people. And when he opens up the scripture, the Bible says they all Stood up. And why did they do that? Because this was an act of reverence for God's word. They believed that what they were about to hear was not the word of man. This was the word of God, and so they wanted to give it reverence. They wanted to treat it as such. They knew they were not going to hear man's ideas. Again, later Paul would write to the Thessalonians, and he said, For this cause we thank God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God, which you heard of us, you received it not as the word of men But as the word of God, as it is in truth. And in verse 6, Ezra blessed them. In verse 6, and Ezra blessed the Lord The great God and all the people answered, Amen and Amen, with lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord. with their faces to the ground. After Ezra would read the scripture, he would just thank God. He would bless God for the Word of God. It's appropriate after the reading of Scripture to say a word of praise to God. For the word that he has given us. And so they're showing great reverence for the scripture I think our churches today have a desperate need in our public services to show respect and reverence for the Scripture. And I think that is how we listen to it. I think it's how we treat it. I think all these things are included in that. And so I just wonder if sometimes here in America, if we've become so familiar, so accustomed to all these privileges, that we don't reverence and respect the word like we should. Let's not be guilty of that. And this this comes really it it becomes aware for me when I go to another country and I watch other people. Now other churches that don't have the privileges that we have. And I and I've told you this before. I hope I don't bore you with my stories, but When I was over in Africa in Cameroon, and I was getting I was at a seminary and I was getting ready to teach just a large group of students there, and I had two suitcases of Bibles that I brought with me. And I threw them up there on the table and I opened them up and tossed the lids over and I said, Look, I have in case that someone doesn't have a Bible, I just have a Bible up here. They're free, you just come get it. I mean there was a mad rush They pressed me against the blackboard, you know. They're literally wrestling over these Bibles. I was just shocked by that. So shocked by it And I remember that uh preaching there at that chapel there on on in this uh this on this campus, that I would preach for an hour and then I'd stop and they would say, Would you keep keep preaching? I'd preach another hour and they said, would you preach again? I preached another hour. I preached six hours one day and they said, Well, can you can you preach some more? I was losing my voice. I said, look, I gotta go rest. Um, you know, I'll tell you what, I'll come back this evening and I'll preach one more hour. And so I went to rest and I came back that evening and there was a big crowd outside the chapel and I thought, great, someone forgot to unlock the door And when I got to the chapel, that was not the case. It was crammed-filled with people. They were standing outside hoping to hear through the windows. And so I preached without a microphone, and I just remember praying, Lord, help me to be loud enough so that people on the outside can hear me. And they stood there and listened. Now, this this doesn't speak about me, friend. Listen, any preacher who was there Who would just simply, clearly teach or preach the word, they would have had that same kind of response. That's not doesn't say anything about me. It talks about, it really says something about them. And their hunger And their desire to hear God's word. It was so meaningful to them, so precious to them. And that's what I think about when I think about this, these people here in Nehemiah chapter 8. They were reverencing the Word of God. Listen, they stood for six hours. Just to hear the word read to them and to understand it. So here's the third part. There is the reading of the word, there is the reverencing of the word, then there's the revealing of the word. Look down in verse number seven And again it gives these names here, but look at the end of verse 7. And the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So when I say the revealing of the word, I mean understanding it. Now, beloved, there's nothing magical about just reading the Bible if you don't understand it. Okay? You have to have understanding if the Bible is going to really help you or do you some good. You know, I I know some Christians and they read through the Bible so quickly that they don't really stop to think, do you really understand what you're reading? Now I commend people if you want to read through the Bible a year, that's a great thing to do. But let me just say this. Um you we we have to understand it, okay? You have to have an understanding of what you're reading. You know, a lot of Christians like to boast about, man, I've been through the Bible so many times. Well the question really is, has the Bible been through you? Do you have an understanding of it? And so what was happening here was while Ezra would read the book of the law, he had these Levites around him. And so evidently what would happen is he would read for a while. And then he wanted the people to understand what he had read, and so he would send these men out, and they would go to these people, and evidently they would go divide up into groups, and they would help them to understand what was read That's what's going on here. Um and we would say these these guys that are these Levites that are with uh Ezra or an army of expositors or teachers. Now you have to remember this that these were exiles that had returned back to Jerusalem And when Ezra read the Bible, what was the language he was reading it in? He was reading it in Hebrew. And many of them had been in Babylon for all these years. They they some of them really didn't understand Hebrew, or they forgot a lot of Hebrew. And so there was a need then to stop and make the people make sure that they understand. There had to be someone who knew the language and could explain it, that was able to fill in some of the cultural gaps. Because you have to remember the law that was being read was written a thousand years before That time, a thousand years later. And we have the same thing today. You know, this Bible, it's such a wonderful book. It was written in years ago. The Old Testament was written some parts 3,000 years ago, 4,000 years ago, and then the New Testament 2,000 years ago. We're 2,000 years removed from the New Testament, so obviously there's going to be some cultural barriers, gaps, things that we have to understand about the people in that time. Somebody has to fill in those gaps Someone has to understand the original languages so that we can explain accurately what the meaning of the scripture is. Because listen, the meaning of the scripture is the scripture. We have to understand it. And so it takes people that are able to do that. Now I'll just say this, that, you know, most of the Bible is very clear. I believe in what is called the perpiscuity of Scripture. That is the clarity of Scripture. You read it, you're going to get it, because it's really not that hard in most places. But we all would have to admit that there are some places in the Bible that are hard. And it demands diligent study. And that's why God has given to the church gifted teachers and preachers and pastors to help explain The meaning of Scripture. And this is what we see here in verse 8. Look at verse 8 again. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense, that's the word parash, to make it clear They gave the sense to give insight, to give meaning, and caused them to understand the reading. That is, they assisted them in understanding the reading of Scripture And beloved, this is what I simply call expository preaching. You say, what is that? The word expository simply means to expose, to put on display. To just explain. And to me, expository preaching is not a method so much as it is a philosophy. You see, since I believe that this is the very Word of God. I'm not, God didn't call me to invent a message. He just called me to preach his message that he wrote. I'm not a waiter, or excuse me, I'm not a chef, I'm the waiter. All right? God cooked the meal. I just have to deliver it without messing it up, right? So this is what God wrote And I'm supposed to make you understand it. That's the philosophy of expository Preaching because again the meaning of the scripture is the scripture. And since I believe the Bible is the Word of God, I believe there's power in this book So I just simply try to unleash it and say, here's what God says. I have no authority on my own, but God's Word has authority. And so I just expound it. I make it clear. That means, and by the way, uh anybody ever heard the word homiletics? That's just a big word that means When a person goes to college or seminary, they study homiletics. That's the science or the study of how to preach. Actually, the word homiletics comes from two Greek words. Homo the same letic or to say, literally to say the same thing. Homoletics is saying the same thing that the text says. I just want to say the same thing that the Bible says. Okay? I just want to tell you what God says. And so that's what they're doing here. In Nehemiah chapter 8, verse 8, they're making sure that the people understand what is being said. So you see, I would just say sound Bible teaching must be accurate, it must be clear, and it must be applied to life. In order to help people. It has to be, first of all, accurate. I can't tell you something that's not in here. It has to start right here. You see, there's a there's another there's two other big words. That, you know, you don't have to remember them, but there's there's what is called exegesis, which means out of. I'm taking out of the Bible what's there. Isegesis is reading into the Bible something that's not there A lot of preaching is like that. They're reading into the Bible a message that's not really there. That's not giving God's word. Exegesis is taking out from the Bible exactly what is there. And that's what has to happen. And so there's exegesis, there's eisegesis. Let me give you a joke here, because I've been a little deep. All right, y'all ready for one? You heard about I heard about a student that went to seminary And uh and by the way, I want you to laugh at this whether you think it's funny or not. All right. He went to seminary The night he was going to leave, the church came together and they prayed for him. He gave him a nice love offering. Two weeks later he came back to church and the pastor said, Why are you here? He said, well, I went to seminary and the professor was teaching and he said something about an extra Jesus. And uh he said, I there's only one Jesus. He said, I need to get out of here. He said, but then I started thinking about it, you know, one Jesus was is gr is really good, two would be great. So I gave him another chance and went back to class. He said, Well why are you here? He said, because I went back to class And the next time I went back to class, he said, I is a Jesus. You know. I I told you to laugh at that, whether you Sorry about that. I retracted Isegesis is reading into it something that's not there. Exegesis is just simply taking out of it what is, making it clear, being accurate. Because if I don't get the right interpretation of this, I'm not giving you the real meaning of scripture, right? So I make it clo accurate. And clear and then apply it to life. And this means, you know, when you're when when a person is giving the Word of God, we're not trying to preach to scholars. The Bible wasn't written to scholars The Bible was written to church people, ordinary, everyday people, and it was written in a way that we could understand. Martin Luther condemned preachers who aimed at the intellectuals. And the crowd and neglected the simple and the unlearned people. And Martin Luther basically he said that even though he had forty doctors in his church He spoke to the simple, he spoke to the young people, and he said, if the educated people weren't impressed, he said, there's the door, just leave. He just made it clear and simple. And that's what we need to do. And then just apply it. But also Bible sound Bible teaching requires a commitment on the part of the teacher. Just let me just say this that in order to do that, I want you to know that it takes work. You have to dig into the scripture. You have to learn it. You have to study Because, you know, I would just say this, and I'm not fishing for applause or anything like that. I just want you to know that in order to really be prepared for a sermon, it takes hours of diligent study I would say for me, eight to ten hours per sermon, at least eight hours, just to get into the text of Scripture. And so it demands commitment. on the part of anyone who wants to teach. And that's not just for any preacher or pastor. That's anyone who wants to teach the Word of God to someone else, Sunday school teachers, and anyone else in any context It demands preparation on your part. So there is the reading of the word. There is the Reverencing of the word, there's the revealing of the word, making it clear, just like they're doing here. But then also write down number four, there is also In this, the responding to the word. Notice they respond. Look in verse number nine where it says that and Nehemiah Which is Tershapah and Ezra the priest, the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not, nor weep For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. Now, what's going on here? Now they're getting an understanding of what God's saying. And you know what the response is? There's tears. And why? Because there's brokenness. And what brought the brokenness? They're understanding what God says. And they're seeing what the Word says, and they're looking at their life and they're realizing they're not living up to what God says. And you know what the Word of God does? It brings conviction. And if we're ready to receive it and respond correctly, what's going to happen is there may be a little brokenness in us. You ever come to church and you hear a message from God's Word, and God convicts you about a certain thing, and it just breaks you down and there's tears? And there's a sense of conviction. You know the right way to respond to that is just submit to the Lord and say, God, I'm sorry. Help me by your grace. Just repent. You know, some people they get mad. The right response is the response here, there's a brokenness. There's a repentance that we see here that's happening. And so really there's kind of a progression, isn't there? There is the communication of God's word, then there's the conviction that comes, and then there is the cleansing that takes place. When there's real repentance, There's cleansing, and you know, evidently that's what happens here because Nehemiah, who's watching all this, he's hearing Ezra read, he's seeing people understanding the scripture, he's seeing the response, he's seeing True tears of brokenness and repentance on the behalf of the people. And by the way, God always honors a brokenness in the heart of this people over their own failings and sins. Because let's face it, folks, we are all sinners. We all fail and fall all the time. But when we come to God in brokenness, God always forgives and he cleanses us. You know what? God wounds us that he might heal us. God convicts us that He might forgive us. And after that there comes a time of rejoicing. Notice the next thing: there is the rejoicing in the Word. And Nehemiah reminds them: look, this is a day of joy. Verse ten, then he said unto them, Go your way, and eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is a holy unto our Lord, neither be ye sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. And so the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy, neither be ye grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and to drink And to send portions and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared to them. So it it brings great rejoicing. Again, there's conviction, there's cleansing. You know what happens after that? There's celebration. Because you know what? After the Word of God has dealt with our hearts thoroughly, and we know that we're right with the Lord, you know what that brings? Great joy. And this is what's happening here. The Word of God brings joy. Did you ever notice that? You ever just read God's word and it brings joy to your heart? Ever study it? And it just rejoices your heart when you hear the truth of it. Jeremiah said, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and the rejoicing of my heart Jeremiah said, man, I dug into the scripture. I tried to understand it. And when I did, man, it brought so much joy. It brought so much rejoicing to my heart. The psalmist said, Lord, your testimonies I've taken as a heritage, for they are the rejoicing of my heart. And so God's word brings joy. We should be rejoicing over the word. This is what Warren Wersby said. I thought he had a good word here. He said: the secret of Christian joy is to believe what God says in his word and to act upon it. Faith that isn't based on the word is not faith at all. It is presupposition or superstition. Joy that isn't the result of faith is not joy at all. It's only a good feeling that will soon disappear. Faith based on the word will produce joy that will weather the storms of life. That's so true. So let me give you the final thing here. There was the reading of the word, reverencing, revealing, repenting, responding, and then returning to the word Because the rest of this chapter, if you read from verses 13 on down to verse 18, it's all about the nation now coming back to God. And obeying all the commandments that God gave. And for instance, look at verse 13. And on the second day. were gathered together the sheaths of the fathers of all the people, the priests and the Levites and the Ezra, the scribe, even to understand the words of the law And they found written in the law, which the Lord had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in boos in the feast of the seventh month. So they're hearing God's word read, and they are reading about the Old Testament feasts that God had prescribed and instituted. Now remember, what month is it? It's the seventh month. They started reading on the first day. Now it's the second day. And again, they're hearing what God's Word says. And according to the Word of God, on the tenth day of the seventh month, they're supposed to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles. Now what was the Feast of Tabernacles? That's when people would go and they would build these little um literally tabernacles, these booths. They were called Shakot, you know, kind of like a shed in your backyard. They would just build these little booths and then they would decorate them. They would put all kind of nice uh palm branches and branches from beautiful trees on the outside. And then they would live in them for seven days. You ever camp out in your backyard? It's kind of what like what they're doing here. This is called the Feast of Tabernacles. And and God said, You're to do this. And why did they do that? Because it was reminding the people of Israel that they journeyed at one time in the wilderness. And God's tabernacle was among them with his Shekinah glory. In fact, all the branches that were on the the uh the booth That was decorated like we decorate a Christmas tree. It was so decorated, all of that decoration was to remind them of the glory of God that dwelt with them. And so this was called the Feast of Tabernacles. Now it was the second day of the month, and they realized that they were to observe this on the 15th day, so they had two weeks to get ready for it. So they sent out word, they sent the proclamation, circulating instructions to people in the nearby hills. Look at verse 15. And that they should publish and proclaim in all the cities, and in Jerusalem saying, Go forth unto the mount and fetch olive branches and pine branches and myrtle branches and palm branches of three to make booze as it is written. And look at verse 16. And so the people went forth and brought them and made themselves booze, everyone upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, that is, they some of them they did it in their backyard, some of them built them on top of their roof. It says there in verse 16. And in the streets of the water gate, and in the streets of the gate of Ephraim, and all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booze and sat under the booze For since the days of Joshua, the son of none, until that day, had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. Can you imagine that? They hadn't obeyed the feast since the days of Joshua. And now here's the whole nation. And they're getting back, they're returning back to obeying God's word. Friend, that is spiritual renewal. Someone said revival is a new obedience to the Word of God. And if that's true, then that's what's happening here They're returning back to obeying the Word of God. And the Bible says there was great gladness. And look at verse 18. And also day by day, from the first day until the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly according unto the manner. And so each of these seven days, Ezra, he keeps reading the Word of God, and they keep explaining it. And so you talk about a Bible conference This is seven days. They're living in booths. They're hearing the word of God. In fact, for our Bible conference, I want you to live in your tool shed. No, I'm just kidding. But that's what they're doing. And they're coming and they're hearing. And you know what? There's a renewal. There's revival. This whole nation. comes back to God. And according to one Old Testament scholar, Derek Kidner, from here on out, they were known as people of the book Because of the renewal that had taken place in the life of the nation. I would just like to say that this is what needs to happen to our country right here. There needs to we need to get back to the Word of God. We need to get back to obeying God's Word. And I say that, I say get back because regardless of what you hear from revisionist historians This was a nation that was founded upon this book right here. This was a nation that was founded on the Word of God. Our forefathers believed in the gospel and the word of God. We started out that way. That's why you see scripture written on all the monuments, not all of them, but many of the monuments in Washington And on the Liberty Bell, a quote from Leviticus and other places, because this was a nation that was founded on that word of God. At the first inauguration when George or the first presidential inauguration when George Washington was inaugurated, he put his hand on the Bible and he added the word, so help me God, when he was inaugurated as president. And you know his first official act? He took the uh he took uh the Senate and the Congress and he led a procession. This was in New York. New York was the first capital before Washington. He led them down the street to a little chapel called St. Paul's chapel and his first official act as the president was to read them the scripture and then lead them in prayer. And to dedicate this nation to God. That was in a little chapel there in New York City. By the way, you know what When Solomon dedicated the temple, that was the place of the dedication for the nation of Israel. And when they disobeyed God's word, you know what happened to that temple? It ended up a heap of stones. Because God punished them for their disobedience. And the place where this country was dedicated to God was in that little chapel in St. Paul's there in New York. And that also became the heap of stones because that very spot became ground zero on 9-11. Maybe God was sending a message to our country because we have moved away from obeying God's Word, moved away from the Word of God. I think as a country we need to commit to get back to God's Word. If a nation is going to have spiritual renewal, we have to get back to God's Word. If A person. If you're away from the Lord, if you're not where you should be spiritually in your life, the first step is to get back to the Word of God. Renew your commitment to read and to study and to meditate and to receive and to reverence the Word of God Because you know what will happen? A renewal will take place in your own heart and in your own life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight And so, Lord, I pray that you'll help us to understand how important this is. Lord, I pray that if there's some here tonight that need spiritual renewal, That they would make the Word of God central in their heart and in their life. May they learn from this wonderful chapter here. May they get back to just simply reading your word, to reverencing it, to revealing it, to understanding And then, Lord, to responding correctly to what you show us. And then, Lord, to rejoice in what you've given us. And to return to just obeying your word. So simple yet so profound and so needful. And so, Father, I pray that you will indeed help us to do this very thing. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious, wonderful name with heads bowed and eyes closed. Let me just say that's my prayer. I I need a little bit of a renewal in my own life. And so I'm asking God to help me to get back to the Scriptures. That's your prayer. Would you just lift your hand before the Lord and say, Would you pray for me? Father, these are your children, your servants. Work mightily in their heart, Lord. And do Lord what you promise to do, that when we come to you in repentance, you do give us a renewal, a time of refreshing. And so Lord, may that be true in all of us, we pray. In Jesus' precious and wonderful name, we thank you, Lord in Jesus' name, amen