Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to the book of James, chapter 5. We've been going through the book of James and we come to the last message in this series that we've done on Wednesday night. We're going to look at verses 19 down to verse 20. of James chapter 5. And tonight I don't want to talk about bringing back the airing one or restoring those that go astray. Look in James chapter 5 and verse 19. Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one converted, let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the air of his way shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude of sins. And so this is James, and I think in this these last two verses, we could say that this is a fitting conclusion to this book. Because James' primary objective in the in this letter is to talk about genuine faith and to cause believers to examine their heart to make sure that they really know the Lord, that their faith is genuine, with the possibility that you your faith may not be real. And so this is a warning to make sure that your faith is real. For those who go astray, you better also make sure that what you have is the real thing. It's very possible that what you have may not be real faith. Or it could be that you are a true believer and you're simply wandering from the faith. But either way, James is giving us a warning here These verses cause us to give pause, to examine our heart, to guard our heart, and also it's a call to other believers to help those who may be wandering from the faith. Now, it's possible for any or all of us to go through something like that at times in our Christian life. It's like the songwriter Robert Robinson wrote, Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. prone to leave the God I love. And those were those words were written by a man who was a gospel preacher, and he was saved under the preaching of George Whitfield. And however After being well known all over Great Britain, he himself wandered away from the faith. And years later, however, he was able to get restored and to come back to the Lord. But uh the the words that he wrote in that hymn And again, it's true of all of us. There's something in our hearts that will cause us, if we're not careful, to wander. And so we need to say also, like he wrote in the song, Here's my heart, Lord, take and seal it, seal it for thy courts above. But if someone does wander from the faith, uh Jane, what do we do about that? James is going to tell us. He's very practical. And so I want you to consider two ideas tonight. Number one, we're going to talk about the possibility of our folly And when I say falling, I don't mean absolutely falling away from the faith because if you're saved, you can't lose your salvation. But you can't fall out of Christ, but you can fall down in Christ. And you can wander away for a time. And so there's the possibility of our falling, but then secondly, I want to talk about the responsibility of our calling. So I want to talk about these two thoughts tonight. First of all, the possibility of our falling. James tells us it's a possibility in verse nineteen, brethren, if any of you do err from the truth And the if there, the grammatical structure of this word suggests that it's something that's probable in the future. And so again, this is kind of like a flashing yellow light saying, caution, be careful. Because it's possible that you do err from the truth. Now notice the person here is a disciple. He calls them brethren. And so he's talking here to the church or anyone who's assembled in the church. Earlier when James used this word brethren, again he was talking to the whole assembly, he used that word in chapter 2, verse number 1, when uh James was writing there, chapter 2, verse 1, when he says, My brethren And here he's using the same thing. And so you have to remember that when a writer is writing or even a preacher preaching, there's a group of people that he's writing to that are on all kinds of levels spiritually, right? It's kind of like a mixed bag of people spiritually speaking. There may be those that are newly saved and they don't haven't really known the Lord for many years. There may be those who have been saved for a while, but they're still relatively immature. And then there are those who are weak. They're saved, but they're weak in the faith, and uh they need to be strengthened and encouraged in some way. And then he may be, of course, speaking of those who are mature and strong. And then he may be speaking to some people who made a profession, but their faith is not really genu genuine. And so when a preacher preaches, there's all kinds of people on all different kinds of spiritual level. But here James is giving a judgment of charity, and he's assuming that all the people that he's writing to are brethren. That they know the Lord. But again, it's up to them to examine their faith. And he's saying, if any of you, and so he's saying it's possible for you, if you're not careful, that you can err, that you can uh slip away from the truth. And uh don't ever get the idea that you get you can grow to the point where this is not possible for you. Because that's just simply pride. It doesn't matter what your spiritual level is, it doesn't matter where you are in your Christian journey, you can be subject to wandering away from the real truth. And I've seen people on all different kinds of spiritual level wander away from the truth. The Bible says, wherefore let a man who thinks he stands take heed lest he what? Lest he fall, right? We know that. And so those are all people are are candidates for this kind of uh spiritual catastrophe, we could say. And so, and if you don't understand that, if you don't believe that, then you don't understand the nature of sin. We have to always be on guard. We can never stop being vigilant against those forces from the out on the outside, but also our own hearts. Our own heart will pull us aside. The Puritans said that we have to have what they called a quote holy suspicion of self, end quote. I like the way they say that. That means you've got to constantly be suspicious of you. You know, we have the tendency to be suspicious of other people, but the the Puritans say, yeah, but you need to be suspicious of yourself. Because you have this sin nature and your heart can lead you out of the way. So we have to remain vigilant. And so we see here then that Not only is the problem dangerous and the person a disciple, but also the path is deceptive. Look again in verse 19 where it says, if you do err from the truth. The Greek word air here is uh plane uh planeo and it's where we uh where we get the word if you can you can hear it in there this word the word planets planeo planets And this is where we get our word planets from, because the Greeks would use that word to talk about wandering bodies into heaven that seemed to have no orbit and they were kind of just wandering through space. And so it's used to describe wandering. It was used in the Bible to describe a physical wandering when a person or an animal gets lost. It's used in Matthew 18, 12 about the sheep that wanders from the fold. It's also used to describe spiritual wandering from the faith, to apostasize from the faith, to stray from the faith Now the verb here is eris, which means it is a it's it's a one-time act here. In other words, this is not habitual, this is not a pattern of a person's life, it just happens It's not consistently happening, but it happens at one point in time. And so uh this again to me seems to imply that he's talking to true believers here. It's possible for you to this is not a a a way of life. You're not constantly wandering away from truth, because if that's the case, you need to really examine whether you're truly a believer, because unbelievers uh who profess to know Jesus, they they make a profession and then go out and live like the world. They're constantly walking away from the truth. And that, my friend, is someone who needs to really consider uh whether they're truly saved. But this is a one-time thing. Not a habitual thing. The verb is passive in voice, which means this, that the straying believer has been led astray by some outside force. It wasn't their own active uh thing that did it, their own active actions and things. It wasn't something that they necessarily pursued, but there was some force from the outside that caused them to wander away from the faith. Something or someone deceived them Now this could be a person, of course, where we're in scripture reminded constantly to be careful that there are many deceivers in this world, right? John said that. There are many false prophets that are gone out. There's a spirit of Antichrist already in the world. We know that there's going to be a person one day called the Antichrist. But hit the spirit of Antichrist is already here. And there's already a lot of false prophets. There's the Jim Joneses, the David Koreshes, the cult leaders. that are constantly taking people and and and leading them away from the truth. It could be a passion, not a person, but a passion, a inward passion. We Saw this already. Remember in James chapter 1 that we're drawn away of our own lusts and enticed. Sometimes it's our own inward lusts and passions that could cause us to get out of the way and get out of the way of truth. But then it could be a philosophy. In fact, the word world is the word cosmos, and it has the idea of a philosophy or a system Um it could be a system of ideas, some strange teaching or strange idea that just comes down the the pike and it just causes believers they latch on to it. Let me just say this, and I know you already know this, but I'll say it again. You know, don't believe everything that a person says just because it comes from a pulpit. And just because a person claims to be a representative or a messenger of God, or you know, they seem to be in a fundamental church, you know, a lot of false cult leaders come from fundamental churches. There's a lot of people in there that are teaching all kinds of things that are not true. That's why you have to be very careful to measure everything that the preacher says with the Word of God. God's given you a mind to discern. He's given you the Holy Spirit to help you. So you can use those things to see and check to make sure that the the that what you're being taught is biblical. I I say this because The most discouraging thing for a pastor to see is to see someone that they have taught, you see them grow, and they seem to be really getting it, and all of a sudden they're listening to some bizarre teaching out there from a charismatic, persuasive person. And they begin to latch on to that and you can just see them begin to go astray. Rather than using their Bible to check and to make sure that what they're saying is true, they just gravitate, you know, because immature minds seem to gravitate to the spectacular. Something big, big splash, something new comes along, all of a sudden they're out of the way, they're no longer holding on to the truth, and they just hold on to some of these most ridiculous ideas that have no warrant in the scripture whatsoever. It's very discouraging to see that. And so you better be careful. Now, and so we see here then the path is deceptive. It could be a person, it could be a passion, it could be a philosophy. But then the other thing I want you to see is the the place is doctrinal. Again he says in nineteen. If any of you do err from the truth Any wandering is leaving the truth that God has revealed to us by His Spirit from His Word. It's very possible for a true believer to wander away from the truth. So we have to again be careful. We have to be vigilant. We have to hold everything up in the light of Scripture. We have to be discerning. God calls upon us to discern and to stay in the Word. But here's the second thing. We see then the possibility of our falling, but then number two, the responsibility of our calling. Now what James is going to show us here as well is that it's our responsibility to go after the wandering one And James' word assumes that our reaction will be to go after him. That's what he's assuming here. We are our brother's keeper. Again in verse twenty, let him know that he which converted a sinner from the air of his way shall save a soul from death. So again, with the way he phrases that, he's assuming That as a believer, when you see a brother or sister wandering away, that you are going to go after them. Now I know some of you say, well, that's the preacher's shop. Well, this might shock you, but the preacher is not omnipresent. And he's not omniscient. I know I seem like I know a lot. But I don't know everything. And I don't go around playing detective. I don't have a FBI, a fundamental Baptist investigation team I don't have people out there searching, you know, looking, combing the internet, the social media, to see what you're doing, to see where you are I don't have people investigating people's lives. I don't really know a lot about what goes on. But you know what? You in your circles, you see that sometimes. You see things. In fact, the preacher is normally the last person to get to know anything. You know But you know what? You have people all around you. And when you see that happen, what's what what's your response? I'll just pick up the phone and call Brother Harmon. Nope. That's not the right response. It's your responsibility as a brother or sister to go after them yourself in the love. And we're going to talk about that. Because this is what he's saying here. Let him know that he which converted a sinner from the air of his way shall save a soul from death. The word convert here means to bring back, literally to turn around. And it's the idea of repentance. It's the same word used in Luke 22, 32. Jesus said to Simon Peter, I pray for you that your faith fail not, and when thou art converted, same word, strengthen the brethren. And so, Peter, when you repent, go and minister to your brothers and sisters. Repentance is the key to restoration. We try to bring about that in a person's life. We try to bring about true repentance by going after them in love and in meekness and try to help them to turn from the air of their way. We must confront them so that they will come back. And James commends the believer that will go after someone they see wandering away from the truth for two reasons. First of all, you'll save a soul from death. Remember verse 20? You uh it says that number one, this if you convert the sinner from the error's way he shall save a soul from Death. That's one that's one reason it's commendable. Now what kind of death is he talking about here? I think what he's talking about here in the light of believers, this is physical death. You see, when a believer wanders away from God, what's God the Father going to do? Now we see this in other passages in Scripture that if you are a true child of God, And you wander out of the way, God's not going to let you stay there. What's he going to do? According to Hebrews 12. You already know that answer, right? He's going to chastise his own children. Hebrews 12, 4. When you're in struggling against sin And the writer says, look, don't forget this one exhortation, and he's pointing to the Old Testament, that the exhortation that whom the Lord loves, he what? He chastens. If you're a child of God and you know the Lord, he's going to discipline the one he loves. He's going to chasten every son whom he receives, the Bible says. And if you have to endure discipline from the Lord, there's a part of you that should rejoice because what does that reveal? That you are a child of God. Because let me tell you something about God the Father. He will chastise his own. He doesn't chastise the lost. What's he saving for the loss? Condemnation. If they don't know the Lord, if they haven't repented and trusted Jesus as their Savior, they're lost. And if they're in sin, God the Father is not going to chastise them. What's going to happen to them is they're going to come under condemnation after they die, a worse condemnation. And of course we don't want to see anybody go to hell. But unfortunately that's the destiny for anyone who doesn't trust Jesus. But if you're a child of God, if you go astray and you experience the chastisement of the Lord There's a sense in which you should rejoice some. You say, why? Now, it's not normal when you get spanked to rejoice. I mean how many among us, when our fathers spanked us, said, Praise the Lord, Dad, that's wonderful. Thank you so much. We don't do that. Um Hallelujah it hurts. Um We don't do that. It's not natural. But the but the writer here of Hebrews is saying, look, you know uh You remember that when you get chastised of God, that means you are really God's child. And you don't have to wonder about whether or not your your faith is real. Because God will chastise his own. And in a short time, to bear the chastisement of the Lord, it's grievous But afterward is going to yield the peaceable fruit of righteousness. That's what God's trying to do in all of our lives. He's trying to get us Up to par practically in our life, so that we are living practical righteousness. We're living out of our life what God has already declared of us, positionally, that we're righteous in Christ. And so that's what he's trying to produce, the peaceable fruit of righteousness. He's trying to discipline us, he's trying to train us Now, how does God do that? What are the patterns of chastisement? We talk about that. I've often said there's a threefold pattern. First of all, there's speaking. God will first speak to us. You know, he'll tell us from the Word of God, from the preaching of the Word. It will be like an arrow that comes straight to your heart And that's the relevance of God's word. Sometimes people say, Man, I feel like you follow me around all week long and you preach exactly what I needed to hear. I'm not that smart. That's God. That's the word. The word of God is relevant. And the the Spirit of God knows what his people needs. That's why I just preach the word and let the Lord the Lord do the work. Right? Because God's word is relevant. And so if God if God through his word is speaking to your heart, that means you need to just confess that and repent and get your heart right. You judge yourself so that you don't need to be judged by God And God will speak to you first. He'll use other believers. He might use the words of a song. He might use various things, something that you read in a devotional book Or if you're still doing that, or something that someone says, or a verse of scripture, but God will not leave you alone. It's like David said in Psalm 32, day and night thy hand was heavy on me. I hear some people say, you know, a believer can lose their salvation. And that's ridiculous to me because if you read the Bible, it says that God doesn't loosen his grip when a believer sins, he tightens his grip. And David said that. Your hand was heavy on me. Spurgeon said this, God's hand is very helpful when it uplifts, but it's an awful, but it is awful when it presses down. Better a world on the shoulder like Atlas than God's hand on the heart like David. And then there you could go through a time of depression. David said this in Psalm 32, too. This is when he had sin in his life, and he wrote Psalm 32. He was miserable. And he says he groaned all day long. Because let me tell you something, the most miserable person in the world is not an unbeliever in their sin, it's a believer who sins. That's the most miserable soul But then there can be even physical depletion. In Psalm 32, 2, David said, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. That is to say, when I did not confess and get my sin right, it just seemed to have an effect on my body. My bones wasted away. You know, we we have heard about psychosomatic illness where this the things that are going on in your soul affect your body. And I think David, in a way, is describing this here. The sins of the soul can affect the body. And so God will speak and he'll use some of these things to wake us up. But then they're speaking, then I say the second level is spanking. If God speaks and you don't listen, what does he do next? He spanks, right? Revelation 3. 19, as many as I love, I rebuke, that's speaking, and chasten, that's spanking. He spanks. He'll use providential events to spank a person. He will bring some heartache, some painful difficulty. Like Jonah, he'll throw you overboard. You say, wait a minute, it was the mariners that thro threw Jonah overboard. Well Jonah in his prayer while he was in the bellies uh whale the in the whale, remember he wanted to take a ship to Tarshus and God put him on a submarine to go to Nineveh And while he was on that submarine called a whale, he prayed and said, Lord, you threw me out of this thing, out of the boat. You're the one who did this. Even though it was the hands of the maritimes, he knew it was the providence of God that was actually doing that. God threw him overboard. He ended up in the belly of a whale. Like Saul will be tormented by evil spirits. The Bible said God sent evil spirits from the Lord to To torment Saul. Like Samuel will be overtaken by our enemies and we'll be left grinding at the mill. And so God can spank us many ways, but oftentimes it's through some providential events to get our attention so that we'll turn to the Lord. They're all remedial. They're designed to be remedial. They're designed to cause us to turn to the Lord. Just like Jonah did when he was in the whale's belly and he repented. And God gave him a second chance. So there's speaking, there's spanking, and then there's a third level, and that's scourging. It says in Hebrews twelve, six, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens and scourges. I think this takes it to another level. And you don't want to get to that level because God's hand is much heavier on a person, and they go through a much more deep type of chastisement from the Lord. And then finally after that, they're speaking, they're spanking, they're scourging. What if none of that works? And a person still isn't willing to turn to the Lord. Well, sadly there's death. And John says in 1 John chapter 5, there is a sin unto death. It is possible for a believer to so harden their heart and so rebel and not repent, and when God speaks they don't listen, and when God spanks they don't listen, and then God scourges and they still don't repent. And a believer, I think, can cross the line where God says, that's enough. That's enough. I'm going to call you home. I'm going to take you home. Um there's a sin unto death where God can take a believer home early. You say, will God actually do that? He took the life of Ananias and Sapphira in the book of Acts. He warned the believers in Corinth. Paul said, There's there's some of you that the reason you died is because the way you approach the Lord's Supper You have shamed other believers. You've gotten drunk. You've brought in this pagan ideas into the Lord's house and you've treated the Lord's Supper in an unholy way. And that's why some of them died. And Paul warned them. This is why some among you sleep. Paul called it sleep because they were true believers. And then he took the life of Saul in the Old Testament. Now I know there are some that would argue whether Saul was saved or not But the Bible says in 1 Samuel 10 9 that there was a point in Saul's life where God gave him another heart. The Bible uses those terms. That sounds like regeneration to me. I think Saul was saved. I think he was stubborn. I think he disobeyed God. I think God chastised him again and again, and he still hardened his heart until finally he went to see the witch of Indore Trying to get a word from Samuel who had died. And God allowed that to happen. And Samuel was the one who gave the final prophecy to Saul. And what did Samuel say to him? Tomorrow you're going to be with me Tomorrow you're going to die. God had had enough with Saul. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, there was a situation in the church where horrible sexual immorality was done, and Paul said, Look, I'm not there. But I'm there in spirit, and I'm telling you that right now you need to turn this person over unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh. Listen, that the Spirit might be saved in the day of the Lord. Here's a person they sinned so grievously. That Paul kind of bypasses all the steps of spiritual discipline and say, This is such a heinous sin, it's such a shameful sin, that I'm telling you, even though I'm not there, I'm giving you by apostolic authority. And so that's physical death. God is not going to let a child of his stay in this world and embarrass and shame his name. Because the purpose of a believer is to glorify God. And so James says, if you see someone wandering from the faith and you go after them and you're able to convert them, you're able to help them come to a place of repentance. Then just know this, you have saved a soul from death. Because the ultimate end of that path is death. Remember, James already said that. When lust has conceived, it brings forth sin. And sin when it is finished brings forth what? Death. That's always the end result of unrepented of continual sin. It's death. And he says, look, if you go after that person and you help them, it's a commendable thing because you save a soul from death. And here's the other thing he says in verse 20. And shall hide a multitude of sins. You'll help to hide a multitude of sins. Now what does that mean? This does not mean that we sweep sin under the rug or that we ignore sin in the life of another believer. It just means that we love them enough to confront them so that they see the seriousness of their sin and they repent. And when they repent, guess who covers it? God does. God covers our sins. First Peter 4. 8, keep loving others, fervent love, since love covers a multitude of sin. And he's talking about the end result of what love will do. In Proverbs, he's actually quoting from Proverbs 1012. In fact, Peter and James are quoting from the same passage, hatred stirs up strife, but lover love covers all offenses. And so this verse reveals two ways to respond to sin in another. You can stir things up with hatred, or you can cover things up with love. When you see a person wander away, what's your first response? To stir things up with hatred, start gossiping about that person, tell others, say, hey, guess what I heard, guess what I saw? You're stirring things up with hatred. Or you can cover it up with a love. And some believers when they see others fall or wander, they rejoice. And that's hard to understand. That's the epitome of selfishness because remember what 1 Corinthians 13 says? Love never rejoices in iniquity, never. It never does that. If you take delight in someone's fall, that reveals that you don't love them. And in some way you feel superior to them, some way it makes you feel better than them. And you're not. You're you're not. And that's the epitome of selfishness. And so some believers will rejoice, some will reveal. They just go around and they gossip about it. They talk about it to others. They they have a motto, I don't say anything unless it's good and boys it's good. Let me tell you about it. And they just they gossip. They can't wait to go tell their friends. You have to belittle to belittle. And then some believers reject. They just get judgmental. They get they condemn. They look down. Someone said that the church is the only army that shoots its unwounded. And I'm afraid that that's sometimes true. But then there are some believers that genuinely go after them to restore, and they do it with love. And that's what he's saying here. You'll hide a multitude of sins. You'll help to with love cover those sins when you go after that person in genuine love. How does love cover sins? And I think I told you this before, there's really two steps here when a person sins. If a person sins against me, my first response is I just freely and I immediately forgive. That if it if it's a small sin, if they Say something or do something and you know whatever. My first response is I just need to let that go. I just need to forgive. That's my default mode. That's your default mode as a believer. We just automatically forgive sins freely, unilaterally, unconditionally, unceremoniously. You know, we just let it go. We forgive. And so that's one step. Now there's another step, however, and that is that there are times when you have to confront. There are times when when you can't let a sin go. If someone sins against me, there's times when I can't just let that go. My forgiveness can't be unconditional. No, it has to be conditional now. Why? Because the nature of this sin is that it's it shames the body of Christ, perhaps in a in a bad way. It's destructive. It's self-destructive for this person. If they continue down this path, it's going to really, really hurt them. It's gonna really mess up their life, mess up their family, just do a lot of damage, and we can see that. In that case I'm going after them, not because You know, I'm wounded or it's personal against me. I'm going after them because I love them and I don't want to see them destroyed. I don't want to see this thing overtake them. I don't want to see the end result of where this goes. That's the time then that I have to confront them over this thing. For the same reason a doctor tells a a patient the truth about cancer. If a if a doctor knows a person has cancer, they have to tell him, hey, this you've got this you've got this cancer and here's how you gotta deal with it. And sin in the life of a person is the same way. It's a spiritual cancer. I mean if I see a child playing with a loaded gun, I'm not gonna stay silent about that. If I see a believer playing with sin in their life and I know it's destruction, I'm not going to let that go. So I have to confront because I love them. And even here, what I'm doing is I'm seeking their restoration That's what I want. Because I want them back. I want them safe. So let me just show you a passage. Go to the book of Galatians real quick. I think this is kind of a good parallel. Look in Galatians chapter 6. And I want you to look in verse number one. And because it it count it sounds very similar in Galatians 6 verse 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, that sounds familiar, doesn't it? Makes you wonder if James was copying Paul here. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fold, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself lest thou also be what tempted. And so James here tells us, look at verse 2: Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So we bear one another's burdens, and when we do that, we fulfill the law of Christ. And what's the law of Christ? The law of Christ is, remember Jesus said, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another. This is what some people call the extra commandment, the eleventh commandment. I heard about a preacher who broke down in his car and uh He was hitchhiking along the highway. Finally he saw a church with a parsonage and he went to the parsonage door and knocked on the door. He didn't look l much like a preacher because he was hitchhiking. He had his you know old clothes on and He said to the pastor there, he said, look, I'm a traveling evangelist, I need your help. And the preacher said, Well, you don't look like an evangelist to me. He said, Let me give you a test. How many commandments are there? And the evangelist said, eleven. He said, aha, gotcha. There's ten. The Vangel said, uh-uh, there's eleven. Jesus said, a new commandment I give unto you that you love one another. I'm asking you to obey that eleventh commandment right now. So the new commandment is that we love one another. And this is what he's saying here, you know. Bear one another's burdens. When you do that, you fulfill that law, that commandment that Jesus gave. And so he tells them how to do it. First of all, pick them up. If you see someone overtaken in a fault Then you which are spiritual, he says you who are spiritual, again he uses the word brethren, he's speaking to the church. The word fault here means a stumbling or a blunder or a fall. This is referring to a sin. If if it's over i if you see a man be overtaken, or if a man be overtaken in a fault, and there's different ways to look at that, I don't think this is talking about a person to where the sin was so great they had no choice, if the sin just overtook them. Because that takes their responsibility out of it, right? I hear sometimes I hear people say that, well, I just couldn't help it. The sin was so overpowering, it just overtook me. And what are they saying? It wasn't my fault. No, it's always our fault. We always make a choice. And the Bible says God, when we're tempted, He doesn't allow the temptation to be so great that we have no choice. God is God is faithful, He will not allow you to be tempted attempted above what you're able to. I think I think the idea here is, and I could be wrong, but I don't think I am. I was wrong one time, but I I was actually wrong about being wrong. I'm just kidding. I really think what it's referring to here is that the one who's overtaken is this man, this sinner, but he's overtaken in the sense that another believer sees this happening in their life. I think that it is the believer who overtakes someone who is falling into a sin. Here we are, we're just walking along, we're minding our own business, we're living our Christian life, and we come upon a believer that has fallen into this pattern of sin. Again, we you we don't send out the FBI, we don't investigate people's lives, we just do our normal routine. We're just trying to live our life and be faithful. And we just in that routine we will come across people that are in a pattern of sin. And when we see that, it becomes our burden to help them through it. The Bible says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. Who are the spiritual ones? This is very important. The spiritual people, what does that mean? Well, it's people who have the mind of Christ, 1 Corinthians 2, 15 and 16, that were able to judge and discern. We and and the second thing the Bible the way the Bible defines being spiritual is that we're filled with the Holy Spirit. The Word of Christ is dwelling in us. We know the Word of God. We're able to discern. We're filled with the Spirit. We're walking in the Spirit. We have the mind of Christ. People like that are the ones that God will use to help restore those that have fallen away in this pattern. And notice you restore them. The word restore here is a word that means to repair. It it really is used of a doctor that sets a bone after it's been broken. And and that takes gentleness, right? I don't like those rough doctors. It takes gentleness and it's also a fisherman's term to repair a net. And so it's the idea of restoring it back. And notice our spirit, the spirit in which we do it, it says here that you do it in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself. Lest thou also be tempted. We restore others and we do it with a humble spirit, knowing that at any time the roles could be reversed. I I could be the one that's fallen. I could be the one next week that that goes into a pattern of sin. And so I do it with meekness knowing that it could be me very easily. And I might need their help later on. We're in this together and we need the the help of one another. And so we go to them and we restore them and we ask them to break off sinning what they're doing, stop what they're doing and come back and and and bring them back into the fellowship. And so we pick them up. We hold them up in verse 2 where it says we bear one another's burden. That's the idea of holding them up. Now some people look at this as a contradiction. In verse 2 it says, bear one another's burdens, and then in verse 5 it says, for every man shall bear his own burden. Well you say, well it says bear you know another's burden, but then it says every man has to bear his own burden. I don't think that's a contradiction. I think it's just two types of burdens. There are personal burdens. These are things that I have to carry. That's verse five. There are burdens that I have to carry. No one else can carry those burdens. That is, I'm the the the burden of being a father. And that's my load of being a husband, of being the pastor of this church. There are just certain personal things that God's going to put on me, and no one else can do those things but me. Those are my personal things, and I have to bear those up But then the burden that it's talking about in verse 2 is the burden of sin, and that's a burden that no person can bear on their own. They need the help of others. And so if we see someone that's fallen that way, that's the beauty of the church. We go after them. We we run to them. We love them. We want to restore them. And we don't let 'em go. We we want them to to be all that God wants them to be. And that's what the church is all about. It's not just coming here hearing a sermon and leaving and forgetting about it. We are a family together. We are accountable to one another and we love one another and we want to see each other grow. And so we have to be willing to bear one another's burdens. And it's not always easy to do. And again, we have to be cautious of our own pride in verse 3. Look what it says, for a man think himself to be something when he's nothing, he deceives himself. Be careful about your own pride. You know, comparing yourself to others who may be going through a difficult time, that's a very proud thing to do. If you think you're something or you think you're better than anyone else, you're not. You're simply not. We are all people that are in need of the grace of God and the mercy of God. And then it also says in verse 4, but let every man prove his own work. then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone and not in another. That is, each person should examine his own work. You can claim you're working for the Lord that you're spiritual, but you're going to have to prove it. Well, someday you're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and you're going to be judged for all your own actions, so you better examine your own heart. is what it's saying there. And then finally the last thing is build them up. Look at verse six. Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. And what does that mean? Very simply that that, you know, when we restore them and we we hold hold them up, we also want to teach them the word So that they are edified, so that they're built up. And let him that is taught in the word, this is the person who's getting taught. Here's an exhortation for them that he t that uh Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teaches. That would be some like someone like me. If I help you, I help you grow in the faith. I help you get beyond this in your spiritual life and you're built up. Then you need to communicate to me, it says. In what way? In all good things. What does that mean? And there's different interpretations of that. Some people think it means money. It means you should take care of the preacher and all that. I've read a lot of commentaries that had to say that, you know. And I and I know the Bible teaches that and I don't want to get off on that. Let me just say that I'm very grateful for the way Grace takes care of all their pastors here. We are gloriously content, we're happy. I'm completely content and feel overpaid already, to be quite frank with you. I don't think that's what this is referring to here. I know there's a lot of arguments about that. I think when it says in verse 6 to communicate unto him that teaches in all good things, I don't think that's referring to money. I think what it's referring to is spiritual things. I think the good things here are spiritually good things. All types of great spiritual blessings that come from teaching others and building them up. I like to say it like this. Let him that is taught in the word share with him that teaches and all the spiritual goodies. You know what means more to me than anything? is seeing someone prosper spiritually. Someone grow. And they're walking with the Lord and they're being blessed. And you see that in their life. Maybe you've had a hand in that. Maybe you were able to point them to Christ, or you're able to teach them things and you see them growing. You know, that's what means more to me than anything That's what that's why we're in ministry. We're certainly not in it because we want a big paycheck. Anyone who's in it for that, they need to get out of ministry. We're in it because we want to see spiritual good things. And on the other hand, there's nothing harder, there's no burden greater for a pastor, a true pastor, than to see people struggling spiritually or to see people who name the name of Christ being unfaithful to Christ. I want to tell you that's the biggest burden that any pastor has to bear. People that should be faithful, that should be growing, that should be prospering, and they're not. And you and you realize you feel like you've done everything you can to help it and it's just not happening, that's a huge burden. But on the other hand When you see people that are just, man, they got it and they're growing and spiritually they're moving forward. I want to tell you there's no joy like that. If you're a pastor. There's no joy like seeing that. That means more to me than anything else. You know, I'm not a carpenter. I can't build something and say, look what I built. In fact, if I build something, I'm not going to show you it. It's not gonna be good. I can't fix anything. My wife fixes everything in our house. She uh went to Walmart. I see her eyeing a toolbox. I I bought it for her. She fixes everything in our house. It's I know it's it's pathetic. I'm pathetic. I get it. I can't fix anything. I can't build anything. Uh I don't have a whole lot to point to. I can't paint You know, I I can't draw. I can't do any of that stuff. What do I have to point to? People that are doing well spiritually. That's what I point to. That's what I take joy in. That's what I take delight in. And when I see it not happening, it's a burden. But when I see it happening, and people share that with me, they tell me what God is doing in their life That is communicating to me in all good things. And that's what I rejoice in. That's where I take delight. That's what brings me great joy. And a joy that should come when we see a person maybe that was wandering away and we help to pull them back in. And we see that they were rescued from a destructive way. That brings joy. That brings joy. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, thank you again for the Word of God and how practical it is for us. And Lord, I pray that we'll take to heart the words of James. This has been a wonderful study going through this letter about practical Christianity and Testing our faith to make sure it's real and it's genuine. And all the things, Lord, that we do that gives evidence of real faith. Surely this is one of them, Lord, when we see someone go away astray and we go after them and we bring them back. And this verse should also give us pause. It should cause us to examine our own heart. To make sure that our faith is genuine, that we're not being deceived, that Lord, that we are truly trusting in Christ and Christ alone, His work. Of salvation, of propitiation on the cross. Our whole hope and faith is in Christ, and that's it. And we see the evidence in our life. We see the works that faith produces. I pray, Lord, that'll be true of all of us that are here tonight. Let no one, Lord, that's a part of our church that are members be deceived about their own spiritual life, but that they know that they know that they are truly yours. And give us all a love and a burden for those that are deceased in some way. We live in such an insidious world, a deceptive world. It's so easy for people to be pulled out of the way. Lord, give us a burden for that. Help us to go after the erring one, to bring them back. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.