But I do want to share something with you that's very, very important. And uh first of all, let me just say that I am so very just blessed to see what's going on here with our Upwards program. I'm blessed by you coaches. You're investing in the life of young people. You know what? Jesus loves children. Did you know that? The Bible tells us that He loves little children. And when you invest in the life of a child Uh it's going to reap dividends. It's going to reap eternal dividends. So I want to thank every coach, every director, every um Cheerleading sponsor or whatever you do in Upwards, I just want to thank you. Of course I also want to thank Coach Chris. Is it just me or did he coach every team? Uh I don't know. I just kept hearing his name mentioned. I was just wondering if I was hearing that correctly. But we're so grateful for him and of course uh John and Sherry Gorham, what can we say about them other than they're just great servants of God and they just do so much around here. And I and I'm just blessed just to be here with you. And I want to share with you a passage of Scripture. In Matthew chapter 19, it says this Then were brought unto him, that is Jesus, little children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. In other words, here were people bringing children to Jesus, and the disciples were saying, Oh, wait a minute, Jesus is too busy You know, don't bring those children to Jesus, it'll be a bother. But this listen what Jesus said, how he responded. But Jesus said, suffer the little children. In other words, allow them to come and forbid them not to come unto me For of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them. That's my Savior. That's the Lord Jesus. He loves little children. And Jesus said, of such is the kingdom of heaven. And so Jesus loves children. And these parents did well by bringing their children to Jesus. Now I want to emphasize one thing. The Bible doesn't say that they sent their children to Jesus. The Bible says that they brought their children to Jesus. And there's a difference. Let me tell you the difference. I I grew up in Baltimore. Actually our family grew up in South Baltimore, not too far from Federal Hill. My father worked on the BNO Railroad down there by Locust Point. And I just remember him coming home after those long days of work. He was kind of a rough character. He didn't know the Lord. And uh my mother, my dear mother, a sweet and gentle woman, she always had a desire in her heart that her children learn about the Lord. Now she wasn't a Christian, but she wanted her children to know about Jesus. She knew there was something about that that she wanted her children to have. And I remember that one time my mother invested some money into uh some Bibles and she there's these little storybook Bibles and she uh would sit down and she would read stories out of the Bible, these picture Bibles to us. Now my father, when he found out about that, he got angry because he thought that was a waste of money. That was the kind of attitude he had. He had no time for God, no time for spiritual things. Later on, my mother found out that there was a church not far away, and she wanted to send us to church. And so there was a bus that would come around and would pick us up. Uh and this was uh years ago, many years ago, and she would put us on that bus and she would send us to church. Now my parents didn't go with us, but but she sent us and my father he was okay with that. I mean he was okay with sending us to church. And so Sunday after Sunday, we would go to this church, and by and by, after a little while, we just got tired of that. It got old, and nothing really happened to that. Nothing. We grew up, we became teenagers in our family. I have three brothers, but nothing really stuck. Now, my mother, she wanted us to go to church, but again, nothing really happened in our family. But she was sending us, she was pointing us to Jesus. But let me tell you something that happened. When I was about 14 years old, I happened to see my father one day get dressed up into a suit. And you know, I had never seen my dad in a suit. I mean, he was a blue-collar worker, he was a railroad. So I was wondering who died, you know. Was there a funeral? Why was he in a suit? Well, his brother had come to Grace Bible Baptist Church. And he got under the sound of the gospel, and his brother got saved. That's my Uncle George. And my Uncle George started witnessing to my father. And my dad decided That he was going to come to church and he came one night here to Grace Bible Baptist Church. This was years ago. This was like three buildings ago. And Pastor Johnson, our our pastor, our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson, who started this church, he and his wife was just a handful of people in great faith. And by the way, he is a great man of God, one of the best I've ever met or known. And I thank God for his faithfulness. He was preaching that night, and he preached the gospel so very clear that my father This hardened man, this man who wanted nothing to do with God, nothing to do with Christianity, he responded to the simple gospel message. And when Pastor Johnson invited them to come and give their heart to Jesus Christ, my father and my mother Walked down the aisle, and they knelt at the altar, and they prayed, and they asked Jesus to come into their heart. And I want to tell you something. Things were different in the Harmon home after that. He was not the same person When he came home from that service that night, he was already different. And you know what I noticed? My dad never picked up a Bible ever. But after he got saved, after he asked Jesus to come into his heart, you know what I noticed? Every day he was reading the Bible. I would walk by his bedroom And every day at the same time, he would be on his knees. He would have his Bible open. He would be praying. I had never seen that before. He was just a different man. Now let me tell you the way my father was. My father did not say, Jerry, I'm going to give you the choice of whether or not you want to come to church. We did not live in a democracy in my house. It was a dictatorship, a benevolent dictatorship. And my father said to me, Jerry, Get ready. You're going to church. Now I can handle going to church once a week, maybe every other week or so, but that's not what happened in the Harmon home. What happened was we came to church on Sunday morning. Sunday night, Wednesday night. I was in church all the time after that. You know why? Because my father could not get enough of God's word. God had done something in his heart. And now you know what happened? Salvation came to the Harmon Home. I saw the power of the gospel and the life of my father. Before I ever heard the gospel. And you know what? Coming here to grace, I got under the sound of the gospel. And as a teenager, I got saved and I gave my heart to Jesus Christ God saved me and then he called me and to come into the ministry and do the ministry. But here's my point. When my parents sent me to Jesus or sent me to church, nothing happened. But when they brought me to church, when they led me to church, when they said, we're going and you're going with us and you don't have a choice. You're going to come to church with us and you're going to hear the gospel. You know what happened at our home? Our home was changed dramatically by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And here's the challenge that I want to give to all of you parents out there. And by the way, we love you here at Grace. We do all this because we want your children to know Jesus. We want you parents to know that you know the Lord Jesus. And I'm going to challenge you to not just send your children to church, but bring them. Come yourself. Bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ and get under the sound of the gospel. What do I mean when I talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ? The gospel is very simple. You know there's only two religions in the whole world. Did you know that There's only two. Let me tell you what they are. There's man's religion and there's God's. There's man's way And there's God's way. You know what man's way says? Man says you can get right with God by just trusting or trying, just by behaving and doing all of these things. But God says no, you can get right with me by trusting. It's not by behaving, but by believing on what my son Jesus did for you on the cross. You see, there's due religion. People think I have to do all of these things, and that's wrong. That's man's religion and it's a false religion. Or there's done religion. And that's by putting your faith on what Jesus Christ has already done for you. That's the gospel. You say, What did Jesus do? Listen to me very carefully. Here's how the gospel starts: the gospel starts with the fact that God is a holy God. That means he doesn't tolerate sin. That means his holy nature must judge sin. He's a God of holiness. But let me tell you something else about our God. He's a God of love. He must judge sin, but friend, he doesn't want to judge you. So you know what God did? Here's his plan. Someone has to pay for sin. The Bible says sin brings death. Someone has to die for sin. But he doesn't want you to die for sin. Even though it's your own sin, because he loves you. So here's what God did. God sent his son Jesus to this world, his sinless son, the virgin-born son of God. And he lived a perfect life. In fact, he fulfilled all of the righteous demands that God had. And then on the cross, you know what happened? The Bible says God took all of our sins. Every sin that I've ever committed or ever will commit, every sin that you've ever committed or ever will commit, all of those sins were placed on Jesus. They were laid on Jesus just like I lay This notebook on my hand, all of the sins of the world were laid upon Jesus on the cross, and the wrath of God that should have fallen upon me, instead it fell on Jesus. Because he was our substitute. He took upon himself all of the wrath of God. Now here's what happened: God's holiness was satisfied because sin must be judged. He's a holy God. And God's love was satisfied because God demonstrated his love for us with his son Jesus on the cross, who bore all of our sins. And so you know how you get saved now? You know how salvation comes? It's by putting our faith in what Jesus already has done for us on the cross. It's not for what I do. I can't do anything to be right with God. I can't do anything to merit eternal life. I'm a sinner just like all of us. The Bible says all have sinned. But you know what? When I as a teenager, well you know what I saw? I saw my dad. Who was a sinful man, and he would tell you that. He put his faith in Jesus Christ. When he heard the gospel, he put his faith in Jesus Christ. You know what happened? God forgave him for all his sin. God gave him eternal life. God gave him a new nature. You know my dad still comes to this church. You know he's a deacon here at this church now and loves the Lord But you know why? It's because God saved him, God forgave him for his sin. God put a new nature in him, and now he desires the things of God. He's a new man. That's what God will do for you. When you put your faith in Jesus, Jesus will save you. He will cleanse you from your sin. He will give you an eternal home in heaven. And it all happens not because of anything we do, it's by simply believing Trusting in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. And friend, that's the simple gospel. It's very simple. You simply put your faith in Jesus. You place your whole faith in what Jesus has done. Let me just close with this illustration. There's a great missionary. His name was Robert Moffitt He was from Scotland. He went to be a missionary in Africa. And he had such a burden that the people there get the Bible in their own language that he started translating the Bible into the language of the people And he came upon this verse in the book of Romans that talk about believing on Jesus. And he couldn't find a word that really conveyed what the Bible meant when it talked about believing on Jesus. And while he was translating and mulling that over and trying to think of a word that would really convey putting your faith or believing in Jesus. A native happened to run into the hut where he was working. He was kind of out of breath. There was a chair that was right there. And the native just threw himself into the chair. You ever do that? You ever just kind of fling yourself into a chair? And your whole weight is on that chair. If if that chair didn't hold you up, you'd crumble to the ground because all of your weight is just on that chair. And that's what that native did. He ran into the hut and he just threw himself into that chair and he was just sprawled out there out of breath, huffing and puffing. And the missionary, Robert Moffat, said, What is the word for what you just did? And the native gave him that word, and that's the word. That Robert Moffat used to translate believe. That's what it means to believe in Jesus. It's to throw your whole self upon him And what he has done for you on the cross. I want to tell you here today, I know that I'm going to heaven. It's not because I'm a good person, I'm a sinner But I'm believing on Jesus Christ and what He has done for me on the cross. You see, I saw that happen in my dad's life. He put his faith in Jesus and God transformed his life. And one day when I was a teenager, I heard the gospel here at Grace Bible Baptist Church. And I, one day by myself, I prayed and I said, Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I know that if I died, I would go to hell because I deserve it because of my sin. But today, Lord Jesus, I put my Safe in you. And what you did for me on the cross, I believe on you, Lord Jesus. And you know what? The Lord saved me. And he changed my life. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. He's in the business of changing lives. He's in the business of healing homes. He's in the business of doing great things. in our life. And I want to tell you, he wants to do something great in your life. And so I want to challenge you, mom and dad, and you young people. That if you haven't already, put your faith in Jesus. Let him change your life. And he will. He will. Can I pray with you? Let's pray together Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we have so much to be thankful for. We thank you for our Lord Jesus, for you, Lord, Father, that you gave your son to us. You spared not your only son But you sent them here to this world to live a sinless life and fulfill all of your righteous demands, and to die on the cross in pain and agony, and to take all of our sins upon himself. And now, Lord, we know that salvation is a gift paid for by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And salvation doesn't come by trying, it comes by trusting. It's not by behaving, it's by believing. And I pray, Lord, that tonight you would open eyes and hearts so that people would see that Jesus Christ is the only way. He is the way, the truth, and the life. And no man comes unto the Father except through Christ. And I pray that tonight there will be some people that will place their faith in Jesus Christ, that they would come to know Him as Savior. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, dear friend, I would not do anything to ever embarrass you. That's not what this is about. We love your soul. We want you to know Jesus And if you're not sure of that, if you've never done that, I would you can you do that right there where you are? Did you know you don't have to walk an aisle to get saved? Although it's good sometimes to tell people you've confessed Christ You can get safe right there where you are. Just by placing your faith in him. Would you be willing to do that? Would you be willing to say, Lord Jesus, this very moment, I'm putting my faith in you and what you did for me on the cross at Calvary. I believe on you, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. Change my life And beloved, he will. He will. And if you've prayed that prayer, would you just do me a favor, would you just just lift your hand and let me pray for you? Let me just know. Is that your prayer? Anyone here? I see if several hands up, but and also would you do anything, just come up to me or come up to Pastor Johnson or Sounding Pastor or Pastor uh Aaron or Pastor John Gorham or Or Coach Chris, just let them know that you've put your faith in Christ. Because you know why? We just want to encourage you. We want to encourage you. This church is here for you. This church is here to help you And so just let us know so we can encourage you along. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. We know that your word will not return void. And we know that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. So Lord, do your blessed work, save souls, strengthen lives. We pray all this for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.