Malachi chapter 2. And look at verse 10. We're going to deal with verse 10 down to verse 16 tonight. But look at verse 10. Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother? By profaning the covenant of our fathers. Now I want to talk tonight about broken covenants. We are living in a time when people simply do not keep their commitments. Politicians make commitments to their constituents. only to have them break those commitments when they get elected and not follow through. Parents sometimes make promises to their children and uh don't fulfill those promises and some sometimes children grow up angry and lose respect for parents that don't keep their commitments. Employers sometimes make commitments to employees and Break them later on. Promise something and then don't follow through. And on we could go. It kind of leaves us with this one question, does anybody really do what they say they're going to do? Does anybody ever really follow through with the commitments that they make? Now, as we come to Malachi chapter 2 here, one gets the impression as you read this that God is angry. He is angry at a generation of people that do not keep their commitments. And again, the whole theme of chapter two really is broken covenants. Now what is a covenant? A covenant is a uh an agreement, a binding agreement between two parties. Um we see this in the Old Testament a lot, this word covenant, it's the Hebrew word bereit, which has the idea of cutting, because in the Old Testament, whenever a covenant was made, there was always some kind of a cutting of the flesh. In Genesis 15, when God made a covenant with Abraham There was the dismemberment of an animal and God in this Shekinah glory came down and walked between the pieces. And that was a very dramatic gesture, which basically said, if I don't keep my word, may I be just like this animal here. That's what two men would do back then. And Almighty God would condescend to enter into a covenant with Abraham. And so there's covenants that was taken. And Malachi teaches us one major lesson. The breaking of one's oath or covenant brings God's anger. It invites the wrath of God. As I said, chapter 2 is all about broken covenants. You have the covenant with Levi that was broken by the priest. Chapter 2, look down in verse number Verse 8 in that where it says, For ye departed out of the way, ye have caused many to stumble at the law, ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the Lord of hosts, the priests. broke the covenant that the Levites made with God. Then there's the covenant of Israel that is broken. The whole nation made a covenant with God and they broke that covenant Chapter 2, verse 11 and 12. And then there's the covenant of marriage. Malachi will speak about that. In verses 13 on down to verse 17, where there was divorce that was rampant in that day. And so what he's saying basically is nowhere does this lack of commitment be uh seen any more clearly than in the broken marriage covenant. That was a big problem in Malachi's day. Men were dealing, the Bible says, treacherously with their wives. Now Malachi lived at the end of an age, just like we live at the end of an age, and just like a lack of commitment characterized the people of Malachi's day, I think a lack of commitment characterizes the people today And so this is something that the Lord deals with here in this chapter. A person who will not keep their covenant is on dangerous ground with God, especially if that covenant is with God. Or if that covenant is in the presence of God, someone who would very carelessly and flippantly just break that covenant is on dangerous ground with God. It's a sign of a spiritual condition. So with that in mind, I want you to look at this passage tonight and see three ways that we break our covenants with Almighty God so that we can be warned. And we can be prevented from doing the same thing. If you're taking notes, just write down, number one, the travesty of an unequal yoke. The travesty of an unequal yoke. Look at verse 11. Judah has dealt treacherously And an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord, which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange God. What is this treachery? What is this abomination? By the way, the word abomination here is used to describe pagan idolatry and immorality. The people have profaned the holiness of God. They've committed a sin equal to idolatry. How did they do that? And verse 11 tells us, and have married the daughter of a strange God. You see, the abomination committed that profaned the holiness of God was intermarriage with pagans. The men of Israel were marrying pagan women who were worshiping false gods Now why is that a problem? Well, because when God made a covenant with the nation of Israel, Israel agreed to be God's peculiar people. They agreed to be a people that showed forth the holiness of God to the world They were to be the Lord's people. And when they made that covenant together, God expressly forbid the marrying of pagans. He expressly forbid intermarriage with those who worshiped idols and false gods. Why was that? Well write down Deuteronomy 7, 3 and 4 in your Bible. Neither shalt thou make marriages with them Thy daughter shall not shall thou not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. Listen to this, for they will turn away thy son from following me That they may serve other gods, so will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you and destroy thee suddenly. It's very clear. God didn't want them intermarrying with pagans because God was concerned that they would the pagans would pull their hearts away from him. And so but Israel, however broke that covenant. And they intermarried. By the way, this isn't the first time. In Numbers chapter 25, the Jews sinned greatly against God when they mixed with the women of Midian at Baal Peor. You might remember that And God judged them severely for it. The same thing happened in Ezra and Nehemiah, where they intermarried, and again they were punished. Now, by the way, this same problem is not totally absent from the church today. Did you know that as a Christian, God calls you to not be unequally yoked together with an unbeliever? The Bible says that, write down 2 Corinthians 6, 14 through 18, just put it in your margin if you don't already know it. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness, and what concord hath Christ with the Lionel? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols, for you are the temple of the living God. So the Bible is very clear on this. It forbids categorically for a Christian to marry an unbeliever. The Bible calls that to be unequally yoked together. Because when a Christian marries an unbeliever, there are all kinds of problems that result from that. And I realize I'm speaking to the singles tonight, to the young people. You need to make sure that you when you marry, you marry in the Lord. You say why? Because there's all kinds of problems that could come when you marry someone who doesn't know the Lord. First of all, write down the problem of spiritual disagreement. You see, the problem with marrying an unbeliever is that they have a different worldview. They view things differently than a Christian does. We view things through the lens of Scripture. Everything we see is through the lens of Scripture. How we see the world, how we see the sin in the world, the problems of the world, the solutions of the world, we look at it differently because we've been given the Word of God. But an unbeliever looks at things through a totally different lens. And when husbands and wives marry, they are to agree on the most important factors in life And the most important factor of all is your relationship to God Almighty. That's the most important thing, and you must agree on that. The Bible says, can two walk together except they be agreed You see, what happens when a believer marries an unbeliever is this. A Christian says, I want to go to God's house. An unbeliever says, this is my day off. I want to sleep in. A Christian says, I want to give part of our income to the Lord's work. An unbeliever says, no, we need that money. I can use it to do other things A Christian says, it's the Lord's Day, it's a holy day. An unbeliever says, it's the weekend. It's my day off. It's a holiday. A Christian says, we have a problem in our home. Let's pray about it. An unbeliever says, let's just work it out. We don't need that superstition A Christian says, I want to raise our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I want to teach them the Word of God. An unbeliever says, let's raise them our own way. Let's raise them to be successful in the world. And there's disagreement on the most important factors in life. Not only is there the problem of spiritual disagreement, but then right down number two, there's the problem of spiritual decay. When a believer marries an unbeliever, so many times the unbeliever will pull them down to their level. That's exactly what God was concerned with. That's why he gave this command. Someone might say, well, you know, I'm strong enough and I'm spiritually wise enough to bring this person up to my level. You think so? You remember Solomon the king? He loved God. He feared God. He was the wisest man in all the world at that time? Listen to what the Bible says in 1 Kings 11, 4, for it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God as with the heart of David his father. And so Solomon was turned away. And you probably don't fear the Lord any more than he did. Or as wise as he was One time a young lady came to Charles Spurgeon, the pastor of the Great Metropol Metropolitan Tabernacle, and she said, I want to marry this man. He's not a Christian, but I know that if I marry him, I can influence him and I can bring him up to our level. I can lead him to Christ. And Spurgeon tried to explain to her the risk of that and the danger of that. And she it wasn't registering. So there was a table there in his office, and so he asked the young lady, would you climb up on this high table? And she did And then he said, Would you take my hand? And she did. He said, now will you pull me up there on that table? And she yanked hard as she could, but she couldn't move that heavy creature one inch. And he gave a little gentle yank and pulled her down off that table. He said, You understand? It's so much easier to pull someone down than it is to pull somebody up. And the same is true spiritually. You see, a person who is married to a non-believer is generally never as faithful to church as two believers. That are committed. I want to tell you that it's hard enough for two Christians to be faithful. I mean if you're a young uh a married couple, it's hard enough. I mean you gotta start Saturday morning getting ready for Sunday morning If you've got small children, I remember those days. Thank God those days are over. I mean I miss my kids and everything, but it's just hard. It's not easy. You gotta be committed And so it's it's it takes commitment between two people. There was a lady named Olivia. She was a devoted believer. But she married a man by the name of Samuel Clemens. We know him as Mark Twain. He was very witty, he was humorous, but he was a skeptic. And he didn't believe the Bible to be the Word of God. But Olivia loved Samuel. And she believed that she could be a good influence on him and she could convert him. And she married him in disobedience to what the Bible says. And for a while things were okay. He let her practice her faith. But one day she was reading the Bible out loud. And he said to her, I can't sit here and listen to you read that any longer. And he walked out, and her heart was wounded. And she began to close up spiritually, and they both began to go their own way. And years went by, the marriage survived, but then one day deep sorrow came into that home. They didn't know where to turn So Samuel Clemens said to her, Olivia, if it helps you to lean on your faith, then go ahead. And she said, Husband, I don't have any more faith to lean on. He had brought her down to his level. There's a problem of spiritual disagreement. There's the problem of spiritual decay. But also right down number three, there's the problem of spiritual division. And the facts are very simply. Your home is more likely to be divided by divorce if you're married to an unbeliever. That's just a fact. Let me read you something. In a magazine called Marriage and Divorce There were some statistics that were given. Right now in the United States, one out of every two marriages ends in a divorce. However, in a marriage where both people were married in a church The divorce rate is one out of fifty. In a marriage where the couple is married in a church They attend church every Sunday. They pray. They read the Bible together. The divorce rate is one out of every 1,105. You see, friend, that's the difference that Jesus makes. That's why I say to young people, only date a potential mate Don't date someone that you can't marry and marry a Christian. That's why it's good for young people to go to a Christian college. Or go to a church that has a good godly college group. Because if you want to catch a good fish, you gotta go to a good pond, right? So go to those places where there are godly people. So you'll meet up with them. But make the decision right now. That you will marry in the Lord. Because if you don't, you're going to have in-law troubles. And I'm not talking about just In-laws. I'm talking about like one country preacher said, if you marry an unbeliever, you'll have the devil for a father-in-law because they're a child of the devil. And he said, Your children will have the devil for a grandpappy. And that's so true. Seek God's will. And the right way to find or the way to find the right person is simply to be the right person. Stop looking around, start looking up and be a godly person. And you know what? The Lord will bring the right person to you. So there's the travesty of an unequal yoke. God was angry at Israel because Israel had broken the covenant with God and began to intermarry with pagans. And then write down number two. There's the treachery of an unkept vow. The treachery of an unkept vow. Again, look in Malachi chapter 2 and look at verse 12. The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this. the master and the scholar out of the tabernacle of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the Lord of hosts. Notice God says, I'm going to cut off the man who does this. Does what? Look at verse 13. There are tears. It says, And this have he done again, covering the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he receiveth not the offering anymore or receiveth it with good will at your hand. Now notice there are tears here at the altar. Who is this? Here's a man worshiping at the altar with tears. But now listen, these are the tears of the man who unjustly and sinfully divorced his wife. And now he comes to the temple and he brings his offering to the Lord and he weeps with tears And God says, I'm not going to accept your worship. That's hypocritical. You've he's just divorced his wife. He's just married a heathen. pagan wife. And now he comes to the Lord's house with a gift to the altar in tears, expecting God to accept his worship? But God doesn't. Look at verse 13 at the latter part. It said, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering anymore or receiveth it with good will at your hand. God says, I don't receive your worship. God rejects such hypocrisy. You divorce your wife, then you pretend to come and worship God with crocodile tears. If this man had true repentance, he would forsake his heathen wife and go back to his true wife and do what's right before the Lord But this man was guilty. By the way, that very thing happened in Ezra's day when they intermarried during the days of Ezra and Nehemiah They required them to do that very thing. Forsake your pagan wife. Go back to your true wife if you have real repentance. But God, notice what he calls this. He calls it treachery. Look down at verse 14. By the way, this man who comes to the temple and he brings this offering in tears. He has the audacity to ask God, God, why won't you receive my offering? Why won't you receive my worship? Look at verse 14. Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the Lord has been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant. God says, I'll tell you why I won't receive your hypocritical worship because you have dealt treacherously with your wife. And God hates divorce. Look at verse 16. For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith, He hateth putting away. Putting away is a technical term. It simply means divorce. Now this verse doesn't say that God hates divorced people, but he hates divorce. He hates the putting away. He calls it treacherously. And God says to these men who have dealt treacherously, I have cut you off. It doesn't matter to me. Look at again in verse number 12. The Lord will cut off the man to do with this, the master, the scholar. It doesn't matter to me, God says what your education is. If you're a master of the Old Testament scriptures, if you're a scribe, if you're a priest. Whoever you are that does this, and by the way, priests were doing it back in that day, God says, I will cut you off. In a sense, what God is saying is, you divorce your wife, I will divorce you. I will cut you off because of this treachery. Now let me be careful to clarify here I'm not here to put any people who've been through the heartbreak of a divorce on a guilt trip. That's not my purpose, and that's not certainly not uh going to be healthy to do that for anyone I know that there are people here who've been the victim of a divorce. It wasn't your desire. You didn't want it. Someone was unfaithful to you or walked out on you or abandoned you and left you heartbroken and shattered And by the way, I've seen that very thing happen in my family. And for a person to suffer a divorce like that, it's like suffering a death. There's so much grief and sorrow you can't even put it into words. And I want to say to someone like that, God is your healer. God will be your your helper and your comforter. And he will come to your side and help you. And then there are others that perhaps before you knew the Lord, you experienced this devastation in your life But now it's all under the blood, and God's going to help you pick up the pieces and go forward. There are no second-class citizens in the kingdom of God. God is a God of healing. He's a God of grace. He's a God of forgiveness. And even if someone made the mistake of allowing this, perhaps you didn't have any better counsel or knowledge. There's life after this, and there's healing, and there's grace with Almighty God. But I want to be faithful to God's word. And I want to tell you exactly what God says about it. And I also want to give a standard for our young people because they're living in a world today where all morality is being thrown out the window. And they need to know what God expects. And they need to know what the Word of God says. Better that there be no divorce. And when you take wedding vows, God expects you to keep that marriage covenant. He expects you to keep that vow. There's life after divorce, but better that there be no divorce at all. You say, why? Why does God hate it? Well, write this down. First of all, divorce disobeys the word of God. It disobeys the word of God. Look again in verse 14. Yet ye say, wherefore, because the Lord has been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant. You see, God's plan from the beginning has always been one man and one woman for life. God's arithmetic is strange. One plus one equals one. See, where do we read this? In Genesis 2. 24. Write that down in your margin. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And in that verse we see the priority of marriage. Leave father and mother. The most preeminent human relationship is husband and wife. The bond between husband and wife is to be superior between the bond of child and parent. Leave your father and mother, then the permanence of marriage, and cleave, the word cleave here to cling to, to hold fast. This is really a covenant word used in the Old Testament. It's used in many places in a covenant context Israel is commanded to cleave to the Lord with intensity. The psalmist said in Psalm 68, or 63, 8, My soul followeth hard after thee. My soul clings to thee To thee, O Lord, same word there. In the marriage relationship, there is to be the clinging, the cleaving together, the permanence of marriage, and then there's the product of marriage. Those two shall become one. And that leads to the next point why God hates the worst. He hates it because it disobeys the word of God, but also it destroys the work of God. Look at verse number 15. And did not he make one Who is the heather? That's God. Let me ask you a question. Who is it that makes two people one at a wedding? Is it the preacher? No. Is it the judge? No. Is it the state? No to all of the above. It is God. God is the one who makes two one. It is verse 15 emphasizes the creative work of God. Let me tell you how. Look at verse 15 again. And did he not make one? Yet had he the residue of the Spirit. Now this is a difficult verse to translate from the Hebrew. And here's another way we could say this. Yet with a remnant of his life breath. Made he one. In other words, it was the life breath of God that made the two one. Just like when God created Adam. and breathed into his nostrils a breath of life, he became a living soul. Even so, when two people come together and into a marriage covenant agreement, God with the residue of his life breath makes the two one. It is the creative work of Almighty God. He's the one who does it. That's why Jesus later says, what God has joined together, let no man put asunder. Because it's not the work of man, it's the work of God. And divorce destroys the work of God. It's a putting asunder of what God has done. And today in our country it is an epidemic It's so easy to get a divorce today. There's what is called a no-fault divorce. I was reading that years ago, when Adlay Stevenson ran against Dloid Eisenhower for president in 1956, it was a big deal that Stevenson had a divorce. But when Ronald Reagan ran against Jimmy Carter in 1980, Reagan's divorce was hardly mentioned. And later it was Reagan, who was the governor of California, that signed the nation's first No fault divorce law in 1969, and now all 50 states have such laws. It is now easier to get out of a marriage than it is to get out of a car lease. And that's the way it is in our country today. But it destroys the work of God. That's why God hates it. It disobeys the word of God, it destroys the work of God, it distorts the witness of God. You ever wonder why God makes two one? He tells us. Look at look in verse fifteen. And did he not make one? Yet he hath the residue of the Spirit. And wherefore one? Why does God make one? That he might seek a godly seed. Why does he do that? One of the reasons why God makes two one is because he wants from this union godly children Godly seed, godly children. Just like it says in Psalm 127, children are the heritage of the Lord, the fruit of the womb is his reward. They're arrows in the hand of a mighty man. And the arrow can go where the warrior can't go. And we're to raise godly children so we can send them out and they can do the work of God in the kingdom. God wants godly seed out of this. Every home ought to be an incubator of holiness. Sending out godly seed My greatest ministry is my children. And the greatest tragedy of divorce is the children who suffer from it. And we see that all over. Broken covenant divorce produces broken marriages, which produces broken homes, which produces broken humans, which in turn produces more broken homes. Which produces more broken humans and this vicious cycle just continues. And God wants it to stop. God wants a godly seed, not broken people. And so therefore, notice what God says at the end of verse 15. He said, therefore, take heed to your spirit. And let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. God says, you better watch your spirit. You better watch it. We need to monitor who is speaking into our lives. Who are you listening to with regard to marriage and divorce? Don't listen to the world. Don't listen to the culture. Don't listen to this world that's so filled with people who don't follow through with their commitments That's not what God wants you to listen to. Whenever I hear of a young man hanging around other single, or married young man hanging around single young men or divorced men who are critical of marriage, I always get concerned. Always. You say why do you do that? Because I've counseled enough marriages to know the result of that. And when either a man or a woman starts hanging around divorced people or single people who are bitter Pretty soon they start putting up to them how wonderful it is to be single and divorce. The next thing you know you're allowing these people to speak into your life bad counsel, which leads to bad decisions. God says you better watch your spirit. By the way, that's not just me. I was reading the University of Chicago supports this. They did a study of people who stayed together and people who divorced. And the researchers found that couples in the midst of a struggle had a significant chance of staying together when married friends encouraged them to remain together. By the way, that's the that's the reason why you hang around godly Christians. That's the reason you come to church to be encouraged to do the right thing. On the other hand Couples in turmoil had a higher risk of divorce when their divorced friends expressed bitter anger towards their own ex-husband or ex-wives. Paul says, bad company corrupts good character. So who makes up your closest friends? Whose advice Are you listening to? Who is central in your life? And there's so much more I could say about that. But let me just say this. It's not your love that holds your commitment together. It's your commitment that holds your love together And people who get a divorce and people who don't basically have the same problems. The difference is just commitment. Don't even consider divorce. Young people listen to me. Don't even don't even consider because we have a generation of of people today who enter into a marriage covenant with the same attitude of a test pilot in a plane, ready to hit the ejector button, if things don't work out No, you you get that out of your thinking. Divorce is not an option. If Carolyn ever leaves, I'm going with her. Kevin says, I'm tired, I'm out of here. I'm like, that's a good idea, honey. I think I'm gonna go too. Let's get out of here. Let's do it together. It's not an option We're together. Period. And if your marriage is in trouble, it won't heal overnight. But if you give it to God, he can change the direction of it. And it can get better. There are no problems too big to solve, only people too small to solve them. Give it to God. Let me give you the last thing. There's the travesty of an unequal yoke There's the treachery of an unkempt vow, but then write down number three, there's the tragedy of an unloved wife. Look in verse 15 again. Where he says, that he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. God says, for the Lord, God of Israel, saith he hateth putting away, for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the Lord of hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit. You see, why does God speak to the men in these verses? You notice God's talking to men here. You know why God's talking to men? Because God holds the man responsible. And the man is to be the head. As a general rule, if the home is wrong, it is because the husband is wrong. God has commanded men to love their wives and keep their marital covenant together. Someone said if men continued courting, they wouldn't have to go to court. What does verse sixteen mean? Look what it says, For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away, for one covereth violence with his garment. Now, what he's talking about here, this is referring to the Hebrew custom of a man showing his intention to marry a woman by draping his outer garment around her. If a man had the intention of marrying a woman, he would take his outer garment, throw it around her shoulders. Why? That was him saying, I want to marry you, I'm going to protect you, I'm going to give you provision all your life But here God says the divorce is like yanking away that garment, violently yanking the garment away, leaving her exposed, vulnerable to evil forces that would cease to harm her It's not loving her. The way God commands men, we are to love our wives. God commands that. That's what he expects of us. Write down Ephesians 5. You know this very well. 525. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loves the church. And so this is what God expects. How did Christ love the church passionately to give his life? You know, women wouldn't have a problem with a man who's willing to die for her. Purifyingly, we're to sanctify our wives with the Word of God. Protectively, we're to love our wives as our own body. A man who wounds his own body is sick. And a man who wounds his wife is sick. You're to love her as your own body, and then providingly meet her needs. And so this is what Malachi is saying, and this is why God is angry. God is angry at a generation of people here who were breaking their covenants And the most important one was that marriage covenant. Now again, I'm not trying to make anybody feel guilty. That's the last thing I want to do. What I want you to do as you leave here today is be committed to the covenant relationship that you are in. Because if you're here today and you're married to a Christian, that's a blessing from God. Stay in that marriage relationship. Look keep your vows. Love your wife. And if you've already suffered through a divorce and yet God has brought you back and then you can't stop looking to the past. Put that away. the whole past. God has a blessing in the future for for you right now if you just obey Him and do what's right in His sight. Don't look back. Just say from here on out, I will honor all my commitments. I will be faithful. This is what God expects of all of us in the Lord. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we we tremble before your words. And what Malachi had to say so long ago. Is so needful for us to hear today. And so, Lord, help us to be submissive to it. We thank you, Lord, that you are a God of grace and mercy. And Lord, for those who may have made mistakes in the past, how Lord, you can take the years that the locusts have eaten, and you can bring good out of it. You can make up those years. And all the ashes, Lord, you can make beauty. But Lord, help us to be faithful to the covenant commitments that we make. Lord, I would desire a blessing upon every marriage and home in here. I would desire blessing for all of the singles that one day will marry, Lord. May they marry in the Lord. May they keep their vows. May they love their wives. And Lord, may we be the people that you've called us to be. Speak to hearts. Help us, Lord, to take this word to heart that you've given us. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends