Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter two. We're in a study in Ephesians, so look in Ephesians chapter two. Would you stand for the reading of God's word as we read scripture together? Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11 is where we will start. Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh. who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands, that at that time ye were without Christ being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, without God in the world But now, in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father in heaven, thank you for the blessing of being in Christ. We all had a tendency at times to forget all that you have given us in your Savior, your Son Jesus Christ. So Lord, remind us this morning of all the blessings of salvation. And if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, may today be the day of salvation for them. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. How good is your memory? Do you walk into a room and forget why you went into that room? Am I the only one that has that problem? We uh we seem to forget very quickly things. Uh in fact, you know, you'll hear the sermon today and a little while later you'll forget it. Kevin McSpadden wrote an article titled, You Now Have a Shorter Attention Span Than a Goldfish. And then he took he talked about the uh human beings have an amazing propensity to forget things. And this tendency to forget can sometimes unfortunately be seen in our spiritual life. That's why many times in Scripture, God will command his people to remember. Remember. For example, in Deuteronomy it says in Deuteronomy 4 9, Only take care and keep your soul diligent diligently lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. God said to those people, don't forget what I've done for you. Don't let that depart from your heart. And that's the key idea here in our passage today. Paul's message is don't forget. Don't forget. looking old gentleman came up and begged for a moment of his time. He had a story to tell. This man had worked hard and he had amassed a a large fortune, but his relatives robbed him of it. And not being happy just robbing him of it, they placed him in a mental home. And this was his day out and he said to it to this parliament member, I have put all the facts down in this document. He said, would you please study it, sir, and uh communicate with me at your leisure? Thank you, thank you, thank you so much. And the parliament member was very moved by this man, his courtesy, his kindness, his gentleness. He took the paper and he said, I promise I'll do all I can to help you. He put the paper in his pocket, he turned to go back into the debate, and when he turned, he felt a swift kick in the seat of his pants that almost sent his spine shooting through his hat. And he turned around and there was that old man and he looked at him and he said, Don't forget. Sometimes we need a kick in the pants to help us remember things that we sh should not Forget. And this is what Paul is doing here in Ephesians chapter 2. This is a swift kick that Paul is giving us. Basically, Paul's repeating himself. When I read verses like this, it encourages me as a preacher because there are times when I repeat myself. It's encouraging to see Paul do that. In verses 11 to 13, he's basically repeating everything he said in verses 1 to 10. In verses 1 to 10, Paul talked about our sinful past, how that we were dead in trespasses to sins. We were slaves to our sinful passions and desires. And then in chapter 2, verse 4, you remember that expression, but God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherein he loved us. He God saves us. He he quickens us from the dead and he makes us trophies of his grace to be put on display for ages to come. He spells out how we are created in Christ Jesus to do good works. Now, in these next verses, Paul's going to repeat the same pattern, the same progression. The focus is not so much, however, on the individual as it is on the whole church corporately. In verses 11 and 12, he reminds us of our spiritual past. When we were alienated from God and from his covenant people And then again he gives a glorious contrast in verse 13. Notice the expression in verse 13. But now, but now And that is followed by the blessings of being in Christ, reconciled to God and his people, verses 13 on down to verse 18. In verses 19 to 22, Paul concludes this section by showing how that we are all now being built together into one big temple. One big spiritual house in which Jesus Christ dwells. All of us are stones in God's temple. We're all united together in Christ And the mystery that was not previously revealed, but is now being revealed, is that Gentiles get to be partakers of the blessings that God promised originally to Israel. And we're all Gentiles. We're all now fellow members of the body of Christ. All the walls of racial division are all torn down, and we are all one in Christ. Back in that day, there was a big division racially between Jews and Gentiles. But in Christ, all that's gone. All those man-made barriers are gone, and we are all one. And Paul is saying, look, remember. Remember what you are. Remember what you were. Remember what God has done for you. Why do we remember? Well, because remembering these things leads to joy. It leads to rejoicing. So we should not forget. So these two important ideas is what I want to talk to you about today. Number one, remember your past. Remember your past. Look in chapter two, look in verse eleven. Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. The word wherefore in verse 11 points back to everything Paul just said in verses 1 to 10 Paul's saying, in light of the fact that you've been saved by the grace of God through faith under good works, remember the place from which God brought you. The word remember is not a suggestion, it's a command, it's an imperative. Paul's not saying, look out. I think it's a good idea every once in a while if you remember what you were. No. It is a command. You remember. Continually remember. That's the idea here. The reason many believers are not faithful, the reason some believers have left their first love, they're backslidden, is because they forget what God has saved them from. It's easy to forget that. Peter rebuked some of the people he was writing to because they were not growing spiritually, and he said that In verse in second Peter chapter one, verse nine, but he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he hath been purged from his old sins. Have you forgotten what God has saved you from? And that's why Paul is saying, look, remember. And so Paul's going to describe again and remind us of our hopeless condition before Christ. If I could summarize everything that Paul's really trying to say here in one word, it would be this word. Alienated. We were alienated What does alienation mean? It means we were isolated. It means we were excluded from something. You ever get excluded from something? A big party's going on, but you're not invited. In the Gospels, we encounter lepers who face alienation from people in the world around them. No one wanted to be around a leper. They were not invited to social gatherings. That is a picture of what we were before Christ. We were unclean, we were filthy, we were contaminated, we were alien to the things that God had given to his people Israel. So notice we were alienated in that we were without consideration. Look again in verse eleven, that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who were called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision. Now Paul is writing the Gentiles in the church at Ephesus. And as Gentiles, they were alienated from the blessings that God promised to Israel. If you study the Old Testament, what you'll find is that God made great promises to Abraham and his family. God promised salvation to them. In the Old Testament Abraham's family, the Jews were God's chosen people. They were God's peculiar people. They were the apple of his eye. And they were the recipients of God's blessings and his promises. They were a holy nation. They had God's law. They had God's prophets. They had God's covenants. But Jews, rather than thanking God for those blessings and being the light to other nations like they should have been, they had the tendency to forget themselves. And they looked down on people from other nations. If you weren't Jew, you were Gentile. And if you were Gentile, well, you were outcasts. And they called the Gentiles the uncircumcision. That was a term of derision. It was a term of disdain. Circumcision was the mark of the covenant that God made with Israel. That was a source of pride for the Jewish people. It was a visible visible sign. of their historic relationship with Almighty God. Therefore, if you were called the uncircumcised, that was a slur. That was a term of disdain because Gentiles did not have the physical mark. They were not part of God's people. Jews then also came had come to consider Gentiles as inferior. The Jews view Gentiles as unclean dogs. Jewish men prayed every morning, Lord, I thank you that you didn't make me a Gentile or a woman. That was their prayer every morning. What a ridiculous prayer. What an arrogant prayer. But that was part of the disdain that they had. The disdain that Jews had for Gentiles is kind of seen in the prophet Jonah. God said, Jonah, go to Nineveh and preach my word. And Jonah got on a boat and said, No, no, I'm not going to Nineveh. I'm not going to go preach to those Gentiles Is that what you're asking me to do, God? He got on a boat and went the opposite direction to Tarshus. But God put him on a submarine and sent him to Nineveh. The organic submarine. You know that story, right? Tossed overboardboard, the whale swallows them. spits them out on shore and the word comes again to Jonah and says, go to Nineveh. This time Jonah Jonah says, I'm on my way. I'm on my way. When he got there, he preached the word and the people repented and there was revival and there was salvation and Jonah got angry. He didn't want them to be saved. In fact, he said, if you read the book of Jonah, isn't this why? God, I knew you were going to do this. This is why I didn't want to come. I didn't want to come because I thought you were going to bring salvation here. Wow. What that shows the attitude that they had. And Paul is reminding these Gentile believers who are now saved, remember you were alienated. You were cut off. Remember that. But now you are part of the people of God. You've been invited into all of these blessings. In fact, that was God's That was God's plan from the very beginning when he blessed Abraham's family. He said, Abraham, I blessed you so that you can be a blessing to others. That was his plan from the very beginning. And Paul is telling these believers, look, remember what God saved you from. Don't become arrogant. We should always be amazed that God's grace came to us. Why me, Lord? Why have you been so good to me? This applies to us as American Christians. We have great privileges. We have we've been saturated with the gospel. We have the Word of God all around us. We have Christian books, good Bible teaching in abundance. It's very easy to take all of these things for granted. It's very easy to overlook that. The truth is we we can become arrogant or complacent. We could be like some of the countries that I go to and visit third world countries where the gospel's not preached much at all. And people are in darkness. God could justly remove the light that we enjoy, and America could be cut off We should not grow arrogant. So remember, we were without consideration. We were without Christ. Look at verse 12. That in that time ye were without Christ. Paul says to these Gentile believers, Remember your life without Christ? Remember you were cut off from Jesus Christ. Before the gospel came to Ephesus, these Gentiles had not heard of the name of Jesus. They had no idea how had to have their sins forgiven, how to be reconciled to God. They worshiped idols, they worshiped false gods, they feared evil spirits, they tried to keep evil spirits at bay through magic and all these other ritual things. They were separated from Christ, had no way of knowing him. But Paul went there with the gospel, and now they are saved. Now they are recipients of God's wonderful grace. Again, we need to remember that. We need to apply that. I've had the privilege of being born in America, had the opportunities to hear the gospel And again, I I have visited other countries where false religions and pagan worship is dominant. And I often thought, what if I were born in a land like this and have never had the opportunities to hear about Christ and the gospel? I would have been separated from Christ without Christ. That term without Christ ought to burden our hearts with compassion for those around us who have not heard the gospel. Or for those who are lost. We ought to pray. We ought to give. We ought to go to these places. But then also without citizenship. Look again in verse 12 where he says That at the time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. The word commonwealth here means citizenship. Aliens from the citizenship of Israel. Citizenship has Privileges in certain countries. We have people wanting to come to America. Why? Well, because of the privilege of being a citizen here in America, there's benefits that come with that. There was a special blessing that came with being a citizen of Israel. God had made his chosen people um into a theocracy, a nation to whom he himself was their king and their lord. There was no other nation in the world that was like that. God gave that nation blessings and protection and love. He gave them his law, he gave them his covenants, he gave them his priesthood, he gave them prophets to preach the word to them, he gave them sacrifices. He gave them promises. He gave them his guidance. Israel was recipient of many, many blessings from God. Israel could rightly say, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And had the Gentiles accepted the true God, they too could have been part of being a blessed nation, but they rejected God and they forfeited his national blessings. They had no God blessed community or kingdom or divine benefactor. And Paul says, remember, that's what you were were. That's what it was like for you. You were aliens from the citizenship of Israel, from the commonwealth of Israel. You were without consideration, without Christ, without citizenship, but also without covenants. Again in verse number twelve. And strangers from the covenant of promise. The Greek has the definite article before promise. We could say the promise. The covenants were all the covenants that God gave in the Old Testament. He gave covenants to Abraham and to David. and uh to the to Moses. And these covenants all really led up to the one the promise What is the promise? It is the promise of God sending a Messiah, a Savior, into the world. Before God sent the Savior, many generations of Gentiles lived and died without any knowledge. of God's plan, of God's covenants, of God's promise. That could have been us today, had we been born in a place where the gospel had not yet been known. And Paul says, Look, remember, remember. You are also without confidence. Look in verse twelve again, where it says, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope Without God in the world, those have to be the saddest words in all the Bible. No hope without God. No hope. Think about that. Years ago the Navy was doing some military maneuvers off the coast of Massachusetts and uh Ship collided with a submarine. The submarine sank way below to the ocean floor. It lost power. Some divers were dispatched to go down to see if there was anyone alive in the sub and they they put listening devices next to the sub's wall and they could hear being tapped out in Morse code. Over and over again, a one single question, and the question was, is there any hope? Is there any hope? The world is asking that question today. Is there any hope? Without Christ there is no hope. Without hope, without God. And that's sad. The Gentiles had no hope. You know, people that's why people in this world, they live this life. They don't know the truth. They don't know how to have eternal life outside the Bible, outside of Christ. They may be happy now in this life, but their eternity that they're facing is without hope. I mean let that sink in You know, everyone believes that there's an eternity. Everyone believes there is a God. God put that knowledge in every heart. Everyone believes there is an eternity, the Bible says in Ecclesiastes. God has put eternity in the heart of every people. That's why you have ancient civilizations with their burial rituals where they're loading people down with the b the the deceased with all these things that they're supposed to take with them to the next life Why do they do that? Because they know innately there is an afterlife. They're ignorant about how all that goes. The only way we find out about all that is through the Word of God. But people today are living Without any real hope in this world, even if they live a comfortable life, the best they can hope for is expressed in a bumper sticker that reads this, eat healthy, exercise, and die anyway. You're gonna die. But to face all of this life, all the trials, without God, and without hope of eternal life, that is a terrible thing. And Paul says, remember that's what you were. You were facing an eternity without God. Don't forget that. Because if we forget, you know what? It'll cause us to get lukewarm. We'll get apathetic about the things of God. We'll lose the joy of our salvation. If we forget, we will lose our hunger and thirst to know God more deeply through his word. So Paul is saying, look, remember, remember. Here's number two. Not only remember your past condition, but number two, rejoice in your present conversion. Look in verse 13. I love how this starts off. But now. But now, in Christ Jesus. Now I know the word rejoice is not in verse 13, but it's implied in this expression, but now. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. What wonderful words, but now We saw the same in verse 4 when it says, but God. We were dead in sin, but God. You were alienated, but now. Now As Martin Lloyd Jones asked in a sermon on that verse, he said, is there a but God in your life? Before the gospel, we were separated from Christ, excluded from the people of God, strangers to the covenants of promise, with no hope without God. But now, thank God, hallelujah, God breaks into our life with the gospel, and we can't be the same after that. So Paul gives several reasons for us to rejoice. Look at verse 13, where it says again, but now in Christ Jesus. Number one, you can rejoice that you are now in Christ Jesus. You're now in Christ. This is Paul's favorite expression. You've heard me say it before. That expression is used a lot or a variation of it. You're in him or you're in Christ. And it means that you're one with Jesus. Now you're identified with Christ. You identify with his death, burial, his resurrection, his ascension. We're already seated with Christ in heavenly places. Remember I told you that? That's where we are spiritually. We're so united to Christ. We can rejoice that now we are in Christ. There's no better place to be than to be in Christ. If you're not in Christ, friend, you need to get there. In Christ. You can rejoice that you've been brought near to God in verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh. The expressions far off and made now are Old Testament terms referring to Gentiles and Jews. And Paul's really citing Isaiah 57. nineteen and he came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near. Brought near is what happens. We are brought into the place where we can have a close Personal relationship with Almighty God. I mean, let that sink in. We were far off, but now because of Christ, we are brought near with Almighty God. And here's another reason to rejoice. We can rejoice is that we're we we draw near by the blood of Christ. We were condemned, guilty sinners, but because of the blood of Christ we are forgiven, and God has declared us not guilty. Not guilty. You remember when Jesus died, the temple veil was rent and twained from top to bottom. Matthew records this in Matthew 27, verse 50 to 51. That big curtain that separated the holy place from the Holy of Holies. It stretched aco across the temple that was about as thick as a man's hand, being torn from top to bottom, signifies it was the work of God. And it also signified that You know, sinners now have access to God. That veil separated sinful men from holy God. But when Jesus died, that veil was rent. Why? Because of the blood of Christ, we can now draw near to God. We can now come into the presence of God. That is a reason to rejoice. Rejoice that His blood covers your guilt and condemnation once for all. So remember your past condition. Rejoice in your present conversion. This is what Paul's saying. Let me give you some practical as we close out. Let me give you some practical benefits of obeying Paul's command to remember our past and rejoice in our present. Why should we do that? Well, number one, it humbles our pride. It humbles our pride. There was absolutely nothing in us that prompted God to send His Son to die on the cross to save us for our sins. He didn't do it because of anything in us. We were not seeking God. We were not longing to know Him until God first worked in our hearts. There's no basis for any pride. It's all of God. It's like the song I love to hear, Were it not for grace, were it not for grace, where would I be? Where would I be if it weren't for the grace of God? Number two, it deepens our love for Christ. It deepens our love for Christ. Remember the story in Luke chapter seven, Jesus was dining with Simon the Pharisee. A woman of ill refute comes in and she anointed Jesus with expensive perfume and she wet his feet with her tears and wiped His feet with her hair and she kissed his feet and Simon was shocked that Jesus would allow a sinner to touch him in this manner. But Jesus told Simon the reason this woman loved him much was because she was forgiven for so much. And then he added, But he who is forgiven little loves little. He did not mean that this Pharisee had fewer sins than this woman, because Simon was filled with pride. He was filled with self-righteousness, which are an abomination to God. But he didn't see himself as a sinner. And so he didn't love Jesus. But seeing that we are sinful people, the more we see that, the more we love Christ. Because he has forgiven us for so much. It deepens our love for Christ. But also, number three, it deepens our compassion for the lost. You ever look at the faces of people today and see the hurt and the pain and the hopelessness? We should have compassion for those who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ. But also number four, it fosters racial reconciliation. In Paul's day it was Jew against Gentile. We still have prejudice today. Because we're all sinful people. That's why there's prejudice. But there's no place for any racial racial prejudice in the body of Christ. You know why? Because at the cross all the barriers are broken down. And we are all one in Jesus Christ. The gospel brings us together as one. But also, number five, it results in praise for God's abundant grace. We should be praising God for His grace every day. Now if your heart is strong cold, remember what you were when he saved you. And remember all the blessings you have now. Just remember that. It'll Fall out your frozen heart. The Puritan preacher Thomas Goodwin wrote to his son, and this is what he said. Let me read this to you. He said, When I was threatening to become cold in my ministry, when I felt Sabbath morning coming, and my heart not filled with amazement at the grace of God, or when I was making ready to dispense the Lord's Supper, do you know what I used to do? I used to take a turn up and down among the sins of my past life. And I always came down again with a broken and a contrite heart, ready to preach. as it was preached in the beginning, the forgiveness of sins. I do not think I ever went up the pulpit stair that I did not stop for a moment at the foot of it and take a turn up and down among the sins of my past I do not think that I ever planned a sermon that I did not take a turn around my study table and look back at the sins of my youth and all my life down to the present. And many a Sabbath morning when my soul had been cold and dry for the lack of prayer during the week, a turn up and down in my past life before I went into the pulpit always broke my hard heart and made me close with the gospel for my own soul before I began to preach So the message is don't forget. Don't forget. Remember what you were without Christ. And praise God for where you are now. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just would like to ask you, friend, are you in Christ? Are you in him? Are you certain of that? If not Could I ask you right this very minute, would you would you reach out in faith to Christ who loves you, who died for you, who wants to save you? And would you say, Lord, that's me. I'm alienated. I'm not part of the Commonwealth. I don't have these blessings. I'm without. Christ without God in this world. And I don't want to stay that way. God doesn't want you to stay that way either. He loves you There is hope in Christ. Hope of eternal life in Christ. Forgiveness of sins. The blessing of his presence. Strength and help through times of trial An eternal life, friend, if you'll come to Jesus. Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus? Just say these words. Jesus, I'm a sinner, I know it. I'm alienated from your promises. And from your blessings. But I'm coming to you today. I'm turning from my sin and I'm turning to you. And I believe on you. I believe you died for my sins on the cross. I believe you rose again the third day. And I'm asking you to please forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart and save me, Lord Jesus. Just reach out. Just say that. God be merciful to me. Save me. And you know what? He'll save you. And he'll make you part of his family. But now, but now you become a child of God, a recipient of all the blessings in Christ. Father, use this word, save souls, strengthen the body of Christ for your honor and your glory, we pray in Jesus' name.