Now take your Bibles open to Matthew 21. We need to go to Matthew 21 on a day like today. This is of course Palm Sunday, a very important day in the history of our redemption. And uh a day that began begins the most important week in human history, I think. It's the Passion Week, the week our Lord has b the for which he's been he came to the earth to be born, to come and to die for sin, to suffer for sin and to die. And so it's a very, very important week Now I've been talking about parables on Sunday morning, so we are going to talk about a parable, but this is going to be a parable that Jesus told right after Palm Sunday. When he rode into Jerusalem and presented himself as the king. And the whole issue is authority. The authority of Jesus. And how do we respond to his authority? In a Frank and Ernest cartoon, maybe you've read some of those cartoons in the paper. The two bunglers are standing before the pearly gates, and St. Peter is holding the keys and he's scowling at Ernie. And Frank whispers to Ernie and said, If I were you, I'd change my shirt, Ernie, because Ernie's shirt reads, question authority. You don't want to question authority there. But you know the truth of the matter is we live in a a a time When it seems like people are constantly struggling over this issue of authority. We don't like to submit. But Jesus is going to tell us here, he's going to really this passage teaches us that To defy God-given authority is dangerous. It's spiritually dangerous. We start out coming into God's kingdom by submitting to the authority of Christ. No submission to Jesus means no salvation. It may be wise to question authority initially, but once that authority has been proven. Once that authority we know to be authentic and be to be from God, it's foolish to continue to question that authority But we have to submit to it. And so in Matthew chapter 21, Jesus has proclaimed his authority. His authority is what? His authority as the rightful king, the Messiah. When Jesus rised to Jerusalem on that day, he was in a very dramatic way saying, I am the king, I am the prophesied king, I am the son of David, I am the one that has come to die for sin. Now, uh in Matthew 21, at the end of Jesus' ministry, just before he goes to the cross to suffer for the sins of the world, he will do some dramatic things to again demonstrate this very issue. And what are those things? Well, first of all, there's what we know as the triumphal entry. He enters into Jerusalem. We read about this just a moment ago in Matthew chapter 21, where when Jesus rides into Jerusalem The people cried out, Hosanna, and they were asking, Who is this? The whole city was moved when Jesus rode into Jerusalem. But again, on that day, he was officially presenting himself as the Messiah. This was a day that was prophesied about hundreds of years previous in the book of Daniel. In fact, this very day was prophesied. That the Messiah would come. And so there's the triumphal entry. And what does Jesus say to the crowds that are there, I am the king, he comes as a king, but then on Monday He gets up early, he spends some time in prayer, and he goes back towards Jerusalem. He has no breakfast on that morning. He stops on the way as he's going to Jerusalem. He stops when he sees a fig tree. And here's a fig tree that's he sees lush leaves on that tree, which is which is the promise of figs because the fruit gets ripe before the leaves, and if you see a tree that has leaves on it, you would think that there is fruit on that tree. But when Jesus sees the tree and he looks for the figs. There's no figs there, so what does Jesus do? The Bible says he curses the fig tree. And this was really a symbolic judgment Because really the fig tree stands for Israel. Jesus, when he came and he presented himself as the king, he wanted to find the fruits of true repentance, but there was none. And so really this is a symbolic judgment against Israel because they had no fruit of repentance. And so here he's acting like a prophet. Not only the king, but a prophet. He has all the authority of a prophet, all the authority of God. But then what does he do? He goes and he cleanses the temple. The Bible tells us, look in verse number 12 of chapter 21. And Jesus went into the temple of God and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple and overthrew the tables of money of the money changers and the seats of them that sold doves. And he said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves In this next act, he takes ownership of the temple. And essentially what Jesus is saying is, the temple is mine. It belongs to me. And I'm I want all these money changers out. He was filled with righteous indignation because these money changers were scamming the people They were overcharging them when they were exchanging their foreign currency. They had to have the right money in order to buy the sacrificial animal, and they would basically rip the people off when they exchanged the money You know, every time I go over to a foreign country and exchange my money, I want to overturn tables. You know. When I get back what I you know, I give a whole lot and get back very little That's what was going on here. They were just ripping people off and they were making worship into a business. This is all happening in the court of Gentiles. This is the place where Missionary purposes were to be done where the glory of God in Israel was to be proclaimed to the nation. Instead of using it for a missionary purpose, they were using it for a mercenary purpose. They were trying to scam the people. And Jesus said, My house shall be called a house of prayer. And so here the action of Jesus by taking over the temple and saying, It is mine. That is the With the authority of a priest, the highest priest. Jesus presents himself as the king. When he comes into Jerusalem, he presents himself as the prophet. When he curses the fig tree, he presents himself as the priest the great high priest, when he takes ownership of the temple. And basically when when Jesus got done, there were no more money changers there By the way, on Tuesday, he goes back to Jerusalem, he goes back into the temple, and now he's there in the temple, and now he takes center stage. And now he begins teaching, and he's teaching the word of God, and now the court of the Gentiles is being used in the right way. And people are coming and they're hearing the Word of God. They're hearing a talk from Jesus. And the Bible says that the people were hanging on every Word. But what happens? Look at verse number 23. And when he was coming to the temple, the chief priests and the elders Other people came unto him as he was teaching and said, By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority? And so what happens here is there is an exchange between Jesus and the religious leaders, the religious establishment. This is nothing new, right? We see this a lot in the earthly ministry of Jesus. They're just unwilling to accept him for who he is Now, what I want you to see then in this passage today are basically three responses to the authority of Jesus. Now I know that we've come to worship Christ. A lot of people come on Palm Sunday because it's kind of a religious thing to do. But really the question is, how have you responded to the authority of Jesus in your life? This isn't just some kind of a ritual that we do. When we come to church, we are saying that He is indeed Lord and King, and we submit all of who we are to all of who He is. We absolutely submit to his authority. So the question is, how have you responded to the authority of Jesus in your life? There are really three responses that we see here in this passage. Here's the first one: just rejection. The first one is out and out rejection. And that's what we see in verse 23. When they come and they question his authority. They're in a sense they're rejecting it. And friend, if you reject the authority of Jesus, you do it to the peril of your own soul. And there's a lot of people out there today in this world that are rejecting the authority of Jesus. They don't accept him for who he is. And that's what we see here in this delegation. These were chief priests, these were teachers of the law, these were elders. These groups make up the Sanhedrin. This is an official delegation. This was the same group that made up the big lie about Jesus in Matthew chapter 12 when he did a miracle. They said, Oh, he does it by the power of Beelzebub. That was an official lie that came down from Jerusalem. That was something that they planned to do to discredit Jesus. And they're making it clear here that they don't believe in his authority. And that they were the authority. And by asking this question, who gives you the authority to do these things? And what were the these things there? Coming into Jerusalem to present yourself as king? Cursing a fig tree, taking over the temple. Who give you the who gave you the authority to do that? You didn't in other words, they were saying you didn't get that authority from us I mean Jesus was never ordained by the religious establishment. He never went through all of the ritual of ordination like certain rabbinic teachers would do, that whole service with all the rituals of it. He wasn't ordained by them, and so they're saying, by what authority do they do you do this? You don't have our permission to do this. You don't have our permission to do these things. They were actually asking, who gave you this authority? Now, Jesus didn't need their authorization. Why? For the same reason that Babe Ruth didn't need the authorization of the Little League. When you're hitting home runs, mammoth home runs, you don't need the little league's approval. And when Jesus is doing all of these miracles Everything he was doing in his ministry, his teaching, his miracles, everything he did demonstrated the authority of heaven. They should have seen that. They should have known that. But instead of rejoicing in all the miracles and rejoicing in everything that Jesus did, they were constantly angry at him. Why? Because he was destroying their whole religious system. And so when they came to ask Jesus these questions, they weren't seeking answers. They had already made up their minds They were trying to get at Jesus. They were trying to find something they could use to discredit him. The Bible says this in Luke 19, verse 47. And he was teaching daily in the temple. The chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people were seeking to destroy him. That's what they were doing. They were trying to find something. But they did not find anything they could they they uh that they could do for all the people were hanging, the Bible says, on his words. So by asking this simple question, they uh in essence they were rejecting his authority. By the way, the book of Matthew, one of the major themes of it is the fact that Jesus does bring authority as the rightful king. We see that all through Matthew. Let me just show you a few verses. Just go with me. Look at Matthew chapter 7. Would you do that with me? Look at a few verses. Look at Matthew chapter 7 and look at verse number 28. This is at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. And it came to pass when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished. This is in Matthew 7, 28, astonished at his doctrine. Verse 29, for he taught them as one having what? Author. Authority. He taught like one that had authority. He didn't quote rabbis like they did. All the rabbis did was they just kept quoting each other. Jesus said, I say unto you. I say unto you. He spoke as one having authority. Look at Matthew chapter 8. Look down at verse number. 5. This is some miracles that Jesus does here. There was a when Jesus was in Capernaum, a centurion came to him. Look at verse 6, saying, Lord, my servant lieth home is sick with a palsy and grievously tormented. And Jesus said, I will come and heal him. And the centurion answered and said, Lord, I'm not worthy that thou should come under my roof, but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed, for I'm a man under authority. having soldiers come under me, and I say to this man, go, and he goeth, and to another come and he cometh, and to my servant do this, and he doeth it. And when Jesus heard it, he marveled and said unto them that follow, verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no not in Israel. This was again Matthew. purposely giving us this account to show that Jesus had authority and guess what? The Gentile centurion recognized it. This should be a rebuke to the Jews who did not recognize it Here's a pagan Gentile centurion, and he recognizes Jesus for who he is. And he says, Lord, my servant's sick, please help. And Jesus said, Well, I'll come and help him. He said, Oh Lord, don't bother coming. I mean, just speak the word. I understand your authority. I mean I'm a Roman centurion. I realize that my authority goes all the way back to the emperor. And when I tell someone to do something, it has behind it the weight of the Roman government And I understand that when you say something, it has behind it the full authority of God in heaven. Because you are God. You don't have to come under my roof, just speak the word. And the Bible says Jesus marveled. Listen, if you can shock Jesus, you're really doing something. He marveled. And why did he marvel? He says, Because I haven't found this kind of faith in Israel. A lot of people in Israel don't recognize this kind of authority in me, but you did. And again, this should be a rebuke to all those religious leaders who were perhaps gathered around. They were always following Jesus trying to find something. Look at Matthew chapter 9. Look down at verse number Well, this is the story of the healing. I don't have time to go through it all. But look down in verse number six. Here they bring to Jesus a man who's on his bed. He's sick of the palsy, the Bible says. And then he says in verse 1, Your sins be forgiven you. And when they he said that, the scribes and the Pharisees all around were saying, Hey, well, wait, wait a minute Who gave you the power to say that God has forgiven us sin? It's one thing to say, I forgive you, but it's another thing to say that God in heaven has forgiven you for your sins. Who can do that? Who gave you the power to just forgive sin on that scale? And how did Jesus respond? Look at verse number five. For whether it's easier to say, thy sins be forgiven to thee, or say arise and walk, but that you might know that the Son of Man hath power, and the Greek word exusia, authority, on earth to forgive sins. Then he says to the sick of the palsy, Arise, take up thy bed and go unto thy house. And he arose and he departed. And when the multitude saw it, they marveled. And glorified God, which had given such exusia, authority, power. You see The Pharisees, oh, how can you say that God has forgiven his sin? It's one thing to say, you know, God has absolved you or forgiven you. We can't really see that. That's invisible. And so Jesus said, Well what's easier to say your sins are forgiven or to say to this sick man, Arise, take up your bed and walk. But so that you know that I have authority to forgive sin, he points to the sick man and says, Get up, take up your bed and walk, and guess what he does? And that miracle authenticated the fact that his authority was from God. That he was God And these are just a few things. We could go on and on and on through the book of Matthew to show all of this. And yet when we come to chapter 21, this is the Passion Week. And what are they doing? They're still questioning his authority. They're still bringing it into question. They should know by now where he gets his authority from. And so they just are they're just rejecting it. Let me tell you something folks, there are some people out there, and it doesn't matter. You can show them evidence after evidence. They still reject the authority of Christ. And let me tell you, it's not an intellectual issue, it's a moral issue. In their heart, they in their mind they know he's God, but in their heart they're unwilling to receive it. And so they're rejecting his authority, and they do it to the peril of their own soul. So there's number one, there's rejection. But then here's another response, resistance. They just continue to resist. Look at verse 24. And Jesus answered and said unto them. I also will ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I will I and likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, whence was it? From heaven or from men Now, they were just continuing to resist them. And Jesus poses for them a question. And he answers their question with a question. This was kind of a counter question, which was common in rabbinical debate. And Jesus says, okay, let me give you a question and then I'll answer your question. And he gives them this question: the baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? In other words, again, it's the issue of authority. Was the ministry of John from heaven, did he have the authority of God in heaven? When he says baptism of John, the word baptism really is a word that just represents the whole ministry of John. Because what did John do? What was his ministry? To prepare people for the coming of the Messiah? To give them a baptism. When they repented, he would baptize them? So really, baptism symbolizes whole ministry. And so Jesus asked them this question: Was his ministry from heaven, did he have the authority of God? And by the way, the people, when John came, they flocked to him. Many repented. And they loved John. They thought that he was a prophet. And so this was a really a brilliant question. Why? Because if they say yes, it was from God, it would be an admission that they were wrong about Jesus. Admitted that John had authority from heaven, they would have to logically admit that Jesus had authority from heaven. Why? Because their ministry is inseparable John is the forerunner. Jesus is the king. Jesus is the groom. John's the best man. Jesus was a prophet, or excuse me, John was a prophet preparing the way for the Messiah. And by the way, when Jesus came, what did John do? He testified of Jesus saying, This is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. He publicly affirmed Jesus. So if they say, oh yes, John's ministry was from heaven, they would have to admit that Jesus, he had authority from heaven, and therefore they were wrong. And they would need to repent and admit how wrong they were. So they couldn't say yes to that question. And they couldn't say no. Why? Because the people love John. And all the people believed that John was a prophet. And if they publicly said, no, John's authority was not from heaven They would be debunking the ministry of John, and the people would then reject them. This would be politically disastrous for them to say no. I mean they were trying to back Jesus into a corner and Jesus backed them into the corner with just one question. The ministry of John, was it from heaven? So how did they answer that? They pleaded the fifth. Look down in verse number again, 25. The baptism of John, whence was it, from heaven or men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall stay from heaven, He will say unto us then, why did you not then believe him? Verse 26, but if we say of men, we fear the people, for all hold John as a prophet. And verse 27, and they answered Jesus and said, We can't tell. Can't tell you. What a cowardly way out. They what are they doing? They're just simply resisting. Jesus shows them logically How that his ministry is rightfully from heaven. It has all the authority of God. And rather than admitting that, they just won't go there. They just continue to resist. And so Jesus says, neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. There's just this continual resistance in their heart, and they won't Let up, they won't give in. They persisted in rejecting the light. And when they continued to persist in rejecting the light, Jesus said, well then I have nothing else to say to you. There's a point in time where God's done wrestling with you. He's done striving with you. All the evidence has been laid out. It's been given. It's irrefutable. You have to make a decision. You have to stop your resistance. And yet they weren't. They continued to resist. They were willfully blinded about the truth. And let me just tell you, dear friend, if if you're still resisting Jesus, there's going to come a point in time where God says, okay, I'm done. I'm done. I'm not gonna go anymore with you. I have nothing more to say to you than what has already been said. Resistance. But then there's a third response, and this is of course the best one, and that is repentance. Repentance. So Jesus does tell them one other thing, however. He gives them this parable. This all leads up to the parable. It's a very simple parable. It's directed at the religious leaders. The ones who refuse to answer the question about Jesus' authority, they won't answer the question, so Jesus says, okay, fine, let me just give you this one little parable here. And it's really like it's very self-revealing. Look at verse 28. But what think ye? That is, what do you think? This is a common introduction by a teacher when he wanted to engage the student's mind in solving a problem. And again, these men really compromised the Supreme Court of Israel. They were the men of wisdom and judgment. And so in essence, Jesus is saying, here's a case for you. Judge this case. What do you think? A certain man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard And he answered and said, I will not. But afterward he repented and went. So notice in this parable, first of all, the information of the parable, we see the request of the Father. He has two sons. And he makes the request of his sons. This would be a very common scene in Jewish households. A man asks his son to work in his vineyard. A father had a right to command his sons to work for him, right? I mean, don't we still do that? I mean it's it snowed last week. Someone asked me, they said, do you have a snowblower? I said, yes, I have two of them. One's named Jeremiah, the other's named Josiah. They do a great job removing snow. We often tell our sh sons to do things, right? This man had the right to do it. He's his father. And notice that the command is authoritative. Go, son, go work. These are both imperatives in the Greek. These are commands. He's making an authoritative command. He has again the right to do that. It's the son's responsibility to obey the command of the father. to go and do what he says. And I want you to notice it's specific. Notice he says in verse number 29 He says, or verse 28 rather, today. Go work today. I like that it's specific because as parents we can relate to that, can't we? I say to my son, it's like clean your room. Okay, Dad. Two hours later it's not clean. I told you to clean your room. Oh did you mean today? I wasn't really sure about that dad. So you know we learn to get specific, don't we, as parents? Do it now. Today. And this father knows the rationale of his sons. So he says, today I want you out in my vineyard. I want you working there today. But notice the response of the first son: no, I will not. This is absolutely disrespectful. This would be very uncharacteristic of a first-century son in Palestine. This was the epitome of disrespect. No. No way. That's the idea there. No, I'm not going to do it. Forget it. But that's not the end of the story. Because in verse number 29, the Bible says, afterward he repented. This is a very strong word for repentance here, a very deep sense of regret and remorse and sorrow. And this word is only really used five times in the whole New Testament. It was a very deep, deep sorrow, which leads to repentance And so what happens here with this first son, after he talks that way to his father and he says no, he's filled with regret and sorrow, so much so that he goes out and he works in the field He's sorry that he talked to his father that way. And he makes genuine repentance. How do we know it's genuine? Because he goes out and works in the field. He judges himself to be wrong. He turns, he goes, and he does the work. I love it when children, you know, I was the administrator of the school here, when children would come in, sometimes they would come in, they were already crying Before they got corrected. They were always saying, Oh, I won't do it again. There's no need to correct someone who corrects themselves, right? I just say go and sin no more This man he corrects himself, this first son, and he goes and he works in the vineyard. The father must have been very pleased when he found out later. That his son repented. But notice the response of the second son. And there's a purposeful contrast here that Jesus is giving in this parable. Verse 30, and he came to the second And said, likewise, go, that is, go work in my field today. And he answered and said, I go, sir. I go, sir. By the way, this was an incredibly respectful response. The word sir in the Greek kuriots. Yes, my Lord. Your kids ever say that to you, son, go, yes, Lord Father. Yes, my lord, Dr. Harmon, Your Majesty When a child speaks to you that way, you know something's wrong, right? Yes, sir. Yes, my lord. This is an answer of deep respect. But here's the problem. It meant absolutely nothing. It meant nothing. You say, how do we know that? Because in verse 30 it says, and he went not. He didn't go. Yes, sir. But he doesn't go. And then Jesus gives a very simple question here in verse 31. Whither of them twain did the will of his father? And of course it's inescapable. They said unto him, the first And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. Wow, what a strong statement to those religious leaders. Again, this is all public And I can just imagine Jesus pointing to these religious leaders who question his authority, and he says, that's right. It was the first who did the will of the Father. And the publicans and the harlots are going to get into the kingdom of God before you will. Wow. Why did Jesus say that? Now, obviously, this is the interpretation of the parable. The Father represents God the Father. The vineyard represents the kingdom. The first son represents the outcast of society. These are the people that initially reject God and they reject his commands And they reject his word and they do their own thing, but later they repent of that. And the re repentance is genuine. It's real. It's filled with great sorrow. And then they end up doing the will of God and working in the vineyard. That's any sinner who realizes their sin and they turn in repentance to God That's who this represents. They're now doing the will of God. Who's the second son represent? He represents the Jewish leaders, the religious establishment, who initially say, Oh, yes, sir. They outwardly, they make they make it look good outwardly. They talk the talk. Oh yes, with their lips they worship and they talk about God, but in their heart they're not doing their the will of God. They are far from God And this is who they represent. This second son represents these Jewish leaders that at the heart they're rebels. Outwardly they are they talk religious. And this again goes back to the fig tree that has leaves but it has no fruit. A lot of promise, but no product And Jesus is saying that these, the harlots and the outcasts, they're going to get into the kingdom before you. The Greek here, before you, can be translated instead of you, or it can mean ahead of you, kind of leaving the peril Parable open-ended. What is Jesus essentially saying to these religious leaders at that? What's he implying there? You're not in the kingdom. You're not in it yet. And these who repent, these that you look down on, who initially said no to God, but now they've turned At the ministry of John the Baptist, they heard his preaching, they repented. Now they're in the kingdom. They're there before you. You're not in there yet Why? Because it's again a question of authority. They questioned John's authority. They didn't believe in John. And now they're questioning Jesus' authority. And now he's it's almost like he's leaving the door open just a little. And saying you had better recognize it or you're not going to get into the kingdom. It doesn't matter how religious you are, it doesn't matter who your father is, what your heritage is. You personally, you better repent. And so, what's the implication of this parable? Without true repentance, you will not get into the kingdom of God. And religion only gets in the way of true repentance. Your religion's gotten in the way. You need to truly turn. And I've talked to you about repentance. It is a Where we turn to God. We understand the truth in our mind. It moves our heart. And we turn to God in full commitment. We turn from our sin. We turn to Jesus. It's a heartfelt sorrowful sin, for sin, I should say, renouncing it. It's a sincere commitment to follow Christ. But at first you have to recognize this authority. And the second implication is true salvation is revealed not by words, but by obedience. You can talk religion all you want to, but it's what you do. Are you obeying Christ? Are you obeying his commands? Is he your Lord? Have you recognized his authority? Let me just close with this one illustration. I was reading about uh a a baseball umpire. One of the he he's die he died, but Uh he was known as a great umpire, the late Bill Clem, one of the Major League Baseball's best and most powerful umpires. And one game he was behind the plate at a very important game. And the and the batter hit the ball into left field and there was a runner on third base and it was a close game, it was a very intense game. And the runner on third base ran home the fielder and left field threw the ball to the catcher And they all converged at the plate, the runner, the umpire, and the catcher. And when the ball came in, there was a cloud of dust, and all three were ended up lay sprawled out there on the ground. At home plate, the catcher, the runner, and the umpire. And the people in one side of the dugout said he's safe And they ran out of the dugout and they were jumping up and down saying, He's safe. And the people in the other dugout were they ran out and they said, He's out And there's this m this mayhem that's taking place where people are y yelling and shouting, and the umpire Bill Clem gets up and he says to the top of his lungs, He ain't nothing until I call it Authority. You know what? Jesus, we ain't nothing until he calls it. And you know what? He has the authority to say, Welcome to my kingdom. And he also has the authority to say, I never knew you. You're either safe or out according to the call of Jesus. And those who are safe in the kingdom of God are those who have repented of their sin. You know what Jesus said to the people on the cross today? Today you're going to be with me in paradise. Why? Because he has the authority to tell us where we're going to spend eternity. And friend, if you want eternity in heaven, you better recognize his authority. You better repent. You better turn. That's what this message requires of us. And so on Palm Sunday, when Jesus rode into Jerusalem, this wasn't just some big public show. It really is a question about do you recognize his authority? Will you or will you not? Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, I pray that you'll take these words. May they find lodging in the heart of these who are here. Lord, may we truly recognize your authority. To know you for who you are, Lord and Master and Savior. And may every person here, under the sound of my voice, say fully and freely, Jesus is Lord, He's King. And may there be true repentance. Lord, we know that we don't just repent one time. We live continually in repentance. Continually, Lord, we're walking towards you. We're recognizing your authority. We're confessing you as Lord. We're bowing to that lordship. We're living and walking in light of that lordship. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's never done that, I pray that they will not leave here today without confessing Christ as Lord and King. And repenting and bowing to that authority. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask your friend, have you done that Have you responded to the authority of Christ in your life? Have you repented of your sin? And if not, would you be willing to do it today, right now? Would you be willing to call upon him as Savior? Say, that's my prayer. Would you pray for me? I want to today turn to Christ. I want to recognize his authority in my life. If you haven't done that, I want to pray for you. Anyone here? This invitation is open, and actually the gospel is more than just an invitation, it's a command. You can reject an invitation without penalty But you can't reject a command without penalty. And the command is repent. The command is recognize Jesus' authority. And if you don't, there's consequences for that. Friend, if you haven't done that, I'm commanding you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, turn to him today. Trust him if you haven't already done that. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Anyone here? I don't want to embarrass you, but I do want to pray for you. And I'm looking around. All right. Father, take these words. May they find lodging in hearts that are ready and open and receptive. to your truth. And Lord, may those of us who know you, who have turned to Christ, may we continually bow and recognize your authority in our lives. And Lord, if there's any hint of rebellion, Lord, may it be removed. May we submit fully and freely to all of who you are in our life. And we thank you, Jesus, for coming to the cross and dying for our sins. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.