It's good to see you here tonight. And we are in our study in the book of Jeremiah, so I invite you to open your Bibles there. Uh look in Jeremiah chapter twelve tonight. Actually, chapter eleven is where we're going to begin. Um Jeremiah chapter eleven, and I want you to look down at verse number eighteen. Jeremiah eleven eighteen. understand. And so that's in uh Kenya. Uh he'll land in Nigeria. So we need to really lift him up in prayer. Miss Ruby will be flying back to Atlanta. So we want to pray for her to have safety. Also when uh his books are still back there. They're going to be up until end of the service if you want to uh purchase any of those they'll still be available for you and so want to encourage you to look at that table. Um so look in Jeremiah chapter eleven And tonight I want to talk about this. Actually, the title of the sermon is Can You Run with the Horses? Can You Run with the Horses? And why is that? Look in chapter 11. Look at verse um number actually I want you to I said chapter eleven. We're gonna actually deal with chapter eleven verse eighteen down to chapter twelve verse six I think this is this forms one big unit here um one big unit here regarding Jeremiah so look in chapter twelve verse five and let's start off there and notice what it says If thou hast run with the footmen and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? And if in the land of peace wherein thou trustest they weary thee, then how wilt thou do in the swelling of the Jordan. Often the Christian life has been compared to a race. You know, we're runners in a race. The Bible uses that imagery. In fact We've probably read that in Hebrews chapter twelve. And so the Christian life is really like a race, and the Bible says we are to run this race with patience. Metaphors here that I see. One is like God is a father and he will chastise us because he wants us to be strong and he wants us to be holy. Sometimes when God disciplines his children, it's not because we've done anything wrong, but it's more or less he wants to really strengthen us. And so really, there's two metaphors there And I think the last one goes along with the idea of running in a race. In Hebrews chapter 12, it says, Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down in the feeble knees and make straight your And I think the imagery there is of a runner who's finishing the race and he's kind of finishing the race weak. He's not really finishing strong. And I think the idea is that God wants to discipline us, he wants to coach us so that we finish the race strong. He wants us to run well. He wants us to run strong. And so really, uh when you come to Jeremiah chapter 12, verse 5, I kind of see the same imagery there. This is a picture of finishing the race, and God wants you to finish strong. He wants you to run well. And to use the language of Jeremiah chapter 12, verse 5, um he God says, if the footman weary you, then how can you contend with horses? In other words, God wants you to be so strong and swift in the race of life that not only can you run with footmen, but you're able to run with horses. Imagine that. In other words, not only can you outrun Jesse Owens, some of you still remember who he is. Jesse Owens is the great runner. You should be able to run with Jesse Owens and outrun Outrun him, but also you should be able to run with secretariat. You know, do you remember who that is? The racehorse and outrun him. Now uh there have been some good runners and strong runners in the history of Olympic competition, but I don't know of one runner that can outr race a racehorse. I don't know of anyone that can do that. Uh recently there was There's a show on television, I don't know if you saw it, about Michael Phelps, the great Olympic swimmer, and they had him swim against a great white shark to see who could swim faster. won that. That was kind of a gimmick, wasn't it? Well the the great white shark obviously won that, even though Michael Phelps is a great swimmer, he's not going to be able to out swim a great white shark. And so you might be saying well how in the world does God expect us to outrun horses? Well of course this is a spiritual analogy here. Spiritually speaking, God wants you to grow So to the point in your life where that when you run the race of life, you run it so well, so swiftly, so uh strongly that you can run with the horses I think the same kind of analogy is used in Isaiah chapter forty. You remember that in verse thirty one? We shall mount up with wings as eagles, we shall run and not be weary, and walk and not faint. And Isaiah God says, You can mount up with How in the race of life Can we run, as it were, uh like a racehorse? Uh well, how does God do that? Well, basically he uses trials. God will put you through a trial. Trials are to a Christian what training is to an athlete. God will use the trials to strengthen the runner, but we need to make a qualification here Just because God puts you through a trial doesn't mean you're going to benefit from that trial. You need to make sure that whenever you go through a trial, you ask yourself the question, Lord, what can I learn from this Trial. We don't want a trial to weaken our faith. We want a trial to strengthen our faith. And the problem is when we come to the Jeremiah here, uh God says to Jeremiah, really, in verse number five Jeremiah, if you can't run with the footman, how are you going to run with the horses? Jeremiah, my plan for you is that you you're so strong in your spiritual life that you're able to Keep up with the horses. But right now, Jeremiah, you can't even run with the footman. You can't even run with the runners. There was a problem here for Jeremiah. And God was basically saying, you know You need to learn to persevere. You need to learn endurance. And by the way, that's it, that's how you run through the race of life. Really, the big idea here in this whole passage is God wants us to learn to persevere. He wants us to learn to go through difficulties and to persevere for him. That's how you learn to run the race of life. That's how you can learn to run with horses. The race of life is not a hundred yard dash, it is a marathon. And it's a long race. And so the question really is not how fast can you run? But how long can you run without giving up, without throwing in the towel? So trials teach us perseverance. And as you go through the book of Jeremiah, what you're going to find is that Jeremiah Goes through several trials. In chapter 15, he'll go through the trial of separation. He'll be lonely and isolated. In chapter 19, he will be beaten and thrown in stock And placed in a gate where people walk by and they could see him and mock at him. Later on, he'll be thrown in prison. At one point, he'll be thrown into a pit. So he'll go through one trial after another But when you come to Jeremiah chapter 11, this is the first trial that's recorded that he faces. And what I want you to see are three lessons that we can learn from Jeremiah's trial. Trials here tonight. If you're taking those, just write down number one, here's the first lesson. Be prepared. Be prepared. Remember, trials come when we least expect them. What's the problem here with your Jeremiah. Well go back to chapter 11 and look at verse 8, or actually verse 19. And what we see here, the problem is that Jeremiah was totally caught by surprise. He never saw this coming Look at verse 19. But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter, and I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let us destroy the tree from the fruit thereof And let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered. And so Jeremiah was struggling, part of the reason why was because he was caught totally off guard Jeremiah says I was caught by surprise. He never saw this trial coming. He said I was like a lamb or an ox that was brought to the slaughter. And so this trial came seemingly out of nowhere There for him. In the Hebrew, it reads like a trusting lamb is a literal Hebrew expression there, and a luk kabesh, a trusting lamb. And really the eye is in the emphatic. Jeremiah was saying, I I was like a trusting lamb here. I didn't expect this to come upon me. Uh like an ox that's brought to the slaughter. These are animals that have no idea what's come And Jeremiah says I was like that. And that's really the way trials come, don't they? They just come suddenly. We're kind of caught off guard. Didn't James say that? Brethren, count in all joy when you fall Fall and the word fall there is a Greek word which has the idea of something that happens swiftly, suddenly, surprisingly. It's gonna happen. It's not the question of when, it's if. Yes but when I should get that right. Glad some of you are awake tonight. It's gonna happen. Trials are gonna come. Um and in fact this word is used in And James about the man who fell among thieves on his way down from Jerusalem to Jericho. It happened suddenly. Philip Riken wrote this about Jeremiah. He was caught totally off guard He was like the quarterback who gets blindsided while he's looking downfield, or the corporate executive who suffers a hostile takeover when he's on vacation in the Bahamas. Or the mother who hears her toddler Smash the base on the floor while she she her back is turned. Jeremiah did not realize that men were plotting against him. And so it comes suddenly. Let's look at the next thing, the plot. Look at again Verse nineteen. And I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let us destroy the tree from w But with the fruit thereof. Let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his n name may be remembered no more. In other words, Jeremiah says, I didn't realize they were talking about me. I mean I I overheard them talking about cutting down a tree somewhere. I didn't realize the tree was me with its fruit. I didn't think that they were devising a plot against me that they were planting these e Evil things. Devise devices means planning evil things. And so really this portion of the book of Jeremiah kind of reads like a spy novel. Jeremiah is caught up in We want to cut him off before he gets married and have any children. Let's cut off the tree with the fruit. We want to completely stamp out his name. And who are the plotters here? Well look at verse number twenty-one, it tells us Therefore thus says the Lord of the men of Anathoth that seek thy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the Lord, that thou die not by our hand So who were these enemies? They were the men of his own hometown. Jeremiah was the son of Hilkiah the high priest from the uh city or the little town we And so these men plotting against him were citizens of his own hometown. They were friends of the family. And some of them may have been even t family members Members, some of his own household. In chapter twelve, verse six it says that for even thy brethren and the house of thy father, even they have dealt treasure treacherously with thee. And so Jeremiah here, he's the despised I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. What? Push them off a cliff. Same thing's happening here with Jeremiah. They're conspiring against him. Why are they conspiring against them? Why did they want to assassinate him? Well, they didn't like his preaching They they didn't like his sermons. Again in verse 21 it says, you know, prophesy not in the name of the Lord, that thou die not by our hand. This sounds like a pretty tough congregation to me. Philip Riken again wrote the conspiracy of the men of Anathoth as a lesson in how not to respond to The word of God. A minister stands or falls by the faithfulness of his preaching. And if a minister is faithful, then his congregation stands or falls by its response to his Preaching because the message comes from God. And so these men they didn't want to hear God's voice. They didn't want to hear what God was saying. And it was not hard to guess why. If you read some of Jeremiah's sermons, you can understand. Because he was really giving it to some of those priests. You remember back in chapter 5, verse 31, he said that the priests are were were uh actually acting falsely, that they were ungodly In chapter 6, verse 13, he says, From prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. This is not the kind of preaching that's going to endear him to those That town of priests there, his hometown. And so they were mad. They they thought he was a traitor. They thought he was preaching a message that was traitorous uh to the nation. He was being harmful. And so when they gather Together uh at the gate to talk about political things. Uh they didn't exactly rise up and call Jeremiah blessed. They said, Let's get rid of this guy. Let's get him out of here. They had heard just about enough. They were being convicted by what he was saying. Uh you know, I'm not asking for pity and I'm certainly not fishing for it. Uh but you know sometimes Preaching the word can be dangerous business. Congregation. I'm being literal when I say that. This is such an easy place to preach. But I've been in some places where it hasn't been that easy. And the preaching of the word isn't that well received. Uh I remember one time I was over in Cameroon, Africa And I was doing a pastor's conference there, uh Dr. Shade, and there was uh some pastors that came to me and one of them had a letter, it was a certified letter from the Muslims in his town, and the letter basically said if you keep preaching Preaching the gospel here, you're gonna die. And it was directed at that one pastor. I thought, man, what a difficult ministry he has. And he said, I'm not gonna stop preaching the gospel. I never I don't know what happened All of this took him by surprise. But you you know, when you think about it, he shouldn't have been surprised. You say, why? Because get didn't God warn him earlier uh about the fact that they were gonna fight Against him. You see, we see the problem and the plot and the plotters, but also think about with me of the preparation. And God told him in chapter one, verse nine 19, Jeremiah, they're going to fight against you. They're going to come against you. In fact, it was God was the one that even told Jeremiah about this plot. Look at chapter 11, look in verse 18 And the Lord hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it, then thou showest me their doings. And so it was God who told Jeremiah that these men were plotting against him. But here's the bottom line. When trials come, this was the first trial for Jeremiah, and it caught him by surprise. And a lesson that we can learn from this is look, trials Are a normal part of the Christian life. We have to accept that. There are some people that think that, man, when I get saved, it's going to be all roses and no thorns. Everything's going to go my way. And it's just not going to happen You're gonna listen, you're you're headed straight into the world now. You were going the same direction as the world. Now you've turned around, you're headed into the world. And guess what? Trials are gonna come And there's going to be persecution, there's going to be attacks, there's going to be ridicule. You just need to accept that. There are some th some that think, well, you know, I grow to a certain level in my Christian life, and Then I won't have to suffer trials anymore. No. We'll all suffer trials. Uh you think well if I'm more godly I won't suffer trials. No. Even the godly, the right Righteous. All of us will suffer trials. In fact, uh we're probably in one of three groups here tonight. You're in the midst of a trial right now, or you have just come out out of a trial or you're getting ready to go into one, I hate to tell you. But they're going to come to all of us. All of us are going to have them. And so we shouldn't be surprised by that. Peter said this Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened to you. No. Don't be surprised They come to all people. But let me give you the second thing here. Number one, be prepared. Remember, trials come when we least expect it. But here's the next lesson. Be prayerful. Take the matter to But O Lord of hosts that judges righteously, that triest the reins and the heart, let me see thy Now, how does Jeremiah respond to this trial? And here he's an example for all of us on how to respond. When you're blindsided by a trial, his response is to go to God in prayer. He goes to the Lord. Take matters into his own hands. He doesn't go back to his hometown and try to, you know, search for the guys that are trying to kill him. Nothing like that. What does he do? He brings it to the Lord In verse number twenty again, he prays, O Lord of hosts, thou that judges. You know, from time to time you're gonna find yourself under attack. From time to time you're gonna go into a tri Trial. And what should your reaction be? The same one here as Jeremiah. He pours his heart out before the Lord. He goes to God. What does he do? He remembers, I think, the promises of God. Look what he says in verse 20. But But O Lord of hosts, thou that judgest righteously, that trieth the reins of the heart, let me see thy vengeance on thee them he prays you know jeremiah remembers the promise that god gave him earlier remember what god said not only did god say that they would come against you but god said in again chapter one verse Verse 19, but they shall not prevail, for I am with thee to deliver thee. Listen, when you're in a trial and you go, you should go to God in prayer, but also go remember That's what we see here out of Jeremiah. You are the just judge, God. I know that you're going to judge righteously. You see, Jeremiah knew that God knows all. He knew that God knew his heart. He knew the heart of those that were coming against him And he knew that he was innocent of any wrongdoing. And so he said, Lord, you can you you you're a righteous judge. You see my heart, and you see those that are coming against me. And so I'm just playing Look at the end of verse number 20. For unto thee have I revealed my cause. Or we could say it like this I have placed my cause before you I've put the matter into your hands. Again, that's another good response. When you're blindsided by a trial, you know what you do. You go pour your heart out to God, and then you take the whole matter and you Bring it to God and you lay it before Him and say, Lord, I'm leading this with you. What did the psalmist say? Cast thy burden on the Lord, and He will sustain you. And this is what Jeremiah does. He said this. This is a prayer for relief and unburdening of soul, such as derives from the simple drawing near to God. The ears of God, the disquietudes of the heart would bring calm and refreshment. That's so true. Uh it is calms his soul. He brings this whole matter to God. So he He trusts God's character, but also he rests in God's judgment because he knows that God's going to fight for him. And by the way, God does. Look at verse 21. Therefore, thus says the Lord of of the men of Anathoth that seek thy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the Lord that thou die not by our hand. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will punish them. The young men shall Shall die by the sword, and their sons and their daughters shall die by famine, and there shall be no remnant of them, for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even in the year of their death. Visitation. So what does God promise Jeremiah? Jeremiah, I'm going to take care of this for you. I'm going to I'm going to come against these ones that have come against you. And so it's not a good picture Done. I already told you earlier a congregation stands or falls by their reception of the word. The same is true for towns and for cities, and I also could say for nations. If a if a town or a city doesn't receive the word of God or a nation doesn't receive the word of God, I don't have a really bright uh future for that nation. If you're rejected God takes that personal. He doesn't like that. He takes it very personal. one time I was called to pastor a large church in the South. It had a membership of 2,500. Does that impress you? Well don't. Don't let it impress you. Because half of them you couldn't find if you hired the FBI. They just weren't there. But I remember the first year of pastoring that church, uh, you know, we grew by a few hundred. God was good and things were going well. But there were, you know, some discontentment. There were some grumblings, you know, among some of the deacons. In fact there was a deacon's meeting that was called and they called me into the meeting And we had fifty deacons in that church if you can imagine. That's about twenty five too many. But they called me into the church or into the meeting rather, and they said, um, you know, we we don't like what you're preaching, you need to change what you're preaching uh in the church. And I basically said, you know what, um y you guys are deacons and you you serve, you have no right You have no governing authority in the church. You certainly don't have a right to tell me what to preach. I don't think some of them really like that very much. I would I said it as nicely as I could. Look, guys, I I'm gonna preach the word. When it comes to the color of the carpet, you get a vote. Color of the drapes, you get a vote. When it comes to my preacher, you don't get a vote. You know, I know that sounds arrogant. I learned that from college from Dr. Hiles when I went to high school Anderson. Kind of pull that out of the file. You don't get to say you don't get to say what I preach. Well that kind of balloon later on there was a revolt and about a hundred and fifty people met off campus trying to figure out how to get rid of me. Can you imagine that? I'm a nice guy. Can you imagine why somebody would want to do that? I remember on a Wednesday night they tried to vote me out Of the church. And uh evidently word had spread because we had a full service on Wednesday night. That church sat fourteen hundred and the lower floor was filled. Some of those people were members I had never seen in my life. But word had spread, and I just remember the Lord overcame all of that. When it came time to make the motion to vote me out, nobody did anything. You guys didn't know I was damaged goods, did you? Nobody did anything There wasn't a mo uh a move. As providence would have it, that night I was preaching out of the book of of of Genesis on the Philistines trying to push Isaac out of the land. And ironically rather than pushing him Now I didn't plan that, but God did. And when it came time to do something, nobody did anything, and the Lord overcame that And by the way, uh the deacon who led the revolts of the Lord was very harsh with him. He got esophagal cancer. Couldn't talk after that. There was another man who came to my office And said, My my spiritual gift is to get rid of you. I said, I don't know if that's a spiritual gift in the Bible. I will double check on that. I don't think that's a spiritual gift And uh of course he didn't. And the sad part is is that just weeks later he we were doing his funeral. I mean it's I I say all that and I don't glory in it But I say I say that just to tell you that, you know, God will protect his word and he protects his servants. And if you put Matters into God's hands, God can take care of them better than you can. You gotta learn to put things in the hands of the Lord. Now I didn't feel very successful in that ministry But I did feel very protected by God. And I think that Jeremiah would perhaps say the same thing. He didn't feel very successful being a prophet. He was the weeping prophet. Because he had Informed against him prosper. And God took care of that matter for him. And so we learn to just place things in God's hands. You say, Man, I have someone who's coming against me Have all these things, look, friend, just put it in the hands of God. Just put it before the throne. Let God take care of it. Let him fight your battles for you. He will fight Your battles if you let them. And he could do a whole lot better job than you can. Let me give you the third thing. Be prepared. Remember, trials come when we least expect them. Number two, be prayerful. Take the matter to the Lord in prayer. But then here's number three: be patient. Be patient. Don't demand immediate answer. But put your trust in God. Now, when you come to the end of chapter 11, you know what you see? Jeremiah now is kind of wrestling. You know, many times when we go through trials, we might wrestle with the why questions. God, why are you allowing this to happen to me? Why are these things happening? Why are people coming? Against me? Why are these circumstances coming against me? And Jeremiah has those same questions. He shows us that he's human here. Because no sooner did God take care of the conspiracy That Jeremiah wrestles with a theological crisis. And notice, first of all, notice the questions. Look at chapter 12, verse 1. Righteous art thou, O Lord, when I please With thee, yet let me talk with thee of thy judgments. Lord, I know you're righteous and everything. I mean, I believe that, but I have a few questions for you. I have a few things, a few matters I would like to talk to you about. Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? Wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously? In other words God, I know you're righteous. I believe that, but I don't understand why you let the wicked do these things. Or why are they why the wicked are allowed to come against me? Or why Do the wicked prosper? That's a question that is frequently asked in Scripture. If you read the Bible, you'll see that come up from time to time. Job asked that same question. When he was wrestling with God. Many of the Psalms deal with that question. Psalm 73 specifically. Malachi the prophet also wrestled with this. Habakkuk Wondered why God would use an evil nation like the Babylonians to punish Israel. They were worse than Israel. Habakkuk said, Lord, they're even more evil than Israel, and yet you're using them to punish Israel. Why why is that? In the book of Malachi it says, Where is the God of justice? And so there were questions like this that were circling around. By the way, we have questions like this today. Don't we? We wrestle sometimes with these issues. And there's there's some wrong answers to these questions, however. One of them Some people say, well, God's not all powerful. We can't believe that because we know the Bible says he is. In order to explain evil or why wicked people prosper, some people just say, well, you know, God, He's He's not all powerful. He's doing the best he can. There was a rabbi uh Kushner, I believe, who wrote the book, Why Do Bad Things Happen to Good People, and this was the theodicy or the option he chose He said the reason bad things happen to good people is because God is not all powerful. He's powerful, but not all powerful. We can't go there. I d I I I disagree. God God is all powerful. And some say, well, God is not all-knowing, He just doesn't see it coming. We can't we can't uh go there either because God knows everything. Some of the open things Theists out there, they like to say, well, God doesn't know the future completely. He just knows uh what's reality, and since the future is not reality, he doesn't know that. Uh he's learning in this thing as he goes That brings God down. We can't go there. God is all knowing. He's all powerful. And and some say when he's just not sovereign, he's not in control of everything. Jeremiah would disagree with you because Jeremiah, look in verse 2, thou hast planted them. Lord, this is your work. Thou hast planted them. They have taken roots. They grow. In other words, he's not Saying God, you're not in control. God, you've allowed this. Uh He doesn't think God is not sovereign. He's in control of everything. And some people just say, well, God is not good. And again I disagree with that because God is good all the time. He's always good. So he's struggling here. And Jeremiah complains in verse 2. He says, Lord They've taken root, they're growing. This is kind of the opposite of Psalm 1. In Psalm 1, it's the righteous man who is planted by the waters who is growing. The wicked are like the chaff that are driven away. But here this is kind of the opposite. It's the Wicked that's planted in their growing. And Jeremiah's asking, Lord, why is that? And so he he sees this and he struggles. Notice again in verse number two where he says, They bring forth fruit, they are near in their mouth and far from their reins, or literally we could say near in their heart And again, Jeremiah is speaking about the wicked, specifically the ones that were plotting against him. They used all this rel Religious language, they talk spiritual. God, you're on their lips, but in their in their in their heart, you're far from them. And so So Jeremiah here is is struggling. And by the way, he wasn't just concerned for himself. Look at verse number four. How long shall the land mourn and the herbs of every And here Jeremiah is saying, You know It's the people who are suffering because of the evil of the leaders. The leaders are doing all this and the land is now suffering. This is a divine uh curse that God promised in Deuteronomy that when the people If the people disobey, then the heavens will become brass and the land will suffer. All of this was happening. And Jeremiah saying, And Lord, the people are basically suffering because of the evil Evil and the wicked man that is out there prospering. And so these are the questions that Jeremiah has. And then it gives a suggestion. The question is followed by the suggestion. Look in verse 3. But thou, O Lord, knowest me, thou hast seen me, and trieth my heart toward thee. Pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and prepare Prepare them for the day of slaughter. So what's his suggestion? He says, I suggest, Lord, you slaughter them like sheep. And most of us would agree with that. Being honest, right? I don't know about you, but I I hate wickedness. I hate injustice, and so do you. I'm I know you do. And you know, a lot of times we're discouraged when we see those things We long for the day when murderers and rapists and racists and child molesters and persecutors of the church and and all this perpetrators of genocide. We long for the day when they will all receive divine judgment I don't know about you, but I want that day to come. I want to see God's judgment on the on that. And in our moments, we may second the motion that Jeremiah makes. Lord, I second that. Slaughter them like sheep. That's what I'd like to see you do. So, with all that said, what is God's answer? How does God answer this? Notice what God said Says in verse number five, If thou hast run with the footman, and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with whom The answer that God gives probably wasn't what Jeremiah was expecting. Jeremiah was probably expecting some long theological answer as As to why God has delayed his judgment. Now God has already promised he will judge the wicked. And beloved, you better believe that. No one's gonna get away with anything. The question was why Are you waiting so long? And God doesn't answer Jeremiah's questions. Let me tell you something. God is not subject to the questions of man. He's not subject to man's uh ideas, and and you can't put God On trial. Are you okay with that? It's not your job to tell God how to run the universe. It's not Jeremiah's job to do that. Here's the thing: God knows What he's doing. He doesn't need your help. He doesn't need my help. And so God doesn't answer Jeremiah's question. In fact, a lot of times God doesn't answer our question And let me tell you something furthermore, God will put you and I through a trial, and sometimes He might not not ever on in this life reveal to us why. He just says, you have to trust me and you have to persevere through this trial. And so the really the question is, do you trust me? That's the question. I'm not I'm not going to give you this long philosophical answer. I'm not going to try to answer all of your questions. First of all, if God tried to answer that question, you and I, we wouldn't understand it We wouldn't be able to keep up with what God is doing. And would it really help us any more than just simply trusting and believing in God? And so God says, Jeremiah, look, if you can't run With the footman, how are you going to run with the horses? If this is all it takes to get you down, I mean you're ready to quit now? Let me tell you something. You're not going to ever be able to run with a horse If the footman weary you. And God's answer to me is so very profound. Look at the rest of it in verse 5. It says, then how And here he's talking about the flat, safe country, you know, running along with the flat plains. It's easy to run on a flat surface, isn't it? But what happened when you get to the thicket to the jungle with hills and thorn bushes. When it's really hard to run on those paths, that's what he's saying. If you stumble on the flat plains and How are you going to manage the jungle thickets that grew along the Jordan? In other words, the path on which you are running is kind of easy right now, Jeremiah. It's actually going to get a little bit harder. It's going to get a little worse. So, really, by implication, what is God saying to him? And God is saying the same to us. Here's the first implication. I think this answer that God gives is profound because if you think through it, God is implying several things. Here's the first thing. Don't worry about running the world. You just worry about running your race. That's the first answer. Stop worrying about things that are going out here. God can take care of that. You worry about you running a good race. That's what you need to focus on God doesn't need help running things. And of course he reminded Job of that. Let me give you some spiritual homework. Sometime read Job 38 through 40 when God gives a list of Questions to Job when Job questions the Lord. God says, Job, where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? And then he gives a litany of questions there, and it's like bam, bam, bam, waking them up. Saying, look, I don't need your help. And that's what God is saying here. Uh, you know, most of us when we're suffering, we do what Jeremiah does. We ask, how can I get out of this? instead of what What can I get out of this? And that's the right question. God's servants, said Warren Wersby, don't live by explanations, they live by promises. Explanations might satisfy our curiosity and make us smarter people, but laying hold of God's promises will build our character and make us servants. That's the first implication of what God is saying. Second thing he's really saying here is a life of godly service is going to get harder, not easier. So you have to learn to persevere. Are you ready for that? A life of godly service is not going to get easier. It's going to get harder. And you better learn to persevere. That's what he's saying here, Jeremiah. If you think now is bad, you got some other things happening in the future. You better get ready for it. And you better learn to trust me. Better learn to persevere. You know that should stop us from complaining. I don't want to complain because I want to thank God that He's brought me safely thus far. And trust in him for the rest. You know, when you start out running a race, it's kind of easy, but the longer you run, the more you get winded, the harder it is sometimes. And so you have to keep running and not quit. And that's what God is saying here. Philip Brooks said this the purpose of life is the building of character through truth, and you don't build character by being a spec And then here's the third thing that God is really implying. Jeremiah, how are you going to help anyone if you How you gonna help anybody else if you personally don't get stronger here? If you can't run with a footman, you're not gonna be able to run with the horses. You've got to get Stronger. And you know what? Sometimes God will put me through a trial. He'll put you through a trial simply because He wants us to get stronger. Because you you can't we we can't help anyone else unless we're running strong. We can't help another person run the race unless we're running a strong race. So God says, you know what? I'm going to have to put you through a trial. So you can learn to run the way you should. You see, Jeremiah was concerned about the whole development of the wicked In the world, God was concerned about Jeremiah and his spiritual life. And that's what we have to be concerned about. The same is true of me and you. The only way we're ever going to get stronger in the race of life is to accept the challenges and allow God to mature us and to learn to say, I'm not going to quit, I'm going to persevere, I'm going to continue on. I'm going to trust God. God. I don't understand it. I don't have my questions answered, but I do know this. I can trust God. And that's a choice that we make. And that's And so really three lessons here. Be prepared. Remember trials come when we least expect them. Prayerful. Take the matter to God in prayer. Don't take it into your own hands. Just put it before God. And then number three, be patient. Don't demand immediate answers. Just put your trust in God. And just keep going. Just keep persevering. And I'll close with this. You know, we're talking about running with horses. I love the story of the great race force secretariat. You know, if you know anything about horse racing, and here in Baltimore you should know at least a little bit, right? We got a racetrack somewhere around here. And in nineteen nineteen seventy two the great horse secretariat ran on that track during the uh the quest for the triple crown. And uh you remember that when he ran to Belmont, uh he did what no horse had ever It was a long track. So you had to have endurance. And everybody was saying this horse runs fast, but he can't run long. He can't run far. And so the race came for the Belmont, of course you know it's history, that secretary at the race horse ran not only fast but long. He beat the second the horse that came to second place, he beat him by thirty eight one links. That has never happened again in the history of horse racing. This is horse racing one on one here at the end, right? You say what's the point? Did you Did you know that when this racehorse finally died, they did an autopsy on the horse, and this is what they found. That he was a f he was truly a freak of nature. Why? Because his heart was twice the size of a normal horse. Twice the size. And so he had a bigger engine, you might want to say. And so no wonder he could run faster and farther than any other horse. It's because of his heart. He had a huge heart And when I read that story, I think of the psalmist who said this I will run the way of thy commandments when thou hast enlarged my heart. Run for you when you enlarge my heart. You know what God does when He puts us through trials? He's trying to enlarge our heart so that we can run. And be victorious. We can run, yeah, we can even outrun secretariat spiritually speaking. If we allow God to enlarge our heart and keep trusting Him, let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we thank you for the reminder that we have here from Jeremiah. Remember and know that we are going to go through trials, Lord. Help us to be as prepared as possible. We know the best way to do that is simply by walking with you Feeding on your word, obeying your word. But Lord, help us to just expect it. It's going to happen. And help us, Lord, to be prayerful. The trial comes, Lord, may we pour our hearts out before you. Come before you, Lord, and put the matter into your hands. And may we be patient. Help us, Lord. In these those times when we're our human wisdom would want to question you. Help us, Lord, just to remember. We don't need every answer to our questions. We just need to know That Lord, you know what you're doing. We trust you. Help us, Lord, to persevere so that we can run the race of life. In a way, Lord, that where we Can run with horses. We run strong. We run far. We don't quit. So that Lord, we can finish the race strong for your glory. How many say that's my My prayer tonight that God would enlarge my heart so I can run strong for Him. Father, bless these hands, the desires of our heart, Lord, to please you. Honor us Press Lord by giving us your grace and helping us pray in Jesus' name amen