Take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of 1 Kings, chapter 3. On Wednesday nights, we're doing a study in 1 and 2 Kings. And tonight we are looking at chapter 3. Have you ever heard of the expression carte blanche? What does that mean and where did it originate? Well it's a French expression, and it literally means a a white check, or we could say blank check And it's the idea of a check with no monetary value entered. And so in a figurative way it's can be speaking about an open end agreement. Where did this expression come from? Well, when King Charles II was fleeing from his enemies, he was being taken away from his throne, uh he is reputed to have offered his helpers carte blanche. That is Uh the uh recipient of this could then write anything they wanted above the royal signature and it would be legal. He was literally giving them a blank check with his signature on it. You fill it in. You put in there whatever you want Let me ask you a question. How would you respond if someone came to you and gave you a blank check with their signature that said you can get anything you want? Well the first question you would probably ask is uh is this person legitimate? Uh do they have the money to do this? But what if this person who offered you this blank check was the richest man in the world? Well that's a different story. Now some of you might think, well that could never happen. But what if I told you something like this indeed did happen, and at least once we know of in history, and it happened to Solomon And God, who owns it all and is the richest person ever, because it's all his Came to Solomon one night and offered him a blank check. Look in first Kings chapter 3 and look down at verse number 5. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. What an incredible offer. Ask whatever you want me to give you, Solomon. What if God came to you and made that offer? What would you say? How would you fill in that blank check? Now Solomon was humble enough and smart enough to fill out the check with the right thing. But how about you? And how about me? And so what I want to convey to you tonight is that receiving and responding properly to a blank check offer from God is really a matter of the heart. Solomon again was humble enough and smart enough to ask God for wisdom and God really liked his request. Now as we come to chapter three in this narrative, the really the question that it's designed to answer is this. How will Solomon fill his father's shoes? David was the king before Solomon. He was the greatest leader in the history of Israel besides Moses. How will this new young king fill the shoes of this great King David. What I want you to see from this narrative tonight are five characteristics of the heart That receives and responds properly to the blank check offer from God. Here's the first thing. Number one, write down a hungry heart, a heart that seeks God fervently. Look at verse number two. Now it's talking about Solomon only the people sacrificed in high places because there was no house built unto the name of the Lord until those days. The Bible, the writer tells us people were still sacrificing in high places. If you've been with us in the study, you know that the writer of 1 and 2 Kings uh really doesn't he denounces the high places he doesn't look upon them very favorably. However, you have to remember that in this particular circumstance there was no central place of worship yet The temple had not yet been built. And so there's a sense in which some of those high places were places where people who sincerely w worship Yahweh would go and worship God. And that included Solomon at this time in his life. Solomon loved the Lord, the Bible says in verse number 3. Look at verse 3. Uh Solomon loved the Lord walking in the statues of David his father, only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places. For a certain while it was kind of excusable to do this. The problem was that even after the temple was built, people Still continued to visit some of those high places. Sadly, even Solomon later in his life. But at this particular point in time, the Bible says he loved the Lord, and he was really seeking God with all of his heart. And the Bible says in verse uh four, and the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was a great high place. In other words, he went to Gibeon. Why Gibeon? Well Did you know that during this time there were actually two tabernacles? There was a tabernacle that rested in Gibeon, and there was a tabernacle that was in Jerusalem. Now the tabernacle in Jerusalem was relatively new, but the tabernacle that was in Gibeon was the tabernacle built by Moses. And that tabernacle in Gibeon had the original brazen altar, the one that was made by Moses for the children of Israel back in the Exodus. And so Solomon wanted to offer sacrifices to the Lord, but he wanted to go to that place in Gibeon, and he wanted to offer sacrifices on that original brazen altar because that meant something to him. It kind of had a a value to him. You know, there are certain places that where historical events take place that may have Somewhat of an emotional attachment in our heart. I remember I was over in London one time and visiting some historic churches, and I went to the church that was pastored by John Newton, the one who wrote the song Amazing Grace And sat there in that very church that he had pastored, that place where he composed the song and made the song famous there. And it had a very special meaning just to sit there in that auditorium And think about that song. Now here's Solomon, and he wants to go to Gibeon, to this high place, because the tabernacle is there, the brazen of the altar is there, and what is he doing? He's seeking the Lord. The Bible says, seek the Lord, seek his face continually. How much do you seek God. The Bible says God delights those that seek Him. Psalm 27, verse 8: When thou sayest, Seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. And what does Solomon do there in Gibeon? Look at verse 4. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon the altar. Imagine the expense of a sacrifice like that, a thousand burnt offerings. Like David, his father, Solomon, did not want to offer anything that cost him nothing. Philip Reichen says that Solomon proves his love for God through sacrifice. Now, it was customary in the ancient Near East that when a person was seeking their God They would go to that holy place of worship, they would make a sacrifice before the altar of their God, and then they would sleep right there at the altar. And why would they do that? They were hoping that the God might speak to them, might come to them and give them a dream message. So what does Solomon do here? He kind of follows that custom. He he sleeps right there before the brazen altar. Right there in that holy tabernacle. He he falls asleep. And God is pleased with Solomon for seeking him so diligently, so fervently. And God did come. Look at verse number five. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, Ask what I shall give thee. Again, this is the unprecedented blank check offer that God gives to Solomon. God did come. God was pleased with Solomon, who had a heart that was hungry to seek after the Lord, and a heart like that. is a heart where God can entrust such a offer. But secondly, not only a hungry heart, but also a honest heart. And I would say along with this, recognize your challenge. Because look at verse 6. Here's Solomon's prayer. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my Father, great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee And thou hast kept for him this great kindness that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. I call this uh his grateful acknowledgement because what Solomon is doing here is he's acknowledging the covenant that God made with his father David. And along with that the promise that God would give David a son who will sit upon the throne. And what Solomon is doing here is acknowledging that it was not his greatness that made him the king of Israel. It was God's faithfulness to his word and to David. Solomon recognized that it wasn't because of him that he was there. It was because of God He was promoted in that position because of God. You know, this is true of any of us. Anytime we receive promotion, it is from the Lord. The psalmist said, for promotion comes neither from the east. nor the west nor from the south, but God is judge. He putteth down one, he setteth up another. We are what we are because of God's faithfulness and because of God's Grace. Now, so notice what he does. He doesn't just come before God and start giving out his wish list. First of all, he acknowledges God. His heart is filled with gratitude. You know, there's a lesson in there for us about prayer. Our prayers should not be simply rushing into the throne room of God, giving him our wish list, and then leaving. It is coming before God. It is coming with a heart filled with gratitude and acknowledgement of all the mercies and grace of God in our life. It was Billy Sunday who said we need to jerk out some of the groans. of our prayers and shove in a few hallelujahs and praise the Lord. But I want you to see next not only his grateful acknowledgment, but his humble argument. Because after a time of thanksgiving, Solomon begins to present his petition before the Lord. He's kind of going to argue his case And isn't that what we do when we pray? We kinda we kinda give our case, our argument before the Lord, Lord, this is why I need what uh I'm asking for. You know, don't our children do that with us sometimes, you know, especially if they're going to ask a big request. Uh what do you want, son? Well dad, you know that you know my car broke down and and you know my dog died and all these other things happened and they're they're gonna lay out their case. And I, you know, I really, really am in great need, and I I just want to say to them, as all of us do as parents, put all of your bags in one ask it, you know. Just ask me what you want, right? But Solomon he he does it right. Notice he's going to remind God of some things. First of all, you put me on the throne, God. Look at verse 7. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David, my father. Lord, you're the one that put me here. Solomon didn't go looking to be king. He didn't plot. He didn't plan. He didn't run a campaign. Now Adonijah did all of that as we saw in the first chapter, but not Solomon. There's comfort in knowing that God does something. It's the handiwork of God. And Solomon can honestly say, God, you put me here on this throne. This is nothing I sought after. But secondly, he says, and I'm inexperienced. Again, in verse number 7. I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. The word little child, katan, na air. The word katan in the Hebrew means small or insignificant There's nothing more a dependence than a little child. God, I'm like a small child, like a toddler I don't know how to do this. See, notice where he says, I don't know how to go out. I don't know how to come in. What does that mean? That's a Hebrew idiom for skill and leadership. In Numbers chapter 27, it says this let the Lord the God of the spirits of all flesh set a man over the congregation Which may go out before them, which may come in before them, which may lead them out and bring them in. You see, that's the idea of leadership. Someone knows how to go out and come in Joshua said this. He said, I'm as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and come in. Joshua said, I'm still able to lead in battle. I know how to go out. I know how to come in. The Bible says of David. He went out and came in before the people. It says in 1 Samuel 18, 16, but all Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and he came in before them. Now here's Solomon saying, I don't know how to go out or come in. I don't know how to lead. And here he is, leader. of a nation of Israel, a nation once led by Abraham, once led by Moses, once led by Joshua and Samuel and David. And now here he is on the throne, and this had to be very, very intimidating. This had to strike fear into his heart. I I love the story of Harry Truman. He was an unknown senator from Missouri. Somehow he became Roosevelt's running mate. When FDR won the election, he became vice president. on April the twelfth, nineteen forty five, while he would be vice president for only a few months, he was called to the White House. He thought maybe the president had some special job for him to do, but when he got there, he was brought into the sitting room Where Mrs. Roosevelt said, Harry, the president is dead. And he was stunned. And for a few minutes he said nothing. And then he said to Mrs. Roosevelt, Is there anything I can do for you? And she said, No, Harry, uh is there anything I can do for you? You're the one that's in trouble now. And that was at at World War II when the world was uh was it needed leadership at that time. Uh there was huge decisions to make about Hitler and Japan and so on. And later Truman said I felt like the moon, the stars, and all the planets had fallen on me. And you can imagine that Solomon felt that way. God, you're the one that put me on this throne, and I'm just a child. I don't know how to go out. I don't know how to come in But then there's a third thing he said. Notice verse 8. He said, And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen. I love this. These are your chosen people. These aren't my people, God. These are your people. You know, it'd be good for us servants of the Lord to remember that, that the church uh that's the people of God. This is not my church, this is his church. They're not my people, they're God's people, that's why we strive for excellence. Solomon said, These are your people, God, not mine. And then he said, number four, it's a great multitude in verse number eight He said, a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. The nation of Israel had grown and they continued to multiply. The population was increasing by leaps and bounds Israel was going through a baby boom, and Solomon knew that the old ways of governing would not be sufficient to meet the new challenges of this nation that was growing. The whole structure, the whole administrative structure of the government had to change. Now what was Solomon doing here in this? He was acknowledging that the challenge before him was too great. He was saying it's too much for me. It's too great for me. He knew he was not wise enough He knew he was not strong enough. He knew he was not experienced enough. And he had an honest heart, a heart that admitted all that to God. God, I can't do this. This task is too great for me. He admitted his weakness before God. Did you know that weakness is strength when we give it to God? When we turn it over to the Lord, God delights in taking our weakness, that in exchange he might give us his strength. In fact, that's what the Bible says. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. The Hebrew word renew there is a word that means exchange. We give God our weakness, He gives us His strength. And so the kind of heart that responds properly to a blank check offered is a hungry heart that seeks God. It is an honest heart. That recognizes the challenger. But right down number three, it's a humble heart that humbly asks God for wisdom. Look at verse number nine. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad, for who is able to judge this thy so great a So here Solomon, based on these arguments that he had previously given, requests that God give him an understanding heart. Or we could say simply he's asking God for wisdom. And beloved God liked that request. Look at verse 10. And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. Now why was God so pleased with this this uh prayer request of Solomon Well, the it tells us, first of all, it was a selfless request. He wasn't asking anything for himself. I mean, how many of us, if we got a blank check offer from God, the first thing we would think about is, ooh, I'll tell you what I would like Solomon wasn't thinking about that. He wasn't thinking about himself. In fact, look in verse 11. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing and hast not asked for thyself. long life, neither riches, and so on. The motives of Solomon's heart were right In the New Testament, James tells us that many times when we ask, we don't receive because we ask it amiss, that we might what? James says that we might consume it upon our own lusts. Selfishness leads to wrong praying. When our praying is wrong, our whole Christian life is wrong. It has been well said that the purpose of prayer is not to get man's will done in heaven, but to get God's will done on earth. But so many times Christians treat prayer like this, Aladdin's lamp, where we rub it and God is the genie that gets out and he gives us whatever we wish. And so we come to God very selfishly many times in prayer. We come with our wish lists. Here's what I want. But when Jesus taught us to pray, what did he say? When you pray, first of all, say, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is. Notice it's thy, thy God, every our focus, first of all, in praying should not be on what we want But on his name and his kingdom and his will. And this is what Solomon was asking. He knew that he had a task before him. It was all about God's kingdom. It was all about God's will. It was all about God's name. That w that Israel was bearing before the other watching Gentile nations. And then Jesus said this, and then give us this day our daily bread. Once we Put the kingdom first and once we focus first on the spiritual things, then it's okay to say, Lord, give us this day our daily bread. And of course bread there is a word that means everything that we could ever need for physical sustenance in this earthly temporal existence. It's okay to ask for those things, but make sure That when you go to God, you're not going selfishly, but selflessly, not my name, my kingdom, my glory. Some people pray like that. Some people pray like the bird I like to refer to. In the South Sea Island there's a bird called the Mimi Bird, and the reason it's called that is because the sound it makes is me, me, me And I've never been down there, but I've heard Christians pray like a say the Mimi bird, where they all say, It's all about me and what I want He doesn't ask for material things. He doesn't ask for riches. He doesn't ask for fame. You know what he asks for? He asks for spiritual virtue. He asked to be a better man. He asked that God would make him the leader that he needs to be. So many times we're more concerned about what we possess than what possesses us, about what we have rather than who we are. And Solomon's request was pleasing to the Lord. It was also, it was not only was it a selfless request and a spiritual request. But it was a sensible request. This just made this was the right thing to pray. This was the right request to make at this crucial time in his life. And notice verse number 10. And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And then it says three times in the rest of the verses, preceding verses, that God says, I will give this to you. I'm going to give this to you. You have this. What does the Bible say in James? If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all men liberally, and upright it not it shall be given him. Maybe James read this story when he was writing down this verse. Maybe he was thinking about this because What we see here is that God, he gives Solomon wisdom alright. In fact, he gives him a great big dose. He gives to him liberally, just like James says when we ask God for wisdom. He gives them generously this wisdom, so much so that there's no one in the world that could compare to Solomon and his wisdom because God gave him so much. The kind of heart that responds properly to a blank check offer from God is a hungry heart, a heart that seeks God fervently, an honest heart. A heart that recognizes the challenges, a humble heart, a heart that's willing to ask God for wisdom, but also here's the fourth thing, a hearing heart. And this is a heart that recognizes wisdom as a gift from God. Again, I want you to look in verse number 9, where Solomon says, Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart. The literal Hebrew reads lev shema. Shema is the Hebrew word for hear, lev heart, literally a heart that is that hears, a hearing heart. The ideas of a heart that's obedient, a heart that's listening, or we could say a discerning heart that's in tune to the voice of God and in tune to the needs around it. It's really a discerning heart, a listening heart, an obedient heart. And again, this word Shema is the word that's used many times in the Old Testament to speak about a heart that's sensitive, a heart that's obedient. And again in verse number 12, look what God says, behold, I have done according to thy word, so I have given thee a wise and a understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. Look at verse thirteen. And I have also given thee, which thou hast not asked Riches and honor. And so God does this. He gives them this wise understanding heart. Now let me just tell you a little bit about wisdom. Wisdom has nothing to do with a person's IQ. Wisdom is not knowledge per se. Wisdom if we uh the probably the best way to say it is it's skillful living. It's practical. It's not theoretical. It's practical. It's not wisdom if you don't do something It really boils down to the choices that you make. Making the right choices. You know, there's a very real sense that our life Consists of the choices that we make. Think about it. Where we are today and what we are today is the end result, is the sum of all the choices we have made up until this point All of life is about choices. When we get up in the morning, what we choose to do, where we go to work, whom we speak to. You know, there's little choices that we make each day. Then there are some big choices we might make at one point in our life, and that one choice will guide us the rest of our life. But all of life is made up of decisions. It's made up of choices that we make. Wisdom in the ancient world was viewed as making the right choice And so it's not wisdom until you make a choice, until you do something. What is your choice? That will determine how wise you are. And by the way, in the ancient Near East they had all kind of wisdom literature that that uh permeated the world. The Egyptians had their wise men and their wisdom literature, the Babylonians had their wise men their wisdom literature. The Sumerians and the Assyrians and all these people groups had their own wisdom literature and wise men. Israel came along in wisdom was with Israel was a little bit different because it wasn't necessarily just making the right choice, but Israel added a little bit of unique spin on that. It was making the righteous choice. And it began with the fear of the Lord. And this is what Israel said. Our wisdom begins with fearing God. And if we fear God, then we're going to make not just a right choice, we're going to make the righteous choice. And we're going to discern and we're going to be able to make the right choices that please the Lord. And so wisdom is not making just a right decision, but righteous decisions. And it begins with the fear of the Lord. But here's the thing I want you to know. This kind of wisdom is a gift from Almighty God. You don't get this in school necessarily It's not really just knowledge. Knowledge we need to pass the test in school, but wisdom we need to pass the challenges and tests of life. Knowledge is learned. Wisdom is given Knowledge is learned by looking around, wisdom by looking up and asking God. Again, you don't get this any other way. But by through God. God gives wisdom, the Bible says. This unique type of wisdom that was unique to the ancient world. Is which is unique in the world still today for us as believers, is a wisdom that comes from Almighty God. And a hearing heart recognizes this wisdom as a gift from God. You uh heard about the miner who had a son, had a big business with mines. He sent his son off to a college to learn all about the family business of mining, and when the son came back The father said, Now son, I'm going to put you at the bottom of our our our business and you're going to work your way up. And the son said, Father, with all due respect, I have a diploma, and I know more about mining than you and anyone else here. And he said, You give me your best mine and I'll show you. And the father against this better judgment said, Okay. He gave him the best mine. But the problem was later on that mine which was backed up against the uh lake began to seep water through a hole and the son cabled his father and said, Dad, you know, the mine's up against the the the lake and water is seeping in through a hole, what should I do? And the father didn't say anything in return. And the son again said, Dad, what should I do? Still there was silence. A third time. Dad, if you don't tell me what to do, we're gonna lose this mind. And finally the father cabled back and said, stick your diploma in that hole. Kind of harsh. But the the point is is that you know there's a wisdom that doesn't come through a diploma. It doesn't come through an education. It comes as a result of God. Now let me give you the last thing. A hungry heart Is a heart that seeks God fervently. An honest heart will recognize the challenge. A humble heart will ask God for wisdom. A hearing heart sees this wisdom as a gift from God. But then finally a holy heart. And this is the heart that responds properly to God's goodness. So look in verse number 14 And if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did, then will I lengthen thy days. And so I think all of us would agree that God was being incredibly gracious and generous. And God not only gives Solomon what he asked for, but he gives him far more. And he set Solomon apart. And he gave Solomon wealth and fame and all these other blessings as well. He gave Solomon what all kings want, yet they rarely achieve. He got more than he asked for. And what is God asking for Solomon to do? All God wanted Solomon to do was what? Respond properly. And how would he do that? By obedience. Again, verse 14, walk in my ways, keep my statutes, and my commandments. This is what God wants from all of us. He wants us to live an obedient life. That is the kind of heart that God can entrust a blank check offer to, a heart that is holy, that is willing to live a life of obedience. Now look at verse number 15. And Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered up burnt offerings, and offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all of his servants. Now, this presents the reader and the audience with an immediate implied question. Was this just a dream? You ever have a vivid dream and wake up and say, was man, that seemed very real. Was that just a dream or was it something more to that? Solomon wakes up after this encounter with God. And again, the reader has to ask, was this just a dream? Did God really give Solomon this wisdom? And we don't have to wonder long, because if you read on in the rest of chapter three, what you begin to see is a great demonstration Of Solomon's judicial wisdom and discernment. And then you go to chapter 4 and you get a demonstration of Solomon's administrative wisdom. And then you go on to chapter 5 and 6, and they're one demonstration after another of the wisdom that God gave Solomon, even to the point of architectural wisdom and building the temple of the Lord. And making sure it was done in the right way. God indeed did give Solomon that wisdom. So again, in conclusion here, do you have the kind of heart that knows how to fill out a blank check from God? And you might be thinking, yeah, that was Solomon. But God would never really give us an offer like that. Really? Listen to the words of Jesus. Whatsoever you ask in my name, that I will do. That the Father might be glorified in the Son. Verse 14, if you ask anything in my name, I will do it. What does that sound like to you? Sounds like it's very similar, like God's giving us a blank check here. But what does Jesus mean when he says, if you ask anything in my name? In my name. To use our analogy of the blank check, prayer is like filling out a blank check that goes to God. The condition is only Jesus can sign that check. That's the condition. You know, it's certain businesses only certain people can sign checks, you know, if the if the authorized signature is not right, the bank's not going to cash it. And uh, you know, a lot of places, businesses, they have several people earmarked to be the authorized signers of any check. Any check that comes across the desk They have to look at it, they have to examine it, what is the request? They either say, yes, this is okay, and they sign it, or they say, wait a minute, this is not a legitimate request. We're not going to sign this check. You know, prayer is like that. Prayer is like filling out a check and bringing it before the Lord, and Jesus will either put his name to that check or he will not. Depending upon if he can authorize this request. And believe me, when Jesus puts his name on a check, the Father is going to cash it. But the question is, will Jesus put his name on it? Will he say, yes, I can accept this? I can authorize this. Give you an example. What if I put on my prayer check, Lord Jesus, I would like a brand new Mercedes-Benz gold color with a plush leather interior and all the other bells and whistles on it? It's only going to cost the church about $100,000. Lord Jesus, would you please give me that? What do you think Jesus is going to say? You know what, Jerry? I don't think I can authorize that. That's not really for my kingdom. That's not really for my glory. That's really more something about more about you and your wishes and your wants and your greeds. You see, Jesus doesn't authorize Checks for our greeds, for our wishes. But what if I came to Jesus and I said, Lord, I have a lost loved one? And I want them to know you. I want them to be saved. I would give anything if they came to know you. Lord, will you save them? Will you turn their hearts And here is my request, here's my check. And you know what Jesus is going to say? I can authorize that. I can put my name to that one. What if I came to Jesus and said, Lord, I want to live a more holy life. I need grace to live the kind of life that you need me to live. I think Jesus can say, you know what, I can authorize that. I can sign that check. What if I say, Lord, give me wisdom? As I go through this challenge in life, I don't have the strength to do this. I don't have the wisdom to do this. Lord, you put me here. You put me in this circumstance? Please, Lord, give me wisdom. You know what? Jesus, he'll put his name to that check. And that's what it means when Jesus says, if you ask anything in my name, anything in my name, God still offers us the same offer he gave to Solomon We just need to have the good sense to know how to fill the checkout correctly so Jesus will sign it. So we can have what we need from him. This is the key to answer prayer. Let's pray together. And so Lord, thank you for this story that reminds us of how gracious you are, how loving you are. And how it pleases you when we seek you with all of our hearts. Just like we see in the life of Solomon, a man who sought you diligently. And how you're pleased with humility. And how you're pleased, Lord, when we bring to you our weakness and confess our utter dependence upon you. Lord, this is the kind of heart that you can trust with a blank check. Knowing, Lord, that the request is going to be something that's in total harmony with your kingdom and your will and your purposes. I pray, Lord, that you'll teach us to pray that way. Help us to pray the way our Savior taught us to pray. That if we ask anything in his name, Lord, you'll do it. And thank you for this promise. Help us to live accordingly for your honor and your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Immens