We're going to go to 1 Corinthians tonight. You know we're studying through the book of 1 Corinthians on Sunday night, and we come to chapter 5 in 1 Corinthians. That's what we're going to deal with tonight. Chapter 5, verses 1 through 13. And the title of my sermon tonight is Cast Out the Leaven. Now the Apostle Paul here in this chapter is going to deal with a difficult issue here in the church. And what we'll find as we go through the book of 1 Corinthians that from time to time Paul will bring up issues that he's dealing with that are issues that are in the church at Corinth. And the issue that the Apostle Paul is going to deal with here in chapter five is the issue of sin And the devastating effects that sin can have in the life of a Christian and in the life of the church if it's not dealt with correctly Now let me give you a little more uh a little background. I think we talked about this before, but I just want to remind you, and you probably already know this, that the city of Corinth in Paul's day was much like society today in that the city was known for its immorality. In fact, in the ancient dramas of that day When a person was depicted on stage as being either loose or drunk or immoral, they were known to be from the city of Corinth Because Corinth had that reputation. A Corinthian girl was a name that was referred to to any woman that was considered to be immoral. And also they found through archaeology and writings that many of the citizens of the city suffered from sexually transmitted diseases because it was such an immoral place. In fact, there was a temple there, the temple of Epaphrodite, and there were reported a thousand temple prostitutes that did their work there in the city. And so this city was just infested with sin. It was infested with immorality. And unfortunately, some of that immoral loose attitude that people had in the city made its way into the church. And it was a very dangerous thing. And so the Apostle Paul has to deal with that and how the church should respond to sin. Now I don't have to tell you again that we're living in a sinful society today. We're living in a day when marriage is no longer viewed as sacred. To be virtuous and chaste is considered unreasonable today. Today, young people don't wait to be married before they are together intimately Fornication is no longer viewed as a serious matter. And so what Paul had to say then is something that we need to hear today. The world needs the message of this that Paul is going to give us And so he's d dealing really with sin and how to deal with sin. And so what I want you to see are just five things here in this chapter. And number one, if you're taking notes, just write down the report of the church. Paul's going to first deal with the report that he had received. Look at verse number one. It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you. And such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles that one should have his father's wife. Now the word report here is the present indicative, that is, it's a fact. Paul stating a fact. This is not a vicious rumor in that it was something that was true. And the word is also present tense, which means it's continual action. This was something that was a fact. It was continually going on, continually reported. Look at the word commonly there. We could actually use the word actually to translate that Greek word And it's translated in a way that has the idea of shock and surprise. Paul's kind of shocked. He's expressing his amazement at the situation of what is going on in the church. And by the way, we should be shocked over sin. We should be amazed over sin, sadly today, that there's no more uh shock, we have forgotten it seems how to blush and be ashamed. But he says it's reported commonly that there is fornication. The word fornication is porneo, where we get the word pornography. It's a general term to speak of all types of sexual sin. And in this case, Paul gives the exact circumstance and manner in verse number one. He said that a man that one should have his father's wife. This was a case of incense incest in the church. Now the wording in the Greek indicates that this was not this man's mother, but his stepmother, his father's wife And there are several possible scenarios here, but the most likely is that this man's father married a younger woman and through the course of events the son entered into a immoral relationship with that woman. The word have is again present indicative. This was a continual thing. It was just going on. It was something that was well known, commonly reported, continuing to go on. This was someone in the church that was living in this immoral relationship And notice where Paul says that in verse number one, that such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles. What did Paul mean by that statement there? It didn't mean that this thing doesn't happen among the world or among the Greeks and Romans. That's certainly not what that means. We know that that sort of thing kind of goes on in the pagan world often And there are historical records, of course, that bear that out. What did he mean here by that? It's not named among the Gentiles. What Paul meant was that the Roman law did not tolerate this This was a crime that was punishable by the severest penalty in that day by Roman law There would be no leniency under Rome for this type of offense. The offender could be exiled, he could be no longer a citizen of Rome, both parties could be sent to prison. And Paul is saying the government doesn't tolerate such behavior from its citizens Let alone should the church tolerate this? If the government doesn't tolerate this sort of thing, why should the church tolerate something like this? By the way, the Corinthians knew the laws They knew the possible criminal action that could be taken against these people for this thing, and yet it continued to go on. And so this is the report that Paul receives. But I want you to write down number two the reaction Notice the reaction in verse number two. And Paul said, And yeah, puffed up, and had not rather mourn that he that had done this deed might be taken away from among you. Even more shocking than the sin was the church's reaction to it. And I think a lot of times the world is not shocked to hear about sin in the church, but I think sometimes the church or the world is shocked to see how the church sometimes responds to things like this. And so there was the reaction that the Corinthians were puffed up. They were proud. This was the wrong reaction. What did Paul mean by puffed up. There's several possible ideas here, but one that I think is perhaps the most likely is that the individual that was involved in this sin was a person of social status This was someone that was perhaps well known, someone who was a politician maybe, or someone who was rich. This was a person a person who was famous, a person of power a person who when they join the church at Tower and kind of makes the church look good because of their social status. And because of that, no one really wanted to do anything about it. In fact the church was very proud to have someone of this stature in their church, someone of this status as a member of the church. They were very proud about that. They were puffed up about that. And because this person was so very important, they wanted to overlook this thing. They didn't want to have to deal with it. They wanted to rationalize. They wanted to follow their own feelings with this rather than deal with it and cause a lot of hurt feelings. And I want you to know that when we're dealing with sin today, sometimes we might face the same temptation that is just to easily overlook it to ignore it because after all, you know, this might offend so many people if you know this thing is dealt with. Rather than dealing with the offense, they were protecting the sinner. They were coming to his defense and they were giving excuses. And so Paul said, you're puffed up about this. You're not dealing with this. What's the right response? Look again in verse 2. You're puffed up and have not rather what? Mourned. That's the right response. A true believer is to mourn over sin. We're to mourn not only over the sin of others. It's easy to do that, but especially over our own sin We're to mourn over that. Jesus said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Anyone who is desiring to glorify God, who is desiring righteousness who is desiring sanctify uh sanctification in their life will mourn over their own sins. That's just a proper attitude. And the word mourn here, by the way, is a Greek word that expresses deep sorrow. It was used to describe the sorrow expressed at the death of a loved one. And James described this same kind of attitude in James 4, verse 8, when he said, Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, purify your hearts, ye double-minded, be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. There he is describing the attitude of someone who is truly broken over their sin and truly repentant That should be the right the attitude that we have. Our laughter turned to mourning, our joy to heaviness. And so Paul is shocked over the reaction. That the people were giving in the church with regard to this thing. This leads to number three. Not only the report in the church and the reaction of the church, but I want you to write down number three, the removal from the church Because look what Paul says. He says that in verse 2 again, and you're puffed up and have not rather mourned, and that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you Now, why did Paul say that believers should mourn? Well, again, we talked about the glory of God, and that's certainly true. But another reason for mourning is that a person who does this that continues to live in sin so boldly, so brassly, and change the name of the Lord and brings down the testimony of the church Well, someone like this has to be dealt with. And normally when a person like this is unrepentant and they and the church has to deal with someone like this sometimes Then the the sad fact is that they are taken away out of the church. That's another reason for mourning because of this process. that that where this sin has to be dealt with. We mourn. We don't want to see anyone have to leave the fellowship of God's people. We don't want to see anyone have to move on And be asked to not be a part because they have an unrepentant, scandalous sin in their life that brings shame to the name of the Lord. We don't want to see people have to be removed, but unfortunately, sometimes that does have to happen In fact, Jesus gave us a process for how we're to deal with this sort of thing when it happens, and it's in Matthew 18. In fact, hold your place here in 1 Corinthians. And I want you to just go to Matthew eighteen real quick to get a little perspective. And I'm sure you've heard of this, but I want to just just touch on this in Matthew chapter 18, where Jesus is giving us principles on how to deal with sin when it arises. in the relationship in the life of the church. Jesus is teaching us the process of really restoration here. Now let me just say this. Normally when people sin against us, and these are small things, we we are our Our really what I call our default mode, we could say, is to overlook those things. If someone does something to offend me, I'm just going to overlook it. I'm not going to make a big deal about it. Why? Because the Bible says love covers a multitude, what? Of sins, right? And so if a person does something to annoy me or something to offend me, I'm not going to um make a big deal about that. I'm not going to approach them and demand that they uh ask for forgiveness for that. I'm just going to overlook it. Why? Because the Bible says love doesn't take into account a wrong suffered. That is, it's not easily provoked. It doesn't keep a record of wrongs. I think that really is the way that we are to live our life. We're to just give forgiveness to others who wrong us. And I think that's what Jesus taught. We don't take those things into account and we don't confront. Can you imagine living with a person who confronts you of every little thing that you do wrong and then asking for forgiveness? Wouldn't that be hard to deal with? You're supposed to say amen there. I mean can you imagine how much how odious a a relationship would be if I had a friend who every time I did the least little thing to offend him, he would come to me and say, Brother, you offended me because you did this and And he would solicit a an apology from me. And listen, I do a lot of dumb things, I'm sure. I would be offending that person constantly probably. And if he I had to constantly apologize for every little thing That would make that a very difficult relationship. By the way, that would make it a very difficult marriage as well. We are just a just to forgive. People are going to do things that offend us And do things that we might not like. But the Bible says we are to be forbearing with one another. And so normally forgiveness is to be unconditional. However, having said that, there are times when our forgiveness must be conditional I can't forgive you here unconditionally in this case. Why? Well, because The if the sin that this person has committed is going to hurt them if they continue in that sin, then I can't forgive them unconditionally. I have to go to them at this point because if they continue in this destructive pattern in their life, it will ultimately bring great damage to them. It will hurt them. And I have to confront them. At this point, I have to solicit a response from them. I have to confront them. I have to say, listen, you're doing this And this is going to hurt you. It hurts me, but it's going to hurt you, and it could hurt other people around you. If it's something that could hurt that individual, or if it's something that is scandalous. That could bring down the testimony of the church. That could hurt the Lord Jesus Christ. It's potentially damaging, not only to them, but to others around in a case like that Then again, I have to be confrontational. I can't just be unconditional in my forgiveness. I can't just write it off. I have to go to them And this is what Jesus is teaching here in Matthew chapter eighteen. He teaches us how we are to deal with this. And in verse fifteen of chapter eighteen, he says this moreover, if thy brothers shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. And if he shall hear thee, what? Thou hast gained thy brother. That's the first step, right? You go one on one. If I see a person that's in in a sin that's going to hurt them that's going to do great damage to them or do damage to the body of Christ and hurt the church in some way. I have an obligation to go to them one-on-one And when I go to them, I go to them with a spirit of gentleness and love. And I just say to them, brother, there's this issue and we need to take care of it. And if you continue in this pattern, it's going to be very hurtful for you It'll hurt your family, it'll hurt the church, it'll hurt the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I beg you, as a brother who loves you, to please stop this. Turn to the Lord. And if the person will hear you, the Bible says you've gained your brother. What if that person doesn't hear? What if they don't listen? Well notice the next step in verse number sixteen. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee two or one or excuse me, one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Step two is to take two or three. And these are people that perhaps this person knows and loves and respects and they love him. And again you go with a spirit of gentleness and meekness and you approach him and you say, please we're praying for you. Please don't do this. Please leave off This sin in your life, it's so damaging. And hopefully they'll listen. But if not, what's the next step? Look at verse number 17. And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. That's the next step. Tell it to the church. Why? You tell others that they might go after this person in love, again with a spirit of meekness, knowing that any one of us at any time could fall into an unhealthy pattern of sin. And we need one another. And we need the we need the help of one another. And so the church collectively tries to go after this individual. But what if he doesn't hear the church? Well, look again in verse 17. But if he neglects hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and as a publican. And that's the next step, and that's the grievous thing, and that's why you mourn. You mourn because at the last if this person doesn't repent and they don't leave off sinning and come back into sweet fellowship and do what they should do as a believer, there is this is a functional judgment from the church that says Yeah, we're going to have to treat you as if you don't know the Lord. We're going to have to ask you to leave because we believe that if you were a true believer and you were concerned about the glory of God and his church, then you would have repented by now. But you haven't repented, and so we have to, in a very difficult, grievous way, we must release you. And the Bible says, just like a heathen or a publican. You just release them. They're no longer a part of the church. But God wants us not to tolerate things that could be harmful to the body of Christ. And so this is necessary. This action. And this is what Jesus taught. Now with that in mind, go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Because again, Paul says, I'm wondering why by now In verse 2, that this person is still among you. Why? That he hasn't been taken away. You should be mourning that he might be taken away from among you. But again, the church of Corinth was not dealing with this. And they just refuse to do with it, to deal with it, and to do anything with it. And so Paul, notice what he says in verse 3, for I verily As absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already, as though I were present, concerning him that had done this deed. Paul says, look, I'm not there with you I'm in Ephesus. My body is here in Ephesus. But I want you to know my spirit is there in that church. And it's as though I were there. I'm there in spirit. And I've already judged this matter. All the way from the Ephesus, Paul has heard the facts, he's heard the report, he's heard how the church has responded And he says, I already know what you should be doing. I've already judged this situation all the way from here. My body's here, but my spirit is there, and I've judged this matter. And here's what you should do In verse number four, the one who has done this deed in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, next time you come together and you're gathered together there, just know that my spirit is also going to be there with you. along with the Lord Jesus Christ in verse five, to deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit might be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul said, listen, when you gather together on this matter, Paul said, you're to take care of it. And you're to remove this person. Have him leave. And again, Paul's dealing with this because he knows the destructive effects of sin in the church. This matter was to be taken before the whole church, not just a few. You say, why? Because this was a public sin. And the confession in the way and manner which is to be dealt with is to be public because of the public nature of the scandal and the sin. Because it's public, it needs to be dealt with in the church publicly. And the whole assembly ha w was to see this. Why? Because one reason is to cause the fear. God wants the church to know that he does not approve of sin and this whole process should cause people to fear the Lord And fear the destructive nature of sin. You remember the story of Ananias and Sapphira? Remember how they lied to the church? And remember how the Lord took their life? In Acts chapter 5, it says God struck down Ananias. Three hours later, his wife came to church. Ever wonder about that? Three hours after a husband, how long does it take to get ready for church for crying out loud? Three hours later she comes in. And she also lies. And the same ushers who carried out her husband carried her out. And buried her in the church graveyard along with her husband. The ushers had a busy day that day. And the Bible says in Acts chapter 5, verse 11: Great fear came upon all the church And upon as many as heard these things, what happened? Word got out that that church, God doesn't tolerate sin in that place That was definitely not a seeker-sensitive place to be. Talk about something that could hinder your growth or your visitation. Can you imagine going out visiting the next week on that church? Hey, we'd like to invite you to our church. We're not going there. Why not? Because people die there. But God is deadly serious about sin in the church. He wants his church to be pure. He wants his church to be sanctified. And so Paul, in verse number five Describes the purpose of the next meeting. You're to deliver such a one over unto Satan. This word is a judicial word to turn over for punishment. The sentence is to be passed upon this person And this person is to be is to leave the assembly of the church. This is excommunication. Because they are so bold and brash and unrepentant of their sin. They are to be dismissed. They are to leave the church They're to leave the protective environment of the church, and they're to be delivered over under Satan. That sounds so very harsh. And what does Paul mean by that? I believe that God's children, we enjoy a protection from the Lord. I believe that. I believe that his people had that protective hedge about them. And the only time God ever removes that is in his own will and timing. If God wants to bring us through a trial, you remember in the life of Job that before the Satan could do anything to Job Uh God would have to remove that hedge just a little. And even when he does remove that hedge, he does it on a limited basis, very little to degrees. And God said to Satan, you can only do this And there are times when God will literally allow that to happen for his own purposes. But I believe that for the most part God's people have that protective hedge. about them. But I believe it is possible for a person who professes to know the Lord Jesus Christ to be so involved in sin in their life and so bold and brash And the way that they do that sin is so unrepentant that God says, okay, I'm going to remove the hedge from that person. They're no longer going to enjoy their uh my protection in their life And what'll happen? Their body may suffer. They may die because Satan could go after them now, and the body could die, but the spirit and the soul could be saved in the day of the Lord That is, if they're truly a believer, their spirit and soul will go to the Lord in heaven, but their body will be turned over for the destruction of the flesh. And so this is a very serious thing here. The Bible says there is a sin unto death. It is possible for a child of God to cross a deadline where God says, okay, you're on your own. If you don't want to walk in holiness, you don't want to walk in sanctification, you're not concerned about glorifying my name, you want to do your own thing and live like a lost world, then fine, I'm done with you. I'm turning you over. And that's a very, very serious judgment. But Paul said, this is what you should do. This person should be removed from the church. And let me just say this one thing parenthetically, and I I think that Paul saw this matter as such a serious issue. They were glorying in it so much, it was such a scandal. And Paul is so concerned over the name of the Lord that I think he really kind of skips the steps of Matthew eighteen and says, Look, just get this person out of the church. It is so shameful what's happening that you remove this person from the church because of the stain of sin that it has caused Which tells me sometimes there is some sins that are so scandalous they need to be dealt with swiftly and thoroughly. Lest it hurt the body of Christ. So we see then not only the report in the church and the reaction of the church and the removal from the church, but I want you to see number four, the rebuke to the church. Now notice Paul rebukes them because of the way they dealt with it. Look in verse number 6. Your glory is not good. Strong statement. Your glory is not good. What are you doing? How can you glory in this? Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Don't you understand that? Paul is rebuking the Corinthians for thinking lightly of sin. And he's now going to talk about how that one sin or one sinning member can have a devastating effect upon the whole body of Christ. And he uses an illustration of leaven and Passover to make his point. That's when he says, a little leaven leavens the whole lump. Now in ancient times when bread was about to be baked a small piece of dough was pulled off and saved, just a little pinch of it, and that little piece would be a pi uh would be would leaven, it would be it would be yeast, it would be allowed to ferment in water. And then it was put in the next day's lump or dough of bread, and it would cause the bread to rise. And of course that was leaven or that was yeast. And sometimes in scripture, leaven speaks symbolically of sin. Sometimes it speaks of influence. But here specifically Paul is using this illustration to say that this leaven is speaks of sin. And what happens when you put just a little bit of leaven in a batch of dough, what will happen is it'll spread throughout the whole dough, right? So that no part of the dough, that batch, is left untouched By that leaven that is put in. It permeates the whole loaf. And the idea then is that just as that leaven permeates the whole loaf, one sin or one sinning person can permeate and affect the whole body of Christ, the church. And it has a devastate it can have a devastating effect. One little bit. By the way, the word little here, the Greek word is mikros, where we get the word micro. Extremely small. One little sin. Don't ever get the idea that your sin doesn't affect anybody but you. It's never true. It affects others around you. Remember the story in the Old Testament of Achan? Stole the Babylonian garment, the wedge of gold, hid it in his tent, thought you know he had gotten away with it And what happened because of his one sin, one sin in the camp brought defeat to the nation of Israel when they were just going to go out and fight this one little place called AI and they ran before their enemies because one sin had a devastating effect and that one man's sin caused other people to die And God said Israel has sin. He didn't say Achan has sinned. He said Israel has sin because there is that oneness that God saw in all of Israel, and one person's sin is really the sin of everybody. Because of that idea of corporate solidarity. We see the same idea in the church where all in the body of Christ, there's a oneness, there's a unity among us, and one person's sin can bring devastation and hurt to everyone. And so Paul said, a little bit of leaven, leavens the whole lump. Notice the other illustration that he uses. Look in verse number 7. Purge out, therefore, the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump. As ye are unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Now, Paul here uses the illustration of a Passover supper And you remember this was instituted when the Jews were going to lead Egypt to Passover. And the day before the Passover, the wife and a Jewish household Would very carefully examine the whole household. She would take a candle and she would look in every crevice, every corner, every cabinet or cupboard, and she would remove from the house The smallest scrap of leaven, she would just get rid of it. He would get it out. The Jews were not allowed to have leaven in the house. And if they kept leaven in the house, they couldn't observe the Passover feast. Because again, leaven was a representation of sin. And so before the Passover, they were to purge out the house. They were to get all the leaven out of the house. And Paul's using this illustration here to the church of Corinth. He said, just like a person getting ready for the Passover purges out all of the leaven out of the house, even so As a Christian, you are to purge the leaven of sin out of your lives. You're to get it out. You're to examine your life thoroughly. Look it over. And make sure that you have purged all of the leaven out of your life. It's a good thing for us to do. And notice what he says here, as you're unleavened. You see, there's a sense in which When you got saved, you became part you celebrate the Passover, and now you're to live a life that is unleavened, he says, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. And so in verse 8 he says, Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and So we must feast on the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth in our life. We're to get the old leaven out of our life. And so let me ask you a question How is your life now? Is there any leaven in it? God says purge it out, get it out. Because sin has that devastating effect. in the church. So we see then the report in the church, the reaction of the church, the removal from the church, the rebuke to the church. Let me give you one last thing that Paul gives us here. The reiteration to the church. Because in verses 9 down to verse 13, Paul wants to clarify something that he wrote earlier. Look at verse 9. I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. Somewhere in an earlier epistle. Paul commanded them not to keep company with those who are practicing the sin of fornication in their life. Paul said, listen, don't keep company with anyone who's living this kind of a life. Stay away from them. Get away from them. The word company here from the Greek word that literally means to get mixed up with. But you say, what's the problem? Well the problem was they misunderstood what he said. And they interpreted that as meaning any sinner saved or lost. If you couldn't be around any person who's committing this sin, that would be a problem. And so Paul clarifies. Look what he says in verse 10. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or with idolaters, for then must ye needs go out of the world. Paul said, I'm not, I don't mean by this that you uh uh the uh talking about the lost world. I mean if you tried to practice this with everyone in the world, If you didn't keep company with anyone like that, if I'm talking about the lost world, that means the only way that you could ever really obey this is to be removed out of the world. You know why? Because sinners are all around us. This type of thing is happening all around us in the world. Fornicators, covetous, extortioners, idolaters He's not talking about separating yourself from the lost people around you. That's not what he means, because that would make it impossible to live in this world. And that would mean that we could have absolutely no dealings with the world if we followed that principle. Listen, God wants his people to be in the world, but not what? Of the world, right? We're to be in this world, but not of them. And in fact, God wants us mingling with those who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? So that we can win them the Christ We can befriend them not to do the things that they do, but we can befriend them with the idea of evangelizing them, sharing the gospel with them. In fact, that's why God leads us in this world. He wants the church to have an impact upon the world, not vice versa, not the world have an impact on the church. We are to be God's people in this world, and we are to share the Lord Jesus Christ, and we are to mingle with and associate with sinners for the purpose of reaching them. And let me just be very clear. I'm not talking about doing the things that they do. I'm not talking about living like a lost person. I'm talking about just being loving to them and friendly to them and kind to them so that you might win them to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he's talking about here. And so this principle of separation, this applies to those who are believers, but are not walking in obedience, that are not walking in holiness and fellowship with the Lord. That's what Paul's referring to. Look down at verse 11. But now I have written unto you, not to keep company, if any man that is called a what? A brother, be a fornicator or covetous. Or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such a one know not to eat He's referring to people who profess to know the Lord Jesus Christ, but are walking in a disobedient, continual, sinful pattern of life. Paul says to them, I want you to withdraw fellowship from people like that. That's who I mean. That's when I talk about the principle of separation. That's who I am referring to here Now Paul commanded this also in another letter in Thessalonians, and he gave the reason. In 1 Thessalonians 3. 6, he said, Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, Listen, that you withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly and not after the tradition, or we could say the truth which he has received from us. Paul said, listen, you're to withdraw yourself from anyone walking in continual disobedience and disorderly Who doesn't listen to the truth that we have given them? Why, Paul? Listen to what it says in verse 14 of that same chapter. And have no company with them that, listen, he may be ashamed That's the reason. I'm going to separate my fellowship with a person who is walking in sin and in disobedience from the Lord because I don't want to affirm what they are doing. And I'm going to separate from a disorderly brother who lives this way so that it may bring them to shame. It might bring them to repentance in their life. There's to be no individual fellowship, no corporate fellowship. Don't count them as an enemy, but admonish them as a brother. That's the idea there. And notice what he says in verse number 12 and 13. For what have I to do to judge them that are without? He says, Do not ye judge them that are within? We are to judge those within the church, not those without. And so we are to be accountable to one another in the church and judge those within the church, Paul says, not those who are without, because God has already judged the loss, and they're already under God's condemnation. Paul says you're to judge those that are within the church. And when he says judge, here it's just, you know, that kind of goes across the grain of what we heard. Oh, don't judge You know you're called upon to judge all the time as a Christian. And when we say judge, it's to discern. Use your discernment and discern what is right and what is not right. And Paul says, you're to use that judgment, that discernment on those within the church, not on those that are without. Notice verse 13, but them that are without, God judgeth And so he concludes by this one last phrase. Therefore, put away from among yourselves that wicked person. And so Paul's very clear here. The devastating effects of sin and how we are to be thorough with sin in our own life. Just a few application things, and then we're done. Again, we're to mourn over sin. And may God have a may God give us that right spirit to mourn. You know, a believer is someone who doesn't just confess one time and never confess again. Or repent one time and never repent again. Or mourn one time when they get saved and never mourn again. We are constantly living a repentant life constantly confessing our sins to the Lord because we want to keep a short account with God. We want to stay in fellowship with God. We're constantly mourning over failure and sin in our life, not in a in a morbid way, but in a way that desires holiness and Sanctification. Also, just again, just a quick application thing here. God views the sins of the believer as a very serious matter in the church. Very serious And so what this should cause us to do is it should cause us to examine our own life before the Lord, with the Holy Spirit, to look into our heart, to make sure that all the leaven is out. That we're living a life of practical righteousness before the Lord. We're never to excuse sin in our lives. Or in the life of someone else, if it's something that is damaging to the body of Christ. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we uh take heed to this warning here in Scripture. Thank you, Lord, that you are a gracious, merciful, forgiving God. And that whatever, Lord, we fail, we sin. We know that when we come to you with true repentance, Lord, there's always forgiveness. There's always mercy and cleansing. You're always ready to restore us. And so, Lord, help us. To see sin as it is, to know how damaging it can be in our lives, and to be quick, to be swift to deal with it. Help us, Lord, to love one another enough to be accountable to one another and to bear one another's burdens. And Lord, help us to be more concerned about your glory in the church than our own convenience or reputation. Help us to take sins seriously in our life. Thank you, Lord, that we've been purged by our Lord Jesus Christ, that we're not under condemnation because of our Savior's death on the cross for our sins But Lord, you do call us to live a consecrated life, a holy life, and may that be our passion. We pray all this in the matless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.