Chapter eleven tonight and uh we've been studying this book for a long time and um there's there's there's a an end in sight. This is actually chapter eleven and I calculated I have three more sermons in this uh this book including the one tonight. And so tonight I want to talk about this is the title of the sermon You Never Know. You never know. Look at chapter 11, look in verse number one Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if the tree fall toward the south or toward the north in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child Even so, thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. Sometimes we may ponder whether anything we really do for God matters. Perhaps you've prayed for a friend and uh really the the prayer has not ever really been answered. Or perhaps you have given money to the poor and you actually wonder whether it's really helping their life any Or perhaps you've witnessed to other people and you really haven't seen the results of the witness that you've given. And we just really never know what is really happening as a result of that. Yet every once in a while God will give us a glimpse of what He is doing when we He allows us to see something that we did for Jesus have an impact in the life of someone else I remember this was made very clear to me when I was a college student. Every Saturday we went out knocking on doors and there was one particular area that I had to go and visit. And there was one particular firefighter named Bob who every week I would go by his house. He seemed open to the gospel, and week after week I would share the gospel. I would talk to him. I went by his house every week for a year But he never really made a profession of faith nor indicated ever getting saved. And so I remember walking away from that, wondering if that you know, was that wasted time, did that really ever have any impact on him? And many years later I was in the Chicago area, I was pastoring at the time, and I got on a bus. I was there for a meeting, got on a bus, and this guy jumped up and he hugged me and it was Bob. He said, I've been looking all over for you. Bob had gotten saved and had a godly Christian wife, and God was using him in a church ministry to impact the lives of others in a great way. Now you all can tell stories like that as well, where you've given out a track and later on you find out the impact of that or some good deed that you've done and it had ripples that affected the lives of many people. But the truth of the matter is Even when we don't know how God uses us to advance his kingdom, we should continue to be faithful anyway We should continue to pray, we should continue to serve, we should continue to love. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15, 58, knowing that your labor in the Lord is not in vain, that nothing we do is in vain for the Lord. Now, I say all that because this is the perspective that Solomon is taking here in the first few verses of Ecclesiastes chapter 11. And these verses he's telling us to live boldly. He's telling us to have vision, to take a risk. Pastor Kumar's testimony tonight matches perfectly what Solomon really is telling us here in these verses. Then if you remember in our study of Ecclesiastes, Solomon has spent a lot of time talking about the uncertainties of life But now he encourages us to not let the uncertainties of life hold us back from taking risks for the glory of God, for taking steps, for launching out, for living boldly. Living by faith means taking a risk. Living by faith means adventure. We should not be frozen by fear because we're uncertain about the things of the future. In fact, that should encourage us to live boldly by faith. It was F. B. Meyer who said this. He said, I don't want my life to end up in a swamp. He said, when I trusted Jesus as my Savior, I married adventure. And that meant living by faith and expecting the unexpected. And I think that's so true. And so the idea is then you never know what God is going to do. You never know what how He will honor steps of faith. In fact, a key phrase in this whole passage is, for thou knowest not. We saw that. Look again in verse 2. We see that phrase, give a portion to seven and also the eight. For thou knowest not. You might want to underscore that. Then in verse number five, as thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knoweth not the works of God. And then we see again this phrase, thou knowest not in verse 6, for thou knowest not whither shall prosper either this. or that. That is, go ahead and launch out. Go ahead and be adventurous and take a risk because you never know whether it's going to succeed or not. You don't know what the Lord may do. Now with all that in mind, I want to show you tonight quickly just five poetic images that we see in this passage And each one of these things convey a principle to us about living in the face of uncertainty. Or I should say living boldly or living by faith. in the face of uncertainty. Here's the first one. If you're taking those, just write down, casting bread. Casting bread. And next to that, here is the principle, be willing to take a risk. Look in verse number one again. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Now, this is an image that is somewhat difficult to interpret and define What exactly does Solomon mean when he says, cast your bread on the waters? I have to admit that this is an image that puzzled me in my early Christian life when I would read this. I would take this literal And I would wonder why would we want to put bread on the water? I I had a vision in my mind of a a loaf of bread floating down the river. You know, why would I anyone want to do that And if the bread did float down the river, why would anyone want to take it off the river after many days? I mean it would be pretty soggy by then. I couldn't imagine any b one wanting to eat this bread Why put it on the river? Why not just keep it? Well, there are several interpretations as to what this means here. And here's the first one. Some commentators think that these verses are talking about giving to the needy Philanthropy, basically. And the preacher Solomon is encouraging us to be generous to the poor. Casting your bread on the waters. is sharing uh good things with those who are in need or those who are in trouble. And there are even commentators that look, draw comparisons from Arabian proverbs that existed in Solomon's day that seemed to be a parallel to this. For example, here's one of them, an Arabian proverb, quote, Do good, do a good deed and throw it into the river And when this dries up you shall find it. Another Jewish exegene paraphrases it like this do a favor for a man for whom you never expect to benefit, because in the far future he will do you a favor. And so that's one way to interpret this. But then there's another way, and that is that this is not talking about giving to the needy or philanthropy, rather, it's talking about industry This is another what other commentators say. The older commentators kind of take this view. For example, Charles Bridges says this is referring to the annual inundation of the Nile And he says the time for sowing the seed is just when the waters were going down. And so it's the idea of a farmer who gets a good return for sowing his seed at the right time. But then there's a third interpretation of this, and I think this is the right one, and this is the one where it talks it's really talking about international trade Casting your bread on the waters means putting your grain out on the sea on ships. That's the idea here. In fact, the word cast is a Hebrew word that can be translated send out. Send out your bread on the water. Send out your grain on ships is the idea. So this is referring to commercial enterprise. This is referring to sea trade. And as it happens, if you'll read in the Bible, you'll find that Solomon did this often. If you read 1 Kings chapter 9 and chapter 10, you'll read where he sent out his sheep, excuse me, his ships, not his sheep probably some sheep on the ships, but he would send out his ships with all kind of commerce on them. Uh and normally in that day grain what was is what was used, but grain or bread can refer to a lot of different things that was put on ships for trade. You would send those ships out, and after many days they would come back with a return And you would be increased by that return. And the idea is, however, that when you do this, you take a risk. There's a risk by putting your grain on a ship, but the idea is nothing ventured, nothing gained. Someone would say, well, why is it a risk to put your grain on ships? There's a lot of things that could happen. A ship could hit a reef. It might meet up with a storm Pirates can attack and rob the ship. There are many things that could happen. And so it's a risk to put your grain on a ship and send it out. If something happens, you'll lose everything. But Solomon is saying, nevertheless, you should do it. You should take a risk. You should act boldly Now here's the point. He's not necessarily talking about international trade. He's talking about our spiritual life. Because just like merchantmen would risk something to invest They're goods on a shift. Even so in the kingdom of God, we should be willing to risk something as we step out by Faith. We must be willing to risk our time, our talent, and our treasure for the kingdom of God One commentator, Michael Eaton, wrote this, the wise man will invest everything he has in the life of faith. And that is so very true. If you want to do great things for God, you have to be willing to risk. Someone said if a turtle cannot a turtle cannot make progress unless he sticks his neck out. And even so in our spiritual life. You read biographies and you'll find that the people that God has used greatly are those who have been willing to risk a lot. for his sake. Great missionaries have been willing to risk their lives, their fortunes, everything for the spread of the kingdom of God. And by the way, this is the very thing that Jesus meant when he said, those who are last shall be first, and those who are first shall be last. There are a lot of people today in the kingdom of God that look like they're in last place because they have invested everything in the kingdom. They don't have much of this world's goods because they have invested it all in the kingdom. And it looks like from our perspective they're in last place. But Jesus says there's going to be a return And in the end, the last shall be first. And those who are living for self, those who are living for gain now, those who are first in first place, they will be last. Because there will be a return in the kingdom of God. Now let me give you the next image. Not only casting bread, be willing to take a risk, but number two, write down giving portions. And the principle that this illustrates is plan wisely. Go ahead and take a risk, but when you do, you better plan it wisely. Look in verse 2. Give a portion to seven and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth Now Solomon is very quick to add that go ahead and take this step of faith. Go ahead and be willing to risk and to live boldly, but don't be careless. Plan things carefully. And when he says, give a portion to seven and also to eight, we can interpret that to say this, send cargo on seven or eight ships. In other words, don't put all of your grain on one ship. If you're going to take upon this venture, then plan it out wisely. Spread out your investment. The financial world would use this term, diversify your portfolio, diversify your investments. That's exactly what Solomon is saying here. He's saying, look, don't just narrowly focus on one single product or service or ship, we could say, but spread it out. Spread it out. In other words, the whole principle here is that you plan wisely if you're going to take on a venture. Why? Because look at the rest of verse 2. For thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. Now, once again, Solomon is reminding us about the uncertainties of life and the mysteries of the future in sense we don't know the future, that when we take upon this venture of faith When we do decide to step out, because God is leading us, and because this is the right thing to do, then you better plan wisely when you do it. Because you don't know what the future may hold. And so very simply, he's saying, be careful and be wise. And by the way, the Bible encourages good planning. Read the life of the Apostle Paul. He planned his missionary journeys. Even Jesus lived according to the divine plan of God that God made for him on this earth. The Bible says in Proverbs 16, 3, Commit thy works unto the Lord. That is, all your plans you commit to the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. So plan your work and work your plan. Be wise in this venture of faith. But now let me give you the third one. Not only casting bread, and the principle is be willing to take a risk, and giving portions, and that is plan it out wisely, but here's the third image, poetic image, studying clouds. Studying clouds. And here we learn the principle of refuse to be hindered by fear. Refuse to be hindered by fear. Look at verse number three. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if the tree fall toward the south or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. Verse 4, he that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. Now, some Christians are just unwilling to take any risk at all. They just refuse, absolutely refuse. to leave their comfort zone. And so they're always ready to come up with excuses why they're not doing anything, why they're not uh stepping out. They're so adverse to risk that they're willing to wait for the perfect conditions before they'll do anything And friend, if you're waiting for the perfect condition to do the thing that God has called you to do, guess what? You'll never do it. You'll never do it. And so here in verses 3 and 4 Solomon is warning us of what might happen if we're waiting for the perfect condition to do something. We're going to lose out altogether. We'll never produce anything. Now he gives the image here of a farmer And this farmer's not doing anything. Why? Because in verse 3, the clouds are full of rain. He's standing out there and he's looking at the clouds, and it looks like it's getting ready to rain. There's a storm that's blowing in. The winds are kicking up And perhaps the winds are kicking up so much that in verse 3 the tree falls. And uh there's a tree fallen because of these winds. And by the way, there's nothing the farmer can do about the rain and the clouds. There's nothing he can do about the winds and the tree. But the one thing the farmer can do is he can control sowing. when he sows the seed. But he's waiting. And why is he waiting? Because he is waiting for just the right condition. He's waiting for the perfect condition circumstance to do his work. Although there's a time for sowing and plucking up that which has been sown, as we saw in Ecclesiastes 3. This farmer doesn't seem to know the time for it. He keeps watching and he keeps waiting and he keeps saying, I'm going to do this, but I'm going to wait for the exact perfect circumstance and condition before I do it. And you know what happens? He's frozen by fear. He's afraid to step out because the conditions aren't exactly right. And notice what will happen in verse 4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, Solomon says. And he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap He'll never do anything. He'll never get anything done. And by showing us this farmer, Solomon is giving us practical warnings that we can apply to many situations in our own life. Are you afraid to do what God has been leading you to do? Are you waiting for the perfect conditions before you do it? I want to tell you that those perfect conditions rarely come in an imperfect fallen world. They just don't come. Philip Reichen was right when he wrote this. Quote As long as we keep thinking this way, we will never accomplish anything in life. And there are certain people that just look for excuses. And they're able to find them. The Bible says the slothful man is wiser in his own conceit than ten men that can render a reason. You can find out a reason why you are not doing what you should do. In Proverbs 22, 13, the slothful man saith, There's a lion without. I'll be slain in the streets. I'm not going to go out in the streets, because a lion might eat me, he says An imaginary lion. Don't sit around waiting for the ideal circumstances, because again, they will never, ever come. But then let me show you a fourth principle here. Not only casting bread, be willing to take a risk. And we see the image of giving portions, that is, plan wisely, and then studying the clouds, that is, refuse to be hindered by fear. in this venture of faith. But then here's number four. Considering providence. Considering providence. Look at verse number five. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. Now the principle we learn here is to trust God's mysterious providence. Trust in his providence. Now in this poetic image, Solomon now points to the mysterious hand of God. And he uses this analogy to emphasize the idea that God is always doing great and mighty works, even though we can't see it We can't see and know what God is doing all the time, and yet he's doing it. He's working. He's doing great things all over. And he's doing great things in your life, even though you may not see it. So you never know what God is accomplishing for us in this life of faith. God's work in our lives is mysterious. And he uses an illustration here to help us understand this. Now there are some who think that he's using two illustrations in verse 5. Some think he's talking about the wind. Look at the word spirit there in verse 5. As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, there are some Bible commentators who say the word spirit here is ruach in the Hebrew and that means that could be translated wind as it is in the previous verse And so he's saying here that just like you can't and uh understand the wind, when it comes and whether it goes and when it's going to come and so on, even so is the mysterious way of God. That's one way they translate that. But I don't think it's talking about two different illustrations. I think it's talking about one illustration. And I like the way the King James renders this, as thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit. And the idea here is this this is referring to the life-giving spirit, the spirit that God gives to a baby in the mother's womb. And how that spirit of life that God puts into that fetus, uh how that is a mysterious thing. We don't understand it. It's incredible. that God gives life in the womb and how that this spirit animates the body, the flesh, the muscles, and so on. This child in a mother's womb is one of the mysterious providences of God that none of us can fully grasp or understand. Now back in Solomon's day, they didn't have the science that we have today, and so they they treated this like a marvel, like a wonder. But I want to tell you, even though we have technology and science, we are still in awe of what happens during that process. In fact, it causes us to be in awe even more when we understand all of the incredible biological processes that are happening. And how that it is God who gives that child a soul and a spirit and brings that child to life. I know no other passage in the Old Testament that shows us that What is in the mother's womb is not just a mass of muscle and tissue. It is a living human being. That's what this passage shows us here. It's incredible how God forms the bones. It is far beyond our comprehension. We have to take this by faith. In fact, the Jewish Midrash recognizes this as one of the seven great mysteries of God, the mystery of life. in the womb of a mother. And so, again, it's just amazing. Some of you may have uh seen recently on the internet, it's floating around there on the internet, how there is a sonogram of a little child in his mother's womb, and that little child is clapping to the singing of the mother. Have you seen that Just incredible, that life in the womb. Now, Solomon brings all this up because he uses the mysteries of the womb as an analogy for all the wonders that God does. That is beyond human thought. Things that we can't comprehend, that we can't understand. And believe me, there are so many of them, we don't have time to go through them. The mysterious works of God. Job 5. 9 says God does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number. But here's the point. What God does in our lives is no less mysterious and no less wonderful These are things that God is constantly doing in our lives. Now, why does Solomon bring all these things up? Because he wants us to know. Look again in verse number 5, where he says, Thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. In other words, everything lies in God's hands. He holds the future. He accomplishes his purposes And there are two right responses to the mystery of his providence. Number one, this should call us to humility. This should humble us. You know why? Because when we see these things, it reminds us that He is God and we are not. That he's in control. And secondly, Solomon brings these things up because he wants these mysteries to call us again to bold faith. These things should motivate us to action. Our ignorance of the future, our uncertainty about things should not cause us to be apathetic and lazy, because we have a God who is a great God. And all things are in his hands. And who knows that God might do wonderful things as a response to our bold ventures of faith. Considering the mysterious providence of God and knowing that all things are in his hand should move us to action Should move us to step out. Now let me give you the final point because really all of this leads to the final point. The final image is sowing seed. Remember, we saw casting bread, and the principle is be willing to take a risk. We saw giving portions, plan wisely. We saw studying clouds, refuse to be hindered by fear. We saw considering providence, and this teaches us to trust in God's mysterious hand. But number five, sewing scene Sowing seed. And what does this teach us to attempt great things for God? Look at verse 6. In the morning, sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand For thou knowest not whether shall prosper either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. And so verse 6 is Solomon's concluding command. And what is he saying? Don't use the mysterious ways of God as a reason to do nothing, but no. On the other hand, get out in the morning and start sowing your seed. And continue in verse 6 where he says, Withhold not thy hand. In the evening, withhold not thy hand. That is, get up early and get out there and sow the seed and work all day. Work until evening. Don't withhold your hand Don't be lazy. Be diligent. Attempt to do great things for God. If you don't sow, you will never reap And so Solomon in essence is saying in verse 6, put in a full day's work. Work hard for the kingdom of God. Use each day Remember that the life of faith is an adventure, so live boldly, live wisely, but be diligent and work hard for the kingdom. And don't be afraid to try something new Don't be afraid to risk and try new things because look again at the end of verse 6, for thou knowest not whether shall prop prosper either this or that Or whether they both shall be alike. That is, don't be afraid to try something new because who knows, it may work. It might be a success. But the bottom line is you trust God when you do these great ventures of faith. Trust the Lord as you do it. And so in essence he's saying life is an adventure of faith. We're like merchants. We're investing. And if you invest, you're going to have to risk. But don't be afraid. Trust in the Lord. We're like farmers sowing seeds in the field. It's never going to be the exact right circumstance or condition to do that. Just put the seed in the field and trust God for The harvest. If we're always worrying about the wind and trees toppling over on us, we'll never do anything for God. Don't let uncertainty hinder you from living a life of faith. In 1792, there was a 31-year-old English pastor who stood to preach before other pastors. And his text was Isaiah 54, verses 2 and 3, where it says, Enlarge thy the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitation. The title of his message was this, Expect great things for God and attempt great things for God. That may sound familiar to you because that was the title of a sermon preached by a young man by the name of William Carey. William Carey had a vision of reaching out to people beyond where he was into faraway lands, into what they called in that day heathen lands. He had a passion to go out and do that. Now today we know him as the father of modern missions, William Carey. But back in that day, he was not known that way. In fact, he was viewed as a lad who had too much passion and not enough wisdom. In fact, in one meeting where he stood up before preachers and he challenged them to get the gospel out, to go to lands beyond, to be willing to take risks, to be willing to take a bold step of faith. This is what one man said to him. An older man who was there at that meeting, an older pastor said, young man, sit down. When God is pleased to convert the heathen, he will do it without you or me. But God was pleased to convert the heathen. And God did use a young man who was willing to step out and to risk all. And if you've ever read the story of William Carey or ever heard about it, he did indeed take his family and go over to India. And began the work of a missionary there. He was a trailblazer for the modern missionary movement that we know of today. And God used him in a great way And he launched missions in the modern era of the church. There are some people that are so paralyzed by fear of uncertainty that they won't move forward. And they won't do anything. And that's not the way that God wants us to live. Let me quote one great theologian, John Wayne, the actor. This is what he once said. He said quote, courage is being scared to death and saddling up anyway, end quote. That's pretty good. So the question is, how will you step out in faith today? Will you attempt to do something for God that God has put on your heart, or will you continue to play it safe? Are you willing to take a risk for the kingdom? Are you willing to get out of your comfort zone to do something for God? Let me just close with this one illustration. I read this and I thought this was what we need. A man by the name of Danny Cox was a former jet pilot, and he wrote about what it was like to be a jet pilot in a book. And in this book, he talked about how that the jet pilots of the modern era flew a whole lot faster than the propeller planes that the older generation used. And so ejecting from a jet plane became a bit more sophisticated than in the old days. Now he said in the book, theoretically, of course, that all a pilot needed to do was push a button and clear the plane and then roll forward and then the parachute. would take over. But he said with the modern jets there was a problem that they noticed that popped up during testing. He said some of the pilots were unwilling to let go of the seat. They kept a grip on the seat After the seed had been ejected out of the plane, they held on with a death-like grip to that seed. And because they held on, there was no space for the parachute to discharge and to work. And so the engineers went back to the drawing board and they they had to come up with a new design to help these pilots. And so the new design was simply this. First of all, the a seat would eject out of the plane And then there was another device that pushed the pilot out of the scene. They had to be pushed out of the scene after they ejected. So the bottom line, jet fighter pilots needed a device to launch them out of their chairs. Let me tell you, when I read that, you know what I thought about? I wish that we had a device to launch people out of their pews. To get people busy, to be willing to take a risk, to launch out Are you willing to do that for God? God did not call you just to sit and soak and be safe. He called you to attempt great things for him. So what is he laid on your heart to do? What is he calling you to do? Be willing to take a risk. But now listen, plan wisely, and don't be hindered by fears. Trust God and attempt great things for God. That is the life of faith. And that is what God is calling us to. Let's bow for prayer tonight And so, Lord, thank you for these wonderful principles that we learn here and the wisdom of Solomon. Lord, I pray we'll take these things to heart. We thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ who exemplifies every one of these things in his own life. He left heaven. To come to this earth. He followed the wise counsel and plan given to him by you, the Father. He refused to be hindered by any fear. He trusted you in all things. And he attempted and accomplished great things for our salvation Father, may we also follow in that path, in that pattern of life. Lord, perhaps there's someone here That you're calling to do something, some ministry, some task. We heard tonight from Pastor Kumar and the great vision that you have laid on his heart. Lord, honor him as he steps out by faith. And those around him and all those other places in India, those remote villages that need the gospel. Honor those who are willing to take risks and step out. to spread the gospel there. Lord, perhaps there's someone here tonight that that, Lord, you're calling them to a certain venture. Lord, I pray that they'll not be hindered by fear in any way, but that they'll trust you in this. Lord, use this word, these words, to stir our hearts, to get involved and to invest in the kingdom, to sow seeds in the kingdom. And Father, we pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior. Jesus Christ, Amen