Tonight I want to just uh give you a challenge from the Word of God. In the book of Ecclesiastes, if you have a Bible and you want to follow along, please do. It's Ecclesiastes chapter 11 If there's a there's should be a Bible there in the pew if you didn't bring one, chapter 11. And I want to talk about casting bread on the waters. We could call this uh living by faith in an uncertain world Or, you know, you never know. But Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse number one, where it says, Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Many years ago, King George VI addressed the British Commonwealth. It was on a New Year's Eve, it was at a moment in history when the whole world was standing on the brink of uncertainty. There was despondence in the air at that time. There was this idea where people did not know where they could turn. And as he closed his message. Um unknown to him himself, even his body was racked with a disease, he was racked by cancer, and before that year would be over, he himself would lose his life. With all the uncertainty in the world Um even his own physical sickness, not being sure w how long he was going to live. He he uttered these words, these m memorable words. He said this, Give me a light that I might walk safely into the unknown. And he said to me, walk out into the darkness and put your hand into the hand of God. And it shall be to you safer than light. You know, we live in a similar world today. We live in a time of uncertainty, do we not? There is so much uncertainty and so many challenges that lie ahead of us. There seems to be an air of pessimism in our world today. Just listen to the news, right? Inflation is on the rise. Gas prices are getting higher, the cost of living is going up, people are struggling to keep their head above the water, crime is out of control, People are worried about the future, they're worried about their children, they're worried about their grandchildren. We don't know what lies ahead in the future. In fact, from where we sit from a human perspective, it all might look like darkness to us. And so the question is, how are we as Christians to face an uncertain future? And I say specifically to the graduates of this institution, How are we to respond to the uncertainty of the times as Christian leaders and those called to serve the Lord? Well, King Solomon gives us some advice for Living in the face of uncertainty is one of the themes that runs through the book of Ecclesiastes. In fact, in Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verse 24, it says this: that which is far off And exceedingly deep, who can find out? Solomon said, those things that are far off, can you know what's going to happen there? And of course it's a rhetorical question. The answer is no. We don't know what the future holds We don't know what is ahead. And then in Ecclesiastes chapter eight, verse seventeen, he says again, then I beheld all the work of God that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. And he goes on to say Though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it. It doesn't matter how wise you are, you're not able to predict the future. The future is uncertain. And so, in fact, in chapter eleven here he continues with that same theme because the key phrase that we see in chapter eleven is, For thou knowest not In verse 2 he sah he says this this in Ecclesiastes two give a portion to seven, also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall befall the earth. And then in verse number five he says again, as thou knowest not And then again in verse number six, thou knowest not. So in light of all this uncertainty, what advice is Solomon giving us? What is he telling us to do? Well, here in these last two chapters in the book of Ecclesiastes, what he's telling us, what he's challenging all of us to do, is to live boldly, to live by faith. He encourages us to never let the uncertainties of life hold us back from taking risks by faith for the glory of God. Uncertainty should never hinder us In fact, in chapter 11, he'll say, Rejoice. Let your heart be full of cheer. Look, don't be full of sadness, be full of joy. If there's anyone that has reason to rejoice, it's us as believers. Amen. He also says, remove sorrow from your heart. Don't walk around depressed and brooding over the things that are going on. And then later on in chapter 12, verse 1, he says, Remember now thy creator. Rejoice Remove sorrow from your heart and remember your creator. We might not know the future, but we serve someone who does know the future. He is our creator. Alfred Hitchcock, the movie director, told a parable in the guidepost all about the unknown. Once he said there was once a king that was granted two wishes. And his first wish was to see the future, but what he saw, when he saw what lay ahead, all of the beauty and the pain, he immediately asked for the second wish, and that was that the future be hidden. And then Alfred Hitchcock Said this, I thank heaven that the future does not belong to any man, it belongs to God. And that is so very true, beloved. This is why we can live by faith. This is why we can trust in God. We serve a God who is sovereign and a God who knows the future. And so the better part of spiritual faith is not caution But it's courage through Jesus Christ. What he's telling us here is that living by faith means living boldly. It means being willing to take a risk And so what I want you to see very quickly here, and I won't be too long, I want to show you very quickly five poetic images and the message they give us about living boldly in uncertain times. And the first thing he shows us here is this image of casting your bread on the water. Again in verse number one, cast your bread on the water. We know the future is uncertain. We know that there looks like darkness, but Solomon says, regardless of that, cast your bread on the water. And the principle that he's trying to teach us here is that we must be willing to take a risk. You have to be willing to take a risk. Now again, cast thy bread upon the waters. What does he mean by that? I remember reading this as a young Christian, I could never figure out exactly what he meant. I mean, why would I want to take a loaf of bread and put it on water And if I put it on the water, why would I want it back after many days? It seems like to me it would be pretty soggy by then. I wouldn't want a loaf of bread after it's been on the water for that many days. What is he talking about here? And what he's doing is he's using obviously this is Hebrew poetry, he's using poetic images to speak about literal truths. There are several interpretations. Some say, well he what he's saying is that you need to give to the poor because if you give out is going to come back to you. Some people say that's what it means. Others say it's just being uh planting seed in a floodplain, as another scholar said, you know, sometimes back in that day. they would plant seed in an area where they knew it was going to flood because they thought it would give a bigger crop. But I think the interpretation here that's really being given is this. Cast your bread on the water just means uh to engage in international trade. You see, back in Solomon's day, if you were a merchant and you wanted to make money, what you had to do is you had to be willing to put your grain on ships and and send those ships out to sea on the water. In fact the word cast here is a Hebrew word that means send out. Send out your grain on ships. And then after a while you'll get the benefit of that. You'll reap a dividend from that. In fact, if you look in first Kings, the life of Solomon, you'll find out that he was engaged in all kind of international trade during his kingly uh ministry. And All kind of things came back to Israel because men back then were willing to put their grain on the ships. But you have to understand uh there's a risk involved with that. If you're gonna put your grain on chips, it do you there's no guarantee that something might not happen. You have to be willing to take that risk Nothing ventured, nothing gained. But Solomon said, if all goes well, after many days you will find it. Again, but there is a risk. You have to understand that. You know, the ship might hit a reef, it might go through a storm, it could be attacked by pirates, and the whole cargo lost. If you put your grain on those ships, you could lose everything, but There's a chance that you might do a whole lot of good, too. And so you have to be willing to take that risk. Now, what Solomon is doing here is he is inviting us to handle our spiritual business the same way. You are called to invest into the kingdom of God with the same boldness and the same adventurous spirit that Solomon is talking about right here. One writer said this, the wise man will invest everything he has in the life of faith. And so, graduates, what this means is you must be willing to invest your time, your talent, your treasure, your all into the kingdom of God. And understand that when you do that there's always a risk involved. It's always going to be the case. Michael Eaton wrote this, ships and commerce voyages might be long delayed before any profit resulted, yet one's goods had to be committed to them. Solomon's fleet brought back gold and silver, ivory, apes and peacocks. They sailed once in three years And in a similar way, Solomon has called his readers to take life as from the hand of God, to enjoy it despite its trials and perplexities, because such a life contains within it the elements of trust and adventure. Again, you have to be willing to take a risk for God. One person said this, a turtle can't make progress unless he sticks out his neck. People that have been used by God greatly in the kingdom are people who have been willing to take a risk for God. Those are the ones that the Lord has used. This is exactly what Jesus meant when he said, the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Those that are out there in the kingdom of God willing to make sacrifices, willing to take risks, from our perspective, we look at people like that and it looks like they're in last place They don't have a large bank account. They don't have a big portfolio. The world looks at them and looks at them as failures. From the world's perspective, they're in last place. But I want to tell you something, when Jesus comes, they're going to be in first place Because the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Jim Elliott, the missionary, said he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. So we must be willing to take a risk. God will always call you out of your comfort zone. He will always call you So there's number one image, cast your bread, be willing to take a risk. But also here's a second principle. Give portions. Look what he says in verse number two. Give a portion of seven Also to A, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. In other words, the principle that he's giving us here is plan wisely. Solomon is quick to add that when we take a step of faith and we're willing to take a risk, we need to do it carefully. We should plan it very carefully. Since we don't know what the future holds Since we're not sure what could happen, then we need to be ready for any possible contingency. And so he says, give a portion to seven, some to eight. What is he saying there? When you put your bread on a ship Or you put your grain on a ship and you send it out, don't put all of your grain in one ship. Because if that one ship sinks, then you lose everything. So he said, spread it out, put put a portion on seven, a portion on eight, spread out your investment, that way it's a much wiser thing to do. To use a phrase from the financial world, be willing to diversify your investments. Or our grandparents said it like this, don't put all of your eggs in what? That's exactly what Solomon is saying right here. He is saying you need to adopt a strategy. Why? Because in verse 2 he tells us, For thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth And so once again he's warning us about the uncertainties and the mysteries of the future. Solomon is saying, look, you never know But not knowing shouldn't freeze you. It should just cause you to act wisely as you venture out in faith. We look in the Bible, we see men like the Apostle Paul making plans, but he plans very carefully his missionary journeys. The Bible says in Proverbs 16, verse 3. Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. Prepare thy work without, make it fit for thyself in the field, and afterwards build thine house Here's a third thing that we see here. Number one, cast your bread on the waters, be willing to take a risk. Number two, give portions, that is, plan wisely, this venture that you're going to go on for the kingdom of God. But here's number three, study clouds. Look what he says in verse number three. If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if the tree fall towards the north or towards the south, and the place where the tree falls, there it shall Look at verse 4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. And what he's basically telling us here, here's the principle, refuse to be hindered by fear. You know, there are some Christians that are not willing to take any risk at all. They just absolutely refuse to leave their comfort zone. And they come up with all kinds of excuses why they shouldn't do certain things. They're so adverse to risk that they're willing to wait until the conditions are absolutely perfect before they are willing to do anything. And you know what? They're going to be waiting forever because rarely are the are the conditions ever absolutely perfect to do something. In verses 3 and 4, Solomon is warning us what will happen if we wait. Until the conditions are perfect, you know what will happen? We're going to lose out altogether. We'll never do anything for God if we wait until the conditions are perfect. And so to emphasize this point, what Solomon does here in these verses is he gives us a picture of our farmer. He's standing out in his field. He's trying to decide whether or not he should sow in his field. The clouds are heavy with rain. The storm is blowing, it's kicking up. A nearby tree has fallen to the ground. Maybe it is a result of the approaching storm, or maybe uh it had happened before that. But all these events that he's looking at are events that are out of his control But he's waiting for the just the right time to plant his seed so that he could have a harvest. But what we see here in these verses is that the farmer, he's just standing there, he's not doing anything. He's watching the clouds. He's watching the wind. He's not farming in his field. Why is he waiting? Again, he's waiting for the perfect conditions before he will do anything. Even though already we saw in Ecclesiastes there's a time to plan, a time to pluck up, he's not sure what time it is. He's just waiting there And he's watching. And rather than doing what he's supposed to do, rather than doing what God has called him to do, he is frozen by fear. And he does not sow. And as a result, you know what? He will not reap. Again, look at verse 4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. And by showing us this farmer, Solomon is giving us practical warnings that we can apply to our life. Are you afraid to do what God is leading you to do? Are you waiting for the perfect conditions before you'll do what the Lord has called you to do? Again, you'll never do it. As long as we think this way, as long as we view life this way, we will never accomplish anything for God. And you know what? We'll always come up with excuses why we're not doing it. And you know what? There'll be good excuses They'll sound really good. It's like the guy in Proverbs, the slothful man. He said, Oh, there's a lion out in the street. If I go after, I'm gonna get killed So therefore he stays in the house and he does nothing. A lazy man will do nothing because and make excuses about it that sound rational, that sound reasonable. But don't wait for the ideal circumstances. Be willing to venture out. Life is an adventure. And we have to launch out by faith. We have to trust in God. We have to move forward by faith. A young seminary graduate said to the president, he said, you know what? I'm looking for a church ministry to minister in, but I'm being very careful. I'm looking for a church with no problems. There are churches like that. Unfortunately, they have no people in them. God is not trying to send people to the ideal places. In fact, if anywhere, God's going to send you to the places that have a lot of problems so you can fix those problems. He's calling you to go out into a world that's filled with problems. So that you can change that world with the power of the Word of God and with the gospel of Jesus Christ. God doesn't call us to ideal places. Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, come to Ephesus. Why, Paul? Because there's many adversaries here, that's why. And because you're needed here because of all the problems. Don't wait for the ideal circumstance, because if you do, you'll never do anything for God. And then let me give you the fourth thing. Casting bread means being willing to Take a risk. Give portions. That means be willing to plan wisely. Study the clouds. That means refuse to be hindered by fear. But also, number four, another image we see here is considering providence And what Solomon is calling us to do is to study and to recognize the mysterious providence of God. Look at verse number 5 of chapter 11. As thou knowest not what is in the way of the Spirit. Nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. And again, in a beautiful poetic image, Solomon is describing a mysterious work of God that none of us can fully grasp, none of us can fully understand. And what he's trying to teach us is that God is working in the hidden areas. He's working behind the scenes. His providence is always at work. And we need to understand that. And just to illustrate it, he gives one illustration of the powerful, providential working of God. And what is it? It's when there is a baby in his mother's womb How incredible is that? How marvelous is that? And by the way, I would just point out that the Bible makes very clear that what's in a mother's womb is not a mass of tissue. The Bible calls it a child. And the Bible says that God is the one that gives that child a spirit, and God is the one that is working in a wonderful, marvelous way. Making that child uniquely what it is. That's an illustration of the hidden providences of Almighty God and how powerful He works. And Solomon is saying, look, consider that. Consider that God in his providence works behind the scenes. And if you're called of Him, guess what? His providential hand will work behind the scenes and will help you in this venture that you're going to take. If it's for his glory, if it's for the glory of God. I want to tell you something that when You know, uh a lot of you here know the history of faith, how the faith kind of the old faith, this is the new faith theological seminary now, okay? The old faith went through some tr difficulties, through some trials. I was asked to be the president But there was a lot of things that had to happen before we got this thing restarted. And one of the things that we had to have is we had to have um we had to have money. Everybody understand that? Everybody say amen. Good, because we're going to take up an offering here in just a minute. But I I you know I I felt like God was leading us to go ahead and let's let's let's move forward for the glory of God. Let's overcome some of the challenges that we've had. But you know what I it was a risk for me. It was a risk, and then I had to go to our men here at Grace and say, hey, we need to help and get this seminary started. And there was some risk involved in that. Our church paid out some money to in order to try to do that. And there were risk factors in other areas, but you know what I found? That God in his providence began to work And he began to honor what we were trying to do. And the way he did that was that he just had certain people come in and just give Um money just to and I didn't even ask for it. I know a president is supposed to raise money for a seminary. You guys are in trouble because I don't know how to raise money. But you know what? Don't be afraid. God can take care of all of that I was sitting in my office and a person came in and said, Hey, how much money do you need? And they wrote me out a check. I didn't even ask. When they asked me the amount, I said, look, just whatever the Lord says. And when they wrote the check out, I was just shocked There was a man in our church came to our church one Sunday morning and he was sitting in the back and I'd never seen him before, um hadn't seen him since. Uh after the service, he said, I need to talk to you, Pastor. I thought he needed counsel, so I took him back to my office and um And he had he was wearing cargo pants, you know, with big pockets. And he sat down and he he ripped open one pocket and he f put out a stack of bills and set them on my desk. Then he ripped open the other pocket and he pulled out another stack and he set it on the desk. And he said, this is for the seminary. And I said, wow, do you have any more pockets? And my secretary counted, I had our secretary come in and count up the money immediately. It was $10,05. And this man didn't look like he had a whole lot. But he said, you know what, God just let put it on my heart just to help out. the seminary. And you know how many people have come to me since we started this venture saying, you know what? God has been working in my heart. And here I want to give a gift. And I want to do this and I want to do that. And you know what? I haven't even asked for anything yet. But I don't have to because God, if it's God is in it, and if we do it for the glory of God, and we're willing to take some risk for his namesake, you know what? God works in mysterious ways His providential hand is at work doing things for his own glory. But we need to move on. But let me just say this that Understanding these great mysteries of God's providence should humble us. If anything good happens, it won't be because of me, it'll be because of Almighty God. God's mysterious providence should humble us, but it should also cause us to live boldly by faith. But let me give you the last thing. Casting bread be means being willing to take a risk. Giving portions means to plan wisely. Studying clouds means to be Refuse to be hindered by fear. Considering providence means to trust in God's mysterious providences. But here's the last and final thing: sowing seed And this means attempting great things for God. Look at verse number 6. In the morning, sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand. For thou knowest not whether thou shalt prosper either in this or that, whether they both shall be alike be good. And Solomon's concluding command is That we should work hard. Get up in the morning and go and sow your seed. Don't let the uncertainty of life cause you to do nothing. It should have the opposite effect. It should cause you to work all the harder. Make your day full for the glory of God. Get up. Get to work. Work hard for the kingdom. Use each day wisely. The life of faith is a life of adventure. So live boldly. Because again he says in verse 6, for thou knowest not what whether thou shalt prosper, either this or that. Or whether they both shall be alike good. Don't be afraid to try something new. Don't be afraid to take a risk. Solomon says, you know what, it just might work. God just might bless you. You never know. So attempt to do great things for God. It was William Carey that wrote or that originally said the words William Carey, the great missionary. We call him now the father of modern missions, because there was a time in church history where churches were not launching out to share the gospel. They were afraid. But William Carey was a man that God put faith in his heart and he rose up and he said, We need to take the gospel to the unknown regions. We need to get out there and share the gospel. And he preached a sermon, and in that sermon, he said, Ask great things of God. Expect great things from God. Attempt great things for God. That's exactly what Solomon is telling us here. Attempt great things for God. Ask great things of God. One of my favorite theologians, the actor John Wayne. Said this. He said, courage is being scared to death and saddling up anyway. That's pretty good. You might be scared, but saddle up. Get ready. Go forward. So the question I want to ask you and challenge you with is this, how will you step out in faith? What will you do? What risk are you willing to take? Will you do it for God? Will you do it for the kingdom of God? For his glory? And I close with this. The reason that we're here in this beautiful building, we're here in this ministry, is because of a man who is willing to take a risk. You know, I was listening to um uh to Pastor Choi this morning preaching a wonderful sermon. Pastor Choi is uh pastor of uh in Christ Community Church. in Northridge, California, a beautiful, wonderful uh congregation of Korean believers. And I was just thinking while he was preaching in our church this morning how appropriate it is because the founding pastor of this church was a soldier who fought in the Korean War. He was a new convert. He was newly saved. And he was, and he asked God to send him over to Korea because he thought he might do some good. And he went over there. He grew in the Lord there. He was a faithful soldier there. He served in a mass unit helping people medically. And he grew he he got to know some Korean Christians while he was over there. And uh he came back with a call of God in his heart to go into ministry. And you know what? God eventually led Pastor Johnson, our founding pastor, to come here and to start Grace Bible Baptist Church in 1972. And you know what? When he started this church, you know how much money he had? None. Thank you, Mrs. Johnson. She just told me right here on the front. Just to confirm. They had no money. Nothing. But you know what he had? He had the promise of God. He had the courage. He was willing to take a risk. And he took a handful of people. And this property that we're on right now is for sale. And what even though he had no money, you know what Pastor Johnson did? He walked around this property and he claimed it by faith. He walked around and he said, I remember him telling me this story. Every footstep that he put down, he said, I'm claiming this property for the glory of God. I claim it for the glory of God. And you know what happened? God gave them this property. And that little building over there that is now our education building, that was the first sanctuary. And Pastor Johnson started with a handful of people. And you know what? He preached the word powerfully and he was faithful through the years. And you know what? God saved souls. People came to know Christ. My father came to know Jesus Christ. I was a teenager. My dad made me come to church here. I'm so glad he didn't give me the choice. I'm glad he said, you're coming to church. And uh I got saved here. I started serving here. My first position was a janitor here at Grace Bible Baptist Church But I love being around the work of God. And you know what? Here's the whole point. Because he was willing to live by faith, because he was willing to step out and take a risk, and he was willing to do it for the glory of God, God honored him. And all that we have here now Is a result of that man's willingness to step out. You know what he did? He cast his bread on the waters. And you know what? After many days he found it. And we are all the recipients of all those blessings. So what I want to challenge all of you graduates here to do is to be willing to live by faith. To be willing to do great things for God, for His glory. Cast your bread upon the waters. Because you know what, after many days you're going to find it. You will find it. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the challenge that you lay before us to live by faith. Thank you, Lord, for these graduates. I pray for blessing in their life. I pray that you sovereignly will place them where you would have them to serve you, and that their life would be a life that is invested into the kingdom of God for your glory and invested into others. And so, Father, we we thank you, we praise you for all that you do, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.