It's good to see you here tonight in God's house. I invite you to take your Bible tonight, please. Open to the book of Psalms, chapter 100 On Wednesday night these past few weeks we've been looking at some of the Thanksgiving psalms. I think this is an appropriate time of year to do that. And tonight we want to look at a beautiful Psalm it's so very short and yet it's so very beautiful and I'm sure it's one that you recognize very well. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness, and come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that has made us, and not we ourselves We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. And be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. And his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. If you've been watching the news, you know that next year is a election year, and every politician running for office knows the importance of avoiding bad press. Which is why they y you they have to look good in the news because each politician knows that that's going to determine how they are uh if they're elected or not. And so they they need good spin doctors to put a spin on the news so that they look good. Because politicians know that bad press can ruin their reputation and can pretty much d cause defeat in the polls. Now they want good press, but it's not always stemming from good character. But when I think about that, I think about from day one, Satan has been on a campaign to smear the truth about God's goodness so that people will not follow him. Did you know that Satan is on a campaign to give God bad press? He wants people to look at God negatively. We think about this when we think about Eve in the Garden of Eden, with the first temptation Satan his main ploy was to to get Eve to think negative about God. She he wanted Eve to doubt the goodness of God. And so he said, you know, God knows that the day you eat thereof, your eyes will be open and you'll know good and evil. In other words, God is withholding things from you. He's trying to keep from you a good thing. And by extension of that thought is God is not really good because he's withholding good from you. And the devil has used this same lie, this same falsehood in various forms to keep people from following the Lord. Satan promotes the lie. You know, if you follow God, you'll have to stop doing the things that you enjoy and you'll have to start doing the things that you uh hate. You know, God wants to get get rid of your ice cream and he wants you to eat spinach for dessert, you know. Which is uh something that my grandchildren would have a real problem with. I guess that's why I'm thinking about that here lately. They always want to eat candy and ice cream, you know, not spinach. But anyway There's a word that we hear a lot in the media, and that's the word fake news. But let me tell you, Satan is the originator of fake news That's his specialty. Especially fake news about God. That's why this psalm here is so very refreshing. Because Psalm 100 tells the story accurately Look at verse number five. For the Lord is good, and his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. The psalmist is exclaiming the goodness of God. And this psalmist reminds us that it's our duty to tell the world how good God is. While Satan is out there on a campaign to give God bad press, we must tell the world the truth about God First Peter says this that God has made us to be a people of his possession, so that you might proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light And that's part of our duty. This wonderful God that called us out of darkness, now we are to proclaim to the world his excellencies and the beauty of the light that he's given us. Or as the Westminster Catechism, the Shorter Catechism says, what's the chief end of man? And the answer of that is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And what does it mean to glorify God? It means that we make him look good. Or we could say it like this, we rightly represent him to the world. We we we uh publish him, we talk about him as he is. We don't have to make him look good because he is good. We just have to tell the truth about his goodness. That's that's the point. In short, we give God good press while Satan is out there trying to give God bad press, and we give God good press by the way we live and the way that we act. We show the world that God is good. And we also show the world this by how we respond to his goodness to us. And so our job as believers is to give good press to our good God. By not spinning or bending the truth, but by conveying by our demeanor and by our words how excellent he truly is. And that's the message of Psalm 100. Notice the subtitle of Psalm 100, just above verse 1, a psalm of what? A psalm of praise. The word praise is the Hebrew word of today, which means confession. And in this case, it means to confess the character and the works of God. That's what we do. We confess his character and his works. We confess to the world the goodness of God. Now there are several ways to examine this psalm and outline it. It has a chiastic structure to it. You know what chiasm is? Chiasm, you might have heard me talk about this before, but it's a literary device where the sequence of ideas that is presented is then repeated in reverse order. It kind of has a mirror effect. You know, for example, um finish the phrase, when the going get tough, the tough get going, you see the symmetry in that expression. Um it's the the the second part of that phrase is an exact opposite of the first part, or we could say a mirror of the first part. We see this in the Old Testament. For example, the Bible says, Whoso sheds the blood of a man, by man his blood shall be shed. See the chiasm there. And you see this all over in the Old Testament, especially in Hebrew poetry. The Hebrew poets love symmetry when they express their ideas. It was a beautiful way to uh to express an idea. And this sometimes whole chapters of Psalms are written with this kind of chiastic structure. And that's what we find here in Psalm 100. You can kind of look at it like this. Verses 1 and 2 are three commands to worship God. The very central verse, verse 3, is a call to know God. And then the last three verses, or last two verses, rather, four and five, are again three commands to worship God. So you have verse one and two, three commands, verse five, a call to worship, verse four and five, three commands. So there's the chiasm there. But the central call is in verse number three, where it says, Know ye that the Lord He is God. This is emphatic in the Hebrew. Another way of looking at it is to note that there are four verses of exhortation followed by one verse giving the reason for the exhortation. Or there's another way to look at this. There are seven commands that tell us how we should respond to the goodness of God Verse 1, shout joyfully. Verse 2, serve him. Verse 3, come, excuse me, verse 2, B, come before him. Verse 3, know God. And then in verse 4, the first part, enter into his gates, and then give thanks and bless his name. And then verse 5 gives the reason behind all these commands. Verse number 5. What does it say in verse 5? For the Lord is what? Good. And his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. So what are the reasons why we do this? Because God's goodness is demonstrated in his character. For the Lord is good. Goodness is just who God is. That's who he is. He's a good God. His goodness is a part of one of his many beautiful attributes. The goodness of God means that God is the final standard of good and that all that God is And all that that he does is worthy of our praise and worthy of our approval And the psalmist connects the goodness of God with the goodness of his actions. Just a few verses right down. Psalm 119, verse 68. You are good and do good. God, you are good and your actions as a result, you do good. Paul encourages us to discover and practice how God's will for us is good and it's acceptable and it's perfect. Scripture tells us that God is the source of all that is good in this world. Every good and perfect gift comes from above From the Father of Lights, in whom there is no veritableness, that is no changeable changeableness, neither shadow of turning. And so God does good things. He does good things for his children. We read that no good thing does the Lord withhold from those who walk uprightly. And so the Lord is good. Now it's easy to say that, but the question tonight is, do you really believe that Do you believe that God is good? It might be that when a trial comes in your life, you might begin to question the goodness of God You know, it might be that you're here tonight and you're going through a difficult trial and you're wondering about the goodness of God in your life. Do you believe that God is good and that he's using these trials? to work all things together for your good, the Bible says in Romans 8. 28. It was Spurgeon who originally said these words, you know, we've heard them a lot, but it was Spurgeon who said them first, that God is too kind to be cruel. God is too wise to make a mistake, and when you can't trace his hand, you trust his heart. The psalmist said this in Psalm 119, verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I've kept your word. God, you've afflicted me. And then the very next verse says this you are good and do good Teach me your statutes. It's amazing. And that one verse, Lord, you've afflicted me. And the very next verse, Lord, you're good. And you too, good. He understood that all that he was going through was an extension of God's goodness working in his life. And a few verses later he writes this in verse 71 It's good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn your statutes. Even in our afflictions, or we could say especially in our afflictions, we must submit to God And there are times when we must affirm his goodness by faith. Because we know that God does what is good. And Satan knows if he can get you to doubt God's goodness, that you won't trust him. If you doubt his goodness, you will not trust him. Why trust and obey a mean God who's trying to make you miserable? And Satan wants you to have those negative thoughts about God But God's goodness is demonstrated, as the psalmist said here, in his character. But also it's demonstrated in his love. Look again in verse 5. For his mercy is everlasting. The word for mercy there is Kesed. It's one of those beautiful words in the Old Testament, God's loyal loving kindness, one of the most beautiful Hebrew words In fact, um English translators have kind of come up with so many different words to try to capture the full essence of what this means, and it's very difficult to do. Some versions translate it loyal. Others kindness, others love. Some call it unfailing love. It really is a loyal love that will not let you go. If you're a child of God, guess what? His love's not going to let you go. It's a loyal love. It's like that hymn, O Love that Will Not Let Me Go. When trying to come up with a good translation of this word, the King James translators came up with the word loving kindness. That was a word that they kind of coined there. Actually, it was Miles Coverdale, a translator of the English Bible, when he could not find a suitable English word to describe what the Hebrew word means, he just kind of came up with this word, loving kindness To try to capture all of what that Hebrew word means. And it's mentioned 30 times in the Old Testament to describe God's love towards us. God's goodness is demonstrated in his love. And God's goodness is demonstrated in his faithfulness. Look again in verse number five. And his truth endureth to all generations. The word truth here, steadfastness or firmness, or faithfulness. God is faithful. God is dependable. God does not change. Everything around us is changing. You ever notice that? Things around us are changing. Circumstances change. People change. I've met people who were gracious and kind many years ago, and I've met some lately, and guess what? They're not gracious and kind anymore. Some of them are downright grumpy and mean. Instead of being humbly grateful, they're grumbly hateful They're hard to talk to. What's happened? The world with all of its cruelty has changed them. They were happy, but now they're cold and they're cynical. How do we know that God doesn't change in all those years and the two thousand years since the New Testament was completed? How do we know that God has not changed his mind or changed his heart or his emotions? Or how do we know that God will keep his word after all those years, 2,000 years after he promised it? How do we know that the circumstances of this world have not changed God and made him grumpy? I'll tell you why, friend, because God is changeless in his person. The Bible makes that very clear. God says, I the Lord change not. That's why the psalmist could say here, his truth endures for all generation. Don't buy into some of that crazy theology that you hear out there sometimes. One of my illustrations about this, you've heard me say it before, Benny Hinn was on TV. Um and by the way, if you want to know a false teacher, just look at his hairstyle. Sometimes that gives him away right there. I mean if never mind. But anyway, he was interviewing Jesse Duplantis on TV. And uh he was back he was bragging about how well he knew God, you know. This is Jesse Duflanis. Oh, I know God, he was saying, Danny, I know God. Oh really? Yeah, he said one day I got up and I was praying and you know God wasn't acting just right. And he said, uh I stopped praying and I said, God, this is this is Jesse Duplantis, not me. Jesse Duplantis said, God You are you okay today? And God said back to Jesse, my people are hurting me today, Jesse. And Jesse Duplana said God was having a bad day. And so Jesse DuPlant has said to Benny Hinn, Well, I tell you what, God, I'm going to cancel all my appointments today, and I'm going to stay here and just talk to you all day and be with you all day. And God said to Jesse, Thank you, Jesse. And the message you're supposed to get from that is God needed Jesse to plan us his help in a bad day. God was having a difficult time. He was a little grumpy that day. I want to tell you something, dear friend. That's blasphemous. That's some of the worst blasphemy that I ever heard. God doesn't have a bad day He's changeless. His truth endures to all generation. He's not moody, where one day he acts different towards us, and the next day another way. All his attributes are eternal and he is true. He is faithful to his covenant promises. He is true to all his revealed purposes. He does not change in his purpose and his plan. and his promises, he doesn't change in any of that. And the Bible records the record of his faithfulness to God, to his people, excuse me, in the past. It shows how that he will always be the same and he'll be true to his promises. And so we can rely on his faithfulness to us in the present, no matter what trial we're going through. You can rest assured that God has not changed his disposition towards you, that he's the same. The psalmist said this. I know, O Lord, that your judgments are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. Oh, may your loving kindness comfort me according to your word. To your servant. So we must affirm at time at all times and in all situations that God, you are good to me. You're good. You will never leave me nor forsake me. Now for the sermon. That's all introduction. But let me just show you real quickly. I I won't keep you over, but Three proper ways that we respond to the goodness of God. The psalmist makes it very clear in verse 5 that God is good. Isn't he good? We serve a good God. So how do we respond to the goodness of God? We respond to God's goodness with joy With joy. Look at verse 1 and 2. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness, and come before his presence with singing. Is this your image of the Christian life? There seems to be no allowance here in these verses for grumpiness. Nothing here about complaining. We should be joyful people. It was Martin Lloyd Jones who wrote that unhappy Christians, to say the least, are a poor recommendation for the Christians' faith. He went on to say, you know, the the devil's one object is to depress God's people so that if he can do that, he takes away your witness into the world. Because if you're a depressed, unhappy person, you're not a good witness for God. And so that's what the devil wants to do. In other words, he was saying an unhappy Christian is giving God bad press. Our testimony to the world should be one of joy because of our God. Notice what he tells us four things here. Joy in the Lord should be expressive. Again, verse one, make a joyful noise. You know, that's one word in the Hebrew, one three-letter word, rua. Translated, make a joyful noise. It means a shout. It's a word that refers to a spontaneous shout of victory. You know, when a king would return from a battle and he sent a messenger ahead that there was victory. Um the king won the victory and he would march into the city and the people would line the streets and they would shout and applause and cheer. They would do it with great exuberance. That's the idea behind this here. Make a joyful noise under the Lord. The best analogy would be, you know. You ever been to a football game when the when the touchdown is scored by the home team? I mean the stadium is full. I remember uh a few years back I had some friends from Memphis purchase tickets to go to a Thursday night Ravens game and they purchased a ticket for me and wanted me to go with him and so I went and it was cold that night. But the stadium was packed. I mean it was packed. I decided to get up and go get a cup of hot chocolate. On the way back to my seat, the Ravens scored a touchdown The place erupted. I mean, people were dancing in the aisles. People I never met were hugging me. Patting me on the back. I spilled my hot chocolate all over the front of my coat. I barely made it back to my seat. You know why? Because of the exuberant joy That everybody around me was having because the Ravens had just happened to score a touchdown. That's the idea behind this word here that the psalmist uses. Do you express that kind of joy when God does something good for you? Joy in the Lord should be expressive, but also join the Lord should be contagious. Again in verse 1. Make a joyful noise in the Lord, all ye lands. When Psalm 100 was written, only a small minority of the people in the world worship Israel's God. And Israel, of course, was designated to spread, to be a witness of the goodness of God to all the nations of the world back then. And so this verse has a missionary focus. God commands all the people of the earth to shout joyfully because of the goodness of God. For all the earth to shout joyfully to the Lord, they have to know who he is. They have to know how good he is. And one way that they should know that he's worth shouting about is because they see the joy in us when they know us. Are you giving God good press? Or are you giving God bad press? When the world watches you, what do they see out of you? Join the Lord should be expressive. It should be contagious. Join the Lord should be expressed in how we serve God. Look at verse 2. Serve the Lord with gladness. There are two parts to the command. First of all, serve the Lord, and then do it with gladness. First, do you serve the Lord? Are you serving God in some way? If you know the Lord, God certainly would want you to do that. Are you one of those Christians that come to church and sit, soak, and sour? You don't really use the gifts that God's given you. Part of the way that we properly respond to the goodness of God is by serving him. And secondly, do you do it with gladness? Are you complaining about what you have to do for the church, or are you praising God for what you get to do for him? The Lord threatened Israel with some frightening consequences if they did not serve him gladly. Listen to Deuteronomy 28, 47 Because you did not serve the Lord your God with joy and a glad heart for the abundance of all things, therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the Lord will send against you. Wow, that's pretty serious. God wants his people to serve him with joy and gladness. But then another thing we see here, joy in the Lord should be expressive, contagious, should be expressed in how we serve the Lord. But joy in the Lord should be expressed in how we sing in verse two at the end of it. Come before his presence with singing. Notice the first part, come before him. That's what we do when we come to God's house, when we congregate here. We are coming before God. Praying, seeking his face. I love to see people come and seek the face of God. And then we come before him with our singing. Sometimes I want to apologize for the way God's people sing. We seem distracted or uninterested Does our singing give God good press to the world when they see us how we sing, how we praise God? We were supposed to have joyful singing. And so, number one, we respond to God's goodness with joy. But here's number two. We respond to God's goodness with submission. Look at verse 3. Know ye that the Lord He is God? It is he that has made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now you don't see the word submission in this verse, but the idea and the concept is written all over it here. Why does the psalmist insert this verse dealing with joy and thanksgiving? Why does he do it here? Why does the fact that the Lord is God And that he made us and that we are his people and his sheep. What does that have to do with thanksgiving? Has everything to do with it Verse 3 describes a relationship of submission to God, and submission is directly related to our thankfulness. If you're grumbling and griping about your circumstances, you're not subject to God's sovereign hand in your life. You don't really believe that he should be in control. That he sou should be sovereign over your life. You're implying that you could do a better job than God at running your life if God would just give you a chance to make the decisions and run your own life. You know, I pray that God will never judge me in that way by letting me run my own life. How I would mess that up. Thank God that He is sovereign. And so we have to realize that God is the one who we submit to. Why do we submit to him? Well, three reasons here in verse 3. We submit because he's the only God. Know ye that the Lord, he is God Remember we said in this psalm, this isn't the emphatic, it's a central idea. We could say it like this, know ye that the Lord, He is the only God. That's the sense of it. This is a call to universal acknowledgement that God reigns and he alone is God. In the ancient Near East, people believed that there were many gods. They thought the sun was God. They thought the moon was God. They thought the stars and the river and the desert. They had all these different gods. Their gods could be moody, their gods could do bad things, make mistakes, they were not in complete control. But here the psalmist boldly declares there's only one God. He's the God of Israel. This is an enormous claim. He's the sovereign king. He rules over all. We submit because he is the only God And we submit because he's the Creator again in verse 3. It is He that has made us and not we ourselves. That is such a simple and yet profound statement. The psalmist takes a shot at evolution before evolution ever came about It is he that has made us, not we ourselves. We submit to him and bow to him because he is the creator. And that makes that means that he's also the judge. He makes the rules. He gets to write the rules and he gets to say what's right and what's wrong. He is the judge. And that means man must submit to God and be accountable to him. Evolution has gained such a large following. Not because there's scientific evidence for it, as we saw when Terry Mortensen was here, but because it eliminates the need for proud men to submit to a sovereign God. Which is what the depraved heart of man does not want to do. But if God created us, then we must submit to him But the depraved sinful nature of man doesn't want to do that. As uh again, I don't want to rehearse what Terry Mortensen brought about. But we know that that's part of the depraved nature of man. But here's the third thing. We submit to him because he's the shepherd. Again in verse 3. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. God says to you, you are the sheep of my pasture. God calls you his sheep. That's not necessarily a compliment there. Because as I told you before, you know, sheep are not very smart animals. You never go to a circus and see a trained sheep. You can train all kind of other animals, but not sheep. And they also have no sense of direction. All the animals of the kingdom all have a sense of direction, but sheep, they are easily lost. They go astray. What does the Bible say? All we like sheep have what? Gone astray. We we're like that, we don't have a sense of direction. Also, they don't have any real defense. You look at all the animals, they all have a way to defend themselves You know, but sheep have no defense against a predator. They're weak, they're vulnerable, they're also very anxious creatures, very nervous creatures, easily disturbed. You know what? Sheep aren't going to make it without a shepherd. And that's me. And that's you. Thank God that the Lord is our shepherd. Like the psalmist said in Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Like one little girl said, The Lord is my shepherd, that's all I want. That's a good way to say that. And sometimes we're guilty as preachers of making the Christian life more difficult than it really is. You know, it's really not that difficult. You want to be blessed, you want to be happy, just follow your shepherd. Just follow his leading. And if you do that, you know what? You're going to be blessed. He'll give you all that you need. But then here's the third thing. We respond to God's goodness with joy. We respond to God's goodness with submission. But number three. We respond to God's goodness with thankfulness. Look at verse 4. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him. And bless his name. Dozens of times we're commanded to give thanks to the Lord. First Chronicles 16:8, give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the people Psalm fifty seven verse nine. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people. I will sing unto thee among the nations. Psalm 105, verse 1. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people. And notice what he says here. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving. That's the way you were appro to approach the temple to worship God. You don't come to the temple, you know, in order to learn to be thankful. No, you should be bringing your thanksgiving to the temple. And of course that would be here in the church tonight. Why do we come to God's house and assemble together, pray? Because we're thankful. Because we want to give thanks to God in prayer, and we want to give thanks to God in song. And we want to give thanks to God by submitting to his word and yielding all of ourselves to him. and growing to be more like Christ. All of that is an expression of our thankfulness. The Solomon said, enter into his gates with thanksgiving. This this reminds me of um the old city of Jerusalem. If you go to the southwestern corner of the temple by Holda's gate. There's a flight of stairs there by the main entrance of the temple mount, about 200 feet wide. Excavators uncovered at the easternmost part of this staircase. alternating long and short steps. There would be a long step, maybe about ten feet long, and then a very short step, maybe just a few feet. And so people coming up those steps would go step on a long step and then a short one and then a long one And some suggest that the reason why they were staggered this way was so that the posture of the person coming to worship was one of humility and gratitude. Because they came with their heads bowed. You had to look down. And so you come into God's house with a humility of humble gratitude. For all that God has done. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. That's the way to come before God. And then we bless his name. Bless his name means to praise him for who he is, as revealed in his word, and through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so do you recognize how good God is? And do you respond the right way to his goodness? Before his conversion, John Wesley was deeply impressed with a conversation that he had with a porter of a college. You know, the porter's a guy who carries the luggage and does the janitorial work. and not very well paid, mostly lives off of TIFFS. But Wesley discovered that this man is porter of this college, of this college. He only had one coat, he was so poor. And he had not eaten that day because he was, again, no money, he was poor. And yet Wesley found that this man was overflowing with gratitude towards God. And John Wesley said to him, he said, You thank God when you have nothing to wear and nothing to eat and no bed to lie upon? And then he said, What else do you thank him for? And the porter said, I thank him that he has given me my life and being, and a heart to love him, and a desire to serve him. This poor man gave God good press. And Wesley at that time was not a believer. He was unconverted. And he was so moved. By this man. He never forgot him. And eventually John Wesley came to saving faith in God because he believed that God is a good God. Because God is good, we who belong to Him should give Him good press. By being people Who respond to his goodness with exuberant joy, with glad submission, with thankful praise. And when the world looks at us, they should see the joy of the Lord. And they should want what we have. And that's what Psalm 100 is all about. And may that be our testimony. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, again, I'm so thankful for your word, for this beautiful psalm. Lord, thank you that it ministers to our hearts. And it so resonates with us, Lord, because with all of our soul and all of our being, we say, Lord, you are good. You're so good. Thank you for your goodness to us, Lord. Thank you for your mercy that is everlasting. Thank you, Lord, that you are a God of truth, and that your your compassions towards us they fail not. And that, Lord, you're faithful. And your truth endures to all generation. And Lord, even when we're going through difficult times and we don't understand it at times, and sometimes it's hard to deal with. Lord, we say by faith, we know that you do good and you are good, and that you're working all things together for our good. And so, Lord, we we just praise you. We desire to do it with exuberance. We want to make a joyful noise and serve you with gladness. And always come before your presence with singing. Thank you, Father, for all that you're doing in our hearts and in our lives. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.