Would you take God's word, please open to the book of Philippians, chapter three. The book of Philippians, chapter three. I uh I know you just sat down. We uh normally have special music and you can rest a little bit while they sing, but there's no special music today. I thought I I I was tempted to do it myself, but I didn't want to put you through that. Would you stand please for the reading of God's Word. Verse 1, chapter 3, verse 1. We'll look at the first three verses here. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the Spirit And rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our heart. This is the living word of God. And may we open our hearts and be ready to receive it today. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. And Lord, I pray that you'll help me to preach it well, to make it clear today. And may we have hearts and minds to receive it and apply it to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a book the title of the book is Beware of the Dogs. It's a book that tells a story that happened during World War II. It's a story of a of a fighter pilot by the name of Peter Williamson. He uh was on his way home in his plane. He had just been in a dogfight. And he would be he began to feel lightheaded. And he talks about how that uh he decided uh to bail out of this plane as he starts over the English Channel. And that's all he remembered at that point. He wakes up in a hospital, his injuries are treated, and he's told that he is in Brighton, England. Now, as he looks around, he soon begins to notice, however, that maybe that's not the case. Uh for he remembers being in Brighton, England before. He remembers the water there was very soft. The water here at this point place, however, is very hard. He can also hear German planes, Junker 88s they called them, flying overhead, and he knew that if he were in England, those uh planes would be shot at And he doesn't hear any of that. And finally he looks out the window where he's staying and he sees a sign that said, Beware of the dogs, and it's written in French. Finally he realizes that he's not in England at all. And shortly after he realizes this, a nurse comes in and says, There's someone from the Royal Air Force that wants to come and talk to you and And uh knowing, however, that he's in enemy territory, uh he refuses to say anything except his name, rank, and uh number. Now that the fact that he refuses to talk or give up any information basically saves lives. And you could say that it was all due to the sign that he read when he was laying there in his hospital room that said, Beware of dogs. Now, the Bible is filled with warnings. When we come to these in Scripture, we should uh pay attention to them because uh God's giving us important warnings for our benefit. You know, we live in enemy territory. Satan is constantly seeking to deceive. Now this was the case here at the church at Philippi. Paul was concerned that the believers in these church be not deceived. This was a beloved church. of the Apostle Paul. And so in the midst of this letter, which was really a thank you letter for their gift that they gave him, he writes a serious warning. And we see this in verse 2: beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. What was Paul talking about in this warning? And why does he refer to some of the people in that church as dogs? Beware of dogs. He wasn't talking about literal dogs there. He's using a metaphor to talk about people. Beware of these people. Now, what's going on here is in Philippians chapter 3. in these verses, Paul is basically contrasting true Christianity with false Christianity. And really to understand this section of Philippians, you have to know a bit of the history. As the gospel is spreading, it's spread among Gentiles. And there are many Gentiles that were coming to know the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, some Jewish men Who claimed to believe in Jesus Christ began to teach that before Gentiles can truly be saved, they have to first become Jewish. And they have to submit themselves to the right of circumcision. In other words, they were saying they had to add the law of Moses to the gospel message of Jesus Christ. And we would say it like this, before they can become a Christian, they had to become Jewish. Before you get the point Um, you have to go to point A before you can get to point B. And so this had to happen. They were debating this whole issue. In fact, this whole issue was so controversial that it led to a council meeting in Jerusalem. This is recorded in Acts chapter 15. where church leaders came and they wanted to resolve this issue. Does a person have to submit to the ritual of circumcision? Do they have to submit to the law of Moses? Do they have to become Jewish before they can become a Christian? And that matter was resolved. And it was resolved by saying that no person has to submit to the law in that matter, that Jews and Gentiles are saved alike. They're saved by faith in Jesus Christ, by faith alone without any works. Faith alone. Well that didn't stop the Judaizers. They were not settled. So wherever Paul went They followed Paul. And wherever Paul planted the seed of the true gospel, they would come in behind him and they would teach this whole Different gospel, another gospel. Paul called it in Galatians another gospel. And he said, let anyone who preaches another gospel, let him be accursed who does that. They were adding works to salvation. They were basically saying that salvation is all through rituals. And so they would come in behind Paul and they would. repreach the gospel in their own way, and they would were causing a lot of confusion. And this is what was happening here in the church at Philippi. That's why three times Paul says in verse two, beware of dogs. Well he didn't have a lot of compassion on these guys. Call them dogs. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. Now, while Judaizers no longer exist under that name, the core of their teaching still exists today. There are still people today who are trying to mix things in with the pure gospel. They mix in rituals. They mix in works. And some are deceived about what genuine salvation looks like. And by the way, that's why all throughout the New Testament, the writers of the New Testament are constantly telling believers, examine yourself to make sure that your salvation is real, that you're really in the faith. You don't want your salvation to be something that is superficial, to where it's nothing but external rituals where you outwardly have conformed to a pattern of religion or acts, but there's no real transformation of the heart. There are some people that are in that condition. Outwardly it all looks good. Outwardly they've conformed. Outwardly they're religious. They follow these rituals. They follow these standards. They follow these things. This list of do's and don'ts But there's never really been a change of the heart. And that's what happens at salvation. You are changed from the inside. Your heart is changed. That's why the scripture says, let a man examine himself. You better examine yourself to make sure that has happened. 2 Corinthians 13, 5. Examine yourselves whether you're in the faith, prove yourselves, or test yourselves. Know ye not yourselves how that Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates. The Apostle Paul says. Paul said, you better examine yourself, you better test yourself, you better make sure. That you are real, that your face is real, that you are in the face. And Paul is doing that again right here. In chapter 3, verses 1 through 3, he's contrasting true Christianity with the false version. False believers with true believers. And the question we have to ask ourselves as we look at these verses is this: how do I know that my heart has been changed? That it's not just outward. That it's not just superficial, that I'm not just conforming to a s a set of religious standards, and I've convinced myself that I'm truly saved because of this outward conformity. How do I know that the heart Has been really changed. And what I see here are implied principles that Paul gives in these verses to let us know what are the characteristics of a true believer. So, what I want you to see are seven characteristics. Let me just show these to you here. Number one is this: true believers exhibit joy. Look at verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. One time a a son asked his father, he said, Dad, what does it mean when the preacher says finally? And the father said, Absolutely nothing, son. When Paul said finally here, it really didn't mean he was closing the epistle. In fact, he's only halfway through But he's got a lot more to say in the next few chapters here. But this is kind of a transitional word that lets the reader know he's moving on to a new topic. And so he starts it by saying, rejoice in the Lord. This is on top of the list of instructions that he's giving is to rejoice. This is a A command. You are to rejoice. It's present tense, which means this is to be our lifestyle. As believers, we are people that rejoice. That's the life of a true believer. You know, when you come to know Jesus Christ, you know what he gives you? He gives you true joy in your heart. So you rejoice. And this is a major theme of the letter. We see it all throughout Philippians. The word rejoice is used nine times, joy five times, to rejoice two times. And it's very ironic that Paul writes this. He's in a pr a Roman prison. These are difficult circumstances, and he's been there for two years. And he's been chained next to a Roman soldier all that time. time for himself. And yet under these circumstances, chained to the Imperial Guard in this deep dark dungeon, it's the Apostle Paul who's telling other believers to rejoice. Rejoice. Now, joy then can't be linked to our circumstances, right? He tells us what the real cause of joy is when he says, rejoice, what? In the Lord. That's the source of our joy. The source of our joy is not our circumstances. The source of our joy is the fact that we are in the Lord. That we know the Lord. To be joyful doesn't mean you walk around all the time smiling and being happy all the time. That's not reality. That's not the Christian life. In fact, sometimes we are commanded to weep. We weep with those that weep. And sometimes we have difficult things that happen in our life. But you know what? Even though there may be sorrow, you can still have underneath that joy. You know, that's part of the paradox of the Christian life. You can have joy and sorrow at the same time. Because joy is something that God does in us. And it's not based on our circumstances. It's based on our relationship with Jesus Christ. Joy is looking at all of my circumstances through God. It is seeing all that happens to me from God's perspective. I heard about a young couple that moved into a new uh a new neighborhood. The next morning they were eating breakfast, and the young woman was watching her neighbor as she was hanging up the wash outside. And she said to her husband, that laundry is not very clean. She doesn't know how to wash correctly. She said, Perhaps she needs better laundry soap. And the husband just remained silent. And every time the neighbor would hang up her wash to dry, the young woman would say the same thing, boy, she just doesn't really know how to wash. That's not really clean And finally about a month later the woman looked up and she was surprised on that morning when the lady hung up the laundry, it was absolutely clean. And she said, finally this lady learned how to wash her laundry. I wonder what happened. And her husband said, I got up early this morning and cleaned our windows. And so it is with life. Joy is looking at our circumstances through clean windows. The windows of God. It's when we see things through Him, and the result of that is joy. Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It is the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be alright and the determined choice to praise God in every circumstance because we're looking at it through the Lord. That's what believers do. This is the normal state of the Christian. This is our default mode. Number two, true believers exhibit joy, but also true believers emphasize truth. Look again in verse 1. He says, to write the same things to you For me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Now evidently what Paul's about to write, they've heard before He's going to warn them about false doctrine, false teaching. And in order to combat error, you have to emphasize truth. And that's what Christians are. We are people of truth. People of the Word of God. And so Paul doesn't mind reminding them about the truth, about the things that they already know It isn't my saying the same things over and over again. He says in front back the word grievous here, troublesome, irksome, Paul said, it's no trouble for me. It's not grievous for me to say to you things that you already know Paul knows that repetition is the key to really learning anything. In fact, that's one of the duties of a pastor, of a teacher. If you sit here and say, Well, Pastor Harman, I heard you say that before, that's right. You're gonna hear you're gonna hear me say it again, too Paul said this in 1 Timothy 4, 6, if thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. That's what Paul said to Timothy. Timothy, you just keep reminding them of these things. That's what a good minister does. He keeps reminding the people of the truth. Second Timothy 1. 6, wherefore I put thee in remembrance, Paul said to Timothy. Timothy, I want to remind you. of some things. Second Timothy two fourteen of these things, put them in remembrance Second Peter one twelve. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them, and be established in the present truth Peter said, look, I'm not going to be negligent in this matter of reminding you about things that you already know. I know you already know this. I know you've already heard this. But you need to be reminded about this. You know why we need to be reminded? Because we forget so easily. And we somehow just let it go by without applying the truth. So we need to be reminded again and again. And also because there's so much doctrinal error and confusion out there, we just need to continually go back to the truth and emphasize the truth of Scripture. That's the way. And Paul says, look, for you is safe. Look at that word in verse 1. But for you it is safe. It's a word that means not to trip, not to fall down It describes someone who is secure and safe from stumbling or falling. I need to remind you constantly of this truth so that you will not stumble. So that you will not fall. True believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. But here's the third thing. True believers exercise discernment. Then Paul says in verse 2, beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. The word beware, beletho, keep your eyes open. Use discernment. That's a call that we should all heed all the time, especially in this world where there's so much bizarre doctrine being taught out there. You better be wary, you better use discernment. Keep a watchful eye. And when Paul uses the word dogs here, uh the Greek word here is not talking about a little lap dog that you like to carry around This is the idea here is a in of a dog that is a scavenger dog that is a pariah dog that hunts and packs and back in the ancient world that's what dogs Pretty much were they were vicious, starved scavengers hunting around in in in packs, digging through waste. They were disgusting to the ancient world, to the ancient people. In fact, one of the biggest insults you can give to a person is to call them a dog. And Paul me is very meaningful when he uses this word with regard to anyone who would teach false doctrine. Paul said, you better beware of dogs. Like those dogs, these Judaizers were snapping at Paul's heel Everywhere he went, they followed him around and they would uproot people. They would teach them false doctrine. And Paul said, you have to beware of these guys. He also calls them evil workers. Again, because anyone who would teach a lie as the truth, that is evil. And you damn a lot of souls when you do that. Anyone who teaches lies about God and about salvation, they are evil, says the Apostle Paul. And then he says, Beware of the concision. Paul calls these men the false circumcision. Really, this is a play on words here. The word concision here, the word circumcision is terri tome. But the word that Paul uses here is catatome, which means mutilators. And what Paul is basically saying is these guys come around and they teach that you have to add this ritual to salvation And they're teaching you to submit to the ritual of circumcision. And what they are, is they're just mutilators of the flesh. That's all they are. They're not helping you in any way. And it's not true circumcision at all. And so you better beware of these mutilators of the flesh So use discernment. So here's number four. True believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. True believers exercise discernment. But here's number four. True believers exemplify purity. Look again in verse 3. For we are the circumcision. Now, what does Paul mean by that? We are the circumcision. You don't have to listen to these guys coming around telling you that you need to submit to this ritual. You know why? Because we are of the circumcision. We already have had this. And he, of course, is not speaking physically. He's speaking spiritually. Spiritually, you have already had this happen in your heart Because in the Old Testament, that ritual was a symbol that pointed to the purity of heart that God gives a person when they put their faith in Jesus Christ. You know what happens when you get saved? God purifies your heart. He purifies your heart. And you know what? You have new desires now. You have desires that you didn't have before. You have desires for righteousness. You have desires for holiness. And there's a pure heart on the inside. God has cleansed you from within. That's all this outward ritual really points to. In fact, let me just show you this. Look in Romans real quick. Look in Romans chapter 2. Just to show you what Paul said about this earlier. There's an overlap, and it's good to see this. Look in Romans chapter 2 and look at verse number 25. Notice what he says. Romans two twenty five For circumcision verily profiteth if thou keep the law. But if thou Be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made what? Uncircumcision. In other words, you know, those of you that are crying out about how important this ritual is, and by the way, in Jewish um teaching, this what it was meant to do was kind of evolved into something mystical or it became this saving ritual where Jews believed that if you were simply circumcised You were never going to go to hell. In fact, they had a a teaching that said, Abraham sits at the gates of hell to make sure that no circumcised Jew will ever enter there. They thought it was the way of salvation. And Paul was saying, no, it was simply a symbol of your commitment of heart, that God has purified your heart. And if you're a Jew and you have this ritual and you're not obeying the law, then it doesn't count for anything. Be like a believer who claims to know Jesus Christ. They come down the aisle, they make a profession of faith, they say they know Jesus, then they're baptized, and then they're not after that They're not obeying the Lord. What did that baptism count for? It's like one country preacher said our our church members are like alpha cells or Christians when they put they they di they disappear when you put 'em in water, you know. After baptism you don't see them anymore. What did that baptism count for? Nothing. It didn't save them. Baptism certainly doesn't save. It shows your commitment to Christ. But if you disobey, if you have a life of disobedience after that, it counts for nothing. And this is what Paul is saying about this ritual But look at verse number twenty-eight. Listen to look at this. For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outwardly in the flesh. Look at verse 29. But he is a Jew which is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the what? Of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. You know what? You're a true child of Abraham spiritually when God has circumcised your heart. Or to say it another way, he's purified your heart in salvation. You're one inwardly, and you're not trying to get the praise of men, you're living for the praise of God. That's a true believer A true believer, their life is not just about outward conformity to religious or religious pattern or religious standard, and that's all their life is. You know, I just check the boxes on my things that I do, you know. No, there's going to be a heart change. There's going to be a purity of heart. And that's what Paul means here. So he says, we are the circumcision. We're the true children of Abraham. Because God has done that work in our heart spiritually. We have already gone through this in our heart. You don't need that out ritual. You can't add that to the gospel. We already have this. Our hearts desire obedience. Our hearts desire to walk in purity. We have a circumcision made without hands. When we got saved, that's what a true believer is. A true believer is going to want to love God, want to serve God, want to obey God. They're going to wanna live a morally clean and pure life before God. And that doesn't mean that we don't Slip up and fall at times, but when we do, we confess that sin. We get back up. We start obeying God again. The pattern of our life is to pursue these things. That's a pure heart. And that's the thing you have to ask yourself. Do I have a pure heart before God? Has God purified my heart? Not am I outwardly conforming to religion? But has my heart truly been changed? True believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. True believers exercise discernment. True believers Exemplify purity, but number five, true believers enjoy worship. You say, I don't know that my heart's been changed. You'll enjoy worshiping God. Look again in verse 3, for we are the circumcision, which worship God in the what? In the Spirit. And again, this coincides with the previous point. In reference to worship, true believers worship God in spirit. They don't just merely go through rituals. Their heart overflows with joyful worship of God. The origin of worship is supernatural. You know why? Because it's generated by the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit that does it. That's why, you know, when you come to church, do you really worship? Do you simply go through some outward things? You know, sometimes if we're not careful. We can just go through the rituals, the outward motions, without having the heart in worship. And you know what God wants? The Bible says the Father seeks those who worship in spirit and in truth. You say, what does that mean? Well, in truth means we worship according to the Word of God, according to what the Bible says. People don't get the right to make up their own little worship liturgy. It's already been given to us in Scripture. And they don't get to worship the God that they make up. You know, a lot of people make their own God in their mind, the God that they want, and then they worship that God. That's not true worship. We worship the God who has revealed Himself clearly in Scripture. And we worship in the way that God tells us You say, why do we sing? Because the Bible tells us to do it. You say, why do you read Scripture and have everybody stand? Because the Bible tells us to do it. You say, why do you expound Scripture after that? Because the Bible tells us to do it The Bible tells us to pray, the Bible tells us to give, the Bible tells us to praise, it tells us to give testimony, it tells us to encourage one anot Third, that's all part of the public worship that we do. We do it according to the scripture We do it and we worship according to what how God has revealed Himself, that Jesus is Lord. He's God. He's the Son of God. We worship the triune God Not a God made up by some false religion. That's worshiping in truth. Now, but we also need to worship in spirit. What is that? That's the passion of worship. That's the heart. That's the affections. You know, if you're not careful, you can be all truth. And you can get cold and orthodox and dead in your worship. You need to have spirit and truth. There needs to be the affections. You know what? My I can't help but love. God more, or I'm reminded of the of to love God when I hear these songs that tell me who He is. A mighty fortress is our God. Those songs are designed to remind us of who God is. So that not only do I get the truth in my mind, but my heart, my emotions are stirred by knowing who he is. And so there's that spirit that comes in worship. I worship in Spirit, I worship in truth. And the heart overflows. And that's what Paul says. That's what true believers do. True believers enjoy worship. And then let me give you the number six: true believers exalt Christ. Look again in verse 3. For we are the circumcision which worship God in spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus. We rejoice in Jesus. He said, Well, now you already talked about rejoicing in verse 1. Yeah, but the word rejoice here is not the same word. Totally different Greek word. You know what the word is? It means to boast. Or to glory. You ever have people who like to boast? They'd like to boast maybe about their knowledge, their wisdom, or boast about their strength. Or boast about their money or whatever. Paul says, true believers, you know what they boast in? They boast in Christ. They glory in Christ. And I think Paul's basing this verse on Jeremiah 9 where it says, Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom or boast in his wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man boast or glory in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this, that he knows the Lord. And this is what Paul's talking about. You know, true believers, we glory in Christ. We boast in who Christ is. He's our all. It's like Paul said in Galatians 6. 14. God forbid that I should glory or boast. Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. I don't want to boast in anything except the cross false set. I want to glory in that. And really the word here, the Greek word It means so much more than boast or glory in. In fact, there's really no English word that you can use to compare with this one word that Paul's using here. It really has the idea of being obsessed. We're obsessed with Christ. We're obsessed with who He is. That's what it means here. And Paul is that way. Paul said, I've been crucified with Christ. Paul says we preach Christ crucified. Paul said, I determined that you know nothing except Jesus Christ and him crucified. He understood the power of the cross. He understood who Jesus was, so he was absolutely obsessed with And he boasted in Christ and he boasted in the cross. And that's what true believers do. They glory in Christ. Let me give you the last thing. True believers exhibit joy. True believers emphasize truth. They exercise discernment, exemplify purity, enjoy worship, exalt Christ. But here's the last thing. True believers eliminate legalism Look in verse, the end of verse 3. And rejoice in Christ Jesus, and watch this, and have no confidence in the flesh. And again, what Paul's referring to here. is what these false teachers are teaching that you have to you have to try very hard and use these rituals in order for God to accept you. You have to conform yourself to these lists of things. Do these outward rituals. They believe that salvation came by mixing the law with grace. Or mixing these standards. And they were cur encouraging self-reliance and self-effort. They were boasting in the flesh. You know, I would just say this. Beware of any system of sanctification that causes you to rely on the flesh. Any system of sanctification. By the way, I I've seen this in so-called Orthodox fundamental churches where your your whole system of sanctification is just a Conforming outwardly and trying hard to conform to this list of standards. And what you're doing is you're putting the flesh in the driver's seat. You're not crucifying the flesh. You're not mortifying the flesh. You're actually emboldening the flesh. And this is what these Judaizers are doing. Paul said, look, true believers, they have absolutely no confidence in the flesh. And y if you were here last week, we talked about this principle of sanctification where where we're we are to work out our salvation We are to do our part with spiritual disciplines, but that's not putting confidence in the flesh, because we also know, on the other hand, that it is God who works in you both the will and the do of his good pleasure. So we are fully dependent upon God while we at the same time are working out our salvation. But this is not what the Judaizers are teaching. They're saying you have to outwardly conform to this list of rituals and therefore it became something of just fleshly self-reliance on this system rather than allowing grace to continue to transform you from within. You know, grace is The way to life and the way of life for a Christian. And so Paul says a true believer places no confidence in the flesh, none whatsoever. The flesh needs to be crucified. The flesh needs to be put to death. And you know what? And you know what? That happens when you are in the Word of God, when you're in prayer, when you're truly worshiping God And that happens when you're here in church. When you come here to church and you're with God's people and you worship God in spirit and in truth, you know what's happening to your flesh? Your flesh is being crucified. That's why you need the strength of public worship. That's why you need to be together and hear God's word, because that is a sanctifying process in your whole spiritual life. And so these are the characteristics of true believers. They exhibit joy, they emphasize truth, they exercise discernment. They exemplify purity, enjoy worship, they exalt Christ, they eliminate legalism. And Paul's saying, you better beware, you better watch out. Don't be deceived. This is true salvation. This is true Christianity. Let's bow for prayer together today And while your heads are bowed, I would just ask you to do what the Apostle Paul tells us to do so many times. Prove yourself. Test yourself. To see that you're in the faith. Make sure. Ask yourself: are these things true of me? Has God purified my heart? Is my salvation just outward, a superficial conformity to standards of religion? Or has God worked in my heart deeply as a result of my repentance? Has he purified my heart? Has he forgiven me of my sin? Given me a new desire to love him and serve him and to pursue righteousness in my life. This is a desire that comes from God Has God done that in your heart? And friend, if you're not sure of that, just right where you are. Ask God to do that right now in your heart. Father, purify my heart. Cleanse me of my sin. I turn to Christ and Christ alone. I put my faith in what he has done for me on Calvary. I have absolutely no confidence in my flesh. No confidence in any of my works. My faith is in the risen Son of God, Christ in Christ alone. And I would ask those of you that you say, I know that I'm saved, I know that I put my faith in Christ, are you growing in Him? Are you exhibiting true joy? Discerning truth and error? Are you worshiping God truly in spirit and in truth? And are you boasting in Christ and Christ alone? Father, I pray that you'll help us as we apply these truths to our hearts. May none of us be deceived about our spiritual walk. May Lord you do a deep work in every heart and every life. For your glory's sake, we pray. Amen