Would you take God's word here this morning and open please to the book of Matthew, chapter 7? Matthew chapter 7. We're going to look at verses 21 down to verse 27 today. of Matthew chapter 7. Would you please stand for the reading of God's word this morning as I read these verses? Stand for the reading of God's word. Matthew 7 verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it. Thank you very much. You may be seated. May God bless us this morning. Bless His word to our hearts. Would you pray with me today? Father, what a privilege it is that we have the Word of God. This is your word to your church. Lord Jesus, this is your church. You're the head of your church. And when the word of God is correctly preached and taught, you speak to hearts. And Lord, I pray you'll do that today. Use your word. And Lord, let it have an impact on hearts and lives. And may you be honored and glorified in all this time. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. On Sunday morning, we've been doing a series on the parables of our Lord Jesus. The greatest teacher that ever lived was, of course, Jesus Christ. And he had a way of really teaching spiritual truth by giving earthly stories. In fact, parables, as one person defined them, are earthly stories which have heavenly meanings. And really we get the word parable from two Greek words, para, which is alongside. You know, we use the word paragraph writings alongside each other or para legal. That's a person who works alongside a lawyer. A para bole, and another part of that word is the Greek word bole, which means to cast down. So literally we could say a parable is where you cast something down alongside. And what Jesus does is he takes earthly, simple stories And he casts them down alongside spiritual truths so that we are able to comprehend spiritual principles and insight. And this is what Jesus does so excellently. In fact, no one does it better than the Lord Jesus Christ when he teaches incredible truth with parables. And here we are going to see a parable that Jesus gives here. I call this the parable of the wise and the foolish builders. But before Jesus gives us next parables, he's going to actually lay down the spiritual truth first. And the words that we read in the first few verses here of our text are the Truth that Jesus wants us to understand. Now, these verses that I read are the most tragic words in all of the Bible. They're the most haunting words in all of Scripture. To stand before the Lord one day to assume that you were a believer, only to hear the Lord say those words, depart from me, I never knew you. This is unspeakably horrible to think about that. For a person to think that they're going to heaven, that they are a believer, only to hear one day the Lord say, Depart from me. Ye workers of iniquity, you're going to hell, you're not going to heaven. May you never hear those words May people that we love and know, may they never hear those words. But how can someone be certain that they're not self-deceived? How can they be certain that they're truly saved? Now Jesus in this part of the chapter is actually closing out the greatest sermon ever preached, which is the Sermon on the Mount. This is coming, Jesus is coming to the end of the Sermon on the Mount And in that sermon, if you ever read it, you'll notice that Jesus gives a series of contrasts all throughout the sermon. He gives two talks about two different trees that bear two different kinds of fruits, which reveal two different kinds of character. He talks about two gates which lead to two roads, and these two roads are chosen by two different groups. And they go to two different destinations. There are many that travel the broad road that leads to destruction, Jesus said. There are few that travel the narrow road that leads to life everlasting. Now in this passage here, we're going to see again another contrast between two professions. One is true and one is false. And we see here in this passage, uh it is a person That is self-deceived. They truly believe that they were a Christian. They truly believe that they were saved. They, however, were self-deceived, and on the day of judgment, they're shocked to hear the horrifying words Depart from me, I never knew you. Now I want us to look into this passage and kind of work our way up to this simple parable that Jesus gives. But I want you to notice, first of all, the startling proclamation. Again, we see it in verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, O Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. Now, what is Jesus saying here, very simply, not everyone who thinks they're going to heaven really are. Not everyone who thinks that they're going to be there are going to be there. That's a sad reality. In fact, in the previous verses we learn that few will go through the narrow gate which leads to the narrow road that leads them on to eternal life. In fact, look back in Verse thirteen of of of Matthew chapter seven. Verse thirteen says, Enter ye in the straight gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many there be which go thereat Because straight is a gate and narrow is a way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. And so what is startling here, and by the way that that's not uh we understand the two roads, the two gates and all that. That's not really what is startling, but what's really startling here is that Jesus, when he talks about the the narrow road, And the broad road, he's talking about, he's not talking here about atheists or agnostics He's not talking about God haters when he makes this proclamation. Here he's talking about fastidious religious people. He's talking about people that that are church members, people that are church attenders, people that do various religious things, religious works We can understand that the broad road is filled with people who reject the gospel of Jesus Christ and who reject the Word of God We can understand that. We can understand those who mock God in the Bible. But what is startling here is that Jesus is talking about people who profess to know Christ. People who say they made Jesus Lord. And it's Jesus Himself is the one Who know the one who knows the beginning from the end, he is the one who knows those that are real and those that are false. And he's basically saying that not everyone who says Lord, Lord Not everyone who thinks they're going to heaven is actually going to go there. Preachers and pastors much smarter than I have made some of the statements that are very sobering. For example, Billy Graham said he believes that 85% of church members are lost. Well, A. W. Tozer raised it to ninety percent. John MacArthur said that the greatest mission field in America is the evangelical church. Now these are startling statements to make. And surely we might be thinking, well, those numbers, they gotta be exaggerated, 85%, 90%. Okay, let's just say that they're half right. Let's say that they're half right. Even if they're half right, they're still startling But even if you don't believe these men and their assessment of things, do you believe the words of our Lord Jesus who said that there are many that are on the broad road? There are few that are on the narrow road which leads to life everlasting. In Luke Chapter 13, Jesus was making his last journey through the Galilean towns and cities before he would go to the cross at Jerusalem. And uh uh his disciples were watching Jesus as he went from town to town and he was watching the response of people to the message that Jesus was giving. And they turned to Jesus and they asked this question, Lord Are there will there be few? Will there be few that will have eternal life? Will there be few? And Jesus said, you better strive to make sure That you have entered into the straight gate. Now, why did Jesus say that? Because is salvation works? No, it's not of works. We know that salvation is all of grace. It's all of God. And you have to be humble and broken before you can get in. And that's why it's so hard. You know why it's so hard? It's because the human heart, the depraved heart, is filled with pride. It's filled with religious pride. And the hardest thing to do is to take a good look at yourself and realize what you truly are before a holy God. We all like to give ourselves a lot of credit. We don't like to talk about ourselves being sinful before a holy God, but I want to tell you something, dear friend. You don't enter into the kingdom of God being proud of being a religious person. You enter into the kingdom of God, poor in spirit, broken over your sin. And the reason that it's so hard to get into the kingdom, the reason Jesus said strive, is because We like to uh we like to actually talk about ourselves in good ways, in religious ways. We like to think good of ourself And uh we don't like to confess our need and humble ourselves. That's why people aren't going to make it into the kingdom because they're not humble. They're not broken. They don't mourn over their sinfulness before God. So there's the startling proclamation. Not everyone who says to me, then the stunned prospects On that day, notice where it says in verse 22, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Jesus said, you know, on that day They'll say Lord, Lord. Many people are genuinely stunned to hear these words. They're totally shocked. And on that day they're going to be totally shocked. There's going to be many people that are so self-deceived that they're going to hear those words. Now you might be thinking, is it possible that we can actually deceive ourselves to that extent? To think that we're truly in the kingdom of God when actually we're not. Well, listen to what John said in 1 John 1. 8. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. It's possible for us to deceive ourselves about where we are standing? Yes, of course it is. In fact, we do that all the time. The Bible says the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? You know what that word deceitful in the Hebrew is? It's the proper name, Jacob. We can read it like this in the Hebrew. The heart is Jacob. Now, what did Jacob do in the Old Testament? He lied to his father, right? He told his father he was Esau. He got fur, skins of fur, covered his arms because Esau was a hairy man. Lied to his father about who he was. And the Bible says your heart, now you might say, oh Jacob, what a weak, wicked person is. Well, you're Jacob. I'm Jacob. You know why? Because the Bible says the heart is Jacob. Your heart will lie to you. That's why sometimes I'll tell people I'll show them what the Word of God says, and they'll say, Well, I know my heart. No, the Bible says you don't know your heart. That's the problem. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Well, God can know it, and God can reveal it to you if you'll allow him to. So it's to be self-deceived is possible because we love to flatter ourselves about where we are. Jonathan Edwards, the great preacher who preached the sermon Sinners in the hands of an angry God, he's known for that, but he also preached a sermon one time called The Self Vain Flatteries of the Sinner. And the whole theme of that sermon is how the sinner loves to flatter himself about where he is spiritually. You say, how can a person be so self-deceived? Well, it could be because you responded to a weak gospel, a gospel that basically did not call you to repent and mourn over your sin. We have churches that preach weak gospels all over the place that are designed just to pat you on the back and make you feel good about who you are and just say that if you follow God you can have all of the American dream. And that is not the gospel, dear friend The gospel is not about how much things God can load you up with or how happy God can make you. The gospel is about you having the opportunity to have mercy because of your sinfulness, because of what Jesus did on the cross. Coming to a holy God broken over your sin. But there's a weak gospel, shallow gospel, that emotionalizes the approach to salvation, and most people don't realize that they're sinners. They want all the good things about you know, American Christianity, but they don't want to confess their sinfulness. And then Some are given a false assurance. You know, oh just sign this card, just make this decision. And remember on this day, time and place, if you're ever doubt, just remember this time when you prayed this prayer. And by the way, if you know the time and place when you truly repented and trusted Christ, that's wonderful. But that's not a biblical assurance of salvation. Because there's a lot of people that can write down a date, a time, and a place, and their life reveals that they truly don't know Jesus Christ. That's not A evidence of salvation. And some people are self-deceived because they are I lead a moral life They they carry their morality as a badge of their spirituality, you know. I might do a bad thing every now and then. I might cheat on the spouse every now and then. I might Do these things, but I get over it and I ask God to forgive me. And I'm basically a good father. I take my children to practice and I do all these moral things. And surely God wouldn't send someone like me to hell And so they use morality as uh an assurance. And some think that because of their material prosperity, that's a sign that God is pleased with them. But the Bible says in Psalm 92, verses 6 and 7, God often gives earthly treasures to those who he intends to punish in hell. In other words, this is your heaven, so enjoy it. Because after this, you don't get heaven, you get hell So you better enjoy what you have right now. And God will allow you to enjoy all of these temporal, earthly things. And because in his mercy and common grace he loads you up with these benefits and gives you earthly material things. That is no Commentary on your spiritual position before Almighty God. That says nothing about your salvation at all Or they rely on religious activity, look at all that I do. And they never really examine themselves before the Lord, according to Scripture. Peter said, give all diligence. To make your calling and election, sure. You better diligently examine yourself. Paul said to the Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 13, 5, examine yourselves to see whether you're in the faith. And this is after Paul spent years with the Corinthians and he wrote them actually four letters, two we have recorded in Scripture, inspired Scripture Two other letters to the Corinthians we don't have. They're not obviously inspired scripture. But after all that time and all the writing, the two letters that Paul gave them at the end of that, Paul says to the Corinthians, these people that he had ministered to for so long You better examine yourself. You better make sure that you're in the faith. You would think that after they were under Paul all that time, that wouldn't be necessary, but oh no. Paul said, no, you need to go back to the very beginning. You need to examine yourself. You need to make sure that you're really in the faith. In fact, every time you come to the Lord's table, Paul said in 1 Corinthians 11, examine yourself. Every time you come to the Lord's table, you should examine your own heart before God to make sure that you're trusting fully in Christ and Christ alone, Christ and nothing else. Not your religious works, not any of your moralism, none of those things like that. But you're you realize your brokenness and sinfulness before God, and you've turned from sin and you've turned to Christ, and your faith is in the finished work of Christ and Christ alone. Every time you come to the Lord's table, you should do a spiritual self-examination before the Lord. And so these people are shocked when they hear these words from Jesus. They're shocked because of the day. The Bible says, on that day, what day is that? That's the day of judgment. They're shocked that they're standing before the Lord at the great white throne judgment for sinners rather than the judgment seat of Christ, which is for servants of God They're shocked because of the population. Many will say. The word many, that's a that's a large number. And the word say here is not homologo to confess, but which means to propose, to persuade. On that day they're going to try to persuade the Lord. I was genuine, I was real. And Jesus will say, I never knew you. They're shocked because of the profession. They said Lord, Lord, they actually use the right words. The only problem is that even though they're Their words were ortho orthodox, their heart was not truly confessing Christ. They're shocked because of the prophesying. We prophesied in your name. That is, we we spoke in your name. We did all these things in your name. But there's a lot of people out there doing things in the name of Christ, and they're not doing them for Christ, they're doing them for themselves, not for Christ. And they'll say they're shocked because of the power. We cast out demons. We've done many wonderful works. But may I tell you that supposed supernatural works or miracles are no assurance that something is from God because Satan is a counterfeit and he's able to counterfeit God's works. Then the shocking pronouncement, and I will declare to them, I never knew you. Jesus will declare this. Now, when he says, I never knew you, this is not he didn't know them at all, because God knows everything, right? But he didn't know them in a saving way. He didn't know them in a salvific way. He knows all of us. In fact, the very hairs of your head are numbered. He knows everything about you. He knows your thoughts before you even think those thoughts But when it comes to that day, he'll say, I never knew you, in the sense that I did not know you in salvation. You were not one of mine. And then comes the solemn punishment. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. These are the worst words that a person can ever hear from Christ. You know what Christ says today to all sinners? Come unto me. Come unto me. He said, I'm a sinful person. I've got good news to you. Jesus says, come to me Come to me because he's a merciful Savior. He's a gracious Savior. And if you come to Him, He will forgive you for your sins And then he says to his children, Learn of me. If you're a child of God, we've already come to him. Now learn of him. But to those that are self-deceived, he will say, One day to them, depart from me. Depart from me. I pray again that no one will ever hear those words. Because the only way you can spend eternity apart from Christ is in a place called hell. And the Bible speaks of it, an unquenchable place of unquenchable fire, a place of memory and remorse, a place of misery, a place of endless separation, a place of God's wrath. Now, with all that, we lead up to the parable. You say, how can we be assured ourselves that we will never hear those words spoken to us by the Lord Jesus? How can we be sure that we'll not hear those words? A simple parable. And this is where Jesus gets into the parable. And by the way, before we get into this, can let me just say that. The whole contrast in this passage is between saying and doing. Did you notice that? Verse 22, many will say, many will say. That's the operative word. Salvation doesn't come to those who only profess it, who only speak it. But look in verse 21 back up. Where Jesus said this, not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that does or doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. The word does present tense imperative. That's a continual way of life. That's a commitment of life. The contrast is between saying and doing A person who has truly put their faith in Christ for salvation. And by the way, salvation is all of grace, not by works. The only works we trust in are the works of Jesus Christ. But the evidence of true salvation is not what you say, it's what you do after you've placed your full faith in Christ. So the contrast is between saying and doing. Those who do, Jesus says, look, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, but he who continually, as a pattern of life, does the will of God. And that is the life of a believer. And so Jesus uses this contrast between saying and doing. As we go into this next parable, look at verse 24. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them. I would liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock, and the flo and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon the house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. I want us to, first of all, think about the similarities in this parable. They're both building in the same place. You say, how do you know that? Well, because At the same place that they got a storm. The storm came upon both of these houses. So these houses are being built in the same place. I kind of picture these guys as next door neighbors. They dwell together. By the way, did you know that Jesus taught in his parables that true believers will dwell side by side with false believers? The weaks and the tares, they'll grow together. They'll grow in the same field. Here are two houses in the same street, perhaps next to each other. Here they both built a house. Here are these two builders. And they both want to build a house, I think they actually look the same. They probably use the same pattern or blueprint. These were track houses. Same blueprint, you know, same floor plan And the materials were not any different? Nothing's really said about that. They used the same materials, same blueprint, on the same street. The only difference between these two houses is the foundation. One foundation is built on a rock, the other is built on sand. When the Bible uses the word rock, it's tetra. Rock bed. It's not petras, which is one big boulder, but petra, which is solid rock bed. This is an unmovable, unshakeable foundation stone. And this house is built on a petra, on the rock. It cannot be moved. The other is built on the sand, which is the Greek word amon. Or Ammon, which by the way is the capital city of Jordan, Amon Jordan. Aptly named that because it's one big sandpile. And so here's a foundation that is built, a house that's built on the foundation of sand. Movable sand. It's always foolish to build on sand because when a storm comes, sand washes away So what does it mean to build on sand? No, that's no foundation. What does it mean? Well, the one who is building on the sand, by the way. They both hear the same things. They both hear the message of Jesus. They both hear the Word of God. Uh in this audience here today, you're all hearing the same sermon. But undoubtedly there are some people here that are building on a rock and others are building on a sand. You say, what's the difference? How do we know? How do we know? Well, look in verse 24. Jesus says, Therefore, whoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them. I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house on the rock. Here's a person who hears what Jesus says, and he doesn't just simply hear and then let it wash you off of them and leave. He will obey what Jesus says. In fact, that is the heart of a true child of God. A true child of God will hear the word of God and not just forget it. There'll be people that you'll hear these sermons hour later, two hours later, you'll forget what I said this morning And you know it'll it'll have no impact on you. Not because I'm the preacher, because I'm a nobody, I'm a nothing. I I I still can't figure out why God lets me do this It's all the grace of God. But it's the words of Christ. That's where the power is. It's the words of Christ. And when we take the words of Christ and we take them to heart, we don't just hear them. But we say, Lord, by your grace, I want to do this. I want to live a life of obedience. It is that desire for obedience, it's living a life of obedience that manifests true salvation And I'm not talking again about a perfect obedience because we're all going to make our share of mistakes. We're all going to sin. I don't know about you, but I battle sin every day of my life. I'm running from it. Whereas before I was saved, I was running into it. Now, as a believer, I'm running from it. And every once in a while I may get tripped up and fall, but thank God for his mercy and grace. That when we come and we confess, He forgives us and we move on. We don't use grace as a license to go out and do whatever we want, say, oh, I'm a believer, God forgives me. That's not the attitude of a true child of God. A true child of God, when we fail, when we sin before God, we mourn over that sin. And we say, God, help me to get over this. Help me to never do this again. And give me your grace and help me to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. I want to live a life that's pleasing in your sight. I want to think thoughts that are pleasing in your sight. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. You want to live that life before the Lord. So here's a person, however, who hears the words. He does what Jesus says. And if you're just a hearer and not a doer, then the Bible says you're deceiving yourself. James 1 21 or 22. But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. Why? Deceiving your own selves. You can call Jesus Lord all you want to, but if you don't obey his words, if there's no effort in your life to obey what Jesus says, you don't have it. Now this is not Jerry Harmon talking here because again I'm a nobody. I'm telling you what the Word of God says, what Jesus says. You hear the sayings of mine and you do them. Remember that Jesus, when he gives this parable, he's giving it to religious people who were self-deceived, who all thought that they were Going into the kingdom. These were the Pharisees filled with their religious works, but they just they didn't really know the Lord. And then notice the contrast. Look in verse number 26. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not. shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. What was this storm? What does this storm represent here in this terrible judgment? The storm of judgment that will one day come. I've heard this passage mispreached so many times by preachers where they say, oh, this is this represents two kinds of Christians. You know, we even make songs about it, you know, but it's a misinterpretation. This is he's not talking here about two different kinds of Christians The one who obeys and builds on the rock, and one who disobeys and builds on the sand, and when the storms and the trials come in life, Oh, you're not going to be able to get make it through the trials as a Christian because you uh were not obeying. That's not what this is talking about. The storm here does not represent trials. The storm represents a judgment. When the judgment comes, one, and this is all in the context. Jesus just talked about this Standing before Him. When the storm of judgment comes, you'll be able to stand if you're building on the rock. If your life has manifested a life of obedience to Christ Again, I'm not talking about perfection. I'm talking about direction. A heart that says, I want to obey the words of Jesus. Not to gain salvation, but because I already am saved. But because of what Christ has done for me, and I'm living out of gratitude for the grace of God, I give all of myself to Christ and try to live obedient to Him. Because of what he's done for me. If that's your life, then the Bible says in the storm of judgment you'll be able to stand. But if you profess to be a believer and you are not living a life of obedience You may even use the right vocabulary, say the right words. You might even do some religious works every now and then to justify yourself, to make yourself feel good and religious. But there's been no real true repentance and a heartfelt desire to do the will of God, to obey Christ. You're building on the sand. And one day when the storm comes, the house is going to fall. And great will be the fall of it, the Bible says. Before John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, before he came to Christ, he was a better Christian than most believers as far as outward behavior is concerned. He graduated from Oxford University. And during his days at Oxford, he joined a club there that they had called the Holy Club. And the students in this club. They went to church, they studied their Bibles, they fasted, they prayed, they went into the prisons and the workhouses doing evangelism. They provided food and clothing for the poor. Wesley did all of this. He attended all the Sunday services. He had an exemplary moral life. He even spent years in America being a missionary to the Indians. Back then it was a British colony there in Georgia. Yet upon returning to England, he confessed in his journal, he said this, I went to America to convert others, but was never myself converted. Later, when he was talking thinking about his pre-conversion condition, he said, I had even then the faith of a servant, but I didn't have that of a son. He was living all his days to present a life that was pleasing to God, trying to earn God's favor and acceptance. Thinking that God would accept that. But he knew that there was something missing. It wasn't until he was asked to go to a Bible study at a place called the uh Alders Gate. uh chapel. He he kind of went reluctantly and they were doing a study in the book of Romans and he says that when they were talking about putting faith in Christ, Total faith in what Jesus did, the just shall live by faith, faith in the finished work of Christ. Not trying to earn God's favor with your works. Becoming broken over your sin, confessing Christ, putting faith in Christ. He said one evening that he claimed that I felt my heart strangely warmed. And he thought I did trust in Christ, in Christ alone, for salvation. And he says, and an assurance was given to me that he had taken away my sins and that he had saved me from the law of sin and death. And he knew from that point on that he was a child of God because of his faith in the finished work of Christ. Not his works, but the works of Christ. And he so therefore he no longer had the faith of a servant. He had now a faith of a son, a child of God. But you know what? His works, they didn't slow down, they actually picked up. Because now he was working and serving out of a new motivation. He wasn't doing it to be accepted by God. He was doing it out of gratitude. That God had saved him by his grace. And that he knew that he had the assurance that he was a child of God. And when you have that and you know that, you can't help but have a heart of gratitude to God. And you're going to want to serve Him. You're going to want to be faithful to him. You're going to want to obey him. Even when it's quote-unquote hard. It's remarkable to me how weak American Christianity is when things get hard, people just drop like flies. And go, AWOL. Makes me wonder whether they knew the Lord to begin with. You understand all that Jesus went through for you on the cross? Do we understand that? And when the going gets tough, people just drop out. That tells me that you didn't really understand what picking up the cross and following Christ meant to begin with. He doesn't promise an easy life. He promises eternal life to those who repent. And then you pick up your cross and you follow Christ. And if he has you to go through difficulty and hardship, if you have to pay a price for following Jesus, so be it. So be it. It's worth it. He's worth it. We're not again, we're not working for our salvation. We're working because we are. Products of God's incredible grace, his unspeakable grace, which should motivate us all. So the question is: which one are you? Are you building on the rock? Are you building on sand? Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, would you just please do a little self-examination right now in your own heart Ask God to rip away the veil of any self-deception that may be there. Recognize that the heart indeed is deceitful above all things, and who can know it? God can know it. And God can reveal it to you. One of the greatest gifts that God could ever give is for a person to get a true understanding of where they are and their standing before Him. So that they can do business. We're so accustomed to flattering ourselves. With regard to our religious standing. But how many come and say, Lord, it's me. It's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. Save me. I don't want to be self-deceived. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. And friend, can you say that? And know that. Because that's what I want for you with all my heart. I don't want anyone here to ever hear those words depart from me. I never knew you. May we never hear that. May we hear the words, Well done, good and faithful servant. And if there's any doubt, would you settle it right now? You know, our God is so gracious and kind. And when we come to him, he'll take us just as we are. But we have to come humble, mourning over our sinful self, praying for his forgiveness, his mercy. Father, please take these words, plant them deeply in the hearts of these that are here. Let there be no self-deception. Lord, may we be characterized by building on the rock all of our days Seeking to do your will. Not perfectly, Lord, because we still struggle with sin, but our direction has changed Our heart desires have changed. We may be overtaken by our own sinfulness at times, but Lord, in our heart of hearts, because of your grace, because you saved us We want to follow you, we want to do your will, we want to obey you. And please help us. Please help us. That grace that saved us Lord, would that same grace strengthen us to live lives that are obedient to our Master, our Lord. And we pray in His wonderful name. Amen.