The question this morning that our text forces us to address is this: What is your relationship to sin? It's an important question. Because your relationship to sin is an indicator of your relationship to God. In fact, let me just give you the sermon in one sentence. But you still have to stay here another few minutes to listen to the rest of it, all right? Really, John's main idea here is a person's relationship to sin reveals whether they are a child of God. The devil or a child of God. That's his whole point in these verses, these ten verses. You're either a child of God or you're a child of the devil. There's no middle ground Again, we see John is very either or in his writing. Remember that? I mean John says, look, you either walk in light or you walk in darkness. You can't do each or both at the same time. You're either sensitive to sin and you confess your sin in chapter 1 he said that, or you say that you have no sin. You either love the world or you love God. John said that. You either know him and keep his word or you don't know him. Now he gives us another either or here. You're either a child of the devil or you're a child of God, one or the other. Look at verse 10. And this is the children of God are manifest. And the children of the devil. How do we know which one is which? Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. In other words, your life manifests whether you are a child of God or a child of the devil. More specifically, we can say that your relationship to sin manifests whether you are a child of the devil. or a child of God. And in verse 10, John is just simply saying, look, if you're not living a righteous life, if there's not a practical righteousness in your life where you're pursuing obedience, Where you're trying to do what is right before God, if that's not the pattern of your life, then you're not of God. A true child of God will have an increasing pattern of righteousness. Now, what about sin? Well, how does a person's relationship to sin manifest whether they're a child of God or a child of the devil? And John answers this question. Look in verse number six. Start at verse six: Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. And whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him. Look at verse 7. Little children, let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil Drop down to verse 9. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. because he is born of God. Now there are two critical statements. In verse 6, John says that sin in a Christian's life is incompatible. And in verse, he seems to be saying in verse 9 that sin in the Christian's life is impossible. But you say, now, wait a minute. How can that be? This seems like an emp an apparent contradiction. In fact, verse nine has startled many people when they come to this and they read this verse and they say in verse nine that uh who is whoever is born of God doth not commit Sin. How can that be? How can John possibly say a Christian doesn't sin? I know a lot of Christians, and they sin. In fact, I'm a Christian and I sin. And really verse 9, it looks like it apparently contradicts 1 John 1, 8 through 10, because remember what John said there? If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. How can we confess sins if we don't sin? And in chapter 2, John says, My little children, I write unto you these things that you sin not Why do you need to write about not sinning if it's impossible for a Christian to sin? So what's the answer to this apparent dilemma? When we come to verse 9. There's been a lot of different explanations on how you see this. Let me give a few of them to you that I've read. First of all, someone says this refers to mortal sins It's not talking about venal sins, it's talking about mortal sins. A true Christian doesn't commit mortal sins because it would cause them to lose their soul. Of course, this is Catholic theology This is not in the Bible anywhere. And so this is not true. There's no basis in the scripture for this dichotomy of mortal versus venal sins. And so that's not right. Another person says, well, this refers to God overlooking sin. When it says, whosoever is born of God does not commit sin, it just means that God overlooks our sin. Really? You think God overlooks sin? No. The Bible tells us that the Lord will chasten his children. That's not overlooking sin. In 1 Corinthians 11, it teaches that certain Christians died because of their sin. Ananias and Sapphira died because of their sin. God doesn't overlook sin, so we can't be that. Then there's another interpretation that says, well, this refers to the new nature. When John says that they cannot sin, it's referring to the new nature inside of the believer. That new nature can't Sin. And this is an argument that comes really from Romans 7, where the Apostle Paul said, is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. And so some interpret this to mean that Christians don't sin in the new nature. But the problem with that is I think that this relieves responsibility. We could say, well, it wasn't me that did it, it was my old nature that did it I'm not responsible for what I did. That's the old me. It's not the new me. I don't think that's the answer here And then there's another interpretation that says, well, this refers to the ideal. John is saying ideally Christians don't commit sin, and we get to the point, some say, that we sin, we we don't sin anymore. That we can reach sinless perfection. Well, uh let me just tell you this that uh first of all I don't know any Christian that's reached that state. If you think you have, you haven't And if you think you have, we just asked your spouse and see what they say. None of us have reached that state. The Apostle Paul certainly didn't. And if he didn't, we didn't. But also in the Greek the the mood here is not an optative mood which is expressing a wish. Oh I wish it were possible that we could not commit sin. That's not the mood here. It's indicative, which is a fact. And so that doesn't match. this passage. And some say, well, this refers to deliberate sin. A Christian doesn't do sin, he suffers it. Well I found that whenever I sin, I'm usually involved in it Let me give you what I think is the right interpretation of this. This is referring to habitual sin, a practice, a lifestyle, a sin. Say why do you say that? Well you've heard me say here before that a lot of times when you're looking at verbs in the Greek, they really carry the weight of the passage, so to speak. So a lot of times When I study a passage, I'll look at the verb tense, because in Greek, the tense of the verb is not really talking about the time of action, it's talking about the type of action. And the tense here is present tense. Remember what I told you about present tense? Said it several times, that it's continual action. It reflects a pattern. It reflects a lifestyle. Whenever a writer wanted to talk about something that happened over and over and over, a pattern or a lifestyle, they would normally use present tense. And so really we can say it like this whoever abides in him does not continue Continually, habitually practice sin. Or live a lifestyle of sin. We could say verse 9 like this. Whoever is born of God does not practice Sin. In other words, it's not who they are. It's not their continual lifestyle. A true believer will sin, will fall into sin, but it won't be an unbroken pattern. What will a true believer do? They'll confess that sin. God will convict them, they'll feel the weight of that sin, they'll feel the guilt of it, and then they'll confess it to God, and they'll turn from it, and then they'll continue on in their Christian life. struggle and fall with it again. But here's the here's the issue. With a true believer, there's a struggle. They're not running into sin, they're running from it. It's not perfection, it's direction. Now that I'm a Christian, I'm running from sin, and every once in a while I might fall, but I'll get up, I'll confess it, and I will go on for God however, if there's no struggle. And if someone just lives in a pattern of sin, what does it reveal that they're not born of God? That's what you John's saying here. This is the difference between a child of the devil and a child of God. A child of the devil will leap into sin and love it. A child of God will lapse into sin and he will loathe. He will hate it. And so he's running from sin. You see, the pattern of a true believer is habitual righteousness. That's the pattern of our life if you know the Lord. You're seeking to obey the word, you're seeking to do what's right in God's eyes, you're seeking to please him, and every once in a while you'll slip, you'll fall, but you confess it and you get up and you go on That's the pattern of a believer. The pattern of someone who's not saved is sin. Oh, every once in a while they might do something righteous. They might consider righteous, but the pattern of their life is to commit sin, an unbroken pattern of sin. That's the difference. And so what we're going to see here are four reasons why children of God do not practice Sin. They practice righteousness. They don't practice sin. And again, what we're seeing here in these ten verses are John just giving these arguments. That a true believer doesn't practice sin in their life. Why? Well, let me give you the first reason. Our realization of God's love. Verses 1 through 3. Look at verse 1. Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. And when you look at verse 1, you get the impression that John is overwhelmed by God's love. He's amazed by it. In fact, he uses the word behold Which is kind of a an attention getter there. It's the idea of reflect upon this, think about this. We don't think about God's love enough. Then he says, what manner? The word here is very interesting. It means of what country What it's it's almost out of this world. It's alien. John Scott captures the original sense when he says, the Father's love is so unearthly, so foreign to this world, that John wonders, where is it from? What kind of love? It's incredible love. We've never seen anything like this. It's astonishing. It's amazing. The fact that God loves you and me so should create wonder in us. We should never get over it. That was the idea here. Reminds me of the Indian on the desert. He was sending up smoke signals to his squa, the one he loved, his his future bride. And he was on a hill and he wanted to send her love signals through this little smoke, you know. He'd put his blanket over the fire and send up a puff of smoke. He'd send up a puff here and a puff there. That's back when they were testing the atomic bomb All of a sudden he saw a mushroom crowd on the horizon, this gigantic cloud just come up, and he said, Man, I wish I'd said that We're talking about God's love, we're talking about something that we really we have no words to describe. This incredible Love. You know why a believer doesn't practice sin? Because they're overwhelmed by God's love. It's an abundant love, hath given unto us It's an adopting love that we should be called the sons of God. Listen, not only did God justify us when we got saved, he declared us uh uh uh righteous, we're not guilty, but even more than that, he declared us his children. Isn't that incredible? When you were saved, God adopted you into his family. Now you are his child. An adopting love. That's amazing. It's an alienating love because the world doesn't understand it. Therefore, the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. The world doesn't understand us They don't understand how we react to God because we've been so loved by Him, therefore they may persecute us, John says. But it's also an anticipating love. Look at verse two. Beloved, now are we the sons of God and doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him. You know what kind of love this is? It's the kind of love that when God saved us, he determined that he was not going to stop working on us until we become perfect. Just like Jesus. When will that happen? When Jesus appears. When he appears, the Bible says we shall be like him. You realize we're all going to have a brand new glorified body? No more pain, no more death. The sorrows of this life we will forget. Paul said, I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory. That shall be revealed. We have a future glory that is so wonderful. And it's all because of God's love here. And what does this love cause us to do? Look at verse 3. And every man that has this hope in him does what? Purifies himself, even as he is pure. This love that adopts us, this unearthly, incredible love that brings us into the family of God, that conforms us and will complete us, will motivate us to live a pure life. This hope that Jesus will come and finish what he started causes us to purify us. ourselves, even as he is pure. That's the idea there. I remember when I went to college, we had what was called white glove inspections in the dormitories. That is, they would come in. We don't know when they were going to come, but every once in a while they would come in with a white glove and they would literally just you know put their finger on the bookshelves. Any dust you get demerits We never knew when they were coming, so we always had to keep our rooms clean. Parents, I challenge you to try that with your children. Probably won't work. But you know the idea. We didn't know when they were coming, but we wanted to be ready. And that's the idea here. Because of the love of God, we know He's going to come back and complete what He started. We're going to want to live a pure life. And so it's our realization of God's love. Well, let me give you the second reason: our reverence for God's law. Look at verse 4. Whosoever committed sin transgresses also the law, for sin is a transgression of God The word transgression there is a nomia being no law. And what he's talking about is someone who uh lives as if there is no law It's not someone who uh accepts God's law and occasionally might break it, but someone who lives as if there is no law. In other words, they live as if they can do whatever they want to. Every once in a while someone will say, Well, I'm saved, I can live however I want. That's not the attitude of a true church. You're not gonna live lawless because you have a respect for the law of God. And so, what's the law mean to us as believers? Martin Luther used to compare the law to a stick. Before salvation, it was a rod that would beat us down. Why? Because we couldn't live up to it And that law reminded us how sinful we were, and it would beat us over the head, and it would weigh us down. And finally it would beat us unto the gospel, where we realize that without the gospel, without Jesus, we have no hope And then we get saved. You know what that stick turns into? It turns into a staff, where now it helps us to walk. It guides us in the way. True people of God don't live as if there is no law, they love God's law. They love God's commandments, like the psalmist said in Psalm 119, blessed are the undefiled who walk in the law of the Lord. He said in verse 44, so shall I keep thy law continually forever and ever. He said, I delight in thy law. He said, I hate vain thoughts, but thy law do I love When we get saved, God writes his law into our hearts, and we love it, and we allow the law to be a stick that helps us to live in a way that is pleasing to the Lord. That's why a true child of God can't continue in sin. Let me give you number three Because of our realization of God's love, our reverence of God's law. But here's number three: our relationship to God's Son. We can't continue practicing sin because of our relationship to Jesus, look in verse 5. And you know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is no sin And whosoever abideth in him sinneth not, and whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him. To continue in sin is to be inconsistent with Christ's work, because he came to take away sin. And if a Christian continues to live in sin, that would make the death of Christ pointless. And so in these verses, John points to the primary reasons for that. The incarnation. Why did Jesus come into this world to remove sin? To unite, to be one with believers, to destroy the works of Satan. Look at verse 5 where it says, He came to take away sin. The actual word there means lifting up. It comes from the Old Testament, because in the Old Testament, when a person brought their burnt offering to the altar, the priest would take it and he would lift it up. Is under the Lord and say, God, put all of your wrath on this. All of the sins of this person are on this animal. Let your wrath fall on this animal instead of the person. That's what happened at the cross. Jesus was lifted up. All of our sins were placed on Jesus. All of God's wrath fell on Jesus And he took away sin with his death on the cross. But also, look at verse 6. And whosoever abideth in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth has not seen him, neither knows him. And what he's talking about here when he says abiding, this is just another term of salvation. Who are believers? Believers are those who abide in Christ In other words, we are one with Christ. Did you know that you have a oneness with Jesus when you got saved? I've talked about this before, maybe not on Sunday morning, but on Sunday night, and we're teaching There are three mystical unions in the Bible. One is the Trinity. There's a oneness in the Trinity that's hard for us to understand And there's a union between the natures of Christ, the human nature, and the divine nature. They're one together in one person. And there's it's really mystical in the sense that we can't really fathom it or wrap our minds around it. But did you know that you are also one with Jesus? When you got saved, you're one with Christ. And that oneness that you have with Christ is incredible. It's mystical in that we can't fully comprehend it. But just know this that when Jesus was on the cross, you were there with him. And when he died, you died. And when he was buried, you were buried. And when he rose, you rose. And now he's seated in heaven, and that's where you are too. You say, wait a minute, I'm seated here. I know, but in the mind of God, you're seated in heaven. You're one with Christ. You abide in him. That's why it's impossible for a Christian to continue present tense abiding in sin because you can't abide in sin and abide in Christ at the same time. We would say it like this: whoever habitually, continuously abides in him does not habitually and continuously abide in sin because you're one with Jesus. You're one with Christ. The two just do not go together. And the Apostle Paul uses this argument in many places in the New Testament to say this is why a Christian can't continue in sin. In Romans 5, he said, or Romans 6 he said, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And then what does it say after that? God forbid How shall we that are dead to sin? And then he goes on to talk about our union with Christ. That when he died we were with him, and when he was buried we were with him, and when he rose we were with them. We are so united to Christ that whatever we do, we bring Christ with us. us into it. That's why a believer can't continue in sin. But also that Jesus came to destroy the works of the devil. Look at verse 8. He that committed sin is of the devil, for the devil sinned from the beginning. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy, that is, render ineffective the works of the devil. And a lot of that work is To sin or to get you to sin. It's impossible for a true believer to continue to live in sin. Because of our relationship to God's Son. Let me give you the last reason. Our realization of God's love, our reverence for God's law Our relationship to God's son, but here's number four, our regeneration by God's Spirit. Look at verse number nine. Whosoever is born of God doth not continue in sin, we could say, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. Because he is born of God. He cannot continue in sin. He cannot practice sin because he is born of God. And his seed remains in him. And here he's talking about the ministry of the Holy Spirit. This is our supernatural birth, that special work of the Holy Spirit. That only the Holy Spirit can do when you are saved. He regenerates you. He makes you brand new. The Bible says if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. That's the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit of God. And the Bible here in this passage uses the metaphor of a seed. God puts his seed in us. It's salvation. God plants his seed in us. By the way, this is also a present tense verb. The seed continues to abide in us. It remains in him and he cannot sin. You see, and so the idea here is that God put his seed of righteousness in us when we were born again. And by the way, what happens when you plant a seed? Does it stay a seed? No, it it it It grows. It grows and grows into a fruit. And this is the idea of what he's talking about. I remember when we were growing up over here in Yale Heights in our backyard, my father planted a Grapevine. Just a little grapevine. And you know what? Year after year it got bigger. Got bigger. You know, one year I'd look out, it was crawling along the fence. Another year it was spread out all over the yard. And pretty soon that grapevine dominated the whole backyard. You can see very little of the other plants because that thing was just spreading all over. That's the idea here. When you got saved, God planted his seed of righteousness. Righteousness in your life. And the more you walk with the Lord and you're into the Word of God, what happens? That righteousness is spreading, and each year that goes by, there's more righteousness, there's a greater pattern of righteousness Righteousness and years and years as you're serving the Lord, there's more and more until finally you see very little of the old person. And that righteousness that is in you just keeps spreading. And so again I say that the mark of a true child of God is this pattern of righteousness that just keeps getting bigger. And bigger, and sin gets smaller and smaller. That's all sanctification. about here. God put his seed. It stays in us. This righteousness is in us. It continues in us. Because we're born of God. And we cannot remain living in sin because of this seed of righteousness that was planted in us. Look at verse 10. ten. And so again he says, in this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his Brother. So the question is: am I a child of the devil? Or am I a child of God? How do I know that? It's all determined by your, it's indicated by your relationship to sin. And a true believer doesn't continue to practice and live in sin because of our realization of God's love. our reverence for God's law, our relationship to God's Son, our regeneration by God's Spirit. And that's the message that John gives us here. in this passage. And let me just close with this. In the 1940s, the King of England received a fancy copy of the London newspaper called The Daily Mail. Every day he received the first copy of it on special paper. Why was that? Well, the editor of the Daily Mail wanted to make his paper perfect with no errors And he did everything he could to try to make his paper without errors. But all these people writing articles and all these editorials and such, errors would creep its way into it, and he threatened the employees and he offered bonuses, he offered prizes, nothing worked. Until finally he said this, the first copy of this paper will be given to the king on special paper. And he will be the first one to see it And if you have an arrow on that, he will see it. And you know what? All the mistakes gradually started to go away. Why? Because they were writing now for the king. It was for the king. King. You see, friend, when we live our life here on this earth, we live it unto the King. And so therefore, we may not be perfect, but we're striving to live a righteous life. because of our Savior, because we live for our King. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, we thank you again for the clarity of Scripture. And Lord, how it convicts us, how it searches our hearts. And Lord, I pray for every soul that's here today. My heart's desire, Lord, and I know yours is as well, is that they truly know you, that they are saved and they're walking abundantly. We want no one to die without Christ. We want every person to know that indeed they are children of God. So, Lord, I pray that we would examine our hearts according to your word And ask ourselves, what is my relationship to sin? Is there a desire to confess it To repent, to forsake it, to walk away from it, to run from it. Or Lord, is there just a careless, nonchalant Thoughtless relationship where we take no account of it. I pray, Lord, that we would examine our hearts and know that the true attitude of a child of God is to walk in righteousness. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's not absolutely certain of their own walk with Christ, that they have doubts about whether or not they know the Lord, that Lord, it will get settled, that your word would speak Speak to their heart, and you would draw them unto yourself, Lord. Let no one leave here today without knowing with absolute certainty that they truly are a child of God. So bless these words in the hearts of them Today, Lord. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And can I ask you here today, do you know of a certainty with great assurance that you're God's child How many can say that with an uplifted hand? I know that I know Jesus. And I praise him today. Isn't it wonderful to know that and have that assurance? And friend, if you're here today and you're not sure of that, I want you to know him And we don't want to embarrass you or anyone, but we want you to know Jesus. Would you be willing to pray right there and say, just say these words. I'm not sure that I'm a Christian. Want to know Christ. And today I'm repenting, I'm turning from my sin. I'm turning to Jesus and I'm asking him to forgive me and cleanse me because of what he did on the cross My faith is in his finished work on the cross at Calvary. Save me, Lord Jesus. Would you pray that and mean it? Is that your prayer today? Would you lift your hand so I can pray for you? Anyone here I'm looking around. Anyone here that say yes, that's my prayer? I want to know Jesus. Now, friend, let me just also tell you that you can get you can pray anywhere by yourself. You don't have to Have to be in a church and you don't have to walk an aisle to get saved, but you have to put your faith in Christ. And so, friend, I I encourage you, get this matter settled if you don't know the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ today. Father, again, bless these words to hearts and we'll thank you and praise you in Jesus' precious name. Amen.