Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians. You know we've been in a study in Ephesians. We're in chapter 5 this morning, and we're going to look at verse number 8. on down to verse 14 today. So would you stand for the reading of God's word, Ephesians chapter 5, starting at verse number 8 For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we come to you today because we know that in and of ourself, Lord, we can't really comprehend truth. We need the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit to move in our minds and our hearts, to help us to be attentive, to receive the word, and then, Holy Spirit, would you please just impart this truth into our heart that it might change who we are. May we follow the Word of God, not only just with what we hear, but how we apply it to our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In a devotional book called Voice of the Faithful, there's a missionary named Jerry, it's a woman named Jerry who talked about working in an African town. And one day, exciting news reached her. She received word that the Lazi king of that whole province was coming to the worship service and afterwards was going to go to her home for dinner. And uh the the king there didn't usually visit private homes, so this was a real privilege, and word began to spread and there was a lot of excitement. And when the day finally arrived, the king came to this missionary's house. And she said to the king, she said, you know, but my name is hard to pronounce for the Lazi people, so I would ask you to please give me a Lazi name. Now, she didn't really understand that that was not protocol uh to ask that kind of thing, but the king simply smiled and nodded and he said, let me think about it And before he left that day, he said to her, he said, You know what? I have thought of name of a name that I want to give you. And I decided that the name I'm going to give you will be Lashili. Lashili in Lazi means light. Because I know you're a missionary and I know you're going to bring the Word of God, and I want your ministry and life to be a light to the people here in this province. And when the king left, one of the people standing there said, Wow, what a privilege. You have been given a name from the king. Well, even so, we as believers, we are privileged. Do you know why? Because the King of Kings has given us a name. Say, what's the name that he has given us? Well, it's the name Light. In verse number eight, the Apostle Paul says, But now ye are light in the Lord. Jesus said, Let your light so shine before men. He said, You are the light of Now Paul is reminding the Ephesians that because of God's saving grace, God has taken us out of darkness. He has put us in the light. And therefore we must walk as children of light. The key expression is in verse number eight, where he says in verse eight, look at it again, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord walk as children of light. Walk is an imperative verb, but that is it's a command. And really what we see in this passage are three basic commands that the Apostle Paul gives. One is walk as children of light. We saw that in verse 8. That's a positive command But then he gives two negative commands in verse number 11, drop down to verse 11, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. So there are two commands here. We're to have no fellowship with the works of darkness, but on the other hand, we are to reprove them. And so we're commanded to walk as light in a dark world, and with our life we are to expose the deeds of darkness. And so your king has given you a name. You are light. And you are to walk as children of light. Now in this passage of Scripture, the Apostle Paul is going to give us three distinct characteristics. of children of light. And here's the first one. Number one, children of light radiate righteousness. Look at verse number eight again. But now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Now obviously Paul is making a distinction between light and darkness, a contrast between the two. We were sometimes darkness. Sometimes here means formerly. That's what your past life was. Without Jesus Christ all of us were in darkness But I love the expression, but now. Now what does darkness represent? Darkness represents the domain of Satan. Darkness represents the depravity of man and all the sin that goes with it. Darkness represents spiritual ignorance, not knowing the truth of God. That's how it's used in Scripture a lot. This, in fact, this metaphor of darkness and light we see throughout Scripture a lot. Light is the knowledge of the truth. Light is knowing the truth of Jesus Christ. Light is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Write down 2 Corinthians 4:6 For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So light is coming to know Jesus Christ. And it's also walking in holiness. God is called light in the Bible And that is also speaking of his holiness. And we when we talk about walking in light, it's talking about we as believers walking in holiness. And so, now remember Paul is still on this same theme of sanctification. That's the context of this whole thing. If you've been with us in our study in Galatians, Or excuse me, Ephesians, rather, you know that the whole idea here is that we are to become more like Christ. That's what Paul's talking about here. Sanctification is the process whereby God makes us more like Christ and less like the world. And we're all going through that process. If you've been saved, you're in that process. In chapter four four, Paul uses the metaphor of changing clothes to talk about sanctification. What's it like to be more like Christ? We're taking off the old garments of our past life, those sold garments. We're putting on the new man who is made in the image of Christ. We're putting on the robes of righteousness. We're adding these things. That's what sanctification is like. adding new clothes to our dress, but then he switches metaphors, and now he uses a metaphor from the world of physics. And he compares sanctification to walking out of darkness and walking more and more in the light. Before salvation, your former life was groping around in the darkness of sin. Before salvation, you were spiritually ignorant of God's truth. But again in verse number eight, but now, but now When God saved us, he took us out of that darkness of sin and spiritual ignorance. He brought us into the light. So we no longer live in darkness. Paul said, You are light in the Lord. So therefore you walk as children of light. And a People magazine article dated february twelfth, twenty twenty-five. Cecilia Bloomdale described what it's like to live three months out of the year in total darkness. The article is entitled, I Live and Pitch Black 24-7 on an island near the North Pole. And the island that she talks about in this article is called Vaubard. It is a Norwegian island that's part of a group of islands that is uh between the northern coast of Norway and the North Pole. This island has 2,600 residents. And Cecilia Bloomdale wrote this on October 26th, it is when the sun sets for the last time She says that and she explains how from there on out it gradually gets darker until mid-November when it becomes pitch black 24-7. And you and you see no difference in the day or night until February. So think about living from November to the end of February and nothing but pitch black dark. Okay? Um then she writes this. Uh uh by the way, uh again, you know, I I sometimes God forgive me complain about F February. I call it a long dark tunnel, we just need to get through it till we get to spring, you know. But can you imagine living three months in total darkness? For three months. For this small community, the most anticipated day of the year is when the sun finally shows up. And that day is called Sunfest. It's a day of celebration. And this is what she writes. She says, we welcome the first sun rays to hit the steps of the old hospital in the village on March the 8th each year. She says, all the people of the town are there. And she says, we sit there. And when the first sunbeam comes, we cheer. What a picture of salvation. What a picture of our Lord Jesus Christ. Regarding the coming of Jesus Christ into this world, Isaiah wrote this: the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. Before we knew Jesus Christ, we were living in total darkness, not for three months, but for all of our life. And we didn't know real light until Jesus Christ came into our life. And he banished the darkness. And so now we celebrate the fact that we are now light. We are in the light. And Paul here is saying to these believers, walk as children of light. Again, this is a command And by the way, in the book of Ephesians, as we've been studying, we notice that the first half of the book is all about the wealth of the believer, but the second half of the book is all about the walk of the believer. The first chapters 1 through 3 talks about our blessings in Christ. Chapters 4 through 6 all talk about our behavior in Christ. That's why we see the word walk used over and over again in this second part of Ephesians. In chapter 4, verse 1, just look at it with me real quick. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 17. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their minds. And then in chapter five, verse number two, and walk in love. And then in chapter five, verse number fifteen, see then that you walk circumspectly. So over and over again we see this word walk here in Chapter 5, verse 8, Paul is now saying, walk as children of light. Now in the Bible, whenever it uses the word walk, as I told you before, it's referring to a pattern of behavior. The way we live each day of our life, not just one-time act, but this is how we act day by day. It's a pattern of behavior. You know, psychologists say patterns of behavior reveal truth about a person. You can talk about what kind of person you are all you want to, but the truth about you is revealed in your patterns of behavior. And I'm not into psychology, but I believe the Bible teaches that. That you are what your walk demonstrates. Okay? Your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks. Your walk reveals who you are as a person. So what does it mean to walk as children of light? Well, producing fruit. Look in verse number nine. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. Now there's a variant in some uh Greek text that some Bibles might read uh the fruit of light In fact, you might have a English version of the Bible that's not a King James, and yours might say the fruit of light. Some Greek manuscripts read fruit of the Spirit, others read fruit of light. The kind of the evidence is evenly divided. It's really not a point really that's doesn't really make that much difference because the the walk the fruit of the spirit is the fruit of light. It's the same thing. And so it's the same meaning. And what is it to walk with the fruit of light or the spirit in our life? Well, goodness is what he says. That's moral excellence. Jesus said, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. And then righteousness is used here. in a sense of upright and honest dealings with others. To walk in the light means that you deal honestly with people, with integrity. And then the word truth there, again, genuineness, openness. If you're children of light, you'll be fruitful in these things. This will be the pattern of your life This is what your walk will reveal about you. But also not only producing fruit, but pleasing the Lord. Look in verse number 10. proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. Now the word proving their documents, tested and found to be genuine is the idea there. It means that if we're living a life Of walking in the light. We're living it before the Lord. We're trying to please God, who we know that is watching us in everything that we do. We're not hiding anything. We realize that God sees all. It's easy to hide things from people, but you can't hide anything from the all-seeing God. He sees and knows everything about us. The Bible says all things are naked and open under the eyes of Him with whom we have to do. When I go on international flights, I have to put all my suitcases through that X ma X-ray machine. And then I have to walk through the the uh whatever they call that, that little doorway that detects whether you're carrying a weapon or not. And then they for me they just pat me down. You know, I don't know if you ever had that happen, you know. And uh you say you get irritated that absolutely not. You know why? I have nothing to hide. I have nothing to hide. You know. And so that's the way we live is spiritually in our life. As children of light, we have nothing to hide. There's no hidden life that we have. There's no life of sin or hidden s uh shame. You know that's the big idea of the Christian life. Sometimes people will ask, what's the overarching ultimate goal of the Christian life? And many theologians answer this question with a Latin term. Perhaps you've heard it, corumdeo. Deo is the Latin word for God. Corum means in the presence of God. That is, we live our life in the presence of God. Everything we do, we realize God is watching. And it's our desire to please God and everything we do and to glorify God and everything we do. And so therefore, there is nothing in our life that is hidden An author asked Charles Furgeon for permission to write his life story, and the great preacher replied, he said, You may write my life in disguise. I have nothing to hide. That's walking as a child of light. Children of light radiate righteousness. But here's the second thing: children of light reveal darkness. We see this in verses eleven down to verse 13. Paul's going to give several commands here. The first one is: do not participate in the works of darkness. Look in verse 11, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. Have no fellowship is one big word in Greek. It just simply mean means to have in common, to make yourself a companion. We don't associate, we don't make ourselves companions of uh this sort of thing with the unfruitful works of darkness, Paul says. He's making a contrast between the fruit of the Spirit And the unfruitful works of darkness, which is basically opposite of the fruit of light, that is, these works are unfruitful in that there's nothing good that comes from these things, nothing righteous. Children of light should not be involved in any kind of association with evil. Write down 2 Corinthians 6. 14. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion has light with darkness? You're not to be in in partnership with ungodliness or evil. You should not be best friends with an unbeliever once you come to Christ. I'm not saying you can't be friends. But your best friends need to be those who are believers in Jesus Christ. Those who are devoted to Christ. Why? Because you share a common love And you have you share a common desire to live for Christ. For a believer to enter into a close friendship or a business relationship or marriage with an unbeliever is to violate 2 Corinthians 614 that I just read to you. You know, if you don't distance yourself from those former relationships, then what you'll find is that they'll be pulling you back into your former life. I remember when I got saved as a teenager, I had a group of friends that I hung around, and uh I began to share the gospel with them, and you know what I found out that we don't have the same desires anymore. I didn't want to do the things that they wanted to do. They didn't want to hear me preaching to them all the time. And even though I love these guys and I still would call them friends even today, I had to I had to part fellowship with them. Because the only way I can really be around them is if I continue to do the things that they wanted me to do. And as a believer, we can't do that anymore because we walk in light Now, let me just say, be quick to say, God doesn't want us to isolate from those who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to practice biblical separation, but not isolation. You know, God leads us in the world so that we will have an impact on the world, so that we will share the light of Christ with those who don't know the Lord Jesus. The Corinthian church was confused about this Well Paul gave him a command in 1 Corinthians 5 9. He said, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators, yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world with the covetous or extortioners or with idolaters, for for them you must needs go out of the world. Hear what Paul's saying there? When he wrote to the Corinthians about not fellowshipping with people that do these things, he wasn't referring to unbelievers. What he was saying was, is, look, I'm not telling you to isolate yourself from lost people. When I told you to disassociate your fellowship with people that do this, he said I was talking about believers who made a profession of faith who are living that way and you withdraw your fellowship with them so that they would be convicted of their sin and be ashamed and repent But Paul says, I'm not telling you to live in isolation of everyone that it's a sinner, because the only way you could do that is you'd have to get out of the whole world. Because they're all over the place. We need to approach those who don't know the Lord Jesus with the light of the gospel. But we at the same time we don't want to participate in anything that is sinful or shameful in the eyes of Almighty God. We can look at our Lord Jesus as an example of this, right? I mean, the Bible says Jesus was a friend of sinners. In fact, the Pharisees criticized Jesus for that because he ate with sinners. But Jesus uh he didn't hang out with them because he wanted to do what they did. Jesus was sinless. He made himself a friend of sinners. Why? Because the Bible says the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus befriended those because he wanted to share the light of the gospel with them. And that's the example for us as believers. He had that fine balance. He maintained his holiness while at the same time becoming a friend of sinners. But here's the next thing Paul commands: don't speak about things done in darkness. Look at verse number twelve. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. And secret here means in the dark. Some of the most heinous and vile sins occur. In secret in the dark And some of the Greco Roman mystery cults in Paul's Day, they did their initiation rituals in the secret of night and darkness And these rituals included all kind of immoral and wicked things. And Paul says it's it's shameful for children of light to even talk about those things that are done in the darkness Sometimes preachers in uh in their sermons or in their stories or illustrations will get too explicit in order to come across sensational. They'll get too explicit about things and it should not be done. Sometimes Christians in giving their testimonies get too specific about what God has delivered them from. Look, we get it. We're all sinners. We don't need to get specific about those things. We need to give glory to God. We don't want to in any way glorify sin We don't want to in any way communicate the wrong idea. So be careful when you expose the filthy things of darkness. You don't want to unconsciously promote and advertise Sin. And Paul says, look, it you shouldn't even talk about those things that are done in secret. So Paul's whole point is that we're trying never to be associated in any way with the works of darkness. But here's the next command. Expose the works of darkness. Look in In verse 11 and in verse 13, we see the word reprove. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather what? Reprove them. We see the same word in verse 13, but in all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. Now the word reprove here simply means to reveal or to expose. That's the whole idea. Oh, we do we expose the works of darkness. You say, well now if we're not supposed to talk about it, how do we expose it? Well, verse 13 gives us the answer. Notice again it very closely, but all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. All things become visible when they're exposed. to the light. I think what Paul might be referring to here is that most shops in the Middle Eastern cities in Paul's day were very dark on the inside. And uh they didn't have any windows and a lot of times they were built side by side. So if someone wanted to purchase something out of that shop, they would have to come outside and hold that object up in the light so they can see that object If there's any flaws in it, all the darkness is removed. Everything is exposed when it's held up to the light. And this is Paul's whole point here. That the illustration that he's using here is that we as believers, as we walk in the light, what will happen is automatically darkness will be exposed. With us walking in the light. Again, verse 13, for whatsoever doth make manifest is light. We could say it like this: for what it what it is light makes everything visible. For excuse me, for it is light that makes everything visible. That would be the best way to say that. Light is the thing that manifests. what needs to be seen. And so as we walk as children of light, you know what will happen in our life? The darkness will be exposed. Sometimes it may not be appreciated. Sometimes, as a believer, if you're working in a an environment where you're the only believer there, your righteous, godly life will expose a lot of the darkness. That goes on around you. That's just going to happen. That's just going to take place. And again, God leads us in this world so that we will be his light in this dark world. Again, Jesus said, you know, don't hide your light under a bushel. No, let your light shine. Let it shine before men, that they might see your good works and glorify the Father which is in heaven. Above. And so we need to understand that. And we don't need to create our own light. We just need to shine with the light that Christ has given us. The light is not us, it's Christ. Friend, if you see anything good in me, I guarantee it's not Jerry Harmon. It's the light of Christ. And that's what people need to see. During a sermon, a pastor asks a question to the congregation, what's a saint? And a little boy looking up at the stained glass windows of the apostles blurted out, it's people who let the light shine through. And that's a good definition. That's exactly right. We let The light shine through. It should shine through in the holy way in which we live, the holiness of our life, the righteousness of our deeds, but also in the joy that we have in Christ. True light produces true joy. When we have Christ in our life, we have joy in our life, and people should be able to see that. It should be something that is written on us, in our body language, in our expressions. Adrian Rogers in his booklet tells about some gold prospectors who discovered a really rich mine. And they got together and they said, now we need to keep this a secret. And they promised each other that they would keep it a secret, but they needed to go to town to get more tools. And so they all went to town and got their tools and they made their way back to the mine. But what they noticed is they made their way back to the mine. They had a crowd of people that was following them Because it was written all over their face that they had discovered something and the people knew it. When people see you, they should know that you have discovered something. That there's something different about you. It's written all over your face. Charles Fergin, a training young minister, said to his students, When you talk about heaven, let your face light up with a heavenly glory. When you talk about hell, your everyday face will do. Children of light radiate righteousness Children of light reveal darkness. But here's the third thing. Children of light revive deadness. Look at verse 14. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Now most scholars believe that Paul is probably citing an early Christian hymn based on Isaiah 60, verse 1: Arise, shine for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. And it's a picture of an unbeliever being exposed to the light, which eventually leads to their salvation. And that's the whole point. Where is the world going to get its light today? It gets its light from you. It gets it from me. The light of Christ. It gets it as we shared with them the Word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ. We expose them to the light, and what happens is it eventually leads to their salvation, to where they call upon Jesus as Savior and Lord. God has given us this privilege. Of representing him as lights in this world. Listen to 2 Corinthians 4, 6. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. And then he says in the next verse, listen to this, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. You hear what he's saying there? We as clay vessels, we have been given this light. It's our privilege to shine the light. You know what I think about when I think about this verse? Remember the story of Gideon? He took his three hundred men. They were outnumbered with the Midianites. He had each of them carry a pot with a a light inside. And at the sound of the trumpet they were to break that clay pot and the light would shine. And that's really what we are. We're these broken vessels. But yet we shine the light of the glory of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And people see it in our life. And it should lead to their salvation. To them coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. I remember years ago when uh I was visiting down in the city, we had a bus ministry, and I would every Saturday go out and I would knock on doors And there was this one house I would go to and the man of the house, the father, didn't like me coming by. I came by every Saturday. I'd knock on the door. He would answer the door. He was always angry. Why are you here? Well, I just wanted to make sure your kids are going to come tomorrow to Sunday school. Don't they uh don't they come all the time? Well yeah they I do, sorry. And then I'd go back the next week, knock on the door, and there he was. And he'd yell at me again. Sometimes he would use profanity. And uh it was almost like he got to the point where he was waiting for me each week because he knew I was coming by every week. And I would just smile and say, Okay, thank you. Years later, years later, I was walking down the street in Baltimore and he was walking towards me. My first response was, I need to run. And as he came closer towards me, he had a smile on his face. And I thought, this is different. And when he came up to me, he reached out for my hand and he grabbed my hand. And he said, I want to tell you something. He said, I want you to know that I'm a Christian now. And he said, I went to church. When I went forward at the invitation, I knelt at the front. He said, you know what I prayed? I said, no what? He said, I prayed, Lord, whatever that red-headed young man has, give it to me. Give it to me. I was read back then. But and I I thought, wow, you know, God used that. Now I didn't know it I failed in a lot of other times. I don't want to make myself the hero of all my own stories, all right? Because I failed at other times to be the light that God needed me to be. But the whole point is this: when people see Christ in us God can use that. And this is what Paul's talking about here in verse number 14. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. As we bear the light and we expose that light to a lost world, people will awake and arise, and they will call upon Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Children of light radiate righteousness. Children of light reveal darkness. Children of light revive deadness. That's the characteristics. That's what it means to walk in light. And this world needs the light of the gospel of Christ. That's the greatest need for this world Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for Delivering us from the darkness and giving us a new name, calling us light. May we obey your word and truly walk as children of light. In a dark world. Father, help us to have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather to expose them. And Lord help us to point others to that light. May others that Are dead spiritually arise because of the power of the gospel, because of the light of the gospel that shines to them. Because Christ has given them light. May they come to know Jesus Christ. As Savior and Lord. And friend, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ, I want to invite you right now to do that very thing. Jesus loves you. He wants you to know him as Savior and Lord. Are you willing today to say, yes, I'm a sinner? I realize that I'm in darkness because of my sin, but I want to be in the light It's very simple, friend. You reach out in faith. You acknowledge that you're a sinner. You reach out to Jesus Christ and say, Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me. Please cleanse me from my sin. Please give me eternal life. The Bible says, him that comes to me I will not in any wise cast out. The arms of the Savior are open wide, waiting for you to come to Him and receive forgiveness of sins and become a child of light. Would you be willing to pray this prayer? Just pray it. You don't have to pray it out loud, but you can pray it silently in your heart. Something to this effect. Lord, please forgive me for my sins. Please make me your child. Right now I'm asking you, Lord, to save me. I repent, I turn from my sin, I turn to you, Lord Jesus. Be merciful to me. And save me. And friend, if you pray that and mean it, you reach out in faith, the Bible says, whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall And God wants to save you today. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart. May those who have prayed this prayer, Lord, may you do a brand new work in their heart, Lord. Save them, bring them out of the darkness into the light. For your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name.