Take your Bibles. Open the book of Exodus. The Bible's really a hymn book, isn't it? Because it's all about Him, right? And I want to talk about that this morning. I want you to see a picture of our Lord Jesus Christ here in the book of Exodus. A beautiful picture. I want to speak this morning on Christ the bread from heaven. Now again I remind you that there are some people that think the Old Testament is about the law, the prophets, and the New Testament is about Jesus, but all of the Bible is about Jesus. Every passage, every page, you'll find the Lord Jesus Christ. There are not four Gospels, there are sixty-six gospels. Jesus said this in John 5. 39, search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me. And so I want you to see a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ here in the Old Testament in the book of Exodus, chapter 16. Now let me give you a little context. You know the story in Exodus in chapter twelve. God delivered the children of Israel from Egypt, and he delivered them with his mighty hand and with the blood of the lamb on the doorpost. You know that story When you come to Exodus chapter 14, God parts the Red Sea. Pharaoh and his army pursue Israel. They're backed up against the Red Sea, and God parts the Red Sea for them. What an incredible miracle in the Bible. And then you come to Exodus 15 and they're singing, they're singing praises to the Lord. But it's not very long that they turn from singing to sobbing. Because when you come to Exodus chapter 16, actually at the end of chapter 15, they were complaining about having no food and no water. In fact, look in chapter 15, look in verse 22. So Moses brought Israel from the Red Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur, and they went three days in the wilderness and found no water. Look at chapter 16 and look at verse number 2. And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God that we had died by the hand of the Lord In the land of Egypt, when we sat by the fleshpots, when we did eat to the full, for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Well, how forgetful they were. They go from this great miracle that God performed to complaining about having no food and having no water. Without bread, of course, in that wilderness they would indeed die. So they're hungry. This is a beautiful picture to me of the world today. You know, the world is in a wilderness of sin today. People are in a wilderness of sin and they're hungry. And I'm not talking about a physical hunger. I'm talking about a spiritual hunger. The world is hungry and they don't know what they're hungry for. There's a spiritual longing, a spiritual hunger that can only be satisfied by God. But that spiritual hunger is there. That's why there are so many false religions and false teachers that seem to have so much success because they play on this gnawing spiritual hunger that people have. Because they're searching for truth. They're searching for satisfaction. 2 Timothy 3. 7 says, ever learning and never being able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, in this story here, God is going to give them manna from heaven. And what I want you to see in this story today is that manna is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, you know, manna really is a reminder to these people, not necessarily of their physical meaning, but of their spiritual meaning. Write down Deuteronomy 8 verse 3. Listen to this verse. And he humbled thee, talking to Israel, and he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, why? And fed thee with manna, why? That he might make thee to know that man doth not live by bread alone. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord. And so manna is meant to remind people of their spiritual need. That you don't live just by physical bread. You live by the Word of God, by the word that will satisfy your heart, that will show you truth, that will show you Christ. So if you're taking those, write down number one, I want you to see the picture of manna here. The picture of manna. In fact, hold your place here in Exodus. We're going to come right back, but go to the book of John, chapter 6, because wouldn't you Read these stories in Exodus. You have to really go to the New Testament and compare John 6 with it. So we read this just a minute ago. Look in John chapter 6 and look down at verse number 30. Verse 33. Verse 30, we'll start there. And they said therefore unto him, What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? What doest thou work? Our fathers did eat manna in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven, but my father giveth you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven and giveth life unto the world. And they said unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. So here in this passage, Jesus is clearly teaching that manna in the Old Testament is a picture of himself, the true bread from heaven. So with that in mind, go back to Exodus chapter 16, and I want you to see some things about this bread that God gives them. Exodus chapter 16. And how it's a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. They needed bread. God said that he would feed them. Look down in verse number For Exodus 16. So then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather certain rate every day, that I may prove them whether they will walk in my law or not. God says, I'm going to give you bread. I'm going to rain down bread from heaven. Now, can you imagine that being in the wilderness? And God bringing down bread from heaven. Look in chapter 16. Look in verse 15. And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna, for they wis not what it was. And Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the Lord hath given You to eat. Now when they saw it, they saw it there on the ground. They didn't know what it was. In fact, that's what the word manna means. What is it? They went out on the desert floor and looked and there it was and they said, manna, what is it? Next time someone serves you food and you don't know what it is, say, manna. What is it? They had no idea what it was. They couldn't comprehend it. And friend, that's a picture of Jesus. Did you know that when Jesus came, the people couldn't comprehend who he was? They didn't really know who he was. They did not comprehend that he was the Son of God. John six forty one says this. Then the Jews murmured at him that it's Jesus because He said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he said, I came down from heaven? They really didn't comprehend or understand who Jesus was. He was God in the flesh. The Bible says in 1 Timothy 3. 16, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh They didn't know who he was. By the way, people today don't really comprehend who Jesus is. Because if they did know who he was, they would come to him. They would realize that the that's that hunger, that emptiness inside them can be filled by Jesus the bread from heaven But they don't comprehend him. They don't know that he's the Messiah, that he's the son of David, that he's God in the flesh, that he's the savior of the world. And so they don't comprehend them. So that's number one, the picture of manna. But then write down number two. Here's the second thing. The purpose of manna. The purpose of manna. You see, God obviously gave this to provide for their need. But also there was another reason why God brought this manna. Look again in verse number four. Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day. Watch this, that I may prove them. The word prove here means to test, that I may test them whether they will walk in my law or no. God's using the manna to test, to see if they would trust him, if they would obey him. If they would make him their provision, or they would try to find some other provision. By the way, it's the same with salvation today. God is testing people to find out, are you going to turn to the Lord for salvation? Are you going to try to make your own way? Now think about this. When God led them through the wilderness, what does the Bible say? He led them with a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night, right? And that that pillar would pick up and when it would pick up and begin to move, all the children of Israel would then begin to fold their tents and follow. And wherever the cloud would stop, then they would pitch their tents there. And so God literally led them through the wilderness. But that was a dry Barren desert where there was no water. But think about this. Did you know that Abraham took that journey many hundreds of years before from Egypt to the Promised Land? And what did Abraham do when he took that journey? The Bible says he dug wells. You have to have water, right? So he would dig those wells. Later on, Isaac took the same journey. He re dug some of those wells, and so did Jacob. We know that those wells were still around at the time of Jesus because the New Testament refers to some of them Let me ask you a question. Did God know where those wells were? Sure he did. And could God have led the children of Israel to those wells? Of course. But he didn't. He led them away from them. Why? To test them. To prove them. To see if they would put their trust in him. And that's why God sent them out. Are you going to trust me for your provision day by day? God might be doing the same thing in your life right now. You say, man, I'm dry. Yeah, he may have led you away from the wells. to see if you will trust him completely. You see, there are some people, they are miserable. It may be that you're here this morning, you're miserable. You've tried everything that the world can offer. To try to fill that hunger in your heart, and you know what? It doesn't fill that emptiness. It just doesn't do it. There's a barrenness, there's an emptiness that exists in your heart, and nothing in this world can fill it. You can try whatever you want to. Money, fame, prestige, the glitter and glamour of the world, none of those things can fill that emptiness. That hunger. I was reading an article, Tom Brady, the Super Bowl winning quarterback for the New England Patriots. was giving an interview at four Super Bowl rings. They were saying, man, you know, you must have it all. You must really be happy. He said, no, actually. He said, I've actually asked the question, is this all there is to life? Is this all it's cracked up to be? And the interviewer went on and said, Well, what do you think the answer is? He said, I wish I knew. I wish I knew. Here's a man that has it all. And yet he's empty. You know what God means for life to be that way. He engineered life so that the emptiness of this world can't fuel that hunger. Why? God wants you to feel that emptiness. He wants you to feel that hunger. Why? So that you'll turn to Him, so that you'll learn that there is no satisfaction, there is no fulfillment in this life without Jesus. He engineered it that way. Write down Romans 820. For the creature was made subject to vanity. That is emptiness. You were made subject to the emptiness. of this world not willingly but by reason of him who has subjected the same in hope. God said, here's creation, there it is, but you're not going to figure it out. And you're not going to find satisfaction in those things. God engineered it that way because He wants you to turn to Him as your source of satisfaction, as your source of joy. You know what we do today in this world? Instead of, you know, when people feel that emptiness, that loneliness, that difficulty, instead of letting them feel that and then preaching the gospel, what we do is we live in a world today where we give them tranquilizers, we give them all these things to forget their misery. But sometimes the greatest thing a person can do is feel that misery so that they will turn to Christ and realize He's the only satisfaction. So we see the picture of manna. We see the purpose of manna to test the heart. But then here's number three, the particulars of manna. You see, because as I study this, I see just little glimpses of Jesus in this bread from heaven that came down. First of all, notice the size of it. Look in verse 14 of chapter 16. And when the dew was lay was uh that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground. And so it was small It was about the size of a quarter, someone estimated, or about really the size of a pea seed. If you think of a pea seed. And they would just go out in the morning and they would just collect it, put it in a basket. They would grind it up into powder, and they would bake bread from it, and so it was small when it came. You know what that reminds me of? That makes me think about the humility of Jesus. Jesus came in this world as a baby, the babe of Bethlehem. He became a servant, the Bible says He laid aside all of his rights, all of his privileges. He became small for us. He descended that we might ascend to heaven. He became poor that we might be rich. Jesus laid aside all of the glory of heaven and came down to this world in the form of a man. And just like they would crush that manna and then bake it, Jesus was crushed for us on Calvary. And he absorbed the heat of the wrath of Almighty God there on the cross for us. There's a size of it. But then think about the shape of it. Again in verse 14 it says it's a little round thing. That reminds us of the circle, the symbol of eternality. Jesus is the eternal God. Jesus said to the Jews, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and was glad. And then the Jews said unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old. How hast thou seen Abraham? And Jesus said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. He's the eternal God come to man. There's the size of it, the shape of it, then the sweetness of it. Look in chapter 16, look in verse 31 real quick. Notice there, and the house of Israel called the name thereof Mana. And it was like corander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. So it was sweet. It had to taste like honey. You know, again, this speaks to me about Jesus, the sweetness of Jesus, the sweetness of his character. He's good. It's sweet to trust in Jesus, friends. It's wonderful. The Bible says, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. You will never fully understand Jesus until you taste the sweetness of Christ for yourself. We can try we can tell you about it. I heard about uh one time a man who was a Christian witnessing to a skeptic, and he was trying to describe to him what it was like To put your trust in Jesus. And he the skeptic just couldn't understand. He said, I just don't get it. And then the man pulled out an orange and he said, What's the best way for you to understand how this orange tastes? The skeptic said, obviously just a He said it's the same with Jesus. You won't not fully understand Christ until you trust him, until you partake yourself. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. So there's the size of it, there's the shape of it, there's the sweetness of it, but then there's the simplicity of it. Look again in chapter 16, look in verse number 13. Notice what it says there, and it came to pass that at the even the quails came up And covered the camp in the morning, and the dew lay round about the host. And when the dew that was laid was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing. That is, it was right there in the camp They would just go outside their tents in the morning and guess what? There it was. It's right there. All you had to do is just reach down and pick it up God was delivering bread before there ever was a pizza delivery. Just putting it right there. It was close by. You don't have to go hunt for it like a glorified Easter egg hunts. God puts it right there. Anybody who wanted it could get it. It was right in front of them. And this speaks to me about the simplicity of salvation. How close Jesus is. You know, friend, he's right here. You want him, he's here. You don't have to go on a search for Jesus. You don't have to go on a hunt. He's right here. Paul said it like this in Romans 10, 6. He said, But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise. Say not in thine heart, who shall ascend up into heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above, or who shall descend into the deep, that is to bring Christ again from the dead? But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart. It's the word of faith which we preach. The apostle Paul said: listen, if you want salvation, if you want Jesus, you don't have to go all the way up into heaven. You don't have to ascend some golden staircase and knock on the door of heaven and say, Jesus, Jesus. I'm searching for you. You don't have to ascend to heaven and bring Christ down. He already came down. And he's right here. You know, I read some of these books about these people that say they die and they went to heaven and they want to tell us all about it. I appreciate that, but we already have a book that tells us about that. And they're they're trying, as it were, to bring Christ down. He already came down. You don't have to ascend to heaven and knock on the heaven's gate. You don't have to go down into the deep, ascend into hell, and bring Christ up from the dead. But what's the Bible say? No, the word is nigh thee. He's right here. He's right here. It's the word of faith. I just preached it to you. And I'm preaching it to you. Christ is right here. If you want Christ, all you have to do is reach out by faith. It's very, very simple. Very simple. So we see the simplicity of it. But then here's another thing I want you to see, the schedule of it. Look at verse 21. It says, And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating. Notice every morning. It was there every morning. And that tells me about Christ. His mercies are new every morning. And that tells me that to the Christian this means We need to continually daily feed on Christ. Oh yes, we have received him as our Lord and Savior, but He's the one who sustains us daily. Every day he is our sustenance. Every day he is our provision. Once we receive him as Savior, that's good. But every day we need to come to the Lord and we need to learn of him. And we feed upon Christ as it were. By the way, that's what the Lord's Supper reminds us. That we're constantly to feed upon the Lord Jesus Christ spiritually, fresh. Food, fresh manna, every day from the Word of God. We have to depend upon Him every day of our life And so we see then the schedule of it. But here's another thing I want you to see. I want you to see the sufficiency of it. Look in verse 17 and verse 18. And the children of Israel did so and gathered some more, some less And when they did meet it with an omer, he that gathered much had nothing over, he that gathered little had no lack. They gathered every man according to his eating. I like that. An Omar has two quartz, such according to a person, they would gather it and they would measure it. And the miracle was it was exactly what everyone needed every day. You know, the one who gathered too much didn't have any left over. The one who gathered too little always had enough. You know what this tells me? Jesus is exactly what we need. He knows every need. He knows how to fulfill that need. And it's he's always just exactly right. Just exactly right. And then there's the supply of it. Look at another thing. Look in verse 35. Verse 35. And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years until they came to the land uninhabited, and they did eat manna until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan. Now think about this. This manna was provided. It was abundant. It was free. They lived on it for 40 years. 40 years. Think about that. Someone calculated that at two quarts a person and two million people, it would take four freight trains of 60 cars each daily. And yet it was there. The supply was endless, inexhaustible. You know what that tells me? That speaks to me about the grace of our Lord Jesus. His grace is inexhaustible. The Bible says, My grace is sufficient for you. Friend, do you need grace today? You got it. God's grace is sufficient. He'll just keep giving grace and giving grace, and you'll never exhaust his grace in your life. You know, as Christians, we live on his grace. We live by his grace. Charles Spurgeon, the great preacher, was riding home one evening after a heavy day, feeling kind of weary. Feeling kind of depressed. And the verse of scripture came to his mind, 2 Corinthians 12, 9, My grace is sufficient for you. And then, you know, he had such a an imagination to him. He imagined himself like being a fish in the Thames River there in London. And he imagined the fish drinking a little bit apprehensively, fearing that if he drank in too much water, he might drain the whole river dry. Then he thought how ridiculous that was. And then he next he thought about a little mouse in the granaries of Egypt during the time of Joseph. And this little mouse thinking, if I eat too much of this grain, I might exhaust this whole warehouse full. And then he thought about a man who climbed to the highest mountain, and when he got to the top of the mountain, he feared to breathe in too deeply for fear he might drain the world of its oxygen. And then he thought how ridiculous those things were. And then he thought about the grace of God. You can't exhaust God's grace no more than a man breathing can exhaust the world of his heir No more than a little mouse can exhaust the granaries of Egypt. No more than a little fish can drink the the river Thames dry. That's all an impossibility, and it's impossible for God to run out of grace His grace is inexhaustible. And God says to you today, my grace is sufficient for you. And you know what? It will be tomorrow. And the day after that. And the day after that. There's another thing I want you to see. There's the showing of it. Look in verse 32. Where it says, And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commanded, fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness. When I brought you forth from the land of Egypt. And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot and pill an uh put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it up before the Lord, to be kept for your generations And as the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony of the Lord. So here God is commanding Moses, look, I want you to take an Omar of manna and set it aside. Why? Because I want you to show the later generations. And I want them to see how God took care of you and watched over you. And that speaks to me of how we're to we're to share Christ with the other generations. We're to show that you know what? The only reason I exist and live, the only reason I'm here is because of Jesus. He's the one who has sustained me. He's the one who has given me satisfaction and joy. He's filled all of my needs. All that speaks to me about Jesus Christ. Now let me give you a fourth point, and I'll be done. We saw the picture of manna and the purpose of manna and the particulars about manna, but write down number four the partakers of manna. You might be sitting here saying, Man, how can I have this? How can it be part of thee? Remember in John 6. 34, they said to Jesus, Lord, evermore give us this bread. That will never be hungry. And what did Jesus say? I'm the bread of life. You say, what do I have to do? Well, first of all, you have to come hungry. You have to be hungry. The Bible says in verse 18, every man according to his eating, there's an emptiness in you, there's a deep hunger, there's a longing. And you know what Jesus says? Come, come to me. I can feel that hunger. I can feel that longing. But there's another thing I think. You have to come humbly. Humbly. You know when you when you get mad at you have to stoop down to get it. You have to stoop down. Let me tell you something about salvation. You don't strut into the kingdom of God with pride. You come humbly. You kneel, as it were, before the cross. Jesus spoke about that attitude with a parable of the two men who went to the temple of the Pharisee and he said, Lord, I'm thankful I'm not like this guy I do all this, he named all his religious duties, but then the publican said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Not a sinner, but the sinner. It's articular in the Greek. God be merciful to me, the sinner. And Jesus said that man went away justified. You have to come humbly. And then friend, you have to not only come hungry, come humbly, but come hurriedly. You better hurry. The Bible says that when the man was there on the ground, it wouldn't stay too long. In fact, about mid-morning it was gone. No longer available. And friend, I'm telling you here today, if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, don't let another day go by until you make him your own. Don't wait. Hurry. It's available. But you better hurry. Because you don't know when that day of opportunity will be over. You don't net know when all of a sudden it's gone. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 6. 2, for he saith, I have heard thee in a time acceptable, in the day of salvation, and I have succored thee. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. I told this Sunday night, but I'll tell it here. Dr. Talmadge, a great preacher, used to tell a story about a woman in his church, and she could not sleep because of the anxiety of her soul. And she got up and she wrote in her diary this these words, one year from now, I will attend to the matter of my soul. And then she tried to go back to sleep, and she couldn't sleep. And so she got up and she wrote again in her diary, one month from now I will attend to this matter of my soul. And she tried to go back to sleep, but she couldn't sleep. So she got up and she wrote in her diary again, next week I will attend to the matter of my soul. And then she slept soundly. But you know what? The following day she got sick and she lost her mind and she died. One week was too late. You better hurry. If you want Jesus, you better come today. Come now. Now is the accepted time. Let's bow for prayer together today. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are indeed the bread from heaven. You are our satisfaction. Only you can fill that void, that longing. That is in our heart. And not only do you fill that void, that longing, but Lord, you meet every need. And you're there for us daily. And you are our strength, you're our sustenance. We thank you, Lord, that you truly are the bread from heaven. And Lord, I just pray for people here today. There may be some here today, they've never made Christ their own. They've never stooped down, humble themselves, and said, I want to take this bread and make it mine. They've never come to the cross. repentant, humble over their sin, realizing that salvation has come through what you did for them on the cross. Father, speak to their heart today. May they not walk away from the service hungry. May they have that emptiness, that void in their heart filled through knowing Jesus. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I just want to ask this question here today. Friend, are you absolutely sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Or is there any doubt in your mind? If there is, would you right this very moment, would you pray? Right there where you are. I'm not going to embarrass you, but I want you to pray. And tell Jesus that you're hungry. And that you realize now he's the only thing that can satisfy that emptiness that is in you. And would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I'm asking you to forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart, be my Savior. Fill that void. And friend, if you'll pray that, if you'll mean it, Jesus will save you right there where you are. He'll be your savior. How many say, preacher, pray for me? That is my prayer today. I want the bread of life. I want Jesus in my heart, in my life. And my other invitation is to Christians We need to feed upon Christ daily. We need his grace daily in our life. Maybe there's some special need that you have right now. And right now you are in need of great grace from Him And you want to reach out and say, I need that. I'm praying today for grace through this trial that I'm in. Would you just lift your hand and say, pray for me? That's me. I need his grace in my life. God sees your hands, beloved. He sees your hands. He sees your heart. Father, bless these. Fill their heart with your grace Give them what they need today. To whatever trial, to whatever heartache they may be experiencing. Lord, that they would come to you, that they would trust you and you alone to give them the strength that they need And Father, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen.