First Corinthians chapter number six. First Corinthians chapter number six. And tonight we are continuing our study in the book of First Corinthians. And we are getting to an interesting passage of Scripture. In fact, the song tonight matched so well what we're going to be talking about tonight. Look at First Corinthians chapter six. Now remember the Apostle Paul is dealing with problems in the court in the in the church. And he's going to talk about Christians going to the courtroom. Look in verse number one of 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Dare any of you Having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints? Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are you not worthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not they which shall judge We shall judge angels, how much more things that pertain to this life? I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? No not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren. But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbeliever. Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you Because you go to law one with another. Why do you rather take wrong? Nay, ye do wrong and defraud, and that your brethren. Now, remember that the church of Corinth was a church that was going through many problems. And as we're going through the book of 1 Corinthians, we're seeing one problem after another that comes up that the Apostle Paul has to deal with. And here is yet another issue that has confronted the church. And what is the problem? Taking another brother to court. How many of you would love to hear the expression, you're you are being sued? That was what was going on here at Coraz. You know, to to sue someone Uh, you know, when we hear that, uh, you know, taking a person to court is something that people fear today. And and you know, we live in such a a society where people love to take others to court It's almost like a form of entertainment in our world today. I mean when something bad happens, the first thing we want to do is sue someone else. I mean if we spill hot coffee on us uh in McDonald's or if we go to the cleaners and they uh lost our pants, you know, we want to sue someone. We want to get back. And that kind of thinking was going on here in Corinth. And again, if we think about our world today, think about all the large bills we have to pay, medical bills. um car insurance and all these things. A lot of that is that we're paying for uh insurance so that we we're not taken to court. Sometimes we have to pay large bills because met doctors have to uh insure themselves against malpractice. And it's just causing things to be difficult in society because we have people that want to sue one another. Well, this was a problem that was in the ancient world as well, not just in our world today Now the problem, even more specific, however, is that this whole idea of suing someone or getting at someone or taking revenge on someone is getting into the church And the question that we ask as we come to this is, is it right for a Christian to sue another Christian in Court. This is what Paul's dealing with because what was happening here in the church at Corinth is that believers were taking other believers to court, they were suing one another, and they were losing their testimony in the city. And so Paul is dealing with this very issue here today. Now let me give you a few qualifiers as we're talking about this. First of all, let me just say that Paul's not saying here in chapter six that the legal system is bad. In Romans chapter 13, the Apostle Paul talks about government and how government is needed to restrain evil. And he's not saying that the legal system is wrong. He's saying that we ought to pay due respect to authority in Romans 13. And so the system is necessary, even though it may have flaws. Secondly, Paul does not say that we should never go to court over an issue. There are many legitimate reasons for us to go to court in this world, so don't get the idea that it's wrong ever for a Christian to go to court. I think sometimes we have to go to court to protect ourselves. Many times we have to protect ourselves from the state itself. Churches have to go to court or religious organizations have to do that. And we see that in the news. And so he's not saying there's anything wrong with that. And we also know that sometimes We must go to court with friendly suits. There are certain legal matters that have to be handled in court. And that's a case where there's no malice involved. And so when there's no malice involved, Paul's not talking about things like that Unfortunately, there are times when we are pulled into court, perhaps by another person or even a believer, and in times like that We must be careful that we glorify God with our behavior and our actions here. So what is Paul referring to here? He's referring to when believers just can't get along When believers are just at each other. When, or perhaps there's one believer preying on another, and there's no one that will be able to mediate that case in the church. That's what he's talking to here. And so Paul's going to give us some reasons why, as Christians, we shouldn't take other Christians to court that if at all possible in the house of God we should be able to mediate our own differences. We shouldn't have to go to the world when we have a difference. We should be able to mediate those things between God's people. Now, again, let me give you a little historical background Because in this day, court was a form of entertainment. You have to understand that. And that's kind of like the way it is today even. Now we have shows on TV where we like to watch, I say we, I don't ever watch them, but Um there's the People's Court. How many of you remember that with Judge Wappner? You know, and then you have other uh Judge Judy and all these others, and now there's Court TV And and it's it's become a form of entertainment where even the judges are now pretty much more concerned with putting on a show and entertaining people. when they come to a ruling. Well that's kind of what it was like in this day. In Paul's day, when you went to court, you didn't go to a small room with a gallery like we have today. Let me just describe to you what it was like. A courtroom was in the public square or it was in the marketplace. In Athens and in Corinth, a legal dispute was brought before a group of people called the 40. And these 40 people would elect a arbitrator who would hear the case. Now if the arbitrator couldn't solve the case, what they would do is that they would bring this case then before a jury And that jury would be a uh consist of two hundred and one citizens. So two hundred and one people sat in the jury. Now, if the case was a thousand dollars or less, it was two hundred and one on the jury. If it was a thousand dollars or more Then it was 401 people in the jury. In fact, I read on one occasion where there are juries as large as six thousand citizens. Can you imagine that, a jury of 6,000 people? That's a colosseum of people listening to a court case. And that's how bad it got. It was a form of entertainment And so when what was going on then is that when a person in a church was bringing another person to court, everyone in the city began to hear about this And what was happening was the church at Corinth was airing its dirty laundry before those who did not know the Lord Jesus Christ. And this was a bad testimony to the Lord. It was a bad testimony in that city. Can you imagine the citizens of Corinth thinking about going to that church and thinking, well Why should we go there? Those people there can't even get along. They're always bringing their cases to us to settle. They can't seem to settle those things. themselves. And by the way, again, the United States is very like very much like ancient Greece. Let me give you a few stats. As of 2006 We have over one million lawyers in the United States, according to the American Bar Association. In 2011, over fifteen million lawsuits were filed in state courts throughout the land. That's one New lawsuit every two seconds. Can you imagine that? And so we had the highest number of lawyers in the world here in the United States. Ninety-four percent of the world's lawsuits are in the United States. And so this is this is a problem Uh and this was certainly a problem in the church. I and and when it gets to the church. I was reading while I was preparing for this about a story of a church in Decatur, Georgia. It seems that several members started fighting on Sunday morning And the sheriff had to come and lock the doors of the church because of the fight that was going on there in the church. And there were several people involved and they took out warrants against each other, and they were going to take their case to court That sort of thing just shames the name of Christ. And I also read about a church here in Maryland where the police had to be called in to break up a business meeting. Because the people in the church could not get along. Again, it changed the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, this kind of circus entertainment. And so, now another thing that you need to know is that in the background of Paul, he, growing up being Jewish, uh understood this one principle that Jews never normally took their cases to a Gentile court Paul grew up with that idea. Jews would not take their cases to what they called a pagan Gentile court. They would settle their disputes in the synagogue among themselves. Gentiles, however, they love litigation. They loved going to court And again, we're thinking about the Corinthians that love to debate, they loved uh oratory, and going to a venue like this uh was was an opportunity for them to give expression to their debating skills and to their oratory. However, again, it was shaming the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul is going to deal with this issue. And he's going to give three reasons why uh it's wrong for believers to take their cases like this to an unbelieving court. And I want you to see these three things. Number one, he's going to talk about the rank of a true believer. By taking your case to an ungodly court, or an unsafe court, I should say, these believers misunderstand the rank of a true believer. Look in verse number one. Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints. It was obvious that Paul is angry and amazed when he writes this. He's angry because of the poor testimony. And what he's going to do here in these verses is give a string of questions That's designed to make them think about what they're doing. And the first question is, dare and dare you take a take a matter to the unrighteous and not to the saints. That's the first question. The word matter here is really a case or really it's a word that means a lawsuit. You want to take a lawsuit before the unjust, and there he's talking about those who are lost And uh he again is concerned about the testimony of the church. And he's basically saying, think about what you're doing. Okay? Think about the kind of testimony that you're bringing. to the church. But look at the next question in verse 2. Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? Second question. Don't you understand? That one day you as God's people, you're going to be able to judge the world? And what was he referring to? Paul was referring to the millennial time. Did you know that in the millennial, as God's people, we were going to be co-regents And God is going to give us areas of authority and areas of judgment, and we will be responsible then to judge That's what he's talking about. Jesus said this right down, Matthew 19, verse 28. And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration When ye sit uh when you when the Son of Man shall sit upon the thrones of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging Revelation twenty, verse four, and I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And so Paul's saying, look, don't you understand that one day as a Christian, you are going to sit on God's Supreme Court? You're going to judge one day. In fact, you're going to judge angels. uh one day. And so look at the next question in verse number uh four. If ye then, if then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to those who are least esteemed in the church In other words, Paul's, oh actually back up to verse 2. Are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? That's the next question there. If you're going to judge angels one day, can't you determine and judge in the smallest And of course, Paul's reasoning is very clear. If you're going to judge big matters one day for God, can't you handle the smaller matters that take place in the church? Isn't that possible for you to do that? And then notice the next question in verse number four. If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life Set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church. And so um Paul is saying, look, even the person in the church who is uh least esteemed is someone that is able to judge in a matter. Even the most least esteemed person. I remember when my daughter Abby was five years old And she was uh uh she asked the question, she obviously heard this word and she didn't know what it meant. She said, Dad, what is an abortion? Can you imagine a five-year-old asking you that question? And then uh I tried very gently, uh simply to explain what an abortion was. And I remember the look on her face, she was so horrified And you know what she said to me when she was five years old? She said, Daddy, why doesn't the mother just give the baby to somebody who wants it? And then I just remember thinking, you know, my little five-year-old daughter has more sense than the Supreme Court of the United States when you think about it. Even the smallest is able to judge, Paul said. And then Paul says in verse 5, I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you, nor not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren? And Paul, and now remember the Corinthians were boasting about the wisdom they had And Paul says, you know, you who speak about being wise, you who speak about having all this knowledge, isn't there just one person among you? That is able to take a matter and settle it there in your church where that you don't have to air all of your dirty laundry before those who do not know the Lord Jesus. And so Paul was, I think, shaming them in these verses here when he says, I speak to your shame. So what is Paul suggesting? He's suggesting that there are times when disagreement will come in the body of Christ. How many understand that we're not perfect? That we all make mistakes that we're going to offend one another at times. And in the church, this should be an atmosphere where we're able to talk to one another and settle maybe a dispute that might come between two believers. And what he's suggesting is that there be a mediator there in the church at Corinth that could settle a dispute And that's what he's suggesting, just someone that could be a peacemaker there in the church that could take care of an issue. Now remember, a mediator's job is not to render a verdict about something. A mediator is someone who just simply helps two sides to come together and to be at peace. with each other. And by the way, that's the work of true children of God. Jesus said, what blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. And so this is what Paul is suggesting here. That you learn to settle your disputes in an honorable way, loving one another, forbearing with one another, and not taking things to those who do not know the Lord Jesus. And so uh and then that notice the next question. Again, don't in verse number five, I speak to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? No not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before unbelievers. And here he restates the fact that they're not acting in love. The wrong here is the brother who pursues an action against another brother. Now, again, if I'm a Christian and someone Takes me to court. I have no choice to appear. I'm not wrong for appearing. It's the active partner that's trying to sue is the one that really is shaming the name of the Lord, the one who pursues the lawsuit. And it may be that you unfortunately have to appear sometimes in a court case and in that Time you have no choice but to go, but when you go, make sure that uh your attitude is Christ-like And that you do what you do to glorify God. Don't try to get a selfish advantage on someone or win. You just simply try to act out your Christian convictions in a situation like that. But Paul says, you know, this is something that we need to think about. There's the rank of a true believer. But notice the second thing here. Notice the reaction of a true believer. Look in verse number 7. Now, therefore, there is utterly a fault among you Because ye go to law one with another, why do ye not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? Nay, ye do wrong and defraud and that your brethren. So what is Paul saying here? A true believer would rather endure the wrong committed against them than to shame the name of Christ and the testimony of the church. He would rather suffer the wrong than to shame the Lord's name. Okay? And also keep in mind that the reason we don't want to go to an unbelieving court is because we have a different value system than the world as Christians You see, the court looks to assign blame. A Christian looks to seek reconciliation and forgiveness. It's a totally different idea, totally different attitude. The attitude again of a true believer is a peacemaker, not someone who is trying to get their own rights. You know someone who's out always selfishly for themselves Friend, that's a person I think that needs to question whether they truly know the Lord, because God's people are people who love the people of God, who love the church of God. Let me show you something. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Paul's going to deal with this issue again, but look at verse 19 of 1 Corinthians 11. He said, For there must be heresies among you. The word heresies here means divisions. Here's a person in the church that's dividing. Paul says, there must be divisions among you, so that they which are approved may be made manifest. What does Paul mean by that? In the church, when there's someone who is causing a division, who is seeking selfish gain, Paul said in a situation like that, when a heresy like that happens, when a division like that happens, you just remember that those who are approved of God will rise to the surface. They'll be made manifest. You say, how? They're the ones seeking peace. Because a child of God is a peacemaker. A child of God wants real peace. And so Paul says, sometimes there has to be these divisions in the church so that you can know those who are docimus approved, tested and approved of God, and those who are not. And so Paul's going to deal with that later in chapter 11. But go back to chapter 6. That's why Paul says, you know, a true believer would rather not go to court. They would rather be defrauded. They would rather have their rights trampled on than to see the name of the Lord brought down. And Paul says in verse number seven In verse 7 again, now therefore there is utterly a fault among you. Look at the word fault there. It's a word for a defeat in court. And Paul's basically saying you already lost your case. He's talking about in the court of heaven. If you pursue action where you're trying to get at somebody else and you take them to court, you've already lost your case before God in heaven. That's what he's saying. You might win your case here on earth, but you've lost your case before God. You have already suffered a spiritual defeat. The right attitude is to go ahead and suffer the loss. And that's what Paul's saying. Why don't you just rather take the loss? Verse 7. Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you. Because ye go to law one with another, why do ye not rather take wrong? Why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? Again, you didn't misread this. Paul said, go ahead and suffer loss. rather than to bring down the name of Christ and the glory of God in any way. Now, um, and again I would remind you of what the Lord Jesus said You say, well man, that sounds kind of extreme, that we should take the loss. No, m Jesus said this in Matthew 5. 4, talking about this very principle. If a man will sue thee at law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. Jesus said, if someone drags you into court and they take away your coat, that was the shirt that a man wore. He also wore a cloak, which was the outer garment. And so the cloak is is the uh outer garment that a by law a person couldn't take. If you live back in that day and a person took you to court and you couldn't pay money for the case, they could literally take your shirt from you. A person back then didn't have a whole lot of shirts. They had maybe two shirts. But you could take a shirt from a man in court, but legally you couldn't take his cloak. Why? That was his outer garment, and sometimes he would use that garment to cover up at night. That was also his blanket that he used at night to keep himself warm. So according to the law, you couldn't have that. But what does Jesus say? Jesus said, look, if a person goes and sues you and takes away your coat, give them your cloak also. You know, in other words, just uh whatever you do when you go to court, have the attitude of being someone who is peaceful. And let the Lord take care of it for you. Let God take care of you. Paul mentions this same principle in Romans twelve. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lies in you, live peaceably with all men. Then he says this, dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. Paul says, listen, don't try to bring revenge or avenge yourself. Just back out of the way and let the Lord take care of this. So Paul says, first of all, if you do this, if you take a brother to the court, you're already defeated. But also you defraud others. Look in verse 8. Nay, you do wrong and defraud, and that your brethren. It hurts the church, it will hurt you, it will hurt others, is what he's saying. You know, while I was preparing for this sermon, I read about a lawyer who was a Christian. And in his practice over the years, he has counseled Christians who took other Christians to courts to drop the lawsuit. And he would refer to this passage of scripture. And he would say, don't take them to court, just give it to the Lord. Let the Lord take care of it. This is what he said. He said in 90% of the cases, he has been successful. and telling a person to drop the lawsuit and they dropped that lawsuit, he said he always saw how later on the Lord blessed that person. And he took care of it for them. He said God would take care of their cases. But then he said those who would not drop the case, the ten percent who would not, who pursued their selfish interests were chastised And they became bitter and they became resentful, he said, looking back over those cases. So we see the rank of a true believer Listen, you're going to judge angels. God has given you wisdom. You can handle cases among yourself, Paul said. There is the reaction of a true believer. A true believer would rather defraud. Allow himself to be defrauded rather than to shame the name of the Lord. But then number three, there's the righteousness of a true believer. Look down at verse number nine. He says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards Nor revilers nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. Now, what's Paul saying here? Paul's purpose here is again to state the character of a true child of God And Paul, and I think in a way Paul's also saying, you need to examine your own heart talking to the Corinthians to make sure that you know the Lord. He's telling them to stop acting like unbelievers if you're truly a child of God. Look at verse 9 where it says, be not deceived. The action there is stop allowing yourselves to be deceived. The Corinthians were deceived about the practice of true believers. They felt like they could be saved and live like the lost. And Paul said, no, you're not to live like the lost world. You're to be different. And then he gives a list of things that God saved them from in verse number nine he says uh Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, and then he gives the rest in verse ten Thieves, covetous drunkards, revolers, extortioners, they will not inherit the kingdom of God. And look what he says in verse eleven, and such were some of you. But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that in the church in America today, there are many people that are deceived about their salvation. There are many who claim to know the Lord, but they're living just like the lost world. And Paul is saying, listen, if you're living in these things, then you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. If this is the practice of your life. You're deceived. You're not a true child of God if you're allowing these things to dominate your life. I remember years ago In another church, there was a man who came to me and he said, Listen, would you counsel my sister? And I said, Sure, what's the problem? He said, Well, she's really just out of control right now. And she needs someone to to just talk to her and counsel her. And so I said, sure, I would be glad to do that. Let me tell you about this this woman. She was married to several men. She had been divorced many times and and yet she said that she was a missionary at one time in her life. And when I talked to her, she was telling me all this, you know, how that she used to be married to a missionary and she used to do God's work But now she was no longer in church. And she actually she was in trouble because she was living with a man at the time and she tried to stab him with a knife and kill him Also, she had a black eye. And the reason she had a black eye is because she was on a bus on her way to Atlantic City to gamble. And she was drinking on the bus and she was so unruly that the bus driver pulled the the bus over and said that she had to get off and she got into a fight with the bus driver and he gave her a black eye. And there she was in my office. And I was supposed to help her. And so I read to her Galatians 5. 19 to verse 21. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, and you know the list of things there similar to the list that I've just read you here. And then I read in verse uh 11 where it said um that those who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. If you live in this lifestyle, if this is the practice of your life You're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. You need to examine your heart to make sure you know the Lord Jesus. You know what? She was offended that I would dare question her salvation. That I would actually question the fact that she was a child of God. She said, after all, I was a missionary And I did work for God. Yet her present life she was totally out of control. She was living in sin, a pattern of unrepentance. And what does the Bible say about someone like that? Again, Paul says here that those who do these things, you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. That's not the way a true child of God lives. Now let me be clear. A child of God can lapse into carnality, but they're not going to stay there. God will punish them. God will bring them back. It is possible for a true believer to lapse into sin, but they will be miserable. And God will punish them and bring them back into fellowship. But if a person can just live an unbroken pattern of sin in their life and never ever feel bad about it and never repent and confess. Then friend, that person needs to check their salvation. Because look what Paul says again. He lists all these things that are listed here. Uh and again this is a very exhaustive list. We don't have time to go through every word. We know what many of these means, fornicators, is sexual immorality, idolaters, those who worship false gods Uh we talked about his feminine abusers with themselves with mankind. There he's referring to the sin of homosexuality. And that was rampant back in Paul's day when he wrote this drunkards and extortioners, but again look in verse 11, and such were some of you. This is not the way you are now. This is what you were. Now you're washed And you're justified and you're sanctified. As a child of God, you don't do that anymore. This is what you're like now. Now again, he was confronting this in the church of Corinth that had so many problems And he was saying, this is what a true child of God is like. You can't live like the world and claim to be a true believer. And so here he's talking then about the righteousness of a true child of God. If you're truly saved, the Lord has cleansed you from all these things of the past, and now he's working a work of sanctification in your life. He's trying to make you more holy. And notice again where he says, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit, of our God. You have the Holy Spirit living on the inside of you. And what does the Holy Spirit do? He gives you new desires. He gives you holy desires. Paul said, that's the character. That's the righteousness of a true believer. So how do we apply this to us? Just remember in the church that we want to live first and foremost to glorify the Lord in the eyes of the world. We don't ever want to do anything that brings shame to the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember that as a believer, you have the Holy Spirit living inside you. He will give you wisdom and discernment to handle matters yourself, to mediate matters. In the church, we need to be at peace among one another. And when there does come a time when there is a bit of a difference between one believer and another, we need to come together and seek peace. And if two people need help on that, you be the mediator. You help bring peace among the people of God. That's what Paul is saying here to the church. Forgive because you have been forgiven. You have been forgiven for so much you need to learn to forgive other believers and not try to get back at them. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, again, we thank you for the clarity of your word and what you teach us, Lord, about your glory, seeking To uplift your name in everything that we do, living out the things that we believe. Help us, Lord, to realize That we are new creatures. And that Lord, through your Holy Spirit, you are working within, making us holy and righteous in our practical life. Help us, Lord, to realize we can't live like the world. We can't do what the world does. You've called us to be different. And so, Lord, help us to apply these things to our life. so that we may be pleasing in your sight. Bless these words, Lord, to every hearing heart here tonight. And again, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask this one question Before we turn it over to Pastor Earl to close us out. Friend, do you know that you know the Lord Jesus? Maybe God has brought you here tonight Because he wants you to hear this. That you can be washed. You say, man, I'm battling with sin in my life. Yeah, but Jesus is waiting to cleanse you and wash you from all those sins, to make you new To save you and to do a great work into your heart if you'll just turn to him with all your heart by faith Say, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. If you're not a Christian, I encourage you to pray that prayer right there where you are. Lord Jesus, wash me. Cleanse me. Save me. Make me a true child of God. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.