Would you take God's word this morning? Open to the Book of Colossians, chapter one. The book of Colossians, chapter one. And we're going to be looking this morning at verse 15 down to verse 20. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? Colossians chapter 1, verse 15. Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature? For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. And having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say whether there be things in earth or things in heaven. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for your inspired word. This is your authority. We have no other message than the message you give us in Scripture. So, Lord, would you please give us understanding into the Word of God today and speak to our hearts and use it, Lord, for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So I'm going to be starting a series from now up until Christmas, a short series. I know we've been in the book of Second Corinthians and we'll pick up that after Christmas, but I want to do a series that I'm calling God in a manger and I want to focus on passages in the New Testament that deal with the incarnation of Christ. And this is certainly one of those passages that speaks about who Jesus is. And I think it's good that we look at this this morning. I I read one time in the newspaper of a wealthy Boston couple that was have a christ having a christening party for their newborn baby. And they invited all their friends and their family. And a half hour into the party, when it was time to bring the baby out for everyone, they made a a horrifying discovery. that they the mother had left the baby on the bed in the in the in the master bedroom and people were putting their coats there on that bed And they found the baby uh suffocated there beneath a mound of discarded wraps. Just a terrible story. But when I read that story, I thought about how that is a perfect analogy of Christmas time. People are so wrapped up in the festivities, the gifts, the last minute shopping, the decorations, all the things that come with Christmas that they actually forget about. The main reason, the purpose of Christmas, that baby that was born in the manger was God. God became a man. Christmas is all about Christ Now nowhere is this clearer than in the book of Colossians, because the Colossians is a book that emphasizes the preeminence of Jesus Christ. And the key verse was verse number eighteen. Look at verse eighteen of chapter one. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Look at the word preeminence there. A very interesting word. It's the word protuo, and it means to be in first or above all others. To be in first place. This is the only time that this word is actually used in the New Testament. It is used in the Septuagint to talk about Haman in the book of Esther, who was honored above all others around them It is used in an apocryphal book of 2 Maccabees to speak about a man of high position. A few times in the New Testament, this word is combined with another Greek word. to form a compound word and we kind of get an understanding of what it means by looking at that. For example, it's used in 3 John Regarding a man by the name of Diotrephes, if you read that epistle, you know that Diotrephes was seeking to be above everyone else He loved to have the preeminence above all the others in the church. And the Greek word that is used there is phileo love, protuo, first place. He loved being in first place. Now that's a term that is okay if you're talking about football, you know, or the Ravens. I'd love for them to be in first place. But when you're talking about in the church, here is a man who is exalting himself above everyone else in the church, and that was the word that is used there. It's also used to speak about the Pharisees who love to sit And the chief seats, or we could say the place of authority, and the word that is used there is Protuo, Cathedral, the first seats. The chief seats, the chiefs that give uh the seats I should say that give first in rank. And so by looking at that, we kind of get an idea of the word as it is used here in Colossians. It's the idea that Jesus is supreme. He is preeminent. He is the one that is first above all others, the preeminent one. And that is the theme of the book of Colossians. the preeminence of Jesus Christ. You can outline the book like this. In chapter 1, Christ's preeminence is declared. In chapter 2, Christ's preeminence is defended. In chapters 3 and 4, Christ's preeminence This demonstrated But what I want you to see are is this passage that we just read here, where it talks about Jesus Christ and his preeminence, and there are three reasons why we should put Christ first. Beloved, Jesus Christ should be first in every part of our life. He should be preeminent in every area of our life. And this is especially true around Christmas time when we are celebrating Christ. We're celebrating the fact that He was the one who came to be the Savior for our sins. God in the flesh. And He is to be preeminent in our celebration of Christmas. So let me give you three reasons for this. First of all, number one Why is Christ preeminent? Because all of God's person is contained in him. Look at verse number 15, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Now Paul jumps into deep theology here. when he talks about Christ and uh and these words here are very weighty. When he talks about he is the image of the invisible God. There are many false teachers that point to verse fifteen and they like to say that Jesus was a created being and therefore he was not God when it says that he was the firstborn of every creature. There's some people that say, well, that implies that he was a created being if he's the firstborn among creatures. If you ever talk to a Jehovah's Witness, they like to spend a lot of time on verse 15 trying to say that Christ was created. Well, that's heresy, and it's a heresy that is not new. In fact, this was a heresy that Paul was dealing with when he wrote this letter. to the book of uh uh this book of Colossians, this letter to the church at Colossae and to the other churches that were in that region. What was the heresy that he was dealing with. And really to understand these verses, we've got to get a little bit of a background into the heresy that was spreading around into that region in the first century. It was an initial form of what we now call Gnosticism. How do we know what Gnosticism beliefs because in nineteen forty five there was a farmer by the name of Muhammad Ali, not this not the boxer He was digging for soil. He was trying to fertilize his crops. He was trying to get good soil for his crops. And he happened to dig up a a big uh earthen jar, earthware jar, near a city uh in Egypt called Naghamadi. And uh inside that jar he found uh manuscripts That presented a Christ that is far different from the Christ that we read about in the New Testament, and we now know those as the Naghemati Library, and they were Gnostic writings. That was the writing of the Gnostics, what they believed, all this heresy was written down. So we now have a little bit of an understanding of the heresy that Paul was dealing with when he wrote This book of Colossians. And so let me just give you a summary of what they believed. What did they believe about God? Well, one profound idea, or I should say an idea that has profound implications, not necessarily a profound idea. But the implications of it are is profound. And that is this, that they believe that God was a spirit. All spirit was good. All matter or material things were evil. And so that idea had consequences. If God is good, he would not create matter or material things or a physical world because that's evil. And so the highest God was not the God who created the universe. Gnostics believed that God, the highest God, the supreme God, what he did was he put forth a series of emanations from himself. What do I mean by emanations? beings that came out of him that were a little less God than him, a little less deity. They were they're called by some scholars the demi-urge. or uh or or or sub gods. And so here's the supreme God, and out of him came a lesser God, and out of him came a lesser God, and out of him a lesser God. And so you have this whole chain of beings that lead up to the Supreme God. It's bizarre, isn't it? And finally you get to a a certain being in this chain of beings that is far enough removed from the Supreme God that he could actually create the heavens and the earth. He could create material things, a physical world. And so this is the God of creation, they would say. They also say that's the God of the Old Testament. And they viewed that God as not a God that was good, but a God that was actually blocking all others from ascending this ladder to the supreme God. And so, therefore, uh the the the job of anyone who wanted to ascend up the ladder into spiritual perfection was to get around this God, this God of the Old Testament. they would say. This God who created the world and he did a botched job of creation. He put together spirit and uh material things. He put together spirit, the in the visible with the invisible, the spiritual with the physical. An analogy would be it would be like a jeweler Who would who did a bad job putting together pure gold with junk metal when he made a piece of jewelry? That's what this God did. And that's what the Gnostics believed. And so therefore it was the duty of anyone who wanted to ascend up into spiritual perfection, to ascend this ladder of beings. And by the way, if you wanted to ascend up into spiritual perfection, you had to. You had to have special knowledge. That's where we get the whole idea of Gnosticism. It's from the Greek word knowledge. You had to have knowledge. You had to have the password. You ever when you're a kid have a club with a clubhouse, not everyone could be a part of your club, you had to know the password. You know, you knock on the clubhouse door, what's the password? You can't be a part of our club unless you know the password. That's in essence what the Gnostics were like back in that day. You couldn't be a part of them. Unless you had this special secret knowledge that only they could give you, salvation came through knowledge. It came through wisdom. And you had to have this wisdom. You had to have this knowledge in order for salvation to take place for you. And so that's what they taught. What did they teach about Jesus? Well, they taught that Jesus was simply one of these lesser gods that emanated from the supreme God. He was one in the chain. And he could give some knowledge. He could give some wisdom. But you needed more than just that. You needed more than just Christ. He was only one of many. And by the way, this heresy also attacked uh uh excuse me attacked the incarnation of Christ because they taught that he really didn't become a man. He only appeared as a man. That's why he could walk on water. That's why, you know, he they would say he look would leave no footprints when he would walk because he wasn't really a physical Man, he didn't really have a physical body, he only appeared that way because if he's really a God That he wouldn't take on human flesh. And so that whole heresy attacked this whole idea of God becoming a man. Why would God want to become a man? Why would that ever want to do that if all flesh is evil? And so this one named Christ could give you some knowledge. But you needed a whole lot more than just him. And so you can imagine how this heresy was attacking Christianity. It was attacking the whole idea of Christ becoming a man and who he was. Now it's against this kind of thinking that the Apostle Paul picks up his pen and he writes about the person of Jesus Christ. And when you read these verses here in the Colossians chapter 1, what you see are weighty words. I mean honestly, I'm trying to preach them in five verses. That's that's a fool's errand because there's so much in these verses. There's no way you can get through all of it Of what Paul means when he's talking about Christ. He jumps off into deep theological waters in verse number 15 when he says, Who is Jesus? He is the image of the invisible God. That word image there is the Greek word icon. You ever hear the word icon? That's exactly where we get the word from, from this Greek word. It's really a Greek word, and it means an exact likeness. In fact, in antiquity, when a sculpture was so skilled that he could make a sculpture, a bust of a man, and it was exactly what that man looked like, that was called an icon. One time there's a letter that was found of an ancient letter of a soldier who wrote to his father and he sends a picture that an artist had drawn of this soldier. He sends it to his father and in the letter he says, Father, I send you this icon of me that you might remember me. And and really what it meant was a photograph. Of course it wasn't a photograph because they didn't have cameras back then. But I think it would be the nearest word that we could use today to talk about this word here would be a photograph. So if you allow me a little liberty, who is Jesus? He is a photograph of the invisible God. He is the visible manifestation of the invisible God. That's what he's saying right here. And the word means more than just representation. It actually means a manifestation. It has a deeper understanding with that. Jesus is the manifestation of God the Father. That's who he is. Greek scholars are very clear on this: that the word here actually means more than just revelation. It is a manifestation of God. Jesus is not just a lesser emanation of the true God. He is the visible manifestation of the Supreme God. That's who Jesus is. In Christ, the invisible God became visible. That's what he's talking about. He is the image of the invisible God. In John 118, the Bible says, No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him, and I love the word there, it's exegedomite. He has revealed him. He has made him clear. You want to know what God the Father is like? Just look at Jesus in scripture. That's what he is. That's what he does. He reveals him. But then also he says this in verse 15, look what he says. He's the firstborn of every creature. Again, this is a very weighty word, firstborn, prototokos. Again, it doesn't mean that Jesus is a part of creation. It doesn't mean that he was a created being. The word firstborn here is not a word of time or origin or chronology. That's not what firstborn means here. Normally when we use the word firstborn, it has the idea of time. You know, you have four children, this is my firstborn, that means he was born before the other three. But that's not how it's used here. The term firstborn is not with reference to time or chronology. It is with reference to rank. He's above all. He's head of all. You know, sometimes in the Old Testament, a firstborn child would not get the rank of firstborn. You might be born first in a family, but that doesn't guarantee that that's going to be your rank For example, did you know in the book of Genesis we read of Esau and Jacob? Which one was born first? Esau. Who got the rank of firstborn son? It wasn't Esau, even though he was born first. It was Jacob that got the rank of firstborn. Look in verse 18, it uses this term again. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the what? The firstborn from the dead. Again, that's not talking about timing or chronology. Because let me ask you a question. Was Jesus the first person to ever come out of the grave, to ever resurrect? We would have to say no, because we know in the Old Testament that there were prophets who uh were did the miracle of resurrection. We know Elijah did that. He raised a dead son. We know that Jesus raised the daughter of Jairus, the leader of the synagogue. We know that Jesus resurrected Lazarus We know that at the crucifixion of Christ, there were Old Testament saints that came out of the grave. Jesus was not the first person to ever be resurrected. However, he is the firstborn. from the dead. And what does that mean? That means of all those who have ever been resurrected or ever will be resurrected, he ranks number one. It's not a term of chronology. It is a term of rank. So where is Jesus in all this? Paul said, look, he is number one. He is supreme. He is higher than the highest. He is preeminent. He is God in the flesh. All of God's person is contained in Jesus Christ. But here's the second point. All of God's power is centered in him. Look in verse number 16. For by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. Visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by Him and for Him. You want to know who Jesus is? He is the creator. Who made all things? That little babe in the manger was the creator of the world. He made all things. And notice the three phrases here where it presents Christ as preeminent over all of creation. It says, by him all things were created. And notice that he created visible and invisible in both of those realms. He didn't just create the visible physical things, he created the invisible Talking about the spiritual world. And in verse 16, he talks about thrones and dominions and principalities and powers. What is that? That is. A classification of angelic powers, four different classes. That means he created all the angels, all those in the spiritual realm, he created everything in the physical realm. In John 1. 3 it says, all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Think about that, beloved. When you think about that, think about the sheer size of the universe, which is staggering. It's staggering. Listen to this. The sun has a diameter of 864,000 miles And could hold 1. 3 million planets the size of Earth inside of it. That's how big the sun is. But if you think that's big, there's a star that they found has a diameter of 100 million miles. Which is larger than the Earth's orbit around the Sun. And you know what astronomers have found out? We live in a universe that has billions of stars like that. And you know what? Jesus made all of it. He created all of it. That's just staggering to think about. And notice it says that in verse 16, all things were created by him, through him, we could say, is the Greek preposition there, die through him and for him. And I think again, Paul's taking aim at another Greek philosophy. Greeks philosophers taught that everything that was created, you needed a primary cause, you needed an instrumental cause, you needed a final cause. Everything needed those three causes according to these Greek thinkers. The primary cause is a plan. If I'm going to create something, I'm not a very creative person. But if I were going to say, create maybe a sculpture myself I would need first of all a primary cause. What is that? I would need a plan. What am I gonna make here? And then I would need the instrumental cause. I would need the power or the skill to do it, which I don't have But let's just say I did have I I I want to make this sculpture. I I have to have a plan in my mind. I have to have the power to do it, and then I have to have a final cause. What's the final cause The final cause is a purpose. I have to have a reason why I want to do it. Why do I want to uh make a sculpture of something? Well maybe I my purpose is is I want to put it in my backyard. I want it to be beautiful. And by the way, anything that I would make, you wouldn't want to put it anywhere, I promise you that. But I would have to have those three causes. And that's what Greeks typically thought. Here we apply this to Jesus. Paul applies this to Jesus. Paul is saying, when it comes to creation Jesus is the primary cause because he planned it all. He is the instrumental cause because it was through his power that it was all created, and he is the final cause. Why did he do it? What was the purpose? He did it for his own pleasure. Jesus is the primary cause. He is the instrumental cause. He is the final cause. All things were created by him. Notice what it says in verse 17. Before him all things did not exist. You know, Jehovah's Witnesses in their New World Translation, when they take this verse, they insert a word into it. I don't know if you ever knew this, but they insert the word other. He is before all other things. And by means of him all other things were made to exist. That word other, they infer it in there. It's not in any Greek text You pick up a Bible from the Jehovah's Witnesses, a New World Translation, you'll see that word other there, but it's not in any of the Greek manuscripts. You know why they slip it in there? Because it changes the whole meaning of the verse. It makes Jesus a created being, just an agent of creation instead of the Creator Himself And that's a dishonest, blasphemous way to refer to the Lord Jesus Christ. By him all things were created. Before him all things did not exist. And notice the next part of verse 17. And in him all things consist, or we could say, hold together. Not only did Jesus create the universe, He sustains it all. He sustains it. Now, science was not my best subject in school So bear with me here. And you you correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think I am. But nuclear scientists tell us that all the substance in the universe is constructed from three fundamental little particles. called protons, electrons, and neutrons. Right so far? And you have a nucleus in these atoms and you have these protons and you have these neutrons and you have these electrons swirling around there in this atom. And also scientists have discovered what they call the law of mutual repulsion between these particles in the atom. And you know what they say? They say that they should not be able to live side by side together. They say that they're charged in such a way that they repel from each other They repulse from each other. And so scientists say they can't figure out what holds it all together. One scientist, and let me just quote here from him, Carl Darrow from Bell Labs in New York, said this. These nuclei have no right to be alive at all. In fact, they should never have been created and if they were created they should have been blown up instantly. Yet there they are And another pro professor of physics at George Washington University said this every object is a potential nuclear explosive without being blown to bits. In other words, these little particles in these atoms, they should be resisting each other, repelling from each other. And there's some force there that holds it all together. And you know what? Science with all of its ingenuity and all their brilliance, they can't figure out what it is. You know what they call it? Here's the here's I love the term that they give it. Nuclear glue. They say it's nuclear glue that holds it all together. And they even came up with another name. They said this this invisible force that holds it all together, they called it Colassius. Colossius. I'm not making it up. That's the word that they give it. But I would like to correct them respectfully and say it's not Colossius. It's Colossians 117. Because it says right here, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist. You know who holds it all together? It's Jesus Christ. That little baby in the manger being held by Mary, she had no idea that he was holding her together, and he was holding the whole universe together. Because by him all things consist. All of God's person is contained in him, all of God's power is centered in him. But then the final point is all of God's purpose is complete in him. Because look down at verse number 19, it says, For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. And again, this is a word that Paul is using to attack Gnosticism. The word fullness is the Greek word uh pluroma from plur pluruo, which is a word that the Gnostics love to use. And again, here, I think Paul's making an intentional slap at them because they were always talking about this fullness, the pleroma, the pleroma. And Paul says, let me just tell you, all the pleroma dwells in Jesus Christ. You want wisdom? It's all in Christ. You want fullness? It's all in Christ. You want spiritual knowledge? It's all in Christ. You want the password? It's Jesus. That's it. There's only one mediator between God, the true God, and man, and that's the man Christ Jesus And he is the in the image of the invisible God. He is the expression of this invisible God. And all the purposes of God are fulfilled in Christ. His purpose in redemption in verse 18. He is the head of the body of the church. You know who this church belongs to? It doesn't belong to me. You should thank God for that. It belongs to Jesus Christ. It's his church. I don't want to pastor a church that belongs to a man That's not the church of Christ. It belongs to Christ. He is the head of the church. You know why? He paid for it with his own precious blood. It's his church. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, it says in verse 18. And Christ should have the preeminence in all things. That is, he should be first place in everything. But he's also God's purpose in revelation. We already saw this in verse nineteen, for it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell all the fullness of the Godhead, all the fullness of God, it all dwells, it all resides in the Lord Jesus Christ. And also, he's God's purpose in reconciliation. Look at verse number 20. And having made peace through the blood of his cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say whether they be things on earth or things in heaven. And you know, this is the purpose of Christ's coming to this world. He came to reconcile this world that has been in sinful rebellion against God. He came to reconcile sinners to bring peace. You know what reconciliation means? It means to bring peace between two sides that were warring. or were enemies. Did you know that mankind is in warfare against Almighty God? Hostile against God? You don't think the world's hostile against God? You're not reading the newspaper. You're not watching TV. There's this war against Christ, this war against God that comes from the heart of sinful lost men. You might say, well, I'm not at war with God. Okay. Well, God's at war with you. Because the Bible says he that doesn't believe on Jesus Christ is condemned already because he hasn't believed in the only begotten Son of God. And you know what you need? The very first thing that you need to make sure of in your life is that you are reconciled to a holy God. That's the greatest need that you have. is to make sure of your reconciliation. To make sure that you've because of the blood of Christ that was shed on the cross when he paid your sin debt That you have come to Christ in repentance and faith and put your faith in him. And when that happens, all of your sins are forgiven, and you are at peace with God. You're reconciled. Christ came to be the reconciler not only of things in earth, but also things in heaven. All the universe is out of harmony with God. Christ came to reconcile and put in harmony again, all these things. And so the question is, do you know Jesus Christ? Have you been reconciled? To God. The Son of God became the Son of Man, so sons of men can become sons of God, so that you can be part of the family of God. He bore our sin. He paid our sin debt. You compare that with the reconciliation of these Gnostics, what they taught, this false view, this lie, that you had to climb this ladder of knowledge. You had to go through one being after another, and you had to get the password and the secret knowledge, and you ascended this ladder, and you were never fully reconciled. And Paul said that's all wrong. The only one that can bring reconciliation to this world is Jesus Christ. He's the only one. He's the supreme one. He is the one mediator. Between God and man. It's the cross and the atoning work of Jesus Christ that brings reconciliation, not this so-called special knowledge that you claim to have. And so Christ needs to be preeminent in our life. He's number one. He's the supreme God. That's what Paul is saying. It's all about him. So this Christmas let us determine to make Christ preeminent All of God's person is contained in him. All of God's power is centered in him. All of God's purpose is complete in him. It's all about him. It's all about Christ. Now you say, how do we apply this? Well I'm glad you asked. Give me just a few more minutes. You say, how do I apply this? You know how it's applied? Look in Colossians 3, look at verse 16. If you're reconciled to Christ and He's preeminent in your life, you're reconciled to God, look at how it's going to affect your life. Look in Chapter three verse sixteen Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord, and whatever you do, you do in word or indeed. Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. It'll be reflected in your worship life. Christ's word, you'll want the word of Christ to dwell in you? If you're here to be entertained, you're at the wrong spot. I give you the word of God. I give you the word of Christ. If you're truly his, you're going to want to hear that. You're going to want to hear about him. You'll want that word to dwell in you richly, and you'll you'll give thanks to the Lord. The preeminence of Christ will be demonstrated in your worship life. You know what I read about this week? I read that many churches, since Christmas is on Sunday. Christmas Day is on Sunday. You know, a lot of churches are canceling their Sunday service because Christmas Day is on Sunday. And uh someone sent me a tweet that said, you know, are you having church on Christmas Day on Sunday morning? I'm like, Why why why would I not have it? The thought of canceling on Christmas Day on a Sunday morning, it never even entered my mind. If Christ is preeminent in Christmas, why would we do that? Why would we want to do that? He'll be preeminent in our worship life. He'll be preeminent in our wedded life. Look in chapter 3, look at verse 18 and 19, wives. Submit yourself to your own husbands as fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives. Verse 20, children, obey your parents. The preeminence of Christ will be manifested in your home, in the way that you do these things in your work life In Colossians 3. 22, servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service, as unpleasers, but as singleness of heart, fearing God. And then chapter 4, verse 1, Masters give unto your servants things which are just and equal, knowing that ye also have a master in heaven. That is If you're an employee, you'll work like you're doing it for Jesus, since he's preeminent in your life. If you're an employer, you'll treat your employees as if Jesus were working for you. Because Christ is preeminent in your life. And in your witness life. Look in chapter four, look in verse number five. Walk in wisdom towards them that are without. Redeeming the time, let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. Christ will be preeminent in the way that you talk about Jesus and the way you witness for Jesus all around. So I would just like to say, make sure that Christ is preeminent in your Christmas. Make sure that he's first place. One day a man was leaving church after a Christmas service, and the pastor greeted him and said, Hey Jim, it's time for you to join the army of the Lord. We need to see you every Sunday. And he said, I'm already in the army of the Lord Pastor. And the pastor said, Then why do we only see you on Christmas and Easter? And he looked at him and he said, Because Pastor, I'm in the Secret Service. You know what? I I'm disappointed that you're laughing at that joke. You know what, we don't need anybody in the Secret Service. And the truth of the matter is, if Christ is preeminent in your life, there's no such thing as a secret service. If Christ is preeminent. Let's let's let's pray together. Father We don't have enough words to express our gratitude to you for sending your Son Jesus Christ for our salvation. And to read these verses here, it literally, it blows my mind. I don't think I can wrap my mind around this. About who Christ is, all that he is. It's hard to even fathom. But Father, I believe with all of my heart. I believe that he is the visible manifestation of the invisible God. That he's God in the flesh, that he's the firstborn among the dead, that he is preeminent over all things. And Lord, with all of my heart, I give you praise and I confess that you are Lord. And I ask you to give me the grace to live out your preeminence in my own life. And Lord, may that be true for all of us. And so, Father, I pray for that. And I pray if there's someone here that's never trusted Christ, that today they would put their faith in him. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, I want to I want to give you this invitation before we're dismissed today. If you've never put your full faith in Christ and been reconciled to God, that's the reason he came. You can do it right where you are. The Bible says now is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation. You've never Done that. Would you please right now I'm pleading with you to come to Christ. Reach out in faith. Just pray and say, Lord Jesus, I want to be reconciled to God. My sin Has damned my soul. I know that I'm a sinner. I know that I deserve eternal judgment, but I am asking for your salvation. I'm turning to you with all my heart and save me, Lord Jesus. Your friend, pray that. The Bible says if you come to him, he's not going to turn you away. He's not going to cast you out. Just come to him. And if you pray that, let us know. At the end of the service, we're going to have some people up here in the front. And if you want to know more, we're here to help you. And so take advantage of that, beloved. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts, we pray in Jesus' name.