Luke chapter one. Now it is uh already quarter of eleven, so you're gonna have to listen fast this morning. Uh Luke chapter one, and uh this morning You know, we've been doing a series on why Christ came and there are certain passages of scripture that are just uh so very good that re s that speak about the coming of Christ. And last week we looked at Psalm forty and we looked at uh the Really the story from the words of Christ, I come to do thy will. And today we're going to look at it from the perspective of Zechariah here in Luke chapter one. Uh uh Christmas according to Zechariah You know, someone said the greatest forces in the world are not earthquakes and thunderbolts and so on. The greatest forces in the world are babies. And uh I think that is especially true in this case here in Luke Luke chapter one and two, because what you have here in these chapters are the story of the birth of two babies. Luke chapter one deals with the birth of John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Messiah And of course, Luke chapter 2, the birth of the King, our Lord Jesus Christ. But we we see this story of Christmas from the perspective of Zechariah. And I want you to So notice who he is. We get an introduction into this character in Luke chapter one. Look at verse number five. The the story really starts there. I want to kind of give you the setting and then give Notice first of all what I want to call a faithful priest. Look in verse number five. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest Named Zachariah, and of the course of Abiah, and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. So we're introduced to a priest by name Zechariah. He was married to Elizabeth. She is a descendant of the priestly line, a great granddaughter of Aaron, who is the brother of Moses. And the Bible says in verse 6, and they were both righteous So they were blameless before the Lord. They were a faithful and godly couple who served the Lord. In verse seven, Elizabeth, the Bible says, was barren. She uh in verse seven they had no child because Elizabeth was barren. They were both now well stricken in years. And so there were very old really past the stage of life where they could bear children, past child bearing years. And keep in mind that in the culture and s and uh uh society of that parents in their old age. And so we find them in a very difficult situation here. But notice not only a faithful priest, but a fearful priest. Look at verse 8. And it came to pass that while he ex e executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course. According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense. So in Jerusalem at this time there were many priests. In fact, there was about twenty thousand priests Now the custom was was to divide them in divisions. There were twenty-four divisions or courses. Uh this was something that was instituted by David David each division consisted of three hundred priests, and the Bible says that Zechariah was in the division or the course of Abiya, uh an old testament Name there and each course was called upon for duty for eight days twice a year. Eight days you serve twice a year. Now um what they would do is a certain oper Certain um temple responsibilities and privileges were chosen by Lot. You say, What's Lot? So that was like rolling stones, you know. Uh they would cast some stones to find out which Which of the fifty-six got the privilege to do certain things that were in the temple? And one of those things was to burn incense on the altar of incense. If perchance lots were cast and you were chosen to go into the holy place to burn incense, if you did it one time, you were never chosen again. You were kind of shuffled out. That was it If you were chosen, you only did it once. This was a once-in-a-lifetime responsibility. It was a very great honor. And the lots were cast, and the lot chose then Zachariah. To go into the temple to the holy place. If you can picture in your mind, right before the veil there was a golden altar. Uh it came about waist high. And you would you would take basically um you would take ashes or coals, I should say, from off the brazen altar where they offered the burnt offering, and then you would take those coals And then on top of that you would put a golden bowl, and in that bowl there were all kind of um spices that were mixed together uh mixed together. They were prescribed specific Specifically in the book of Exodus, a a particular uh smell would go up, smoke would go up, and that smoke would represent the prayers of the people of God outside people Would be waiting and praying while this whole process happened. And Zechariah was the one chosen to be able to do this wonderful act of service unto the Lord. So while he's there in the temple Temple. He's ready to burn incense on the altar of incense. Something happens. Look down in verse number eleven. And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the So he's in there, he's in the holy place, he's ready to burn the incense, and all of a sudden there's someone standing There on the right side of the altar. Now we he knew it wasn't a man because no other man was allowed there in that holy place. This was an angel of the Lord. And notice what it says in verse 1 twelve and when Zachariah saw him, he was troubled. The word for troubled here, Tarasto, he was afraid. He shook with fear. Perhaps this angel had a an appearance where he would shine But he was troubled at the presence of the angel. But look at verse thirteen. But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zechariah, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee And thou shalt have great have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth, for she shall be great in the sight of the Lord And shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. And many of the children of Israel shall turn to the Lord their God, and he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom uh to the wisdom of the just to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And so the angel gives this great news. Your son will be, his name will be John. And now the angel quotes from Old Testament prophecies about who? About the Messiah This child of yours, he will be the forerunner to the Messiah. Which means what? The Messiah is finally coming. They have been waiting for The coming of the Messiah for many years. And your son Zachariah will be that forerunner. He will be the one who will prepare the way of the Lord. We see a fearful priest, but then I want you to see the next thing a faithless priest, because look at his response in verse 18. And Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am all I'm an old man and my wife well stricken in years. His response really is one of faithlessness and skepticism. There's a lot of negative uh feelings How do I know that this is going to happen? You expect me to believe this? I'm an old man, my wife is old. How is this going to happen? And like many people today, he was having trouble believing in the promises or the word of God. He goes, I need a sign. I need something that will help me to believe this. How am I to believe this? Now notice for a Verse 19, and the angel answered and said unto him, I am Gabriel that stands in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee these glad tidings. And that's it, the angel's response is, look, do you know who I am? Do you understand who I am? I'm Gabriel. You know where I come from? You're asking for For a sign, what greater sign can there be than that God sends an angel from his presence to you? I'm Gabriel, I stand in the presence of God, and I would have you know Zachariah, that God Himself sent me to tell you these things? You need more assurance and more of a sign than that. And so, because of his faithlessness, because he doubted this There was a punishment. Look in verse 20. And behold, thou shalt be dumb and not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believeth not my word It strikes at the very heart of the gospel. If God can't uh bring a child out of a woman who's past childbearing, how is he going to be able to resurrect his son from the grave? God's able to do any of these things This was a punishment for unbelief. Now in verses twenty-one and twenty-two, the people were standing outside, they were wondering what took him so long. But finally he emerges, but again he's unable to say anything Well, let's fast forward then in this story. I want you to go to verse number fifty-seven because I want you to see now a filled priest. We saw a And they called him Zacharias after the name of his father. Now all the relatives are coming together. This is a joyous occasion. They're going to now have this child circumcised and At that point they beg give a name to the child, and all the relatives are saying, Let's name him after his father, Zachariah Jr. But his mother said no look in verse number sixty and his mother answered and said not so that's not going to be his name uh she's very firm in her response It's almost fierce. Fierce, I should say. Raymond Brown translates this, no, you don't. His name is John. Now the family had a problem with this because they look at verse 61 and they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. This is not a family name I mean, you know, why are you doing this? This is nowhere in the family, this name. And so they made a sign, they brought in Zechariah in verse 62, and they wanted to ask him What do you think the name of this child should be? And so they asked him and looked in verse 63, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John And they all marveled. Well they marveled because here's this older couple. This is probably the only child they'll ever have. And if this is going to be your only son, surely you would want to give him a family name. But sh John pulled out his iPad Pro and wrote the name John His name will be John. And they marveled at that. Why did they marvel again? Um, by the way, to give a name Signifies ownership. It signifies authority. Give you an example. Let's just say on a baby dedication, a couple in this church came to dedicate their baby. They brought And the parents would say, How dare you name our child? We already named him Zachary Jr. after his father. How can you Change his name. You see, by naming a child, that assumes what? It assumes authority. It assumes ownership. And if you look in the Bible, whenever God changed a name, God was in essence saying that this person now is mine, they belong to me. I have a special purpose and plan for them. Therefore, Jesus changed Peter's name. It was Simon And Jesus said, now I'm going to call you Peter the Rock. In the Old Testament, God changed Jacob's name to Israel after they wrestled. When Saul got saved, God changed his name to To Paul, each time God was saying, I have a special ownership of you, and I have the authority over your life, and I have a special purpose for you. And the test For Zachariah would be this, when he was given the opportunity to say, What would the name of this child be? Zachariah could have said, Well, I'm going to name him Zachary Jr. here and continue in his Unbelief or this was a test for Zachariah to really undo what he had done with his unbelief and say that his name is John. is John. And look at verse number 64 what happened. And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake and he praised God immediately Upon writing there on his tablet that his name will be John, the Bible says immediately he could speak. The punishment was over. Now upon this, what does he do? He then begins to say what the coming of the Messiah would mean to the world. And actually from verses 67 On down to verse 80 is really Zachariah's commentary on what Christmas means. What does the coming of the Messiah mean? Now, by the way Way, you say, well, wait a minute, this is really the birth of John the Baptist. What does this have to do with the birth of Christ? Well, very simple. John would be the forerunner, and if the forerunner is going to be born, what does that mean? That means the king is coming. The king is right on his heels. The Messiah will be born. Look at verse number 76. And thou child shall be called the prophet of Of who the highest. Who is the highest? God. You're going to be the forerunner or the prophet for God. And notice what he says again in verse 76. For them Thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his way. And here Zachariah is alluding to the Old Testament prophecy in Isaiah forty verse three, a voice crying in the wilderness And in the Old Testament, by the way, it uses the divine name of Yahweh. And so Zacharias knew that John was going to be the forerunner To prepare the way of Yahweh God. This child that will be born after John will be not only the son of David, but he will be God. God God in the flesh. And Zechariah knew that. He knew that his son would be the forerunner. Even while uh Zechariah spoke these words, he knew that Mary was in her womb. And so his heart is filled with joy. And he begins to speak about the coming of the Lord. And we don't have time to expound all of what's in verses sixty-seven to verse eighty But just know this that when he speaks about the Messiah coming, notice he uses past tense verbs. Look at verse sixty-eight. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his Notice that's past tense. Verse 69. It has raised up a horn of salvation. Again, past tense. In verse 74, that he would be grant us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemy Look at verse 78. Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring on by it has visited us. Now wait a minute, Zechariah, the Messiah, hasn't been born yet Why are you using past tense here? This is what some call a prophetic past, in the sense that whenever past tense is used in this situation Where really a future event has not yet happened and a person will use past tense verbs. What they're saying is this thing is so sure to happen, it's as if it's already happened. It's so sure. The coming of the Messiah. He has already visited us. It's so sure that it's going to happen. And notice where that word Visited. That's what Christmas is all about. It's all about God visiting man in the flesh. The infinite becoming an infant. The Son of God becoming a Son of Man. So that sons of men would become sons of God. That's what it's all about. Now, with just a few minutes I have left, let me just give you a few reasons that Zechariah gives why Christ came. We might not get to all of these, but we'll try. Look number one is he says the Messiah is going to come to release us from prison. Look again in verse number sixty eight. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel for he has visited and redeemed his people. Look at the word redeemed there. That's a word that means to be set free from a prison. To set the prisoner free. That's why Christ came to set us free from a prison. You say, Well now wait a minute, what prison? I'm not in prison. You know, people who are do not know the Lord and salvation. Do you know the Bible says that they're in a prison? You say, what prison is it? It's called the prison of sin. Sin has enslaved, and sin always enslaves Friend, you say is there are people out there for I I do whatever I want, I do according to my own free agency, but the problem is is that your free agency isn't in charge, it's your desires. You know, the desires of the heart of man are what And that determines a person's choices. And you know what the Bible says about the desires of a person who doesn't know the Lord? Those desires are never godly desires. Desire is a really a desire for the things that are against God. They're sinful desires. According to Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3, it tells us that we walk according To the desires of the heart. And I want to tell you: a person who doesn't know the Lord never desires the things of God. He doesn't desire God at all. And a person's will is enslaved to those desires And someone has to come and set that person free. And Jesus said this many times in the scripture. Remember when he said in John 8, uh he said to the Jews, that I he said this, I've come to Set you free. And they said to Jesus, Now wait a minute, we are Abraham's seed. We were never in bondage. And what did Jesus say Verily I say unto you, whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. Or we could say, imprisoned to sin. Someone has to come And set the prisoner free. That's why Jesus came into this world. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, who was put in prison by Hitler during World War II, one time wrote a book A letter to his fiance, and this is what he said. He said a prison cell in which one waits, hopes, and does various unessential things is completely dependent on the And then he said this this is a good picture of the coming of Christ And he's exactly right. The prison door has to be opened. Someone has to open it. And that someone is Jesus Christ. When he came, he came to open the prison door. And again I love the the words of the hymn. I know I quote hymns a lot, but I love some of the words. Charles Wesley said, Long my imprisoned spirit lay Fast bound in sin in nature's night, thine eye talk about God, diffused a quickening ray. I woke the dungeon flame with light, my chain Fell off. My heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. Friend, that's salvation. That's opening the door. That's one reason. Let me give you a second reason to fulfill God's promise. Look in verse 70. As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began. Zachariah says the Messiah came is to fulfill all of God's promises. Zechariah is saying, look, this is exactly what was prophesied in the Old Testament. This is what the Old Testament has said Someone has summarized the Old Testament as simply being a uh a collection of birth announcements, all talking about the coming of the Messiah, all these Old Testament prophecies Are all about the Messiah. And here is Zachariah saying, this is exactly what these prophets have said. And by the way, they were waiting, they had been waiting For hundreds of years for God to fulfill his word. In fact, this was a dark time in the nation of Israel. And really, we could say that there was kind of a blackout As far as God speaking, because for four hundred years there had been no prophet, no word from God. The last prophet was Malachi, and he talked about the coming of the uh The forerunner, and that was four hundred years of silence. Can you imagine? No prophet, no word from God for four hundred years. But this Silence was about to be broken. It was about to be broken under John the Baptist. And here is Zachariah saying, all the promises that God gave, now he's going to fulfill In fact, the name Zechariah is really appropriate. It's appropriate that a man by the name of Zechariah will announce that the silence is over, that God is going to fulfill all his promises. You know why? Because the name Zechariah means The Lord remembers. And the name of his wife is also good. Elizabeth, it means this: that he is the God who keeps an oath, my God of an oath. The God who keeps an oath. And you can rest assured, friend, that God will always keep his promises and that God has not forgotten you. You may be here today and you may be saying, You don't know my Circumstance, you don't know my situation, man. It's not good. I I've been praying for the Lord to do something in my life. I've been praying for him to move. And it just seems like that I they There's nothing but silence. It's almost like there's a blackout between God and I and God's not hearing me. Well I'm here to tell you that uh God has not forgotten you according to his word Word and God he does remember. But let me just also tell you that God has his own time on everything. You just continue to wait in faith because God will He will hear your prayer. He will give you what you need. He has not forgotten you. God has a timing on everything. Let me just tell you the story. I I say this just to be an encouragement. I remember one Christmas, many years ago, my children were very small, and I didn't I was just through a series of providential events, didn't have any ministry at that time he didn't have any income. And I just thought I don't know how I'm going to provide for my family, especially this Christmas, when you have all these little children, and it's really fun For kids when they're little, right? And you want to be able to give them some things, and I had nothing. I just went to the Lord. I said, Lord, you you you you you take care of us. You always have. Now I remember one day after ch uh church Carney pulled out a rifle. A rifle, a big long rifle. I said, Oh, thank you very much. That's wonderful I appreciate it. Um you really want to give me this rifle? You know, and and of course to him it was a prize. I mean it was almost like parting with something very special. I mean it was almost brought to tears. Father God told me Are you sure that was the Lord that told you to do that? You sure about that? Yes, I want to give this to you. Well, thank you. I was very humbled that he thought of me and I I took the rifle and I thought, I don't know what in the world I'm gonna do with a rifle. You know, I'm not a hunter. You know, I don't go hunting. I don't get up early in the woods and freeze to death I would just rather go to the steakhouse and get it over with. But he gave it to me and it was one and then I I and then there was a guy who actually saw that little transaction. And he came to me later and he said, How do you like your rifle? I said, Oh, it's wonderful. He said, Would you be willing to sell that? And I, my eyes got really big. How much would you be willing to give me for this? He said, I'll give you $800 for that rifle. I said, sold. Sold. And I took that and of course that eight hundred dollars of course provided everything that we needed at that moment. And you know that's you see that's kind of a funny story. Yeah, but you know, I say that just to Reminds you, and this was the Lord reminding me that I haven't forgotten you. And I'm not going to forget you. And I say that to encourage you today, because it may be that you're here and you think, well, the Lord Lord, he's forgotten me, friend. He hasn't forgotten you. He's going to take care of you. It might not be in a way that you think, and you might have to wait a little while, but he doesn't forget Yet and that's what this story reminds us, the Lord remembers. He came to fulfill all of his promises to us. Let me give you the last thing quickly to offer mercy. Look in verse number uh seventy-eight, uh verse seventy-eight, where it says, Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring on God has visited us. You know why he came according to Zachariah? The coming of Christ means that God has come to offer His mercy. Mercy. God, that's what Christ means to this world. It is the mercy of God to offer Now friend, we live in a day when everyone is angry and people are demanding their rights. And And I want people to have what's right for them. Don't get me wrong. In some cases it's justified. But friend, it just seems like we're living in a very angry age in a Cry of the ages, give me justice. Give me justice. And my response to that is this do you really want God to give you justice? I'm not crying out today for justice because friend if I ask God to give me justice I'm afraid that He would give me justice. And and and you know what I deserve? I deserve hell. I don't deserve anything but The punishment of God. My cry is not give me justice. My cry is Lord, give me mercy. Give me mercy. I'm in need of your mercy. We are a people that are in need of the mercy. And that's why Christ came. He came to offer us God's mercy and thank God for that mercy. Because it is that mercy that offers us salvation that Cleanses us from the sinful debt that we have. He will pay our sin debt with his merciful death on the cross. And also to give us light in a time of darkness, as it says here. He's the day spring on from on high. He is the the the the star that dawns at the morning where the darkness is banished away and the light comes. Christ is that light coming into the world To offer us mercy. And let me just close by saying this, friend, right here today, he offers you mercy. Thank God for that mercy that we can receive. I think of the man who went to the temple and said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. You know what Jesus said of him? He said, That man went away justified. Because he pleaded for mercy. Our God delights in mercy. And he gives it to those who ask it. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we are We're so thankful for your mercy. We're thankful for the coming of our Savior into this world to free us from prison. To fulfill all of your promises and remind us that, Lord, you haven't forgotten us. To offer us mercy. We are a people in desperate need. And so we thank you for that. And I pray, Lord, for those who may be here today who have never been a partaker of that beautiful, wonderful mercy. You give us in salvation, that today they would plead for mercy from you. That they would be like the publican that went to the temple. While the Pharisee hid himself Or lifted his head and said, I'm thankful I'm not like others. It was the publican that smote himself on the chest and said, God be merciful to me And he was justified. May there be some here like that today that plead for the mercy of our Savior. And friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, was that your prayer today? Are you someone that says I'm in desperate need of the mercy of God in my life to forgive me, to cleanse me, to save me? Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you, friend? Would you just lift your hand hand and said yes preacher that's me I plead for his mercy in my life today anyone here say I need that mercy God bless you dear friend God bless you I plead for that mercy in my life god bless you friend and god bless you anyone else i need this this mercy in my life Would you be willing to pray this prayer? Right there we are. Say, God, be merciful to me. Save me. Come into my heart. Cleanse me. From my sin, make me your child. Friend, if you pray that immediately, he will save you right there where you are. In a moment, we're gonna have a Time of invitation, I'm going to ask you, would you be willing to come and let us pray with you? And ask Christ to be your Savior. Let's all stand together and let's sing just the first stanza of that hymn, just as I am Our ministers are going to come here to the front. And if we can help you in any way, friend, you come and do what the Holy Spirit says. I know the hour is late, but this is important, friend. This is so important for those who need friends Let's let's sing just as I am together. Friend, do you want to come? Let us pray for you, pray with you. That the mercy of God would come into your life, dear friend. We want to help you. All right, thank you so much. much friend if if you're here and you've you said man I I raised my hand I I want the mercy of God just know that we're still here we're not we're not going anywhere come to one of us ministers Minister's afterwards, let us pray with you, let us help you. We're not going to leave here until everyone's been ministered too. So friends, just be assured of that.