I invite you this morning to take your Bibles and open, please, to the book of Joshua, chapter 20. Now, on Wednesday night, we've been preaching through the book of Joshua, and Pastor asks And gave me this opportunity on Sunday morning. And I and always when you get this opportunity you think you want to preach something appropriate. And I always want to preach Christ. And I thought this passage here I think would be appropriate. Because I think it's so Christ-centered. And I want to preach this morning about Christ our refuge. Every father, our greatest job is to provide refuge for our family. And I want to tell you that the best thing we could ever do is point to Christ as the refuge. So look in Joshua chapter 20 and look at verse 1. The Lord also spake unto Joshua, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, saying, Appoint out for you cities of refuge, whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses. And the slayer that killeth any man unawares and unwittingly may flee thither, and they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood. And when he that does flee unto one of those cities shall stand at the entering of the gate of the city, and shall declare his cause in the ears of the elders of that city, they shall give him into the city unto them, and give him a place that he may dwell among them And if the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall not deliver the slayer up into his hand, because he smote his neighbor unwittingly, and hated him not before time. And he shall dwell in that city until he stand before the congregation for judgment, until the death of the high priest, that shall be in those days. Then shall the slayer return, and come into his own city, and unto his own house, unto the city from whence he fled. And they appointed Kadesh in Galilee and Mount Naphthalai, and Shechem and Mount Ephraim, and Kurdith Arba, which is in Hebron, and the Mount of Judah. And on the other side, Jordan, by Jericho eastward, they assigned Besar in the wilderness upon the plain out of the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth and Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan and Bashin out of the tribe of Manasseh. Now the whole Bible is about Jesus. It's all about Jesus. When you study the Bible, look for Jesus because he's there on every page. Some people think that all the Old Testament is about the law and the prophets and the New Testament is about Jesus, but that is wrong. All of it is about the Lord Jesus Christ. It's all about him. So if you study a book of the Bible and you don't see Jesus, go back and restudy that book. Because it's like the hymn that we sing sometimes, standing somewhere in the shadows, you will find Jesus And you'll know him by the nail prints in his hand. Do you remember the story after Jesus resurrected when he was on the road to Emmaus And the Bible says that he met up with two disciples, and the Bible says in Luke 24, 27, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Jesus went all through the Bible and pointed out things about himself. I would give all of my time in seminary and all my degrees for that one Bible study. with Jesus. As he taught his disciples all things about himself. Jesus said in John 5. 39, Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me. So there are not four Gospels, there are 66 Gospels. And I want you to see a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ here in this passage that we just read. And I want to point to Christ today as our only real refuge. Again, as fathers, we want to provide refuge for our families. That is our greatest responsibility. But I want to tell you the greatest things that you can do and I can do is to point to the real refuge, and that's Jesus Christ. We have to point our families to Christ. That is the greatest thing that I can do and the greatest thing that you can do. I read an article for years people suspected something was going on at a s an exclusive resort in the Greenbyer Inn in West Virginia. Few people knew the extent of what was happening. This was during the Eisenhower administration. This inn was under reconstruction. Actually, there was a new wing. that was being built so the U. S. government was secretly constructing an underground bunker. This underground bunker would house all of the members of the House of Representatives, all of the members of the Senate This was to be constructed in case of some kind of a national emergency, some kind of crisis. Now in this bunker there was all kind of amenities. There was a commissary, there was a clinic, a medical uh place there was a uh media production room living quarters for every member of Congress and there was staff always there to keep it in good shape Now the cover story was that these were TV repairmen repairing things at this end. But finally the lid was blown off, a story leaked, and they shut down this whole facility. And think about this. It was never used, ever. It was an unused refuge. And when I read that, I thought about, I think the greatest unused refuge today Is Jesus Christ. The greatest refuge for our nation is Christ. And the greatest refuge for every family is Christ. And as fathers, we need to point to Jesus Christ. So I want you to see this refuge that we have in Jesus Christ. And I want to give you three things here today. First, I want to talk about these cities of refuge. And I want to talk about the nature of the cities. And then secondly, I'm going to talk about the names of the cities. And thirdly, I'm going to talk about the nearness of the cities. And I want you to see how that all these things speak to us and point to us about the Lord Jesus Christ. So here's number one, the nature of these cities. These were cities of refuge. Look again in verse number three that the slayer that killeth any person unawares and unwittingly may flee thither, and they shall be your refuge from the Avenger of Blood. Now this was a place to flee in case of an accident that may have taken place. If perchance a person may have been involved in an accident and killed another person, perhaps while working some strange accident And this person didn't do it on purpose. They didn't do it pre- it wasn't a premeditated murder. There was punishment in the Bible for premeditated murder. But what about an accidental death? It wasn't on purpose. There were no court systems or legal systems back then like we have today. And if a person accidentally killed someone, they needed a place to go to, they needed a refuge. Donald Campbell wrote this. In the ancient world, blood revenge was widely practiced. When a person was killed, his nearest relative took responsible for vengeance. And this was called a vendetta And there were all kinds of vendettas that were handed down from generation to generation. When someone had a vendetta against them, they needed a place to go to, they needed a refuge And so notice in verse 4, and when he that does flee unto one of those cities shall stand at the entering of the gate of the city and shall declare his So the fugitive would come to the city of refuge. And at the city of refuge there would be a gate, and at the gate there would be judges, and he would declare his whole case before the judges. And those judges would come together and they would consider the case And they would say, well, yes, you qualify. This is an accidental case here, so you can come in and you can be safe. But they had to qualify. Verse 3 says the murder was unawares. The accident was unwitting. And other places where it talks about the cities of refuge, it uses the word unawares. Numbers 3511, or ignorantly, Deuteronomy 19. 4, or without enmity, Numbers 352. There was no intent. It was an accident. Now today in our courts we would call this manslaughter or negligence. Deuteronomy 19 gives an illustration of this very thing. Two men were out in the woods, they were chopping wood. One man's uh axe, the axe head was loose on the handle, it flew off and accidentally killed the other man who was chopping wood. And so this man then became qualified to flee. The Bible says in Deuteronomy, he shall flee unto one of those cities because it was an accident, and he didn't hate them. And so these were cities of refuge. These were asylums. These were places of protection. And by the way, this whole passage here, this whole principle, is where we get our principle today innocent until proven guilty. Now, this is a picture here, because all these cities speak prophetically and typically of Christ In fact, the writer of the book of Hebrews had these cities in mind when he wrote this verse, write down Hebrews 6. 18, that by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie We might have a strong consolation, listen to this, who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us. In other words, when he says to flee for refuge, the writer is alluding to these cities of refuge. Now I want to tell you that every one of us here today, we all need refuge. Because I'm going to tell you all of us are fugitives. You say, how am I a fugitive? Well, because I and you were guilty of a death. You say, now wait a minute. I didn't kill anyone. Whose death? The death of Christ. I'm guilty of a death. It was my sin that put Jesus on the cross. Ask yourself, who's responsible for the death of Christ? Was it the Jews who said crucify him? Was it the Romans who nailed him to the cross? No. It was my sin. It was your sin to put Jesus on the cross. It was not nails that held him there on the cross. It was your sin. It was my sin. I'm guilty of the murder of Jesus Christ. You're guilty of the death of Jesus Christ. You say, now wait a minute. I didn't know that my sins would cause his death. I know you didn't do it purposely You did it unwittingly, unawares, without enmity. I didn't mean to put Jesus on the cross with my sins, but I did just the same Remember what Jesus said when he was on the cross? Father, forgive them for what? They know not what they do. You may not have realized it, friend, but your sins and my sins put Jesus on the cross. That's the nature of the cities. But I want you to write down number two the names of the cities. The names of the cities, because the names of these cities all speak to us about Jesus Christ. Did you ever notice that certain cities have certain names and that there's no meaning behind that? Philadelphia is the word that means brotherly love. Baltimore Charmed City, did you know that we were named after Lord Baltimore? I'm sure you know that. I don't know if that changes your life or anything, but just know that Miami is a city named after the Native American tribe that was in that area, Los Angeles, City of Angels, and so on. New Orleans, there was an Orleans in France. Napoleon said, we need a New Orleans And so on. Well, there are significance behind the names of these cities in the Bible Look in verse number 7. And they appointed Kadesh in Galilee out of Naphtali. Kadesh, you know the Hebrew word is is means holiness Holiness and it speaks to me about Christ my Savior. The Bible says without holiness no man shall see God I want to tell you that no man can get to heaven on their own. You know why? Because you can't see God without holiness, and we have no holiness of our own. We have no righteousness of our own. The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God There is none righteous, no, not one. You say, well, how do we get to heaven then? It's through the righteousness of Christ. You see, when I come to Jesus and I put my faith in what he did on the cross All of my sins are placed upon Christ. All of his righteousness and holiness is put on my account. Is given to me. So you're looking at Saint Jerry this morning. Not because I'm any good, I'm not, I'm a sinner, I'm guilty of his death But Jesus gave me all of his righteousness, and this is called the imputed righteousness of Christ. And God the Father declares me righteous because when he looks at me, he sees his son Jesus. And that happens to every person that comes to Jesus. Christ is my Savior. But also, notice the next name where it says, and Shechem in Mount Ephraim. The word Shechem means shoulder, and this speaks to be about Christ my strength. A shoulder is where you carry your burdens. Christ is the one who carries my burdens. He's my strength. Remember the story of the good shepherd when he found the lost sheep, he laid it on his shoulders. The high priest in the Old Testament had a gold plate on each shoulder with the names of the tribes of Israel six on each side. Isaiah said, The government shall be upon his shoulders. This speaks to me about how God, through Christ, carries my burdens. He carries me. You need a shoulder to lean on? Cast thy burden on the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. Then there's the city Hebron and verse uh we see in verse 7 and which is Hebrew, which is in uh in the mountain of Judah. Hebron means fellowship or fullness, and this speaks to me about Christ my satisfaction. One of the greatest blessings of salvation is fellowship with Jesus Christ. Did you know that you were created to have fellowship with God? Man was created to have fellowship with God And there's a void in every heart who d that does not know Christ because you were created to have fellowship with God. And people try to fill that void with the world and earthly things, and you know what? The world and the earth, the things of this earth do not satisfy That's why people have all these things and yet they're still miserable. You know why? Because you're only going to be satisfied until you come, you won't be satisfied until you find or come to Jesus Christ. Augustine said it best, Thou hast formed us for thyself, and our hearts are restless till they find rest in thee. My satisfaction is Christ. So he's my Savior, He's my strength, He's my satisfaction. But also look at the next name in verse number 8. And on the other side of Jordan, eastward they assign Bezer. In the wilderness, Bezer means stronghold or fortification. And this speaks about Christ my security. The Bible says the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous run into it and is safe I don't need to fear anything if Christ is my security. And then there's the next name, Ramath, in verse number 8. And in the wilderness upon the plain out of the tribe of Reuben and Ramath and Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth simply means high place, exalted. That speaks to me of Christ my sovereign. Where is Jesus today? He's exalted at the right hand of God the Father. And I want to tell you he is Lord. He's Lord over all Some people sometimes I hear people say, Well I I accept Jesus as Savior, but not my Lord. You can't there's no such dichotomy in Scripture. He is the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't come to Him on your terms, you come on His terms. And when you come to him, he accepts you just as you are, just as I am, a guilty sinner, and we accept him just as he is the Lord. Jesus Christ. The Bible says that if thou shalt confess Jesus as Lord literally, and then finally there's a golem. in verse number eight. Golan invasion out of the tribe of Manasseh. Golan means separation. This speaks to me of Christ my sanctification. Sanctification is the process Whereby God is making me more like Christ and less like the world. And that's what happens when you come to Christ. You become less sinful, you become more and more like Jesus. You know how you know that you're saved? Because there's going to be a desire in your heart for holiness. You're going to have a desire to walk away from the things of this world, to say no to sin, and to say yes to righteousness. Yes to Christ. And so all these cities tell me about Jesus. He's my Savior. He's my strength. He's my satisfaction. He's my security. He's my sovereign. He's my sanctification. Pray, what else do I need? Christ is all that you need. Now let me give you the third thing. Not only the nature of the cities and the names of the cities, but number three, write down the nearness of the cities. The nearness, because one thing I notice in verses seven and eight Is that these cities were so located and so designated by Almighty God that no matter where you were in the Holy Land, the Promised Land, You were always close to a city of refuge. That's the way they're located here in these verses. There were three on the east side and three on the west side. So on the northeast you had Kadesh and the central east or I should say west. On the northwest you had Kadesh and the central west you had Shechem and the southwest you had Hebron And then on the northeast you had Golan, in the central east you had Ramoth, and in the southeast you had Bezer. And dividing them was the Sea of Galilee here, the river of Jordan, the Dead Sea on either side were these cities, spaced apart. And so located and designated, so that no matter where you were in the land of Israel, you were close to a city of refuge. Did you know that The Holy Land is really about the size of the state of Maryland. So it's really not that big. And so there was always a city of refuge close by. And by the way, the roads were never clogged. The roads to these cities. The priests had the duty of making sure that the roads leading to these cities were We're clear of any obstruction. Deuteronomy 19 3, thou shalt prepare the away. In other words Make it clear, one day a year, therefore, the priests and people were sent to repair these roads and keep the way clear. To these cities. And also the gates were never closed. Roads were never clogged. Gates were never closed. You know, in these ancient days, every city had a gate around it, or excuse me, a wall around it, and in the front there was a gate, and at nighttime they would Close the gate and lock the gate and that was obvious for protection. But not so with the city of refuge. Those gates were always open No matter what time of the day, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, every year, the gates to the city of refuge were always open. They were never open closed. And so the roads were never clogged, the gates were never closed, the direction was never confused. You know why? Because they had signs all along the way, all throughout the Holy Land, pointing the direction to these cities. On the signs was the Hebrew word amiklate, which is simply refuge. Refuge. This is the way. Doesn't all that picture Christ to us? Let me tell you, the way to Jesus should never be clogged, and it's not And by the way, fathers, that is our job. As fathers and heads of our family, we are to point the way clear to Jesus Christ. We're to provide no obstruction whatsoever in our life that would hinder any of our family or anyone else. From going the way of Christ. When my children look at my life, do they see any obstruction to Christ? Or do they see a man, a father, who is pointing the way clear? To Jesus. The gates were always open. You know what that tells me about Jesus? He's always available. He's always available. The Bible says At him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. If you want mercy, you'll find it if you come to Jesus. No matter who you are, no matter what time of day, no matter where you are, he's always available And then also, thank God that God has given us a sign point that points us, you know what it is? It's this word of God right here. This is the sign that points people to Jesus Christ. That's why I say if you read the Bible and you don't see Jesus, go back and reread it. Because it all points to us. It all points us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now with that in mind, I want you to go to a passage. I want you to see a story. Go to 2 Samuel real quick. I want to close with this story here this morning. 2 Samuel chapter 3. There's a story of a David lamenting his friend Abner at a funeral. And look at 2 Samuel chapter 3 and look down at verse number 33. Let me just show you this. 2 Samuel 3 verse 33. And here's David. And the Bible says in 2 Samuel 3. 33, and the king lamented over Abner. It said, Died Abner as a fool dies. And here's King David. His friend Abner had been killed. Abner was a mighty warrior and a good man. And David is mourning over him. But this is a strange way to mourn. He died like a fool. Died Abner as a fool dies. I hope no one mourns like that over me He died like a fool. Why does David say this? Well look back in chapter 2. Let's find out how he dies. Look back in chapter 2 and look at verse number 19. Notice what it says. In chapter 2, verse 19. Now there was there was a battle between the forces of David and the forces of Saul, and pretty much David's forces had won out, and the battle was over, and Abner was fleeing from the battle And look down at verse number 18, chapter 2. And there were three sons of Zerua, Joab, Abishai, and And as a heel, or uh azahell, I should say. And Azahel was light as a foot as a wild roe, that is, he could run like a deer And verse 19, and Azahel pursued after Abner, and in going down he turned not to the right hand, nor to the left, following Abner. Verse 20, then Abner looked behind him and said, Art thou uh Azahel and he Azahel? And he answered, I am And Abner said unto him, Turn thee aside to the right hand or to the left, and lay hold of one of the young men, and take thee his armor. But Azahel would not turn aside from following after him. And Abner said again to Azahel Turn thee aside from following me. Wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? How then shall I hold up my face to Joab thy brother? Verse twenty three, and how beeth he refused to turn aside? Wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib That the spirit came out behind him and he fell down there and died in the same place. So what's happening? Abner's fleeing from the battle. Joab's younger brother, as a hell, he wants a trophy for battle. He's not done yet So he's running after Abner. And he's fast. And so he's catching up. And Abner looks behind and says, stop running after me. The battle is over. I don't want to have to kill you. How can I look at your brother if I do? Stop following after me But Azzahell wouldn't listen. He kept running and running. He wanted that trophy. He wanted the glory from battle. He wanted to capture this general And finally Abner turns around and jabs him with his spear, and the Bible says it goes through him, it comes out behind him, and Azahel dies. Abner didn't want to do it. It was self-defense. He had no choice. And so Azahill dies. Now go to 2 Samuel chapter 3. And look in verse number 27. Verse 27. And Abner was returned to Hebron. You remember what Hebron was? City of refuge, right? He was going to Hebron. He's going to that city of refuge. But there at this waiting was Joab. The Bible says Joab took him aside to speak with him quietly. So get the picture. Here's Abner. He's going to Hebron. He's right there at the gate. All he has to do is just walk in, and he's safe. But there's also Joab Asahil's older brother, he's now the avenger of blood. He wants vengeance. But somehow, Joab speaks peacefully. He I can just imagine, I can just picture, hey Admirer, let's let's be friends. Let's bury the hatchet. Yeah, he wanted to bury the hatchet all right. He wanted to bury it in Abner. And so he speaks words of kindness and deception. And he says, Abner, come on, come on over here. Let's talk. And so there goes Abner. I can't believe it. He's walking away. He's walking away from the gate of the city of refuge. All he has to do is go inside and he's safe. But he walks away from his only refuge. And what does he do? Joab comes, puts his arm over him. They're talking, I love you. And he pulls out a knife and he jabs it in Abner and kills him for his brother's sake. And as David laments over Abner, he says, Abner died like a fool dies. You know why? Because he walked away from his only real refuge. You know what? I I feel like there are probably some people here this morning that are somewhat like Abner. I want to tell you something. Your only real refuge is Christ. He is your only refuge. Some of you, you might be at the very gate. You might be at the very door of salvation, of placing your life in Christ and entering into that refuge. And you're there at the very gate. But I want to tell you, the avenger of blood, the enemy, Satan, he speaks peaceable words to you. He wants to pull you away through circumstances, through things, from that only refuge that there is, and that's Jesus Christ. I'm going to close with this story. Billy Sunday used to tell this story. Governor Pollack many years ago was a Christian governor of the state of Pennsylvania. A young man was accused of murder. He got the death penalty. This young man's mother went to see the governor. He didn't want to talk to her because he didn't want to go through all of that. But she snuck into his office, she fell down before him on her face and She wrapped around her her her arms around his shoes and said, Please, please pardon my son, please. And he said, I'll go talk to him. So the governor went to the prison, said to the prison guard, please open the gate. Let me go in and talk to this young man. They opened the the bars The governor went in. He sat down on the bed next to this young man. This young man had his face buried in his hands. He wouldn't even look up. He wouldn't even acknowledge that man. And Governor Pollack said, Young man, I want to talk to you. I want to uh let's have a conversation. The young man ignored him. Do you know do you know Christ? Are you prepared for death? Young man ignored him. Young man, I Can I speak to you, please? Let me talk. Let's talk. He ignored him. Finally the governor said, Very well, I'm leaving. He stood up. He walked out. The prison guard opened the bars, then shut the gate behind them, and then said, Thank you for coming, governor. And when the prison guard said governor, the young man picked his head up. He said, Governor! Did you say governor? He said the prison guard said yes. That was the governor, the only man that could pardon you. And you ignored him. You lost your chance. But I want to tell you the only refuge, the only person that can pardon you is Jesus Christ. And I got good news, he's here today. And he's right there with you. And he's reaching out to you. And he's calling out to you to come unto me for true refuge. Charles Wesley, shortly after his conversion in 1738, was sitting in his study one summer and he looked out the window and there was a bird flying, a little bird flying frantically. There was a big old hawk that was coming after that bird to kill it. And strangely, that bird flew right into the window of his study and flew right into his coat, into his bosom. And the hulk dare not follow. And Charles Wesley was so touched by that that he wrote the hymn that we sing these words, Jesus, lover of my soul. Let me to thy bosom fly. While the nearer waters roll, while the tempest still is high, hide me, O Savior, hide. Till the storm of life is past, safe into the haven guide, O receive my soul at last. Then he wrote these words, Other refuge have I none. Hangs my helpless soul on thee. Leave I leave me not alone. Still my support and comfort me. All my trust on thee is stayed. All my help from thee I bring. Cover my defenseless head with the shadow of thy wing. Christ is your only refuge. Amen. And Dad, the greatest thing you can do is to go to that refuge and then point others to him. Let's bow for prayer today. And so, Father, we thank you for the refuge that we have in Christ, our only refuge. There is none other. And so we say like the song where they hide me, O my Savior, hide. Till the storm of life is past. Other refuge have I not. How many of you willing to say that today, to come to Christ and to point others to the way? We pray all this in Jesus' name.