Take your Bibles tonight and uh open to the book of Hebrews, chapter nine, and we continue our study through Hebrews. And tonight we come to chapter nine, verse number fifteen. Chapter 9, verse 15. And uh I want to talk about Christ's last will and testament. Look in chapter 9, verse 15. of Hebrews. Well let me read verse fifteen with you. For this cause, he is the mediator of the New Testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgression that were under the first testament, They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. I read of a woman that died and uh left all of her property to a Christian university. And uh or so it seemed and according to the precise terms of her will, all of her worldly goods were bequeathed to a particular uh institution Well, the the woman's children found out about this and they uh they were kind of surprised. Actually surprised is hardly the word for it. They were infuriated. that according to them this uh Christian institution took advantage of the mother in this way and so the children tried to contest this will in court but they were unable to uh to win the case And so they were absolutely out of the will. There was nothing they could do to change the terms of the will. That matter was settled. And so the question I want to ask you tonight is this do you know that our Lord Jesus Christ has a last will? and testament. And the question I want to ask you tonight is, are you written out of that will or are you a part of it? That's what the this qu that's what this passage I think uh would ask of us and really would help help us to make sure to know that we're not written out of this last will and testament Now the night before our Lord Jesus was crucified, he was gathered with his disciples in the upper room. They were there to observe the Passover, according to Old Testament uh law And uh you remember that that night Jesus basically took the cup, the Bible says, and he said, This is the new what? New testament in my blood, which is shed for you. And so there at that observance of the Passover, Jesus instituted a New Testament or a New Covenant And uh that is why we have our Bible divided into the Old Testament, the Old Covenant, or the New Testament, and the New Covenant. Jesus made the change from the Old to the New. And the writer of Hebrews has mentioned this, and for example, in Hebrews eight, verse eight, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel. And then also chapter 9, verse 15, the verse that we just read again, and for this cause, he is the mediator of the New Testament, or we could say the New Covenant. Now the word covenant and testament are different translations of the same Greek word. But sometimes the same Greek word can be used in a different way if it's presented in a context That demands that. You understand what I'm saying? You can use the same Greek word, yet it have a different nuance and meaning because of the way it's used in the context. Now, when you see the word covenant used in chapter 8, it's referring to an agreement God has a new agreement that he made with his people, but the word in chapter 9 is used to describe a will. So the phrase New Testament can describe a new agreement that Jesus has made with all those who receive Him by faith, or It can also mean a new will that Jesus has made for believers. Now we know what a will is, right? A will is a legal statement of how a person intends for his heirs to uh to use or to assume his property or his riches. This is a legal statement uh that is binding that a person makes and normally it involves at least three individuals and who would they be? Well the first one would be a testator And that's the word that chooses in verse number sixteen. Look what it says in verse sixteen for for where a testament is, or that is where a will is There must also of necessity be the death of the testator. Or this is the person that actually makes the will. He's the one who draws it up This is the one who wants to determine how his wealth or his resources will be spent or used among the heirs. And then there's a second party And that is the beneficiaries. These are the people that receive the inheritance. It could be one or it could be many. They're the beneficiaries. And then number three, there are there is the executioner This is the person appointed by the testator, the one who creates the will, to carry out the terms of his will when the testator dies. Now, I want you to see that in chapter 9, verses 15 to 28, this basically is a statement that the Lord Jesus has made a last will and testament. Okay? And we're going to take a look at this last will and testament that Jesus has made. And again, the question you need to ask yourself is, am I a part of this will? Have I been written out of this will? And uh to make sure that you are a part of it. But I want you to see basically three things about this last will and testament that our Lord uh mentions uh in this or that is mentioned here in this chapter And first of all, it is mediated by Christ's death. And then secondly, I want you to see that it is validated by Christ's blood. And then thirdly, I want you to see that it is activated by Christ's appearing. Okay? That's going to be the three points, and then that'll be the sermon, and then you can go home. But let's go over these three points. Here's the first thing I want you to see: the will is mediated by Christ's death. Look again in verse 15, for this cause. Now look at that first phrase there. That's important. For this cause, he is the mediator of the New Testament. Now, in these opening verses of this passage, we see how that Christ uh has earned the right to be the mediator or the one who creates this will. He has certainly earned that right. And when he says for this cause, what is he doing there, beloved? He's referring back to what he has already said in chapter 9. And what did he say at the first part of chapter 9? Basically, it points to his sacrificial death. It points to the fact that all the things that we read about in the old covenant, about the tabernacle, That was nothing more than a shadowy picture that pointed to the reality of the death of Jesus Christ that was to come. Now if you weren't here last week, the illustration I gave you, and I will give it again tonight most proudly, because it's the illustration about my new grandson, Owen. So I wanna I want to give it again. But some of you know that we had a little grandson that was born, Abby, our second grandson, and it looks to me folks like he does have red hair. That's the good news. But let me tell you I couldn't see that on the sonogram. You see, the son we got three birth pictures of him And these were shadowy pictures. And of course, all of you have gone through this when you know you get a sonogram picture, you know what you do, you rejoice and you're happy because you know this is going to come. But it's kind of a shadowy picture And there's not a whole lot I can see there in that, except that he was going to be handsome like his Paw Paw. But there's not a whole lot you can see in that shadowy picture But you know what? When he was finally born, you know what? That picture is kind of done away with, right? We don't need to look at that picture anymore because we have the reality. We have something far better than that picture You see. Now wouldn't it be crazy if I uh if Abby came and said, Dad, do you want to hold Owen? And I said, honey, no, thank you. I'm looking at this sonogram picture. I would much rather look at this picture. than to hold the baby. And you would say you're crazy and you would be absolutely right. But this is exactly what the Hebrews were doing and the writer of Hebrews is trying to tell them that. Look, you are so obsessed with the tabernacle. You're so obsessed with the shadowy picture of how of the of the coming one that you're neglecting the reality For the picture. And so what he does is he sh he compares the picture to the reality in chapter 9 And in the beginning of chapter 9, we saw this last week, he talks about all the furniture of the tabernacle, all the services of the tabernacle, and how that these are really, really great symbols But it's not better than the reality itself. It's not better than the coming of Jesus. In fact, look at verse number 9 of chapter 9. It says this, which was a figure For the time, then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices. Look at the word figure there And I went over this with you last week. That word figure is the Greek word, parabole. It's where we get our word what? Parable from. And you know what a parable is. It's It's kind of you throw down an earthly story next to a spiritual truth. In fact, the word parable means to cast beside. You cast down beside a spiritual reality, a spiritual truth, this parable So that we can understand that spiritual reality, we like to say it is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning, right? Well, the writer of Hebrews is saying, this beautiful tabernacle. All the furniture and the services that took place therein and the beautiful outfit of the high priest, all of that was a parable. It was an illustration. It was a picture. That pointed to a reality. And what is the reality? The reality is the Lord Jesus Christ And so he's telling us that the pitcher never could really do a whole lot for you. But look in verse number 10, which stood only in meats and drinks and divers washings and cardinal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. Until the time of reformation. And that's simply that word reformation there simply means it's a word diorthodos, which simply means this is only used once in the New Testament. It means to make straight. You see, this this picture in the Old Testament, it really couldn't cleanse you. It really couldn't cause your sins to be totally forgiven. You could be ceremonially clean by these rituals in the Old Testament, but it really couldn't sh make you straight. This served to point to the one who would come and who would make you straight, who would straighten you out. Your sins would be totally forgiven, and your conscience would be clean. You would be cleansed not just on the outside, ceremonially. But you'll be cleansed way down deep in your soul. Look down in verse number 14. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offer himself without spot to God Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And that is, if this Old Testament pitcher is able to cleanse you ceremonially, How much more shall the blood of Christ cleanse you completely? He'll cleanse your conscience. You see, when you get saved, you know what happens? Every sin is absolutely forgiven. You're cleansed way down deep in your conscience. The guilt and shame of sin is absolutely removed. You ever notice a person Perhaps who get saved late in life, and before that they were a pretty grumpy, miserable, unhappy person. Why? Because they carried about the burden of sin. There was a lifetime of the accumulation of guilt and shame and perhaps self-condemnation, self-contempt. But when they come to Jesus Christ, they are absolutely, totally forgiven and cleansed by the blood of Christ. And and that guilt is completely gone. And there's a sense of freedom. And that's what the writer's talking about here. Now, with all that in mind, look at verse 15, and for this cause. You get the idea there? Everything he said, and for this cause. I don't know about you, but I think that Jesus has earned the right to be the mediator of this New Testament, don't you? For all that He does in cleansing us. And forgiving our sins for this cause. He is the mediator of the New Testament And so I want you to see then, based on that, the beneficiaries. Who are the beneficiaries? Look at the rest of verse 15. For this cause, he is a mediator of the New Testament that by means of death For the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. And what is he saying there? Who are the ones who benefits from Christ's death? Notice that phrase for the redemption or the transgressions that were under the first testament. You know, one question I'm often asked is this, people will sometimes pull me aside and they'll say, Pastor, how are people in the Old Testament saved? Anybody ever ask you that question? How are people in the Old Testament saved? Well, when Jesus died, his death, he paid for all sins, past sins and future sins. The power of the blood of Christ, and this is what this verse is saying, is retroactive. It cleanses all sins. All those in the Old Testament were saved on credit, so to speak. You know, remember I told you about credit card purchases, the animal sacrifices were really like credit card purchases. When you buy something with a credit card, you really didn't pay for it. You're saying to the cashier, there's going to be a payment to come in the future. And the Old Testament sacrifices were like that. And they pointed to a future payment on Calvary. And again in verse 19, they which are called might receive the promise of internal inheritance. In other words, or we could or back up actually for the redemption of the transgression that were under the first testament, or we could say the first covenant. Everyone under the first covenant, their sins were also taken care of. And so, really, the question of how is a person saved in the Old Testament, this verse right here answers it. The redemption For the transgressions that were under the first testament. All those sins were paid for by the blood of Christ, too. People in the Old Testament looked forward to the cross. We here on this dispensation, this era, we look back on the cross, but we are saved the same way by putting our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And when it says talking about they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance, who are the they which are called? It's anyone who responds to the call of the gospel Friend, when you respond to the call to the gospel, you are given eternal life, and guess what you get? You get an eternal inheritance. But it's faith in the finished work of Christ, it's faith in what happened on the cross. And we become heirs of God. I mean you heard that story I probably told it before. A man was sitting on the street corner crying and a person came and said, Why are you crying? He said, haven't you heard? Rockefeller died The man said, Well you're not related to him. He said, That's why I'm crying. I would love to have some of that inheritance. Well, friend, when you get saved, you get an inheritance, and it's far more than Rockefeller could ever give. This eternal inheritance becomes yours. You are the beneficiaries, not just you, but anyone in any age, before the cross and after, that puts their faith in that cross. They are beneficiaries. Now notice the benefactor. Look at verse number 16. For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. Now the writer's argument here is very simple. The testator of the will has to die right in order for the will to be in effect. Otherwise, the will is not effective He has to die. The testator's got to die for the will to be effective. Now I think what the writer here is addressing is this one idea that The uh Jews in their minds, they could never really fully reconcile why the Messiah had to die That was something that was a stumbling block for them. Remember, Paul said that? We preached Christ crucified unto the Jews, a stumbling block. Because they could not understand in their mind. Why the Messiah had to die. Despite the fact that in their own Old Testament scriptures, there were predictions about the Messiah dying. You've got Isaiah 53, you've got Psalm 22 But somehow they constructed their own ideas about the Messiah, and a dying Messiah simply didn't reckon or fit into their theology. And so what the writer of Hebrews here is doing is showing them that the Messiah had to die. And here's one reason, since he's the mediator or the creator of this new covenant, this new covenant with all of its benefits only becomes effective if the testator dies. He has to die in order for you to benefit from this inheritance, right? I mean you don't get your inheritance before your father dies, right? At least that's not normally what happens. And please don't go to your father and say, look, I know you're not dead, but but I want the inheritance anyway. Because that's an insult. In a way what you're actually saying is, you know, I I wish that you were already dead. So you just give me the inheritance. In fact, that's exactly what the prodigal son did, remember? In the story of the prodigal son, Father, give me everything that belongs to me. I know you're not dead yet. Kind of wish you were, but even though you're not, will you please give me everything that's due to me? And that was an insult to the Father. But you know what, the Father being so gracious, what did he do? Gave it to him. Gave it to him anyway. You don't get your inheritance until the testator dies. That's the principle here. And that's what he's trying to say. You see, when Christ died He laid down his life willingly that he might give us the benefits of his will and testament. He wants us to be the beneficiaries of this last world and testament. So he willingly lays down his life so that those who have put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and are heirs of his will be an immediate and ultimate beneficiary. Of what is in his will. So that's the first point. The will is mediated by Christ's death. But I want you to write down number two. Here's the second point. The will is validated by Christ's blood. And this is what he's going to talk about here now. Anything about a will must be validated by blood. And this is another reason the Messiah had to die. A testament or a will demands death. Forgiveness demands blood. Just fast forward to verse 22, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there's no what? There's no remission. And so the Old Testament or what the writer here is trying to establish is that even that old uh covenant, when it was first inaugurated It was validated, we could say, by blood. Blood was involved in its validation. It was put into full effect with blood. And this is what he's trying to prove. And so I want you to see, first of all, that this is pictured in the Old Testament. Look at verse again, verse 18. of chapter 9, whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood, the blood of the testament. And uh and so he's saying that neither was the first testament was neither the first testament was dedicated without blood. You see, there's kind of a negative there where it says that, you know This first covenant was ratified or affirmed with blood. And then what does he do? He quotes from Uh Exodus, look at verse 19. For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hiss up and sprinkled both the book and all the people. Now he's referring to an event that took place in the Old Testament. And in fact, I want you to see it. Hold your place here in Hebrews and go back to Exodus chapter number 24. Exodus chapter 24. Actually I want you to let's start in verse 19. Everybody turn in there? I want to hear the pages. Those pages sound like angels' wings fluttering to a pastor, okay? So look in look in Exodus chapter 19. And we'll kind of pick up the whole story. I want you to get the whole picture. This is right after Moses met with God. This is actually when he meets with God on Mount Sinai. Look in Exodus chapter 19. Look at verse 3. And Moses went up to God And the Lord called out unto unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, tell the children of Israel, Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, how I bear you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for the earth is mine, and ye shall be a kingdom of priests. And so here's God making the offer to Israel. God said, Look, I just redeemed you, I just brought you out of Egypt. And if you will obey my words, you will be to me a peculiar people. Now how did the people respond? Look at verse number 7. And Moses came and called for the elders of all the people and laid before their faces all these words Which the Lord commanded him. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do. We'll do everything that God says. Did they? No. Of course not. But this is what they said, all that the Lord says we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the Lord. Now go to chapter 24. Now they just made a covenant with God. And in order to inaugurate and validate that covenant, what does Moses do? Look in chapter 24, look down at verse number 4 now. Notice what happens. And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord and rose up early in the morning. And building an altar under the hill and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he sent young men of the children of Israel which offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen and Look at this in verse 6. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar. Verse 7, and he took the book of the covenant and read it in the audience of the people, and said, All that the Lord has said, we will do and be obedient. Look at verse 8. And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people And said, behold the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you concerning all these words. So picture this in your mind, what's going on? He offers the animal sacrifice, he takes the blood of the sacrifice, he takes half of it, he sprinkles it on the altar. And then what does he do with the rest of it? He sprinkles it on the people. How'd you like to be in that audience? How'd you like it on a Sunday morning? I got up here and I just took blood and just started sprinkling you all with it. I would say, now you're clean. And you would say, no, you're no we're not. Now we're dirty. Because in our era we don't think of someone sprinkling blood on us, especially if you have new clothes on If you sprinkle blood on those clothes, you don't think of yourself as being clean or purified. You think of yourself as being dirty And and if you get blood sprinkled on you, you're gonna try to get that underwater as fast as possible or it's gonna leave a permanent stain, right? That's the way we think. But go back to Hebrews chapter 9 now and verse number 19 because this is what the writer is referring to. This is the action that he's referring to. For when Moses, chapter nine, verse nineteen, had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop and sprinkled both the book and all the people. He took his what was that? That was a little bush. It's kind of like a little sponge-type bush. And he would tie it, he would take a scarlet cord or rope and tie it to a wooden stick. And he would take this hyssop and he would dip the end of it into blood, and then he would brush it on, perhaps first to the altar. He also, the writer here says the book. The Book of the Covenant. You know, he just brush it on. How many of you barbecued on Memorial Day? How many did that? Did you did you take and put barbecue on your chicken? You ever brush your chicken with guys getting hungry? And uh this is exactly what he's doing here with his hitshop. He's just taking, he's brushing it on, he brushes it on the book. He brushes it on the altar. Later on when the tabernacle comes, he'll take that hyssop and he'll brush it onto the tabernacle. But here he takes the hyssop with the bull blood and obviously he puts a lot on this hyssab because then he just begins to sprinkle it onto the people. And that's what the writer is referring to here. And verse 20 saying, and as he did this, he said, this is the blood of the. Testament or covenant, which God hath enjoined unto you. Moreover, he sprinkled with the blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry. That is, anything that needed to be purified Before God would be sprinkled with the blood. You see, God is establishing what? A principle. And what is the principle that God is establishing here? That blood cleanses and purifies. Even so, sin cannot be cleansed without the shedding of blood. That's the whole point that he's making here. Again, we wouldn't associate that with cleansing for us, but this is what God is doing here. You know, modern medicine, of which the ancient Hebrews had no clue, really has revealed how accurate it is to speak of the cleansing property of blood. Because let me read you what Dr. Paul Brand said. He specialized in the treatment of leprosy, and he wrote a book with Philip Yancey about how the blood is designed to cleanse the body of toxins. and waste that are built up in the tissues. Listen to what he writes. No cell lies more than a hair's breadth from the blood of a capillary, lest poisonous by products pile up Through a basic chemical process of gas diffusion and transfer, individual red blood cells traveling slowly inside narrow capillaries simultaneously release their cargoes of fresh oxygen and absorb waste products, that is, carbon dioxide and uric acid and so on. The red cells deliver these potentially hazardous chemicals to organs that can be dumped, that can dump them outside the body. He goes on to tell how the lungs and the kidneys, plus the liver and the spleen, all work together. to cleanse the blood of these poisons, to keep our body cleansed and healthy. And so what is he saying that literally, our literal blood, there is a cleansing and purifying process that that literal blood does to our body. That's scientifically, and here is God, and He's using the blood as a picture, a beautiful picture, to show that just as the blood cleanses our body from poisons So the blood of Christ, applied to our hearts by faith, cleanses our souls from the poison of sin But he's establishing this one principle that the blood has a purifying or cleansing element to it. And he did it with this Old Testament picture. It is pictured. But then I want you to see the next thing is provided. Look in chapter 9, look at verse 22. He says, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood. That is, this is what the law teaches. All things are purged by blood, and without the shedding of blood is no remission. And look at verse 23. And it was therefore necessary that the pattern of things in the heavens should be purified with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. And what he's saying is what was pictured in the Old Testament is fulfilled in the New Testament. In the New Testament, Jesus shed his own blood And it is his own blood that purifies. You see, in the Old Testament, it was the blood of animals which was used to Purify the things made after the heavenly pattern. He's talking there about the tabernacle and the altar. It was the blood of animals that was used to kind of do that ceremonial purification there. But with the reality, it is in the New Testament, the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses from sin. That's his whole point there. And so we're saved literally by the blood of Christ. Now, did you know that liberal theologians in certain religions or denominations hate to talk about the blood of Christ. They they call it a uh a slaughterhouse religion. You know, you believe in this slaughterhouse religions. George Bernard Shaw, the playwright, he attacked this whole idea. He said that uh talking about um this blood substitute. He said the superstition of atonement by blood sacrifice, which I believe Christianity must completely get rid of if it is to survive among thoughtful people. He called it ancient An old pagan belief. But friend, the Bible makes it very clear. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission. Of course, this man is a heretic. Anyone who would deny the cleansing power of the blood of Christ. Indeed is. God established this soon after man sinned, and we all know this, right after Adam sinned, God Gave them coats of skin to cover their nakedness, but it was the shedding of the blood. God established that principle right there from the very beginning. Because it is the blood of Christ. Again, as I said before at the beginning, it cleanses us in our inner soul. It removes guilt and shame. You ever notice that people today are struggling with guilt? That's why people are acting crazy all over. You know why? Because their their conscience is so loaded down with guilt and shame. And they're doing all kinds of crazy things to try to hide that guilt or run from that guilt or cover that guilt up. They try to drown it in alcohol or they try to forget themselves by you know using drugs to to to to escape from reality because their soul is so burdened down and they'll go to a psychiatrist who will try to help them submerge their guilt all the way down in their subconscious and forget the fact that they are guilty. And psychiatrists, they have all these different Therapy strategies to get people to forget their guilt. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. The only way you're ever going to get rid of that guilt is to get rid of the sin. And the only way you're ever going to get rid of that sin is through the precious blood of Christ. The cleansing of the blood of Christ. And that's what the writer here is saying. Let me give you the third point. Number one, the will is mediated by Christ's death. Number two, the will is validated by Christ's blood. But here's the third and last thing: the will is activated by Christ's appearing. It's activated by Christ's appearing. Did you ever notice that even when a will is made out, problems can develop after the person dies? Anybody ever hear that? You hear families feuding over a will that a person left behind. Wills are contested all the time. That will can be tied up in litigation. It can be tied up so long that the living heirs don't get anything. It's tied up in litigation for years. Or it could be that the lawyer or the executor of the will might turn out to be a crook. I don't know of any lawyers that are that crooked I just want to cover my basis here. If you're a lawyer here tonight, I'm not against you. But it might be possible. And so when sometimes when a will is tied up in litigation like this, when it gets so complicated, someone might say something like this: I wish the person who made out this will were here to make clear what he wanted. I wish that this person were here. Well you see, friend, I got good news for you. The last will and testament described in Hebrews was made out by Jesus Christ. He was the testator of the will, but guess what? He's also going to be the executor of that will. You said, now wait a minute, how can he do that? He had to die to make the will effective. I know, but he resurrected to be the executor of it. He rose from the dead. And he's going to appear to make sure that his will is executed down to the very detail. And this is exactly the point that the writer is making here in these last few verses, because he's going to appear. And what he mentions here in these last verses, which I only have a few minutes to tie up, Is the fact that there's three appearances that Jesus made after he died. Notice his presence appearance. Look at verse 24. For Christ is not entered into the holy place made with hands Which are figures of the true, but into heaven itself. Now to appear in the presence of God for us. After Jesus died, where did he appear first? One place he didn't go was back to the old tabernacle. He didn't go to that place. He didn't go to the temple. Why? Because that's just a figure of the real tabernacle. Or we could say the real temple Or of heaven. And so the writer says he didn't go back to those things. He went to the true. He went into heaven itself, and he stands before the presence of God. And the word there means face-to-face presence. When Jesus died, he didn't go to the tabernacle, he went to the real place. He went to heaven. And now he's there face to face before the Father. It says in verse 24, in the presence of God for us. He appears there for us in the heaven itself. The word, and again, I don't have time to get into all of it. The word figure of the truth, the word figure there is anti-tupon that's where we get the word type. The earthly tabernacle is a type of the true heaven, and that's where he went. And you know what? No priest could stand face to face with God. But our high priest Jesus can. No Old Testament priest, whenever he went into the Holy of Holies, he never stood face to face with God there in that Shekinah glory. He couldn't No man can uh can do that. What does the Bible say? He dwells, God dwells in unapproachable light, which no man hath seen nor can see. But when Jesus went to heaven, he went to the very presence of God face to face. And so it's his present appearing. But I want you to see his past appearing. Look at verse 25. Nor yet that he should offer himself Often as the high priest entered into the holy place every year with the blood of others with blood of others, for then sent must he ha often have suffered since the foundation of the world. In other words What he's trying to emphasize here is that Christ, he suffered and he made the sacrifice once. He died once, verse 26, to put away sin. In this way he's a greater high priest. Why? Because in verse 25, they had to continually enter into the holy place every year with the blood of another animal. And if Christ had to do that, he says in verse 26, for then he must have often suffered since the foundation of the world. That is, from the beginning of mankind, he would have to die continually from the time of Adam's first sin. Every year, like the Levitical work of the priests, his sacrifice would never be done. It would never be finished. But praise God, friend, it is finished. Because he offered himself once. Once. He didn't have to repeat Calvary, not one time was it ever repeated. He did it once. This is why I have a big problem with this teaching of the idea of the perpetual offering of Christ. Because did you know that there are some who teach that when you come to the Lord's Supper, this is Catholic theology most specifically, that every time you take the Lord's Supper, where you know it's like the Christ is being crucified again And the sacrifice of Christ is taking place again. This is called the doctrine of the perpetual offering of Christ. And in other words, what they're saying is that God's satisfaction regarding sin is dependent upon The Lord's Supper weekly that they take. And that God is not completely satisfied. They have to do it over and over again. But when Jesus died on the cross, what did he say? It is finished. Don't have to do this again. And God's wrath was satisfied. Write down Romans 6. 10. For in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. And then he says this, look at verse 27, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. That is, one time death is kind of a universal truth. We're all going to die once, and then right after that the judgment. I mean that's just generally true with mankind. This this debunks reincarnation. You die once. After that there comes judgment Our death is a divine appointment. God has numbered out our days. Every person in here, you have an appointment with death. You can't get out of that appointment. You can't reschedule it. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes, there's no discharge from this war. What war? The war with death. You're going to face it. It's an appointment, and after that, the judgment. That's why we need Christ to be our atonement for our sin. That's why we need that. But then notice his promise appearing. Look at verse twenty eight. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him, he shall he appear the second time. Without sin unto salvation. This is his next appearing. When he comes again, he's not going to deal with the question of sin and salvation again. He's already dealt with sin. When he comes back, he's going to complete our salvation. And what's part of that? He will grant to us all the inheritance that he has promised us. All the inheritance that we have been promised Will be delivered by the Lord Jesus Christ when he comes back. So again, my question is this: are you written into his will? Do you know that you are an heir? Have you come to Christ by faith? Are you trusting in his finished work alone? Because when you do that, you become an heir. You're written into his will. And you are truly saved. Let me finish by reading this one illustration. Charles Simeon, one of my favorite pastors in history, he was pastor of the Holy Trinity Church in Cambridge, and he describes his own conversion. In 1813, this is what he writes. He says, As I was reading Bishop Wilson on the Lord's Supper, I met with an expression to this effect, that the Jews knew what they did when they transferred their sin to the head of the offering. The thought came into my mind, what may I transfer all my guilt, or what? May I transfer all my guilt to another? Has God provided an offering for me that I might lay my sins on his head? Then, God willing, I will not bear them on my own soul one moment longer. And then he writes, accordingly, I sought to lay my sins upon the sacred head of Jesus. And that was his conversion. He laid his sins on the head of Jesus. And he became an heir. He became part of, he was written into that will. So the the question I want to ask you, friend, is have you done that? If not, you're still guilty. Before God. But salvation is available. Let's pray together tonight. Let's pray together. Father, we do thank you. That our our Savior left a last will and testament And in that will and testament are all the blessings, the benefits that we, his children, will receive and have received and will continue to receive. This eternal inheritance that we are continually drawing upon, and we will from now throughout eternity draw on this wonderful inheritance that we have. We thank you for that, Lord, with all our heart. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never made sure of their own inheritance, if they're not sure that they've been written into that will, that they would take care of that issue right now. Come to Christ by faith. Friend, if you're here, would you just pray right there where you are? To tell God, Lord, I want to be part of this. I don't want to be left out of the will. So right now I put my faith in the finished work of Christ. I, like George Simeon, lay my sins on the sacred head of Jesus. I lay my sins on his head. And I ask you to save me. Friend, if you'll do that, he will save you. And he will cleanse you from your sin and your guilt. Give you a clean conscience to serve the living and the true God. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.