Look in James chapter 4 tonight. We're going to just look at this passage. As we've been going through the book of James, look at verse number 1. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence even of your lusts that warn your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain, ye fight in war, yet ye have not, because you ask not. Ye ask and receive not because you ask amiss, that you might consume it on your lust. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. I heard about a brother and sister that were fist fighting. The mother came into the room and separated them and she rebuked them and she said, Shame on you. And she said, how did this fight start? And the little girl said, Mom, this fight started when he hit me back. How do how do conflicts start? How do wars start? This is the question that James asks. We live in a world of warfare and fighting. A group of historians compiled some startling information about wars. Since 3600 BC, the world has known only 292 years of peace. And during this period there have been 14,351 wars, large and small, in which 3. 64 billion people have been killed. It's amazing. The value of the property destroyed is equal to a golden belt around the world, 97. 2 miles wide and 33 feet thick. I don't know how they calculated that, but whatever. In other words, it was very expensive to have these wars. And so these statistics actually really they're dated, you know, it doesn't really include the last 25 years. So you can add more to that Our world is filled with so much conflict and warfare. And this all begins since the the beginning from the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve sinned. Since Cain first slew Abel, we live in a world of perpetual conflict. And so James asks the question in verse 1, where does all this come from? From whence come wars and fightings among you? And then he answers his own question in verse number one, where he says They uh in in verse one, come they not hence even of your lusts that were in your members. And so the believers that James was writing to were obviously having conflicts. If you read this epistle very closely, you'll see that there were a lot of wars taking place. There were class wars we saw in chapter 2 where the rich and the poor were not getting along, the rich were looking down on the on the poor and uh the poor were counting the rich to be arrogant. There were employment wars where laborers were not getting um uh getting or excuse me they were the laborers were not getting paid their wages by the employers. That's chapter five where James will rebuke uh um that employment wars there's church wars uh where we have things that are going on in the church we saw in chapter one some of that politicking and we mentioned that in chapter three And then personal wars. Believers were speaking evil one of another. Someone wrote one time, said dwell above with the saints I love, oh that will be glory But to live below with the saints I know, brother, that's another story. Sad, but it shouldn't be, right? In one church a conflict broke out over the form of the Lord's Supper. There was one group in the church that insisted that in order to demonstrate the unity in the body of Christ, everyone should drink from the same cup. Can you imagine that today? Then there were others that said, no, we can still demonstrate the unity of the church. Everyone has their own cup. There's no disruption in the unity if we do that. And they were divided over this whole issue. There were the one cuppers and the many cuppers. in the church and the church was in conflict over that. One preacher said it's amazing God is doing as well as he is with a crowd he has to work with. So James is addressing the problem of conflict and war. And he shows us really just three considerations for us. He's going to talk about the cause of conflict. And then he's going to talk about the consequences and then the cure. So let's go through this. Number one, the cause. Again, he he asks the question and then answers it. Again, verse one, from whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence even of your lusts that war in your members. James says, Look, it comes from you. This is not rocket science. Where does worse come from? It's very simple. The warfare starts inside of you, it's inside of us. We are the problem I heard about a man who was uh marooned on a desert island and after he had been there for five years he was found and he was rescued. And as he climbed into the rescue boat, the the uh rescuers were very curious because they saw on that desolate island uh three uh grass huts and they said to him, we thought you were alone. He says, I am alone. They said, Well there's three huts out there. He said, Well yeah, the one is my place where I live, the other is my church Well they said, what about the third hut? He said, well, he said, um that's the church I used to belong to. We had a fight in the church and I joined another one. James says, look, we're the problem. It's us. We're the source of conflict. It's just plain old selfishness. This is the issue here. Someone said a person wrapped up in himself makes a very small package. James says your lust, it comes from your lusts. Look at it closely. That war in your members. The word lust here is a strong desire, sometimes translated covetous. Since the fall of man in the Garden of Eden, there has been in the depraved heart of man, this inordinate selfishness and covetousness. And this selfishness is something that all of us have to deal with. I call it the great destroyer. It destroys marriages and homes, it destroys relationships, it divides churches, it brings misery into the lives of people. It's the thing that we have to deal with in our own heart. All of us have to mortify, put to death this selfishness that's So much a part of all of us because of our depraved nature. It starts inwardly, he says in verse 1. Notice where he says, lust in your members. That means inside your body. It starts inside of you. And then he gives us three causes of internal conflict in verse one, where he says he talks about uncontrolled desire. Where he says, ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain, ye fight in war, yet ye have not, because you ask not. So first he tells us about this lust in verse 1, the second part. It's actually the Greek word hedon, where we get the word hedonism. Hedonism is a flo the philosophy of living for Selfish pleasure, living for pleasure, that's the ultimate goal, to fulfill your own desires. And this word is always used in a negative sense in the New Testament, always about something ungodly. This is talking about being a slave to your own lust. The person who's ruled by those desires. It might be a desire for power or control. It might be a desire for popularity. It might be a desire to gratify the flesh. This desire is so strong that the person who has it, and again all of us we wrestle with this at times in our life They will use any means to get what they want, even if it means to kill in verse 2, where he says, Ye lust and ye have not, and notice the next phrase, ye kill. That goes with that first phrase there You you lush, you want it, you don't get it, but what do you do? You kill. And here again, James is talking about the heart of man. This is a person so controlled by this desire, he's willing to commit murder to fulfill it. This is the very thing that motivates the Saddam Husseins of the world, the Hitlers of the world, they're willing to commit mass murder to have control. There's uncontrolled desire. Then there's unfulfilled desire in verse 2, where we see where it says that you desire and to have and you cannot obtain. That's the cause. Here's the effect. And then you fight and you war. So you have a desire to have something. You can't get it. What's the effect of that? Well then you fight and you war. Here's a person who's not getting what they want, so they're willing to fight. to get it and the word for faihir is uh the Greek word macho my I told you about this word before we get the word macho man This is someone who's ready to fight at the drop of a hat. The word war polemo, or we get the word polemics, someone who's argumentative, wanting to argue their case, argue their cause, they're willing to go to war To get that unfulfilled desire. So they fight, they quarrel, they argue. A mother was preparing pancakes for her sons. One was Kevin, he was five years old. His little brother was Ryan, he was three, and the boys began to argue over who would get the first pancake. And the mother saw an opportunity to teach a spiritual lesson. And so she said, if Jesus were sitting here, he would say, Let my brother have the first pancake. I can wait. And so Kevin turned to his little brother and he said, Ryan, you be Jesus. We want other people to be Jesus so we can have our way. So how do you respond when things don't go your way? Do you fuss? Do you fume? Do you fight? Do you are you? And then here's the third thing, unanswered desire. We see in the last part of verse two, you fight in ye war, yet ye have not Because ye ask not, verse 3, ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that you might consume it upon your lust. And so selfishness leads to wrong praying. When our praying is wrong, the whole Christian life is wrong if we're not praying right. It's been well said that the purpose in prayer is not to get man's will done in heaven, but to get God's will done on earth. That's the purpose of prayer. But many Christians treat prayer as if it's some kind of Aladdin's lamp where we kind of God is our genie and he's to give us whatever we wish, whatever we want. So there's a sense in which sometimes we come selfishly before God in our prayers with our wish lists and we say, God, here is what I want. Here's what I want you to fulfill. And James says, you don't have, because when you ask, you're asking totally based on your own selfish agenda. It's what you want. But that's not how Jesus taught us to pray. If you remember the Sermon on the Mount, or I'm excuse me, the Lord's Prayer, he taught us to pray, Thy will be done. And literally in the Greek it reads like this: whatever you wish to happen, Lord, let it happen. In other words, God, you do what you want. That's the bottom line in prayer. When we pray this prayer, it's it's a death to self. It is God. I want to die to my own selfish agenda. I want to put you first. I want to put your kingdom first. In fact, the Lord's Prayer is really six petitions. The first three have to do all with God's glory. The last three have to do with our well-being. And notice the order. God, thy name, thy kingdom, thy will That's what I'm concerned about first in prayer. I'm concerned about your name, making sure your name is hallowed, that I'm honoring your name. I'm concerned more about your kingdom and what's going to bring your kingdom closer to us. And so that your kingdom is alive alive in every heart and life. And then I'm concerned about your will. And then after that, what is it? Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. So it's it I, thy, thy, yours, and then us, then me. But when people pray selfishly, it's my name, my kingdom, my glory And James says that kind of selfish praying will result in nothing. You're not going to get anything when you pray that way. Selfishness destroys true prayer because you can't pray Thy kingdom come until first you say, My kingdom go. So James says you you don't receive because you ask amiss. So this is the cause of conflict. It's born of inward desire. It comes from within. It wars within your members. It's characterized by uncontrolled desire, unfulfilled desire, unanswered desire. That's the cause of war. You don't get what you want, so therefore you're going to fight. You're going to take matters into your own hands. You're going to go to war. You're going to do whatever you have to do to get what you want. But here's the second thing. The consequence of this, where does this lead to? Well, it leads really to rebellion against God. When people don't get what they think they should have, it usually leads to them declaring war. And many times they declare war against God. And you know what? They turn to the world to give 'em what they want. If I can't get it from God, I'll just Go to the world. So it's hostility towards God. Look at verse 4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. That's pretty strong, if you ask me. That's strong language. Don't you think? I mean what if tonight I call I just said that, oh, you you're you're nothing but a bunch of adulterers? And adulteresses? Would you send me a card later on? Bite me over for lunch? You'd probably get a little bit upset about. That's pretty strong. Why does he say this? Why does he use this language here? Well, he sounds angry. Why? Well, when you get saved, you become part of the bride of Christ. And that's the church. So, spiritually speaking, do you know that when you're part of his church, you're married to Christ? And therefore, what does God expect? He expects faithfulness to him. But when a Christian begins to flirt with the world, when a Christian begins to walk away from God and walk towards the world and begins an affair with the world. Then the Bible calls that spiritual adultery. And in fact, this imagery is used a lot in the Old Testament. This is not original with James. He's really using this, pulling this out of the Old Testament when Israel was unfaithful to God and they began to commit idolatry. The Bible calls that spiritual adultery. In fact, in one place in the book of Jeremiah, God says, I'm just going to divorce Israel. I'm going to write her a bill of divorcement. Why? Because Israel was so engaged in idolatry, which was spiritual adultery. That God said, that's grounds for divorce. I'm going to divorce Israel. I'm going to write her a bill of divorcement So by adopting the sinful ways of other nations, by worshiping their gods, Israel and Judah committed adultery against God. You see, the world is the enemy of God. And when you turn into the world to get what you think you want, you need, then you are no longer The friend of God, James says, you're you're you're part your enmity with God. Know you that not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. You can't be a friend of the world and a friend of God at the same time. You just can't do it. What does the Bible say? Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, what? The love of the Father is not in him. You know what John is saying there? That might be a sign that you're not even really saved to begin with. If you love the world, if there's a continual love and draw from the world in your heart, that's an indication that you don't have the love of the Father in you A Christian may lapse into the world, but they don't live in the world. So there's this hostility against God. And there are some Christians who are at war with God. They are joyless, unhappy, depressed, angry, bitter, discontent, argumentative They have strife on all their human relationships. What's the problem? The problem is God. The problem is their heart is at war with God It always surprises me when I get a letter from someone who's mad at me, and I don't even really know this person very well, but they're just venting all of this anger towards me, and you know what I come to realize? They're really not mad at me, they're mad at God. I'm just, you know, a representative. They're just at they're just not at peace with themselves. And this is what James is saying. That's part of the consequences. You're living this unhappy, hostile Attitude towards God, kind of life. But then there's also the disregard for Scripture. Look at verse 5. Do you think that the Scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy Now this verse is kind of difficult to understand. Many scholars don't agree on the precise meaning of it, and I don't want to give you all the arguments and technicalities here, but let me just say that the King James Version I think gets this translation right. And really, what James is referring to is just scripture. He's not referring to a specific reference. He's just saying the Bible in general in verse 5. Don't you understand that the Bible In general, says this about man's heart. Don't you know that you yourselves are living proof of the veracity of Scripture? Which clearly teaches about the nature of the selfishness of man that's in man's heart, that spirit of envy that's there. That's what he's saying. The fact that man desires has desires that places him in conflict with others, in conflict with God. Well, that's just the general teaching of the Bible. And you're really showing how true the Bible is. So A person who says, I don't believe or trust the Bible, that statement in itself upholds the Bible. Because the Bible says you would say that. That's the heart of man. But then there's another thing, there's pride. Look in verse 6. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resists the proud. But gives grace unto the humble. Our God always is willing to give his grace. Isn't that wonderful about God? He's so gracious. He'll give grace. But I'm going to tell you something. He doesn't give it to the proud. He's not going to give it to the proud. I think this really is an imitation to salvation. If you want God's grace, He'll give it to you But he's not going to give it to a proud person. In fact, God resists the proud here in verse 6. He gives grace. He loves to give out grace, but he's not going to give it to a proud person. He's going to resist that person The word for proud here is a compound word in the Greek, hooper above phanomai, to appear. So you put those together to appear to be above. Someone who appears to be above others, who shows himself to be superior, at least in his own mind, and this is the sin that God hates, the proud look And so the picture James gives here is of a proud, defiant sinner setting himself up as his real God, not simply in self-centeredness, but in self-worship. He's an enemy of the true God. He has no part in his grace because he's proud. And the word resist here This is a military term. It's the idea of setting someone against uh setting yourself against someone in battle. It depicts a full army ready for battle. God is ready. To battle against the proud person. So when someone walks in pride, God opposes them. It doesn't matter who they are. And friend, if you want to come into the kingdom, you know how you get there? You have to come humbly. You have to be poor in spirit. You have to mourn over your sin. You have to be meek. You have to have a hunger and a thirst for righteousness as Jesus described in the Beatitudes. This is all the attitudes of a person who is humble. So that's the consequence. There's hostility towards God, there's the disregard of Scripture, there's pride. All of those things are the consequence of someone who uh Has these inward desires they can't control. But here's the third thing. I want you to notice the cure. Notice the cure. Now in the last few verses that we see here, what we're going to see are seven commands. This is God's command to the selfish, self-centered person who has all these inward conflicts. God tells them exactly what to do. And again, these are not suggestions. These are aorist imperative verbs in the Greek. Some reaction. God says, do this. Just do it. It's a one-time, just take care of this, do this. And what's the first thing he says? Look at verse 7. What's the first word there? Submit Submit yourselves therefore to God. James says if you want to resolve conflict, it starts with submitting to God. Submit yourself to the Lord. You can go to seminars on how to be more assertive. I have yet to see a seminar on how to submit. If anyone knows of one, please let me know. I don't think they're out there. They're not out there telling you how to be submissive or how to submit. That's just not a word that is popular. But it's a biblical word, and it means to put yourself under and ran. And so this starts with submitting to the command of the gospel itself to repent, to turn from your sin, to turn to God. It continues by submitting to the Lordship of Christ in your life as a believer. And then submitting to God's word when it's preached. I hope that when you come to God's house, you're ready to submit the scripture. Don't submit to me. I'm nobody. I'm just telling you what God says. Well you do have to submit to what Scripture says if you're a believer. And so submission is all about the Christian life. I mean, it's all part of what we do. So submit. But here's the second thing: stand. Stand. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. And to me, this is kind of the other side of the coin. You know what you do automatically when you submit to God? Well, conversely, you resist the devil. And by the way, the devil loves pride. It's a proud person that doesn't want to submit. But when you submit to God, at the same time, what you're doing is you are resisting the devil. The devil loves to fuel people's pride. But when you submit, you're resisting. He's the one who sows lies in your mind, telling you that you're better, you deserve more Fight to get your own way. But when you just submit to the providences of God in your life, you are really resisting Him and you're standing against Him. So you submit, we stand. What's the next thing? Seek. Look in verse number 8. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. This is an invitation to have close fellowship with a living, eternal God. Here, the invitation is from God Himself. Think about that. You know what God wants? He wants to have fellowship with you. He wants to draw near to you. And again, I I I look at this as just a salvation invitation. I think it applies to believers as well, but in salvation you're submitting to God, you're resisting the the devil. It involves a desire to have a true relationship with God, to draw near to him. I would just say this, every believer here tonight, you're as close to God as you want to be. Because God says, you draw nigh to me, I'll draw nigh to you. You take a step towards God, God will take a step towards you. But if you're angry and engaged in constant conflicts and fights, you're not close to God. So submit. God says submit. He says stand, seek, and then here's the next thing, sanctify. Look again in verse 8. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners And purify your hearts, ye double minded. Dirty hands in the Old Testament was a sign or a symbol of an unrepentant heart, unrepentant sin Listen to Isaiah 115. And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Wash you and make you clean and put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Cease to do evil. Dirty hands again is a sign of an unrepentant, sinful heart there And normally the posture of prayer in the Old Testament was was with uplifted hands, with the palms turned upward to heaven, as a sign to say, God, I'm not holding on to any sin, any sin, I'm not unrepented of anything But if you had a heart full of sin, then you had dirty hands before God. And so what he's saying is you need to you need to have a clean heart. Before the Lord. You need to purify yourself. Listen to Psalm 18, verse 20. The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands. hath he recompensed me. And 1 Timothy 2. 8, Timothy says this, I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. Now there's only one way to cleanse your hands or your heart, we could say, and that's through the blood of Christ. That's through the cleansing blood of Christ. When we come to Him and ask for His cleansing. So here's the next thing. We submit, stand, seek, sanctify, but then write down sorrow. Look at verse 9. Be afflicted and mourn. And weep, and let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy to heaviness. And these are the words normally used in the context of great sorrow, like at a funeral when you lose a loved one. James is applying this to sin. James is saying, weep and mourn over your sin. Sometimes we have a tendency to treat sin too lightly. And God forbid even to laugh about it. And here James says, let your laughter be turned in the morning. Sin is serious. And one mark of true humility is facing the seriousness of sin and dealing with it in our hearts. Ken Hughes tells of a old preacher who was told that in one of the services a certain woman had gotten the joy of the Lord. And he asked a question. He said this, did she ever get any sorrow? That's a good question. Because, you know, we like to express the joy. You know, uh I don't know if they're still around. I know for a time there was this fad in Christianity where they had these laughing revivals where guy would come in and you know the evangelists would just start, you know, laughing and everyone else would break out laughing. They called it revival. Laughing revival. Which to me is ridiculous. Now there's nothing wrong with laughing and joy, but before there's joy, there has to be sorrow. There has to be brokenness. That's what Jesus meant when he said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. The joy comes after the mourning. Over sin. So that's here's the next thing. Surrender. Look at verse 10. Submit, stand, seek, sanctify sorrow, and surrender. Verse 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he Shall lift you up. And again, I see such a parallel in the words of James in the Sermon on the Mount. When you come to God humbly, He exalts you. You see, the humble spirit is to be poor in spirit. What's God do? He says, I'll give you the kingdom. When you come poor in spirit, I'll give you the kingdom. There's the exaltation. When you mourn, I'm going to comfort you. Again, we see the pattern here. You humble yourselves, what's God going to do? He's going to lift you up. God said, You come poor in spirit, I give you the kingdom. You mourn, I'm going to comfort you. You're meek, you're going to inherit the earth. That's what we see the pattern here. You be merciful, you're going to obtain mercy. So it's better to humble ourselves before God and allow Him to exalt us. In response. But here's the next thing. Submit, stand, seek, sanctify, sorrow, surrender. But then write down silence. Look at verse 11 Speak not evil one of another, brethren, he that speaketh evil of his brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge But there is one lawgiver who's able to save and to destroy. Who art thou that judgest another? And so James says, speak not evil. Pride and slander go hand in hand. And God commands that we don't speak evil. Why? Because when you do, you speak evil of the law, which says we're to love our neighbor as ourself. But by not keeping the law, you're criticizing it. And God is the judge, not you. So how dare any of us try to occupy the place of God? There's one lawgiver, and you're not him, and neither am I. So the person who humbles himself before the Lord, who mourns over their sin, who's seeking to be near to God, who is resisting the devil, will not be busy slandering other people. That's the point. So that's turning your warfare into a spirit of worship. This is the cure. This is how you take care of it. You do these things. Submit, stand, seek, sanctify, sorrow, surrender, silence. In short, come to To Christ, draw near to him, let go of your selfish ambition, surrender to him. I'll end with this tonight. You know, one of my favorite uh conversion stories is of a woman when I was pastoring down in Tennessee. Um we had one of our men in our church who was a uh owned an insurance company and he was selling insurance to businesses. Uh one Day he was downtown Memphis and he went to a store. This was a person that he had sold insurance to. This was a woman who owned the business. And her business, you may have heard me talk about it before. The name of her store was called My Three Habits because she sold cigarettes and liquor and lottery tickets. And one day a man from our church was talking to her, and he left her a Bible there on the counter. He left her a Bible and said, Look, read this sometimes. It was a study Bible. And she later said that that Bible stayed there for several weeks. And one day she business was slow, there was no one around. She picked up the Bible. She began to read it And when she did, she read the story of Jesus. She read the Gospel of John because that's what the guy told her to read. Read about Jesus, read the Gospel of John. And if she had a question, she would go down to the study notes and read those and they were helpful. And she began reading the Gospel of John, and she was captivated by the life of Christ. So by the time she finished reading the Gospel of John, her heart had melted. Was broken over who Jesus was. She understood that she was a sinner. She realized that Jesus was God. She realized that Jesus died for her sins. No one told her this. No one was there to witness to her. I mean she put all of this together just by reading the Bible. It's amazing how the Bible does its work, right? You just let it do its work And so she came to my office and she was weeping. She was mourning. Yet at the same time, she had joy. She was smiling, and yet she had tears running down her face. And she was telling me, you know, all that had happened in her life. And you might say, well, did you lead her to the Lord? Man, I didn't need to lead her to the Lord. She already found the Lord. She was already saved. She was already broken. She was a walking personification of the Beatitudes. She had become broken over her sin. She was poor in spirit. She was mourning. She was meek. And she I remember one of the things she said to me, she said, When when when do you stop crying? When do you stop crying? I said, I I don't know. I don't know how to answer that But at the same time, she had joy in her heart. And you know what she did? She uh, and again, no one told her to do this. She sold her business. She said she came to me one day walking out the door on Sunday morning. She said, I just want you to know I'm selling my business. She said, I can't do that stuff no more. I can't sell cigarettes and lottery tickets and liquor. I can't do that. And what she did was she opened up a soup kitchen down in Memphis so that she could uh feed the poor. So here is this woman. That had a whole lot of conflict and warfare in her life. You talk about ambition. She had all this ambition, and yet she was not at peace. And then she learns about Jesus. And you know what she does? She she does exactly what James really describes here. She just she submits to the Lord. She comes humbly, she draws near to God, she repents of her sin, she puts her faith in Jesus, and now she's just so filled with joy. And this is exactly what James is talking about here. This is how we uh Deal with these inward sinful desires. That's the difference that Jesus makes in the life of a person May we submit. May we do all of what James is telling us here. May we resist the devil, seek God, draw near to him, cleanse our hearts. Be broken over our sin. Absolutely humble ourselves in the sight of the Lord and allow him in his own time to exalt us. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So thank you, Lord, again for your word. And as we read and study James, we can just see how practical it is, how straightforward it is. and dealing with sin in our own heart and life. And Lord, I pray that we would take these words to heart. And that we would realize that the source of our hostility, our conflicts, that's in our hearts, that war is in us, is because of our own selfishness, and this sin must be put to death. And for those who are believers who have trusted Jesus and know that they're saved and yet still are dealing with this Continual struggle of selfishness, Lord. I pray that you would give them victory as they obey these practical commands from James, that they may have peace. That they may come to a new level of sanctification and submission and surrender in their life. And for those who have never trusted Jesus, I pray that they will reach out. They would come to Christ, poor in spirit because of their sin, mourning over their sin, desiring forgiveness, with a true hunger and thirst for righteousness. Father, may it be so. Draw people unto yourself. And if you're here today with heads bowed and eyes closed, or maybe you're watching by live stream, and this is your desire to come to Christ, would you just reach out in prayer? Would you just tell the Lord, Lord, this is what I desire? I want forgiveness for my sins. I've been so filled with pride. So filled with selfish ambition that it's caused me to be hostile towards God And I've cast aside his words. But I'm coming today. I'm humbling myself. I'm submitting to God. I'm resisting the devil. And I ask for his cleansing in my life. Reach out in prayer and just tell the Lord that. And friend, he will save you. And if you've done that, let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian walk. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.