The book of Genesis, chapter 28, and we're going to look at verses 1 to 10. And we're going to be looking at a few more verses after that. But I just want to read these verses with you As we begin our message tonight. Genesis chapter 28, look in verse number one. And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said unto him, Thou shalt not take away for the daughters of Canaan. Arise and go to Padan Aram, to the house of Bethuel, thy mother's father, and take thee away from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. And God Almighty bless thee and make thee fruitful and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a uh be a multitude of people And give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham. And Isaac sent away Jacob. And he went to Padan Aram unto Laban, son of Bethuel, the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob and Esau's mother. And Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padan Aram to take him a wife from thence, that as he blessed him he gave him charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife for the daughters of Canaan And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother and was gone to pay them Aram. And Esau see that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father Then went Esau unto Ishmael and took unto the wives which he had, uh Mahaleph, the daughter of Ishmael, Abram's son, the sister of Nebajoth To be his wife. Verse 10. And Jacob went out from Beathsheba and went toward Haran. I want to ask you a question tonight. Have you ever felt like you made a mess of things in your life? You ever think that you messed up so bad that things will never, ever be right again? Perhaps you feel like you made a bad decision or plural bad decisions. And because of those bad decisions, there were some uh domino consequences that happened, and you feel like that things will never be right, and you forfeited God's blessing. You miss the will of God because you did some foolish things in your life. Perhaps you feel as if you fell and you're beyond remedy, you're beyond help. Have you ever had that feeling? You may be feeling that way tonight. You feel as though your bad decisions have made it so that you can never, ever again experience the perfect will of God or have the blessing of God on your life. Well, if you feel that way, then this story here in Genesis chapter 28 is for you. Because it offers hope to people who have made a mess of things in their life, which I would say includes just about every one of us. We've all at some time or another have made a mess of things. Now if you look at the life of Jacob, you're going to read a man that really did make a mess of things. And you give you a little background, I'm sure you already know a lot about Jacob. Jacob was a schemer He deceived his brother Esau, which uh he deceived him into s uh getting him to sell him uh the birthright. And he also lied to his father. He took advantage of his father's blindness and went in and lied to his father, pretended to be Esau, you know that story, and he stole his brother's blessing. And now because of all his scheming and all the th things that he was doing, now he has to run for his life because Esau says, I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill Jacob And so now he has to become a fugitive. And now he has to go seek refuge in a faraway land at his uncle's home. And basically what's happening here in chapter 28 is he's cast out of the home. He's his mother's boy. If you know anything about reading the story of Jacob and Esau, Esau was a man of the field. He was a hunter. He was a sportsman. He liked to get out there in the field. But now Jacob, he was kind of a mama's boy. He'd like to stay in a tent and learn how to cook good stew. And now he's gone. Now he has to go. And he's made a mess. He's really supposed to inherit the blessing. He has the birthright, it's his. But how is he going to inherit the blessing and the birthright if he's not in the land, if he's gone? If he's far, far away. And if when his father dies, he's not there to inherit the birthright. And his brother Esau will get it then by forfeit. By default. And how's he going to inherit it if his brother Esau, who vowed to kill him, kills him? And so was it God's will that Jacob inherit the birthright and inherit the blessing and the blessing that God promised to Abraham? Was it God's will that it would indeed pass through Jacob, after all, was that even part of God's plan? And the answer to that, of course, is yes. If you look in Genesis chapter twenty-five, verse twenty-three The Bible says, And the Lord said unto her, That is Rebecca, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from you, and the elder shall serve what? The younger. So all the way from the beginning, it was God's will that Jacob, who was the younger, be in charge. Be the one through whom God would pass the blessing, the blessing of Abraham. But rather than waiting, And living by faith and trusting God, you know what Jacob does? Jacob does what we sometimes do. We take matters into our own hands. And that's exactly what Jacob did. He took matters into his own hands. And you know what happened? The same thing that happens to us when we take matters into our own hands. What happened? It blew up into his face. And he messed up And so Jacob is now, he has to run. And he's probably asking himself: did I forfeit the will of God for my life? Did I forfeit the blessings? Of God on my life? Has my sin caused me to lose out on God's best? Have I messed up beyond repair? And instead of blessing me, is God now cursing me by sending me out into a faraway land? He certainly didn't deserve the blessing of God. And so Jacob in this story, he's about to leave the promised land, to leave the land of Canaan. And you know what this story tells us? This is an incredible thing. Just before he leaves the promised land, you know what happens? God meets him. God comes to him. And God gives him an incredible vision. And God speaks to him, and God gives him some promises. This is an incredible story of the grace of God coming down to a sinner. Reaching down to a sinner. And Jacob, you know who Jacob pictures? He pictures me. I'm Jacob here in this story. He pictures you, he pictures the believer. And you know what Jacob's life teaches us? That we are never beyond the reach of God's amazing grace. We are never beyond that reach. When I read of the life of Jacob, I think of the song that we all know so very well, the song written by John Newton, the song Amazing Grace, when it says, Through many dangers, toils, and snares, I what I have already come. Well, twas grace that brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home. And I want to tell you that any good thing that you see in me, or however far I have come in my life, I want to tell you it's the grace of God. I assure you of that. And I want to tell you something else. If I ever am ever to continue to do anything for God, I'm going to tell you this. It will be by grace. It's the grace of God. So let me give you the big idea in this whole story. This story teaches us that God's grace meets us at our point of need. God's grace meets us at our point of need. And you know what our response needs to be? We need to recognize that God meets us at our point of need, and we need to respond properly to that. That's what I want us to see here in this story. What I want you to see then are four circumstances in the life of Jacob that show us the grace of God How the God's grace meets him where he is, and how Jacob responds to it. So if you're taking notes, just write down, here's number one. A sorrowful venture. A sorrowful venture. Now really we read these verses already, the first ten verses. There's no need to read these again. And this is all about Jacob. In fact, all the rest of the book of Genesis is really about Jacob. We could divide Genesis up into two parts. The first eleven chapters are the beginning of the human race, and it revolves around four major events, creation, the fall, the flood, and the tower of Babel. The second part of Genesis is the beginning of the Hebrew race. It's all about one man's family and how God is going to bring salvation to the world through that one man's family. And it revolves around four main characters, and that's Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. But really, the whole end of the book of Genesis is really the story of Joseph of Jacob. Joseph is really kind of an extension of that story. All the rest of the book of Genesis focuses on Jacob, and it presents him with the trials that he has to bear, and how God is faithful to him in those trials. Trials with Laban, chapter 28 to 31. Laban is his future father-in-law. You talk about a deceiver meeting his match. Laban deceived him ten times. He met his match in Laban And then it presents his trials with Esau, and then it presents his trials with his sons. Jacob deceived his father, and you know what? Jacob's sons deceived him. He was reaping what he had sown. And really, the whole rest of the book of Genesis is talking about how Jacob is kind of reaping some of the things that he has sown. And yet God remains faithful. And really, the reaping begins right here. Because we read in the first ten verses that Jacob is now forced out of his home. He has to leave. He's leaving the only home he has ever known. The home that he grew up in. And don't get the idea that Jacob is some young boy, that he's some teenager. Or that he's even past adolescence. You know how old Jacob was in this story, if you find the if you really look at the chronology, you know how old he was? You ready for this? He was seventy-seven. Now, we have to remember in that time, in those days, that's middle age because they lived a lot longer. But that's still, he's a man. He's a full-grown man. And if he stays, Esau's going to kill him, so he's got to leave. And really this is all part of Rebekah's plan. Look in chapter 27. Look at verse 43. And she's talking to him, and she says, Now therefore, my son, obey my voice, and arise and flee thou to Laban thy brother to Haran, and tarry with him a few days until thy brother Skiri turned away Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he when he forget that which thou hast done to him, then will I send for you. You just go here, you go to your uncles, and you stay there, and when your brother gets over his temper, I'll call for you Then I'll bring you back. But that plan failed. You know why? What was supposed to be a few days turned out to be twenty years And Jacob never sees his mother again. He never sees her again. That was it right there. This all backfires. And so now she's got this plan, and she goes to Isaac and says, Oh, I don't want Jacob marrying a daughter of one of the Canaanites. We need to send him away. And Isaac, being an obliging husband, says, that's a good idea. Bring him in here. Let's bless him and let's get him out of here. And that's exactly what happens. In these verses that we read, Isaac brings Jacob in. He gives him a fatherly blessing. And he perhaps sees maybe the providence of God in all this, maybe God overruling. Somehow he knows that God's going to do his plan. But he brings Jacob in, and then he just sends him away. And I want you to understand this is not a happy occasion for Jacob. He's got the blessing, but it's not going to do him any good. Because he's gone now. And he becomes a fugitive And he has to leave the promised land. And if you're Jacob in this situation, you know what you're thinking, you're thinking, you know what? Esau won out. Esau wins. I'm leaving. And I I I can't be here. He's gonna get everything. Even though I schemed, I lost it all. And Esau stays behind. You know what Esau's doing? He's still trying to prove himself to his father. He heard his father say, Don't marry a Canaanite, and so Esau says, Well, if marrying one of the daughters of Ishmael pleases my father, I'll do that, hoping to win his father's favor He's still conniving and trying to get what he thinks he should have, what he lost, the birthright and the blessing. He thinks he can still get it back. And it's and he can't. I I like what uh R Ken Hughes writes here. He says, Unspiritual, immoral Esau was slow to connect the dots. Esau was so clueless that he thought imitating Jacob's marriage might carry his father's blessing. Instead, it demonstrated that he had no idea of what God was about to do. And so Jacob is leaving. And he's thinking I messed up. And the blessing that God had is now gone. And he's wondering, will I ever come home? Will I ever be able to come back? And you know what he's facing? He's facing an unknown future. He doesn't know what the future holds. Maybe you're here, maybe that's you tonight. You're thinking, you know what? I made so many bad decisions in 2015, and I messed up, and I wonder if God can ever really bless me again. And I'm looking at 2016 and I'm saying, Lord, is there any way that you can help me? And perhaps you're looking at the future and you're a bit fearful or bewildered. You're facing an unknown future. That's how Jacob felt. And so he's leaving his home. He's messed up. I like what Stephen Cole has to say at this point. I think he captures how Jacob feels at this moment This is what Stephen Cole writes. He said until now he has always schemed his way out of tight spots, but now he's fresh out of schemes. He's on his own for the first time, wrestling with a guilt of confusing past Facing an anxious, uncertain future, it's significant that God begins working with Jacob at this point in his life. But again, maybe you're feeling the same way. I've made so many bad decisions. Can God bless me? You're just feeling low. I read an old Yiddish proverb that said, If one man calls you a donkey, pay no heed to him. If two men call you a donkey, pay no heed to them. If three men call you a donkey, buy a saddle And maybe that's where Jacob was feeling. Feeling like he needed to buy a saddle. He's hurting, he's broken. But here's the point. And here's what I want you to see. You know what? Listen, he was right where God wanted him to be. He was right where God. wanted him to be. He was at the place now where God could move in, where God could break into his life. Where God can do something new in his life, and sometimes God really can't do anything new, or he won't do anything new, until we get to the point to where we are somewhat broken and down, and we see no way up And we feel like we've messed up beyond repair. This is the precise moment when God was ready to break through, when his grace was ready to move in his life. And manifest itself in his life. And he had to leave home really to learn to trust God, to learn to walk with God. So we see here, first of all, a sorrowful venture, but I want you to write down number two, a spectacular vision. A spectacular vision because look what happens to him. Go down to verse number 10 and see what happens in verse 10. And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and he went toward Haran. And verse 11, and he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set, and he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows. And lay down in that place to sleep. Now, this is a long journey that he has to make. He has to travel, by the way, 500 miles north. To his uncle home. Can you imagine walking 500 miles? A dangerous, difficult journey. But I want you to see that the narrator, the writer who we know is Moses, focuses on a certain place that we see. Verse 10, he's about three days' journey, so that he's about 50 miles away in his journey But notice verse 11, he focuses on a certain place. And in fact, he mentions this special place three times. He says place in verse 11. Notice it. And he laid it upon a certain place. And tarried there all night because the sun was set. And he took the stones, listen, of that place. Again, he focuses on the place, and he put them for his pillows, and he lay down in that place Three times he mentions this place, this place, this place. This is not an accident. By the way, this is articular in the Hebrew, which means it's the place. Not just any place, not a place. But the place. This place has significance, especially to the writer and to the readers He wants the readers to see that. This is not just any place that he came to on that third night in his journey. He comes to this certain place. You say, what place was it? This was the very place that Abraham stayed the first night he entered into the Promised Land. Very same place. And that's I think because that's the reason for the emphasis. Abraham came to this same place. So you know what Abraham did? On this very spot, according to Genesis 12, A, he built an altar. And that's why it's this place. This was a very special place in the Jewish mind in Jewish history and Israelite history. And Jacob doesn't really know this. He doesn't know that his grandfather stopped there. He just happens to be there, but it's no accident. Because there's a sense in now which Jacob becomes kind of a new Abraham in this very spot where Abraham built an altar, which is near the city of Luz. He settled down. Say, why did he settle down there? You know, normally a traveler, traveling a long way, would find a little city or that had gates to it. There was some safety there, and hospitality of the people would sometimes bring them into a home. You wouldn't want to stay out in the open if you were traveling. You'd want to make it to a city, but he wasn't able to make it to the city. He wasn't able to go inside the safety of the city of Luz and stay there. And so he has to stay outside, he has to stay in the open. And he's very vulnerable to to to animals, to criminals. And look what it says that what does he do in verse 11? And the sun was set, so he took of the stones of that place, and he put them for his pillows, and he lay down in that place. Man, he uses stones for his pillows. That makes my neck hurt just reading that. It's hard for us to even imagine something like this. But you have to remember in these days, ancient days, they would use uh the word is pillow here, but this is more of a a rest for the neck and the And I've actually seen some of these things in museums where it's kind of a wooden thing like this and you rest your neck there, not actually your head, you kind of use it as a neck rest. I don't think I'm really communicating. It's still uncomfortable But that's really what this thing was. It's tempting for me to think that maybe he took a stone, that maybe one of the stones that Abraham used for his altar. And took that stone and used it as a place to rest his head or his neck. We don't really know that. All we know is that Jacob that night slept between a rock and a hard place, right? And he dreams. Now it was dangerous to be out in the open. He had to be worried. But he was so tired that he fell fast asleep. And he has a dream. Look in verse 12. And he dreamed. And behold, a ladder set up upon the earth, and the top of it reached to the heavens. And behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it. Now this is incredible. This is an awesome dream. And many times in the Old Testament, when God would speak to his people, he would reveal himself in dreams. And here in this dream, what we see are three key images. And they're all set off by that word, behold. This is an exclamatory word. This is a word to express astonishment, to express amazement. To express awe. This is an incredible thing. He dreams, and behold, what's the first thing that he sees? He sees a ladder. And it stretches up on the earth, and the top of it reaches to heaven. He sees this ladder going all the way from the earth, all the way up to heaven. The word ladder here, Sulaam, can mean a rung ladder. It's also a word that can mean a stairway. Have you seen some of those ancient pyramids where they had steep stairs that went all the way up, wide staircase? I think that's the idea here. This is a staircase that goes all the way up to heaven. And notice here's the second thing. Notice the second, behold. Behold a ladder. And notice the next thing. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. This is why I think the staircase makes more sense. Angels are going up and down the same time, which would be pretty hard if it were one rung ladder there. But here we have, I think, a wide staircase and angels are going up that staircase all the way into heaven, and some angels are coming down, and so there's this constant motion you have of angels ascending and descending here on this ladder in this vision that Uh he has. Why? Well, you know why the angels are doing that. They're going back and forth. They're doing the will of God. They are ministering spirits, descending down to carry out the will of God, ascending back up to report to God. They're just doing the will of God. And then notice the next thing, the third behold, verse 13. And behold, the Lord stood above it. This is God the Father. Here's God at the top of this staircase. And it's a posture of sovereignty. It's a posture of God reigning over all. He's in control of all that happens. And all the angels of God report to him. And he sends them out to do their bidding. He reigns. This is an awesome vision. Now, why did this vision of the latter, what did it say to Jacob? As he has this vision. What do you think God was communicating to Jacob in this incredible vision that God gives him? Well, let me suggest to you three things that God is saying to Jacob. from this. Here's the first thing. God is reaching out to me. God is reaching out to me. God has not forsaken me. He's reaching out to me. This ladder is an expression of the grace of God. Here is a ladder that comes from heaven and it's rolled out to him. In a sense in which God is rolling out the staircase of grace to Jacob here And God was inviting Jacob to climb that ladder, to enjoy fellowship, to enjoy walking with him and trusting him. Here Jacob was, he's sad, he's depressed, he says, I'm messed up beyond repair, he's missing his parents, he's after in the wilderness, he's scared, he doesn't know the future, and here's God saying, I'm extending my grace to you I'm reaching out to you. That's the grace of God. In our time of need, in our time of brokenness, in our lowest estate, God meets us right where we are. He comes to where we are. A. W. Pink wrote this. He said, right down to where the fugitive lay, the latter came. And right up to God Himself, the ladder reached. God was saying, Jacob, I haven't forgotten you. I'm reaching out to you. And I want to tell you something, beloved, what God said to Jacob, God says to you tonight. I haven't forgotten you. You may think you messed up, but you know what? As long as I'm in your life, as long as I'm in control, I'm going to be reaching out to you, and I can help you. Here's the second thing it said. God is protecting and watching over me. God is protecting and watching over me. When Jacob sees these angels moving up and down the ladder, what is it saying? These angels are serving the interests of God. And they're watching over him. This was a busy staircase. Jacob felt alone, but what God let him see was that he was far from alone. He had a whole army of angels all around him. I mean some you you believe that God protects you with angels, I believe that. The Bible says that. Some angels are busier than others. Some of you have a lot of angels watching over you. They're going up and down the staircase, they're running back and forth. But they're watching over you, they're doing what God said. It's the God's watch care. It's God's protection. They protect, they guard, they bless And of course we have heard stories. We heard the story. I remember one time reading the autobiography of John Patton and the story of the angels that surrounded him. He didn't know it. He didn't see it. The natives were ready to kill him and his wife And later on, after the chief got saved, he t tells the story of those those soldiers that surrounded you that one night That's a documented story. And we hear other stories from the mission field. But you know what's real? God's protecting you all the time. You don't even know it. He's watching over you all the time. He's got his angels going back and forth. He's surrounding you. Here's the third thing. God says, Jacob I'm reaching out to you. I'm protecting you. I'm watching over you. Don't worry about this journey. You've got me with you. But also, I'm giving you access here. You have access to me. Let me show you something really neat. Hold your place here in Genesis 28. And I want you to go to John chapter 1 because we're going to come right back to Genesis. But look at John chapter 1 real quick. And let me just take a little detour here and show you something really, really neat. In John chapter 1, look down at verse number 45. Now, this is the calling of Philip and Nathaniel in the ministry of being a disciple of Jesus. And verse 45, and Philip findeth Nathanael and said unto him, We have found him. Of whom Moses and the law and the prophets did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said unto him, Can there be can any good thing come out of Nazareth? And Philip said unto him, come and see. Philip says, Hey, we found the Messiah, we found Jesus. He's from Nazareth. Any good thing from Nazareth? Come on, let me show you. Come and see. So look what happens. And verse 47, and Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him, and he said, Behold, an Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile. So why did Jesus say that? I think Jesus here is comparing Nathaniel to Jacob. Jacob's name means guile or deceiver. But notice Nathanael's response, verse 48. And Nathanael said unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Do you know me? Have we ever met? I don't think you know me. Look what Jesus said. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee Now that's supernatural omniscience. Jesus said to Nathaniel, Nathaniel, listen, before Philip ever talked to you, I saw you under the fig tree. I saw you there. That's divine knowledge. And Philip is astounded by this. Look at verse number 49. And Philip answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God. Thou art the King of Israel. Just that one little bit of evidence was enough to convince Nathaniel, that Jesus was God. He was the Messiah. You know, it's amazing to me how for some people whose hearts are ready, it only takes a little bit of evidence to convince them. Some people you can show them the whole boatload of evidence and they still aren't going to believe. But there are some people whose hearts are such that you just show them a little bit of evidence, a little bit of proof, and that's all it takes, and that's all it took for Nathaniel But notice what Jesus says, and Jesus answered and said unto him, verse 50, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believeth thou? Thou shalt see greater things than this. Well, if that's all it took for you to believe, hang on to your trolley strap, you're going to see a lot more than that. There's a whole lot more coming than just that. And then listen to this. Look in verse 51. And he said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open. Now watch this. And the angel of God ascending and descending upon who? the Son of Man. You know what that you know what Jesus is saying there? First, Jesus supernaturally knew that Nathaniel was under the fig tree, and he knew what Nathaniel was thinking about and meditating on. And you know what Nathaniel was thinking about in meditating on perhaps he was even reading scripture? He was thinking about this very passage that we're talking about tonight here, Genesis 28, where Jacob had a dream and he saw angels ascending and descending on the ladder. And you know what Nathaniel's thinking? Wonder what that ladder represents. Wonder who that ladder is. And Jesus tells them who it is. You're going to see heaven open, and you're going to see angels ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. You know who Jacob Flatter is, friend? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And the only access that anybody has to God the Father is through Jesus Christ. He is the ladder. He is the stairway to heaven. If you want to get into the presence of God, you better climb Jacob's ladder. Because that's the only way you're going to get in. And Jesus Christ is the bridge. He is the ladder. He's the way to God. He's the mediator, the one mediator between God and man. That's how we get access, Romans 5. 2. Through him we have obtained access. And I want to tell you something, friend. It's access for salvation. You can't find salvation in anyone else. And I know I emphasize this a lot, but I want to tell you something, friends. We are living in a relativistic postmodern world where the Christian better be able to give an answer to all these isms that are out there that are pulling away this message of the exclusivity of the nature of salvation. Jesus Christ is the only way, period. He's the only way. There's salvation in nobody else. No one else. Through salvation, but also through prayer. Through prayer. I want to tell you something, friend, I can't get to God in prayer with except through Jesus. And neither can you. We can't come on our own merit. When we go to prayer, we have to go up Jacob's ladder. We have to go through Christ. But also in times of need. In times of need. Well, let's go back. Go back to Genesis 28. Let me just show you two more things and we're going to wrap it up. So we see God's grace on a sorrowful venture in the spectacular vision But then number three, a surprising voice. Look at verse 13. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God Here he hears a voice. It doesn't just see all this. But now here God speaks to him. And notice what God says. I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, the God of Isaac. And the land wherein thou liest to thee will I give it to uh give it and to thy seed. And verse 14, and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. And thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. And in thee, and in all thy seed shall or in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. So Jacob hears the voice of God. Boy, this had to be a comforting sound. Not only to see a vision, but to hear a voice, and God gives him some great promises. He says, Jacob, I'm going to give you this land. You may be leaving the land and you may worry about all the things going back, but don't worry about it. I'm going to give it to you. This was a promise God made to Abraham, and he made it to Isaac, and now he's making it here to Jacob. Despite all your scheming and all the things that you're doing, I have a purpose in your life, and that's not going to mess up my purpose for you. I'm going to accomplish my purpose in your life. And I'm going to give you seed, and through them, through your seed, all the world will be blessed. But here's a great promise. Look at verse 15. And behold, listen, I am with thee. And will keep thee in all the places where thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land where I will not leave thee, until I have done with that which I have spoken to thee of. And this suggests that no matter where Jacob would roam, and his wanderings weren't over. He would make some bad decisions in the future. But despite that, God said, I'm going to be with you. I'm just going to be with you. That's the nature of grace. No matter how many times we fall. No matter how many times we wander, we still can count on the grace of Almighty God. That is just amazing. God said, being confident of this very thing, Paul said this, he which begun a good work in you, what? Will perform it. until the day of Christ. God is not going to give up. Even though Jacob would have hard years ahead and and this wasn't the easy road for him. He was going to have some hard road hard things, hard things in the road ahead. But God said, I'm going to be with you. What a comfort that must have been for Jacob. You know what that meant? His future was secure. And you know what, beloved? Your future is secure too. Because God's going to be with you. He just will, because you're his child. Adam Iram Judson, great missionary, he went to Burma, he labored long, he prayed, he fasted, he witnessed. No one got saved. Instead, he got persecuted. He was tortured. He was strung up by his thumbs. He was thrown into a dirty prison. Just a hole. And the guards would make fun and they would say, What about your plan to spread the gospel now? What about your future now? And Adornam Judson said, My future is as bright as the promises of God And that's the spirit that we need to have. Well, let me give you the last thing, real quick. A sincere vow, not only a sorrowful venture, a spectacular vision. A surprising voice, but then a sincere vow. Look at verse 16. Now Jacob wakes up, verse 16, and Jacob awake out of his sleep, and he said, Surely. The Lord is in this place and I knew it not. And he was afraid and he said, How dreadful is this place This is none other but the house of God. This is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and he took the stone that he had put for his pillow, and set it up for a pillow, and poured oil upon the top of it. And he called the name of that place Bethel, because uh but the name of the city that was called Luz at first. And verse 20, and Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace. Then shall the Lord be my God. And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth unto thee. And so when he wakes up, he has several responses. First of all, there's fear. The Lord was in this place. This is a proper response. This is reverence. The fear of the Lord is a reverent attitude that leads to right actions. And he's overwhelmed with the presence of God and his fear turns to worship. And he takes the stone that he used as a pillow and he sets it up and he pours oil on it, which is a way of dedicating in the Old Testament something. It was kind of a memorial now of what had happened, how that God had come to him in his grace. and promise to be with him. And then what does he do? He makes a vow. And he says, Okay, Lord, when he says, if you will be with me, and some scholars read that and they say, well here's Jacob again and he's manipulating God and God if you'll do this, then I'll do that. No, no, that's not what's happening here. God had already promised to be with Jacob regardless. There's no need to manipulate here. What he's doing is he is responding correctly to God. Really we could say it like this, since Lord you have done this, since you have said you will do this, then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna like the pouring out of this oil on this rock I'm going to give myself to you, and as a token of that, I'm going to give a tenth of everything I have. And that'll be a token of the fact that I am now giving myself to you. This was an incredible turning point in the life of Jacob This is him genuinely and purely giving himself afresh and anew over to God and making a commitment. Lord, if you can take the broken pieces of my life, the things that I have messed up. And I can bring them to you, and you can do this for me. Then I'm going to give myself to you again, afresh. I'm going to renew myself. Again. And friend, that's the right response to the grace of God that reaches out to us In our time of need. And friend, that's what some of you might need to do here tonight. You might need to climb up Jacob's ladder. And say, God, I've made a mess. Please, I give it to you. Will you, in your grace, will you help me Will you be with me? And I want to tell you something, friend, the grace of God, because of the grace of God, you always have hope. Always. Let me close. I quoted from Amazing Grace. We're out of time. So let me close quoting Amazing Grace because I think one line of that song summarizes this whole story of God's grace in the life of Jacob. This line, you know it, but think about it. The song says this, the Lord has promised good to me His word, his word, my hope, secures. He will, my shield And portion B, as long as life endures. Friend, that's the grace that meets us at our need. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for your amazing grace. How we need it. Some of us here tonight, Lord, feel like we have messed up beyond repair. We've made foolish things to take place. We have Failed in so many ways. And Lord, sometimes we don't mean to. We just, we're like Jacob. Sometimes we just try to take matters into our own hand. That Lord, we thank you for your grace. We thank you, Lord, that you meet us. That you're always reaching out to us. And that you invite us to climb the ladder through Christ, climb that ladder, and come to the throne of grace to find mercy and help in our time of need. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many just say that's me tonight? I just need to climb the ladder into the presence of God and ask for His help. Is that your prayer? Pray for me tonight I want to climb Jacob's ladder. Through Christ, I want to go to God. I need his help to pick up the pieces of my life and to bless me. God sees your hand, friend, he sees your heart. Father, bless these who come to you tonight. And Lord, thank you again for your grace. Without it, we're nothing. We pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.