Please open to 2 Timothy, go to chapter 4, and we're looking at the last part of chapter 4. This will be the last sermon tonight that we preach out of the book of 2 Timothy. We'll finish it up tonight. Tonight we're going to look in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses 9, on down through to verse 22. This is uh I think uh fifteen or sixteen sermons out of Second Timothy, but we come to the end here tonight. And the title of my sermon is Come Before And this is taken from the words that the Apostle Paul writes to Timothy here in 2 Timothy and verse 21. We see this Drop down to verse number 21 here of chapter 4. Do thy diligence to come before winter Remember when Paul wrote this letter, Paul is writing this letter from a Roman prison. On July 19, AD 64, a fire broke out in Rome, and it destroyed 10 of the city's 14 districts. For six days and seven nights, this inferno just blazed throughout the city. Rumors began to swirl that Emperor Nero was the one who started this fire. And uh Nero tried to stamp out all the rumors, but to no avail. And since he couldn't convince people that he didn't start the fire, he started to look for a scapegoat. And since two of the districts that were untouched by the fire were populated by Christians, he shifted the blame to them. The Roman historian Tacitus tells It tells it like this, I'm quoting. He said, But all human efforts, all the lavish gifts of the emperor, all the propitiation of the gods, did not banish the sinister belief that the conflagration was the result of an order. Consequently, to get rid of the report, Nero fastened the guilt and inflicted the most exquisite tortures on a class hated for their abominations called Christians by the populace. He says, accordingly, an arrest was made first of all who pleaded guilty of being Christians. Then upon their information an immense multitude was convicted, not so much for the crime of firing the city but as of hatred against mankind. They accuse Christians of hating mankind. And the reason they accuse them of that is because Christians did not take part in the social or civic life. of the Romans because of the the pagan practices that they would have to engage in and they refused to do that. They also refused to uh get involved themselves in pagan worship And so that was really one of the reasons, for whether it was for that reason or the fire, Nero's madness inflamed persecution of the Roman Christians. And uh as a ringleader, the Apostle Paul was arrested. And at some point, he was placed in a prison called a Mamertine prison. Now that could have been called a house of darkness because the lower chambers of this prison were so dim, so dark So dingy, uh it's hard to even describe. One historian writes this: its neglect, darkness, and stench gave it a hideous and terrifying appearance. Now prisoners in the ancient world were rarely s sent to prison or prison such as this to uh to stand trial and then be released. Mm most of the time prisoners that were placed in these kind of holding cells were placed there to await a trial and then execution. Now Paul had two Roman imprisonments. During the first Roman imprisonment, uh he was under house arrest, so he wasn't in a Mamartine prison. The conditions were not so bad uh under that first house arrests. However, in this second imprisonment, he was in this dungeon, and he had apparently received a preliminary trial already One trial already. In fact, look at verse number 16 where the Apostle Paul writes and says, At my first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. Uh so at the first preliminary trial, Paul had no one with him. Uh he was waiting for the next trial. He didn't expect to be acquitted. He expected to be found guilty, and from there The only thing left for Paul after that was execution. So he knew that his time was going to come. Remember we saw that last week where Paul wrote in verse 6, I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure has hand, I fought a good fight, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. Now Paul is writing his final request to Timothy in this text. And this whole text begins and ends with this one command that we see it in verse number 9, and we see it in verse 21. Look at verse number 9, again what Paul says, Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. And then again, down in verse number 21, he ends this section by saying, Do thy diligence. To come before winter. So this whole section is bracketed by that command. Timothy, come quickly to me. Timothy, come before winter. In light of what is coming, make every effort to come. Come, Timothy. Be diligent about it. Now, if you look at the context of chapter 4, you see in verse 1, the Lord is coming, verse 3, apostasy is coming, verses 5 and 6, affliction is coming. Verse 6, death is coming. Verse 8, judgment is coming. And verse 9, Timothy, are you coming? Are you coming to me? Paul's plea is come and come. Quickly. This is an urgent request. Paul could look out from his Mamertine prison and see the scaffolds that were being built there. for his execution and he knew that uh it was imminent. But also there was another reason why Paul wanted Timothy to hurry, and that is he wanted him to come before what? Come before winter. Now why was this a problem? Well, Paul was writing this letter in the spring or summer of 67 A. D. And Timothy would need to leave before the autumn Because at the end of autumn, just before winter, all shipping, all travel in that ancient world around the Mediterranean shut down. And it didn't open again until spring. So if Timothy waited, if he procrastinated, then it was very likely that he could not get his ship. out to see Paul. If he waited too late in the autumn to sail, or if he waited for autumn at all, he needed the to to sail immediately there at the springtime to get to Paul before the winter came So that's why it says, come before winter. Come before winter gets here. Paul would be executed in the winter of 68 A. D. Wearsby writes this, all the ships would be in port during the winter, since it would be too dangerous for sailing. If Timothy waited too long, he would miss his opportunity to travel to Paul, and then it would be too late Paul was saying, Timothy, the opportunity is now. If you want to see my face again, you have to leave now. Don't wait. Now there's a message in this for you and I. It's a message about passing opportunities. There are things that you must do that if you don't do now, you may never ever get the opportunity to do it. If there's something you need to say to someone, don't wait. Say it now. If there's something you need to do, if there's some opportunity that God in His providence has placed in front of you, don't wait to do that Do it now. You may not get the opportunity to do it later. Someone said dead noses smell no roses. There are things that God wants us to do now, in the springtime of our life. We should be serving God diligently before that winter time comes. Just as Timothy must go to Paul at Rome before winter. Or wait until the spring be uh until uh or wait until the spring because of ancient navigation conditions, so there are things that must be done now or they'll be done never. And again, if Timothy waited He would never ever get to see the Apostle Paul again. Clarence McCartney, when he was talking about this passage, I think wrote very eloquently about it. He said this, there are some things which will never be done unless they are done before winter. The winter will come, and the winter will pass. And the flowers of the springtime will deck the breast of Mother Earth, and the graves of some of our opportunities, perhaps the grave of our dearest friend. There are golden gates wide open on this autumn day, but next October they will be forever shut. There are tides of opportunity running now at the flood. Next opportunity, next October, they will be at the ebb. There are voices speaking today, which a year from today will be silent, before winter or never. So this is the challenge for all of us as servants of God. We have to take advantage of the opportunities that God gives us right now. And just as Timothy was needed in the work of God, even so you are needed by the kingdom of God in the work of God. You're needed. by the Lord to do some things for him. So as we look at this text, I want you to see in it five reasons why Paul said to Timothy come before winter. Five reasons why also you and I, we need to get busy serving God right now. Why we need to be faithful now. We don't need to wait. Sometimes people say, you know, I want to do this, but I'm just going to wait. No, if God puts something on your heart, don't wait. Now is the day to serve our God. Right now is the day to be busy serving the Lord. So here's number one. Come before winter, number one, because some are forsaking the faith. Look at verse number ten. For Demoth has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica. So here in verse 10, Paul refers to someone that has forsaken the faith. This is demons. In his letter to Philemon, Paul referred to Demas as his fellow laborer. A few years later, in his letter to the Colossians, Paul said, Demas, greet you. So Demas was evidently someone that Paul traveled with, that worked beside the Apostle Paul for a while. And here in 2 Timothy, however, we read that Demas has forsaken Paul altogether. You know, there exists a very real possibility of slowly drifting away from the Lord by those who are being used by God right now, or maybe we're used by God at one time. You know, it's very easy just to drift away from being faithful, from serving God the way we should. This is what happened with Demas. And I I don't know about you, but I in my whole Christian life since I've been saved, and all the years I've been saved, I can think of many, many people that were faithful to the Lord. Faithful in worship, faithful in service to Christ, faithful in their walk with God. Even preachers who were faithful in their preaching and teaching of the Word of God, and now they're AWAL. I don't know where they are. They're not serving the Lord. They're not walking with God. Some are sporadic at best in their worship of the Lord. They're kind of like the five foolish virgins, their lamps ran out of oil. And they're no longer serving or doing anything for God. And and by the way, e everyone everyone like that has a good excuse why they're not doing what they should be doing Why they're not faithful to the Lord. They all have good reasons why. And you may be sitting here thinking, boy, that that can't happen to me. Well, it happened to demons. And if we're not careful, it can happen to any one of us. And what happened with Demas? Well, read on. Look at verse 10. Having loved this present world and is departed unto Thessalonica, he loved the world more than he loved Christ. He loved the world more than he loved God's people. He loved the world more than he loved the work of God He may not have been a true believer at all. Why do I say that? Well, because the Bible says in 1 John 2. 15, Love not the world, neither the things are in the world. If any man love the world, what? The love of the Father is not in him. If you have a love for the world that overcomes your faithfulness and passion and love for Christ, that may reveal that you don't really are not really a believer. Maybe you don't love the Lord at all. Now, every once in a while a believer, a true believer, may lapse in the worldliness, but that doesn't mean that they love the world. We may lapse in the worldliness, but a true believer will confess. And get back in line. And Christ will be their love. Christ will be first place. But here, Demas, he loved the things of the world. Don't get caught up in the environment. the distractions or the frivolity of the world that may pull you away. But then there were also others who are forsaking Paul, the Roman Christians. Drop down to verse 16. And again, notice what Paul says. He said, My first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I prayed God that it might not be laid to their charge. When Paul is talking about his first answer there, commentators are divided over what this means. Some people think that when he talks about his first answer, that he's talking about his first Roman imprisonment. That at his first Roman imprisonment, you know, there was no one with him. But I I don't think that's that's what this is talking about because if you look at if you read in Philippians, where Paul is talking about his first Roman imprisonment, he doesn't really Talk about how difficult and dark it was for him at that time. In fact, he was under house arrest at that time, and believers could come and visit with him. But here, again, he's in a mamutine dungeon. And it's different. When he's talking about his first answer, the word for answer there is apologia, his first defense. Again This is referring to the preliminary trial that Paul had already gone to, and at that trial, what needed to happen was believers to come and testify on Paul's behalf. But guess what? Out of that whole group of Roman Christians, guess how many showed up on the day of Paul's trial to be a witness for Paul, to witness to the character of the Apostle Paul? Zero, nobody. Nobody came. Nobody showed up. This had to be painful for him. He was no doubt deeply hurt by this lack of loyalty on the part of God's people. It was a a really intense time. And by the way, remember who the the emperor was? It's Nero, right? And no Christian wanted to go and be see and stand before Nero. And for Nero to get to know them. So they would not do it because it was too dangerous, if not deadly. So it is preliminary hearing, no one stood with the Apostle Paul. I don't know where Luke was. He uh surely wasn't there with Paul at that time at that first preliminary hearing. Uh he came later. But Paul, he's not bitter about it. He's not angry at anyone. In fact, what does Paul say in verse 16? I pray that God, that it may not be laid to their charge. In other words, I forgive them for it. Uh you know, I don't want this to be laid. What does that sound like? That sounds like the words of our Lord Jesus at the cross, right? Father forgive them For they know not what they do. Here, Paul saying, look, you know, they didn't no one showed up, no one helped me, no one testified on my behalf. I was completely forsaken of all. But you know what? I don't want that to be counted against them. I don't want that to be laid at their charge. But again, the whole point is, this is why Timothy needed to be there. Paul says, Timothy, I need you here. There's no one standing here with me. There's no one helping me out here. And I need you to come. You know, sometimes as a believer it may get lonely. And you just need a companion. People need you. You to be a companion to someone else But this is why ministry in the church needs faithful, loyal, courageous people. So many people are Going A-Wall and dropping out. Timothy, I need you to come before winter. Why? Well, because some are forsaking the faith. But here's number two, because the ministry has needs. Look at verse number ten, the latter part of it, where it says that Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. And these words of Paul demonstrate that what he's talking about is their ministry needs. Paul is sending out fellow laborers to other places because there are ministry needs there. And this is the first area of needs. The ministry has needs. There are ministerial needs. That's why you need to be faithful. That's why you need to serve God now. Now, Paul mentions a man by the name of Crescence. We don't really know much about him. In fact, this is the only place where he's mentioned in the Bible. But he must have been faithful, faithful enough for Paul to send him to a difficult place, a region called Galatia, that wasn't easy And then Paul says sends Titus to Dalmatia in verse number 10. We know the name Titus because there's a book in the Bible that Paul wrote, the letter to Titus. Paul wrote this letter several years after 1 Timothy and about a year before 2 Timothy. And Titus is mentioned several times in 2 Corinthians, twice in Galatians. He was a very, very loyal co-laborer of the Apostle Paul. When Paul was being taken to Rome and they stopped at Crete, Paul preached there at Crete, and Paul left Titus there at Crete. to strengthen the church that was there. And so evidently the Apostle Paul had a lot of faith in Titus. But now he sends him to Dalmatia. This is another difficult region. But then also Paul sent for Mark. Look down at verse number 11. Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee. For he's profitable to me for ministry. Do you remember who John Mark was? Remember his story in Scripture? Remember when Paul and Barnabas and John and Mark they set out on their first missionary journey? Now Mark's home was in Jerusalem. In fact. We know of John Mark's mother. She was a faithful believer. Um and the and the early church met in her house. She had one of the largest house houses in Jerusalem. She was a wealthy, prominent woman. And so Mark grew up in an affluent home, and he wasn't really accustomed to hardship. He he was more accustomed to the creaturely comforts of growing up in a wealthy home. But he was the cousin of Barnabas. And Barnabas wanted to take John Mark along with him and the Apostle Paul on the first missionary journey. And so John Mark accompanied them. But the Bible says in Acts 13, 5 That the dirt the journey got difficult. In fact, during their first stop it was on an island called Pephas, they encountered a sorcerer. That may have been a bit unsettling for John Mark. And Paul called the sorcerer out as a son of the devil and told him that he would go blind for not believing in Jesus. Maybe Mark wasn't ready for this kind of stuff. It's kind of messy ministry. And so the Bible tells us that when they got to Perga, Mark couldn't take it anymore. He missed his mother. He missed h the nice home that he was accustomed to. One commentator says he he ran home to mama, which I think is a bit harsh. But that's how he describes John. The Bible says in Acts 13, 13, and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem. Later on, Paul wanted to take another missionary trip with Barnabas, and Barnabas said, let's bring John Mark again. And Paul said, oh no. We're not bringing him along again. I mean he quit in the middle of the last journey. I don't plan on bringing him along. And the Bible says that Barnabas, Barnabas who was more of an encourager Let's give him another chance. Let's disciple him. He's a little bit more mature. And Paul was like, no, we're not taking him. And Barnabas says, oh yes, we are. And Paul said, oh no, we're not. This is all in the Greek here. The Bible does say that there was a great dispute that broke out, a contention that was sharp between Barnabas and Paul. So much so that Barnabas Decided to take John Mark and they went on a trip and Paul replaced them with Silas and he went on his own way on the second missionary journey. And so you say, well, who was right in that? Well, we could say that in a sense both were right. I mean, Barnabas is still trying to disciple John Mark, and Paul, he kind of comes across to me as someone that might be a little bit difficult to work with. It may have been a little demanding. Uh he was a real soldier of the faith. And yet Paul didn't want to take anyone along who would quit. And yet, here it is, years later. And here's Paul saying to Timothy, Timothy, when you come, make sure that you bring with you Mark, because he's profitable unto me for ministry. Aren't you glad that God gives second chances? And aren't you glad that, you know, failure is not final? That sometimes in the early part of our Christian life we may have failed. We may not have lived up to what we should, and yet God doesn't give up on us. And this young man grew to the point to where he was someone that Paul recognized who was a profitable servant of God. And here's Paul calling for him. Bring him with you. I could really use him here. In fact, John Mark became someone that God used greatly. You know why? Because he was the writer of the Gospel of Mark. Imagine how God has used that gospel in the lives of so many people. How God used this young man who had first failed Maybe you're here and you're saying to yourself, I failed so much God can't use me. Oh yes, he can. He can use you. He's not done with you. But then also Paul sent Tychicus to Ephesus. We see this in verse 12, and Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus. This is another faithful co-laborer of Paul. Paul had already used him to deliver the letters to both the Ephesians and the Colossians. And here he was mentioned as a possible replacement for Titus on Crete. Uh only a year so before 2 Timothy was written, he was mentioned in that possibility. But here actually he's mentioned as a possibility of a replacement for Timothy there at Ephesus. And so what's the whole point? There's ministry needs all over. That's why we need people that will be faithful. There's so many things that need to be done. And so little time to get it all done. And we need people that are willing to serve the Lord. Their ministerial needs, but also their personal needs. Look again at verse 13. The cloak that I left at Troaz with Carpis, when thou comest, bring with thee. Now again, remember Paul is in prison. And Paul's requesting that Timothy bring the cloak. Now you've heard me say this before. If you go to prison here in the U. S. , you get three square meals a day in television But in the Roman, ancient Roman prisons, uh, you didn't get anything. In fact, your whole survival was dependent on the gifts that people gave you on the outside. And Paul knew that winter was coming. He knew that the cold weather was coming. And so Paul says, here in this dark, dingy cell, dungeon, Timothy, bring my cloak when you come. He needed worn for his body. Now the word here is just describes A heavy garment. We would probably call it a poncho. It had a hole in the middle of it. So you just kind of throw it around your head and just wear it. It would keep the the coat off of you. But it could also be used as a blanket. And so Paul said, Timothy, make sure you bring my cloak because I need it. Sometimes the greatest way we can minister to someone is just meet their physical needs. Give to them when they have a need. And then notice what he says, bring my books. Again in verse 13, and the books. The word for books here is referring to a papyrus scroll. And these were probably scrolls that were used for writing. So evidently the Apostle Paul was still writing some things, still sending them out, writing letters and such. He still had plans to do that, even though he was there in that prison. But also he says, bring my parchments. Again, look in verse 13, but especially the parchments. Now, parchment is a writing material made from the skins of animals, especially sheep and goats. And this would be more of what Scripture was written on in that time, especially Old Testament Scripture. So what Paul's asking for here is the Old Testament books of the Bible. Timothy, especially the parchments. Bring the scriptures with you when you come. Paul wanted the word of God. Here he is facing execution and he knows it. He's not coasting along in his Christian life. He's still trying to grow in his own faith, learning God's word even more. He wanted to study the scriptures. He could do that in between trials. You know, you never grow to the point where you never need God's word. You never get to that point spiritually. Here's Paul, this spiritual giant. And yet he's at the end of his life and he's still asking for God's word. He needed the cloak to warm his body. He needed the word of God to warm his soul. And so he asked Timothy to bring that with you. What an example. We need to spend more time in God's Word. We need to be in it every day of our life. Again, here Paul is at the very end and he knows it yet. He's not giving up. He's still striving. He's still studying. He's still writing letters. Faithful unto the very end was the Apostle Paul. So Timothy come before winter. Why? Well, because some are forsaking the faith. Because the ministry has many needs. But here's number three, because there's much opposition to the gospel. Look at verse 14. Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works. Now Paul was receiving opposition And by the way, if you stand for the Word of God and the gospel and you're faithful, at some point in your Christian life, you will receive opposition. Don't be surprised when that comes. So Paul warns Timothy, Timothy, watch out for Alexander the coppersmith. He did me much harm. Now it's likely that Alexander the coppersmith professed to be a believer, but then he turned against what the Apostle Paul was teaching. And he became an enemy of Paul. Notice again where he says he did me much evil. The word that's used for did me evil is the word that is frequently used in the Greek to speak about an informer. So it's very possible that Alexander is the one who turned Paul over to the Roman authorities, declaring Paul to be an enemy of Caesar. That's very possible that what happened here. And if this is the same Alexander who Paul mentioned in 1 Timothy, remember that Paul said that Hem and Hymeneus, I've delivered over unto Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. This would be a motive for Alexander turning Paul over. to the Roman authorities. Paul had delivered him to Satan. Paul had disciplined him in the church. And now Alexander Got back at Paul. He turned Paul into the Roman authorities. And it's very likely that Timothy would be passing through Troaz, the region where Alexander is from, and Paul's saying, Timothy, watch out for him. Watch out. He'll do you in if he gets a chance. But notice again, the apostle says this. May the Lord repay him for his deeds. It reads like that here in the King James. Some other translations are this, the Lord will repay him. Not may the Lord, but the Lord will repay him. I think that's probably a better translation that Paul is not Wishing vengeance on him, Paul's just stating a fact, you know, God will repay him. That will happen Paul knew that vengeance was in the hand of Almighty God. God is the one who repays evil. But again, the whole point here is this: there's opposition. And that's why we need people that are faithful. You know, it's sad when opposition to the gospel causes some people to drop out. Or to turn back on God because the church needs the exact opposite. God's army needs reinforcements, not quitters. So Timothy come before winter. Why? Because some are forsaking the faith, because the ministry has many needs. Because there is much opposition to the gospel. But then here's number four, because God's people need you. God's people need you. Look down at verse number 19 Well actually 19 to verse 21. And what we see here are a list of names. And what this reminds me about is the ministry is all about people. It's loving the people of God. It's ministering to the people of God. Investing in the lives of the people of God. This is the thing we notice about the Apostle Paul. Seems like in all of his letters at the end of it he always has a list of names of people that he mentions. These are people that were dear to his heart. And Paul speaks about them to Timothy. In verse 19, salute Priscilla and Aquila. This is uh Paul first met them at Corinth on his second missionary journey. They were also tent makers. Um they served with the Apostle Paul. When Paul left Corinth, he took them with him to Ephesus. We find them still there, serving the Lord faithfully, years after that. And then in verse 19, the house of one sifarus. This was the man who visited Paul in his Roman imprisonment and refreshed the Apostle Paul. He ministered to him. His whole family was evidently Wonderful Christians. And then in verse 20, notice he mentions Erastus who abode at Corinth. Erastus was the city treasurer of Corinth. who sent greetings through Paul to the church at Rome. And then in verse number 20, Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick? This was a Gentile native of Ephesus. He was with Paul in Jerusalem when Paul's enemies falsely accused him. Notice here, however, you know, he Paul said, I left them sick there. That might give us a little bit of an indication that the maybe the miraculous gifts of healing were kind of dying out at that time or or maybe at at the very least it's not God's will for Everyone to be healed by Paul. Paul, if he had that gift, certainly could have healed this man, but Paul said, I left him there sick. That shows either the supernatural gifts were fading or it's not always God's will to heal supernaturally. And then in verse number 21, Paul mentions some other believers. Along with brethren in Rome. But again, what does all this tell us that we minister to one another? The ministry is all about people, loving people. That's why we need to be faithful. Let me give you the last reason. Timothy, come before winter. Why? Some folks are forsaking the truth. The ministry has many needs. There's much opposition to the gospel because God's people need you. But here's the last thing, because faithful soldiers of Christ are being called home. Again, Paul knew that his time was come. He knew that God was about to call him home. Back up to verse number 17. Notice what Paul says. Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me. And strengthen me, that by me the preaching might be fully known, that all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. Now again, Paul's talking about his first trial. A preliminary hearing, even though others had forsaken him, Paul knew that God did not. God was with him and watched over him And this is often the case when we're let down by others. We'll never be let down by God. God will always Be with us and help us. And notice then he says that by me the preaching might be fully known, that all the Gentiles might hear. Even in prison, Paul continued to preach. See how? I think when he went to before the trial and he had to stand before Nero, don't you imagine that Nero got the gospel there? And all the other Roman authorities that had to prepare their case against Paul. They had to study the message of the gospel. And Paul was just, no matter where God put him, he was faithful to give the gospel. Nero heard Paul defend the gospel. Notice the verse 17 where it says, And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. What does that mean? Some people believe that Paul actually went into the Roman Coliseum and in some way was miraculously delivered. From the lions there. We don't know that for sure. Some some say that. Paul could be metaphorical here. When he was speaking about deliver being delivered from the lion, he could be referring to Nero himself. Or Satan, who is a roaring lion trying to devour, but whatever, however you interpret that, the idea is God came through and God delivered Paul. But notice verse 18. And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom. To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul knew that God would deliver Paul from all these things. until God was ready to call Paul home. You know what? God's going to keep you from all evil until he's ready to call you to his heavenly kingdom. As long as you're here, he has a purpose for you, and he will keep you until it's your time to be called home to heaven. And by the way, Paul's not afraid to die. He's already made it clear it's much better. But again, the whole point is, Timothy, I need you here. Come before winter. Come before this happens. I can't read this passage without thinking about years ago when Pastor Johnson called me to come back to grace. That was kind of my come before winter calling from Pastor Johnson. You know, he kinda he called me uh um a few years ago, many years ago now, but I remember, you know, several times he called me. And told me to come back. I was always reluctant. I thought I was where I was supposed to be. But thank God Pastor Johnson was persistent. He kept calling and said, you know, I believe you the Lord wants you back here. And then finally, my wife who's many times more spiritual than me and walks closer to the Lord. said, you know what? You need to go back to Baltimore. God's calling you back to Baltimore. And I looked at her and I said, now who are you? What got into you? Here's this southern girl telling me I need to go back to Baltimore. You know, but it was all it was all of the Lord. It was all God's calling. And you know what? I'm glad I came back. This is definitely what God wanted for me. I had to come back. And I'm glad I was back here to enjoy Pastor Johnson and the years before the Lord called him home. and to learn more from him. You know, there was still much more for me to learn from a godly soldier of the cross like him And indeed it was a privilege to do that. So I I think Timothy made it there before winter. I think he got there. And I think he got around the Apostle Paul. And I think he had the privilege of watching him be called home to heaven. He saw the Apostle Paul. run a good race all the way up until the end. All the way until the end. And we could say the same about Pastor Johnson, couldn't we? Those of us who knew him. We saw him run a good race all the way until the finish All the way until the end. And you know what? That's what I want to do. I just want to be faithful all the way to the finish line There's an urgency now that we run a good race. I read this story, I thought I would share it with you When Bill Broadhurst was 18, an aneurysm occurred on the right side of his brain, leaving the left side of his body partially paralyzed By the time he was twenty-eight, he was able to walk without the use of a cane. Although still hampered by a stiff-legged limp, it no longer prevented him from pursuing his interests in running. The marathon in Omaha, Nebraska, like races all over the country, began predictably. The gun sounded and the runners flooded through the street. As in most contests, the leaders become apparent early on. Bill Rogers, lean and practice, was among the frontrunners. Bill Broadhurst, among the throng at the beginning, was now considerably behind the crowd. Rogers won the race, covering the distance in less than 30 minutes. fast by any standards. Other runners were not far behind, bringing in the competitive times as they sprinted across the finish line Joggers and weekend marathoners cocked in at an hour or more. Stragglers and the weary finished about two hours later. After two hours and twenty minutes. Bill Broadhurst continued to run. There was no one in sight. His left side felt numb. A child seeing him struggling along by himself yelled, Hey mister, you missed the race Broadhurst's body screamed with pain, but he kept going. He wanted to finish. And as a believer, he thought of 1 Corinthians 9 27 where Paul Speaking of a runner and a race with endurance said, I beat my body and make it my slave. Broadhurst wanted to finish the race. Two hours and thirty minutes after starting the race, the sky was darkening. The police were gone. No crowds pressed along the streets to catch glimpses of the runners. Tables cluttered with water cups no longer dotted the route. Broadhurst's limp worsened, his left leg almost dragging as he pushed himself on, and he began to wonder if it was worth all the effort Everything hurt. Finally, he caught sight of the endpoint. As he hobbled along He saw that the finished banner no longer fluttered over the street. It was already packed away for next year's race. The place was deserted His heart sank as he realized how far behind he had run, how long ago the race had ended. On the dark street with no one watching, what difference would it make if he crossed an imaginary finish line? But he did. He crossed it. And as he did, from out of the alleyway, stepped to Bill Rogers And a small group of people. Stumbling across the finish line, Broadhurst was welcomed by the outstretched arms of the champion, the winner of the race, his hero. Taking the gold medal from around his own neck, Rogers put it on Broadhurst, declaring him to be the winner. It was a moment of victory, more electric perhaps than two hours earlier when the crow crowds cheered Bill Rogers as he crossed the line. Soon, you know what? Soon After the struggles of this weary life, we're all going to cross that finish line. And you know what? Not from out of the shadows, but from out of the glory, our Savior, the winner of the race, our hero, will come to us. And if we run a good race, He'll say to us, Well done, good and faithful servant. And he'll give us our reward He has run the race already for us. All we have to do is follow in that path. And you know what? He'll be waiting if we are faithful. Again, I want to run a good race. All the way to the finish. Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Father, thank you again for your word, the encouragement, the challenge that it gives us. Lord, as we read these words of the Apostle Paul, I pray that it'll encourage us and motivate us to be good soldiers of the cross, to run a good race There's urgency in this passage that we not wait. Don't wait until this winter time of life comes When we're no longer able to do the things that we can do now, when the opportunities are there, when they're in front of us. Lord, help us to come before winter. Help us to serve faithfully before the winter time comes. So that one day when we do cross that finish line. We'll hear you say well done. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's all stand together.