I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of Nehemiah. And I want you to go to Nehemiah chapter 13. This is the last chapter in the book of Nehemiah, but you thought we would never get there As we've been studying through this. And tonight I want to talk about confronting spiritual decline. Now I was never a good science student, but I read where the second law of thermodynamics states that In a closed system, things move from a maximum state to what they call a state of entropy or disorder. Uh I want you to memorize that law. Make sure you know that. You say, what's that got to do with Nehemiah? Well the principle is it goes from a state of maximum down into decline. In other words, that seems to be the law. Things are constantly moving downward or into a state of decline or disorder. I would just say that there's kind of a parallel principle in the spiritual realm. When we are at our maximum, we have to be careful because if we're not guarding that, if we're not constantly pushing forward spiritually, we automatically go into a state of decline. Or we could say like this: if we're not constantly on fire for the Lord moving forward in our spiritual walk and our spiritual growth, we have a tendency to backslide. Or another way to say it, if you're not moving forward, you're moving what? There's no neutral place, there's no way to just stand still spiritually. And we add to that the fact that we live in a very morally decadent world. I know that that's not a surprise to us. We live in a world that is so permissive And unless we're constantly waging war against the flesh and dealing with this world in which we live, uh spiritual decline will take place in our life. We have to constantly be on guard I read some statistics this week that were kind of astounding. I wonder sometimes if they're really true. This was sent out by the Global Pastors Network. It basically said that each month 1,500 pastors leave the ministry due to moral failure or spiritual burnout or contention in the church. It went on to say 50% of pastors' marriages will end in divorce. 70% of pastors constantly fight depression. Almost 40% report that they have had an extramarital affair since the beginning of their ministry. I think that's astounding, those numbers. And to be honest with you, I kind of doubt that. I think they're probably maybe more than the reality, but let's just say if half of that is true. If half of that is true, then that is an amazing thing when you think about it. And you know, we live in a in a society that is corrupt, that is constantly waging war against us. And sometimes even those who are supposed to be the spiritual leaders are subject to decline. We're going to see this here in Nehemiah chapter 13. Those who were really supposed to lead the people weren't leading them And we're going to find out some things that happen in this chapter that Nehemiah faced. We should say it like this spiritual decline is really nothing new. Nehemiah dealt with the same thing here in chapter 13. Now, Nehemiah, as you remember, left being the king's cupbearer. He was still serving the king, but the king gave him leave, so he left uh Art of Xerxes and he went to Jerusalem to repair the walls. And you remember that God used him to rebuild the walls in record time. And then right after that he led the people into a spiritual renewal. He and Ezra together They uh they led the people. Ezra read the book of God, the what with the word of God, and the people heard it, and they made vows to the Lord. We see that in chapter 10. There was a spiritual renewal. They made vows to the Lord, and we saw really a revival take place in the the lives of these people here in the city of Jerusalem. And really the climax of the book of Nehemiah we saw was in chapter twelve where the people rejoiced and God had given them great joy and they dedicated the walls of the city and themselves to the Lord. So we we come to off a high note in chapter 12. Now it would be nice if the book ended there and we say that they lived happily ever after But that's not the way Nehemiah ends. This is not, you know, that's not real life, we could say. Nehemiah was the governor for twelve years in Jerusalem. Then he goes back to Babylon to serve the king. And then after being there for uh several years, we don't know how long he was gone, he returns to Jerusalem. So basically, look in verse number six where it says, But in all this time was I not at Jerusalem. It says, For in the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes, king of Babylon, came I unto the king, and after certain days obtained I leave to the king. So he had to go back to serve the king, Artaxerxes at Babylon. And his first uh we could say term of governor lasted from the 20th year to the 32nd year of Art Xerxes. That's 12 years. So for twelve years Nehemiah was the governor there in Judah. Then he went back to Babylon. And again, we don't know how long he was gone. The Bible really doesn't tell us specifically. The time references are kind of ambiguous, so it's really not Clear. However, he got leave and he was able to come back to Jerusalem again after no doubt was probably several years. And when he returned to Jerusalem, you know what? He was disappointed. Because all the spiritual reforms that had taken place years prior were now gone. And the people were in a state of spiritual decline. They were back to where they were before. Now what what what would you do if you were Nehemiah? I mean, that would be pretty discouraging. Here you rebuilt the walls. You had spiritual revival. The people made vows of what they were going to do before the Lord. You leave for a few years and you come back, and everything is a mess spiritually The people are right back doing what they were doing before. Now, a lesser man would have said, That's it, I'm done. It's useless. These people are never going to get it right. But that's not what Nehemiah did Nehemiah does not give up. And this is the quality of a real, true spiritual leader. They do not give up, they persevere. And this is what Nehemiah does. And so he basically is going to confront the spiritual decline that takes place in these people's lives. And from this, we can learn lessons for our own life because you know what? There's going to be times in our life when we go into a spiritual decline. What happens? What should we do when we see that happen? And we can learn some things from Nehemiah about how we confront spiritual decline. So there are three lessons I want you to see here tonight. And here's the first one. Number one, be aware of the causes. of spiritual decline. Just be aware of the causes. In order to deal with the problem, you have to know the causes, right? And Nehemiah immediately, it seems like when he comes back, he sees immediately what the causes are It's amazing that some of the other leaders there in Israel either they didn't see these problems or perhaps they saw them, they didn't want to deal with them. But Nehemiah, as soon as he comes back He sees exactly what the problems are. Again, if you don't see spiritual decline happening, you're never going to really deal with it in your life You have to have your eyes open. You have to be aware. And just know this that sometimes spiritual decline can happen very subtly. Uh it can happen very gradually. I've heard of missionaries that have been gone from the United States for years and when they come back, they're dis they're surprised to see the spiritual decline that has taken place in our country. It can happen almost unnoticed. But here's the first thing. Here's the first cause. Write down neglect of God's word. And that's not rocket science, is it We know that anytime you neglect God's word, spiritual decline is going to happen. Look in chapter 13 and look at verse 1. And on that day they read in the book of Moses and the audience of the people And therein was found written that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God forever. Because they met not the children of Israel uh with bread and what with water, but hired Balaam against them that he should curse them. Howbeith our God turneth the curse into a blessing. Now it came to pass when they heard the law that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude. Now look at the phrase in verse 1 where it says, On that day. This refers to the time when Nehemiah returned to Jerusalem. So guess what? When Nehemiah returned, guess what they started doing again? They started reading the scripture. You know what happened when he left? They stopped it. They weren't doing it anymore. But here Nehemiah comes back, and what do they do? They start reading the scripture again, and guess what they find out? That there's certain things that they're doing that they shouldn't be doing. And they happened to read a certain passage about how they should treat the foreigners that hated God and hated Israel. And they weren't doing that. And so, but here's the bottom line. A sure sign of decline is when you get away from the scripture. And you know what happens? When you get away from the scripture, you start to get spiritually dirty. Because God's word, you know what it does? It keeps us clean. And the moment we start reading, you know what happens? Our eyes are open and we start seeing what we're not doing, or what we are doing we shouldn't be doing. And that's what happens here They are neglecting God's word and their eyes are opened again. But here's another reason. Just write down too much reliance on man. They neglected God's word, but they were relying on a man too much. Again in verse 6, Nehemiah says, In all this time was I not in Jerusalem. I wasn't there when all these things were happening. When Nehemiah comes, he finds things really bad. People were disobeying. He even found a priest doing evil. And this was, in fact. the years of of his absence when the people were doing this and God sent another prophet during that time. You know what his name was? Malachi. This was the time when God sent Malachi to the people of Jerusalem. If you read the book of Malachi, you're going to find out they had a lot of spiritual issues They weren't doing what the Lord wanted them to do. Malachi preached against their apathy, their shoddy worship, their corrupt priesthood, marriage with foreigners. They were robbing God. They weren't giving them the ties that they said they would give them And Malachi comes and he shows their spiritual state. But when Nehemiah comes back, you know what? Everyone started doing what they should have been doing again You know what that is? They were too reliant on Nehemiah for their spiritual life. Now don't get me wrong, God gives spiritual leaders to us as a gift. Thank God for the pastors that He's given us. Thank God for our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson, who has taught us. Thank God for Pastor Earl and Pastor John, who have been here faithfully leading and serving and showing people how to live. They indeed are gifts from the Lord. And we should never take them for granted. But if you're not careful, you can base your spiritual life too much on a person and not enough on God. And that's what was happening here. Uh that when Nehemiah was around, they were doing all this, but when Nehemiah left, you know the old saying about when the cat's away, right? They just they just went right back into their old habits. And so we need to be careful about that. I think the Apostle Paul was concerned about that when he wrote to the Philippians. He said this: wherefore, beloved, as you've always obeyed, not as in my presence only But much more in my absence, work out your salvation. Paul is saying, look, don't just obey the Lord when I'm there. But even more when I'm absent, you have to work out your salvation. With fear and with trembling. Don't quit on your spiritual life just because I'm not present, because there is someone who's always present. And that's God. And as believers, we need to learn to live in what is called with the corum dio mindset. Corumdio is just a Latin expression that means before the face of God. We live our life as if God is constantly watching. We are living before his face and knowing that he will bless us. We live in his presence for his glory, and if you live that way, you'll never go into spiritual decline And so there was a neglect of God's word. There was too much reliance on men. But here's the third thing. Write this down. There were wrong relationships. Look in verse number four. And before this Eliashev, the priest, having the oversight of the chambers of the house of our God, was allied unto Dobiah. And he hath prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the meat offerings, the frankincense, the vessels, the tithes of the corn The new wine and the oil which was commanded to be given to the Levites and the singers and the porters of the offerings of the priests And so what happens? Now look at the name Tobiah there. Does that ring a bell if you've been with us in our study of Nehemiah? Who is Tobiah? He was an enemy of Nehemiah. If you remember right, he was an Ammon Ammonite. Get that right. An Ammonite. Uh he was threatening Nehemiah constantly. He was writing threatening letters against him. He criticized him. He verbally assaulted Nehemiah. He was opposing him in every turn. And if you remember, Nehemiah wouldn't let him near the wall, let alone inside the wall. He always kept him away Because he was such a vicious enemy of the people of God. Now Nehemiah leaves for a few years and he comes back, and guess what he finds? Tobiah is not just inside the walls. He's inside the temple. And not only is he inside the temple, he has an apartment there in the temple. A very nice apartment. That he's staying right there inside the temple. How did he get into the temple? How did he get into this apartment? You have to remember the temple contained some storage rooms. And that's where they would store the grain offerings and the tithes. And so this was kind of like the the bank vault, you could say, where all these things were stored. Uh Elisha, the high priest, you know what he did? He kind of he gave the keys over to Tobiah. That's like giving Jesse James the bank vault. That's like giving him an apartment inside the bank. And this is what happens. Eliash compromises with the enemy. He kind of lets the fox in the hen house. And why did he do this? Well, if you look at the passage carefully, uh he was kind of a a relative. And look at verse 4 where it says he allied He was an allied or was allied unto Tobiah. That's a Hebrew word that means a near kinsman. And so he kind of married into Elisheb's family. uh some way. And then he convinced them that he was a good guy. You know what his name actually means? Lover of God. Oh I I I just love God. You know there's a lot of people that say they love God that really don't And there you have to be careful. And so here's Elisha, and he lets him into the temple apartment. This temple storage room becomes his apartment. And from the inside He's able to wield his ungodly influence upon all of the affairs of the Jewish people. You know, here's the second thing you need to realize. Be careful who your friends are. Be careful who you call your friend and your associate. Someone said that you are or you are becoming what your friends are. You want to know what you're like? Look at your friends. Because that's what you're becoming. The Bible says this in 1 Corinthians 15, 33. Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. And so we need to be careful. Dr. Howard Hendrix said this: He said, In ten years, the thing that will determine where you will be in ten years are the books that you read and the friends that you keep. And that's very true. Don't make friendships with the ungodly. And so there was the neglect of God's word. There was the too much reliance on man. There was wrong relationships. But here's another problem that Nehemiah saw. He saw a failure to support God's work. Look in chapter 13, look down at verse number 10 when it says And he says, And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, for the Levites and the singers that did the work were fled everyone into his field. You know what was happening They were not giving the way they had promised to give. Now if you remember back in chapter 10, verse 37 and 30 through 39, they promised, hey, we're going to give the tithes. Look at verse 37 of chapter 10. Just flip back there. That we should bring of the first fruits of our dough and our offerings, and fruit in all manner of trees and wine. And it goes on to say, in the tithes of our ground. Unto the Levites. They made that vow. We're going to support God's work. We're going to give. And now here's years later, and guess what? They're not fulfilling their vow. They're not giving. In fact, the Levites are not being supported. And so you know what they have to do? Rather than these full-time ministers being in the temple, taking care of temple business, they have to go out into the field and work. Because there's not enough to support them. And so this this might explain why the storage rooms were available to Tobiah. There was nothing in them. People were not bringing their tithes. to the storehouse. They were not bringing their offerings to the Lord. And so they were forsaking the commitment that they made. to the Lord. And this is why later Malachi will come and he'll say, Will a man rob God? You're robbing the Lord here. You see, you can determine a person's spiritual condition by how they support the house of God. And so it's a shame that these people were not fulfilling their vow. But here's another problem. Not only was there the failure to support God's work, there was the failure to put God first. Look in verse 15 And in those days saw I and Judah some treading winepresses on the Sabbath. Wait a minute. Didn't they make a promise about the Sabbath in chapter 10? Yes, remember what they said? We're not going to do any more work on the Sabbath. We're not going to do any more buying and selling on the Sabbath because we want to keep the Sabbath day holy. And that was their vow to God. And now here again, here's years later, and Nehemiah sees with his own eyes He sees people working on the Sabbath. He sees them buying and selling. Look at verse 16. There dwelt men in Tyre also therein which brought fish. And all manner of ware, and sold on the Sabbath unto the children of Judah and Jerusalem. And you know, remember why they said, We're not going to do this on the Sabbath. You know why? Because they wanted to honor God. And by doing this on this sacred day, they weren't honoring the Lord. They weren't putting God first. They just forgot about their vow again. And you know why they wanted to do that? Because they were putting money ahead of God. They desired to have money instead of obey the Lord. That was their choice. The psalmist said this in Psalm 119, verse 14, I rejoice in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. You know what the psalmist said? I value your word above riches. Obeying your word means as much to me as any amount of And so they weren't honoring the Lord first. But here's another thing. There was permissiveness in their homes. Look in chapter 13, look at verse 23. Notice what it says. Jews that had married wives of Ashtad and of Ammon and of Moab. And again we see another violation of the vow they made to God. Remembering chapter ten, verse thirty, they said, We're not going to enter Mary And why did God not want them to intermarry? This was not a racial issue. This was a religious issue. You see, for them, if they marry foreign women They would have to worship their those foreign gods. And they would steal the people's heart away from worshiping the Lord only. And so this was a this was a compromise. This was not racial snobbery or prejudice Because if you read in the Old Testament, Jewish people always had had married some from other races, but these are people that already made a commitment to God And so it was no longer a problem. But the issue was religious. God didn't want them worshiping other gods. And marry so marrying pagans would cause them to do that. But here we here we see they made a vow we're not going to do that, but here they are and they've done it. They went back on their word in this. And look at verse 24. And their children spake half in the speech of Ashdod and could not speak in the Jews' language, but according to the language of each of the people. That is, Nehemiah discovers That their children didn't even speak Hebrew. And what does that mean? That means they can't even read the Hebrew scripture. If you can't speak Hebrew, you're not going to be able to read God's Word. And so this will have a spiritual impact on their life. And so they're not protecting their homes. They're not keeping God's word. You know what? When spiritual decline will happen, we can tell by how well we protect our homes from ungodly influences. That's how we know whether or not we're in a spiritual decline or not. Are we protecting our homes from those worldly influences? And so these are all the causes. And Nehemiah, when he comes in, he sees all these things happening right away. What's his response? And this is the second thing we learned from him: be angry at the condition. You know what? We need to take a good look at the problem. You know, many times we don't want to really know the truth about our spiritual decline. But we need to acknowledge if there's a problem in our life. And you know what? Nehemiah, he sees all these things and he calls it exactly what it is. Look again at chapter 13, look in verse number 7, where it says, and I came to Jerusalem and understood the evil. that Elisha did for Tobiah. What does he call it? He calls it what? Evil. I see all this evil happening. When he saw Tobiah in the temple, he didn't refer to this as a creative alternative for the use of temple storage. No, he says, this is evil. This is a sin against God. And chapter 13, verse 10, notice where it says again, where an eye perceived That is, he discovered the fact. In chapter 13, verse 15, where he says, He saw, and in those days saw I and Judah, some of them. And in chapter 13, verse 23, he also saw And in every case, he observed what was happening, and you know what he did? He compared it to what the Bible says. He saw it and he compared it to what the scripture says. You know what he called it? He said, this is evil. He said, this is sin. This is disobedience against the Word of God. The first thing you have to do is you have to be honest about the problem. You have to look at it and say, this is the problem. This is against God. Don't excuse yourself. Don't say, well, you know what? It wasn't really my fault. You know, no, it is what it is. Deal with it. And then we need to get angry about it because you know what I find here about Nehemiah? He gets angry. Look in chapter uh 13 verse 8 and it grieved me sure we could translate this I was very angry in fact you're we're gonna find out that he really lost it he totally lost it He becomes postal in this chapter. I mean he is just so filled with anger. Now some commentators they criticize Nehemiah at this point and they say, you know, he totally went over the top, he lost control. But let me ask you a question, was he right to be angry? The answer is yes. Nehemiah is rightly angry. You know what the problem is sometimes? We don't get angry enough at sin. It's right to be angry at sin. And sometimes this is a necessary step before repentance comes We need to get angry sometimes. You know, the tendency is we are easy on ourselves when we should be angry at the sin. that is causing the spiritual decline. And so James Montgomery Voice, he wrote this. He said, Critics of Nehemiah forget that the deep-seated wrongs are seldom corrected except by people who have first become sufficiently angry. The cool, complacent, the compromisers don't change anything. And that's right. You know what? It's okay to get angry at the devil. It's okay to get angry at sin. It's okay. There's such a thing as called righteous indignation. Now there is a sinful anger. And we need to be aware of that, but there is a sanctified anger where you're angry at sin. And this is what happens to Nehemiah. So let me give you the third thing here. Be aware of the causes. Be angry at the condition. But here's the third thing. Be aggressive in the correction. And so what we're going to see here in the rest of the chapter is what Nehemiah does to take care of the spiritual decline. I really like the way Chuck Swindah uh labels this part of the scripture. He calls it taking problems by the throat. That's a good way to say this. And this is what we have to do in spiritual decline. We have to take it by the throat. Just don't sit back and be passive about it. We can't do that. Anger is one thing, but the next step is action. Now, if Nehemiah got angry and didn't do anything, nothing would change. It's okay to get angry, but you've got to do something after that. You see, it's not really anger that gets the job done in and of itself. It's action, it's what we do after that Let me give you an illustration. What if I'm speeding down the road on the way home? I get pulled over by a police officer and he says, uh, you know, you realize you were speeding? Yes. Uh can I see your license? Yes. What do you do for a living? Well I'm I'm pastor at Grace Bible Baptist Church. And he says, you're a pastor and you're speeding. And he starts to really chew me out. He gets really angry. He yells at me, shame on you, you're a disgrace. He gives me my license back and says, now get out of here. And so I take my license back and what am I thinking? Thank God I didn't get a ticket. And that's wonderful. It doesn't really help anything. But what if I'm speeding and the police officer pulls me over and he comes up to my car and he says, Hello, sir, it's a wonderful evening, isn't it? Uh yes. Oh, can I see your license? Sure. Mr. Harmon, what do you do for a living? I'm a pastor. Oh, wonderful. Praise the Lord, thank God for people like you. Just a minute, Mr. Harmon, I'll be right back. He comes back and he says, You have a ticket here, sir, for $350. Have a wonderful day. God bless you, Reverend Harmon. God bless you. You know what? That hurts. You know what? I'm not going to speed anymore. You see, what gets the job done is not anger necessarily, but it's action. What you do. And what we're going to see here is that DMI is going to do some things. to take care of the problem of spiritual decline. And so he takes strong action. He meets the problems head on. Look at verse number 8. And it grieved me sore. Therefore I cast forth all the household stuff of Pobiah out of the chamber. Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers, and thither brought I again the vessels of the house of God with the meat offering and the frankincense. So what does he do first of all? When he finds out that Tobiah had an apartment in the temple, you know what he does? He says, get this stuff out of here. He takes all the furniture, throws it out on the sidewalk. He takes all the grain and moves it back in. All the offerings, he moves it back in. Can you imagine Tobiah when he got home from work that day? He's wondering why all his furniture is on the sidewalk. And then he opens the door and he sees his apartment filled with grain. You know what? Nehemiah was saying, you're done here. No more. Get out. And he even had the place fumigated. He didn't even want the smell of tobiah lingering in that room. He had it totally cleaned out. And so look what else he does. Look in chapter 13, look in verse 11. And he said, when I and he says, when he saw that they weren't giving, then I contended Contended I with the rulers and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together and set them in their place. That is, he he brings them all together He basically reprimands all of these officials. And then, you know what else he does? Look down at verse number 13. And I made treasuries over treasurers over the treasuries. In verse 14, he prays, Remember me, O my God, concerning this. And so what does he do here? He demands that they begin to give the way they promised. And then he puts temple officers in charge of the gifts and makes sure that that the tithes are brought in and that distribution is made. He doesn't stop there. Look in chapter 13, look at verse 17. He says, Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said unto them, What evil thing is this that you do and profane the Sabbath day? Verse 18, did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath And so again, uh concerning the Sabbath, he says, no more of this. What are you doing? Don't you remember this is why God judged us in the first place? Look down at verse number 22. And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves, that they should come and keep the gates to sanctify the Sabbath. You know what he does? And when it got dark on the Sabbath, he put a lock around the gates. And then he he told these guys, you keep guard at the gates. And you don't let any merchants come in here. We're not doing business on God's day. And he took the necessary steps to make sure that they wouldn't do that. He wasn't finished. Look in verse 25. When he's talking about intermarrying, he says, I contended with them and cursed them. You would say, well, that's a lot. I curse them. That is what he did, I think, here is he reminded them of the curse when they don't obey the law of God. He was reminding them, remember, remember that great illustration? If you obey God's word, you're going to be blessed. If you disobey, you're going to be cursed He's reminding them. This is a religious curse. He reminded them of the curse. And look at this. And smoked certain of them. He smoked some of them. And then and tucked off their hair. I read an article about this. I was trying to figure out what the hell is going on here, and I read one article that said, a new way to do pastoral ministry. Not quite. We don't do that today. But I want you to know that keep in mind that he is a governor. of this province. I mean he had total rule. He was kind of reigning more like a king. Now by the way, did you know that Ezra had the same problem of intermarriage? And you know what he did? He pulled it his uh the hair out of his own beard Nehemiah, he doesn't pull his own hair out, he pulls their hair out. Two different styles of leadership. I prefer Nehemiah's style, frankly. I'm not gonna pull my own hair out. I'm gonna pull your hair out. Because you aren't doing what is right. Also, keep in mind, Ezra's a priest, he's probably a more gentle type person. And a priest normally takes the sins of the people upon himself and intercedes for them. But this is what happens here. He is so angry that he does these things to correct them And then he's still not done. Look in verse 28. And one of the sons of Joeda, the son of Elisha, Eliashab, the high priest, was son-in-law to Sandbalat. The Horonite, therefore I chased him from me. That is, he just chases him out of town. Now what happens is here is a son-in-law of Sambalat. And uh he's a bitter enemy a bitter enemy also, who also resisted building the wall. And now here is a son-in-law of his that's going to be a priest, and Nehemiah says, Absolutely not, you get out of here In fact, he chases him away. Kidner, in his commentary, I love where it says, chaste is such a glorious word. He chases him out. He's confronting sin. You know, you say, man, this seems to be really drastic. And you're right. But you know what? Sometimes sin demands a strong reaction. Sometimes sin demands direct confrontation that we don't take any prisoners, we deal thoroughly with those sins. That are causing spiritual decline in our life. And this is really the principle that we have to learn from this. You have to take action You have to deal thoroughly with whatever's causing your decline, whatever's causing you to backslide, don't compromise with it, deal drastically with it. Are there some things in your life that you need to cast out? Are there some things in your life that you need to lock away? Is there some things you need to pull out by the roots and say, I'm getting it out of my life? Some things you need to chase away in your life that's bringing you down? Listen, don't mess around. Get it out. Do it. Take it by the throat. That's what Nehemiah does here. But then there's another thing that he does. Not only does he take strong action But you know what he's doing all during this? He's praying to the Lord. I don't want you to think that Nehemiah just got into the flesh and started doing all this. All the while he's praying. In fact, look at this. Look in verse number 14 of chapter 13. Notice what he says: Remember me, O my God, concerning this. Remember me, Lord help me. All the while he's doing this. These aren't long prayers. These are short prayers. Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wait not out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God In other words, Lord, the issue is your honor and your house. That's why I'm doing all this. This wasn't self-centered work on his part. Because he was offended or got just angry in the flesh. He's saying, oh Lord, remember me. Look again in verse 22. Look at the latter part of verse 22. Remember me, O my God, concerning this also. Spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy. Again, he's saying prayer, Lord. Remember me, Lord, help me while I'm doing this. Look in chapter 13, look in verse number 29. Again, he gives a prayer. Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood. And the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites. So again he's praying, Lord, you remember what they've done Remember how they've defiled the priesthood by doing these things. And then again, look at the last verse of chapter 13. And for the wood offering at times, appointed. And for the first fruits. Look at the last prayer. Remember me, O my God, for good. You know what he's doing? He's just praying constantly through this whole thing. Oh God, help me. Help me to take care of this. Help me to get rid of all these things that are That are disgracing your name, that is defiling your name, that is just defiling the priesthood and your house. And not bringing honor to you, Lord, help me, remember me, see what I'm doing here. That's a good way to go about cleansing. Your life of whatever is bringing spiritual decline. Oh God, help me. Help me. Because you know what? When you take steps to cleanse your life from anything that's bringing spiritual decline in, and you sincerely ask the Lord's help, you know what you're going to find? He's going to help you. He's going to help you. And so this is what Nehemiah does. So again, what do we learn from him? Be aware of the causes of spiritual decline. Be angry at the condition. And be aggressive in the correction. Go about it. Don't take any prisoners. Take it by the throat. Do what's necessary. And you know what? Let me just say this one thing and we're done. You know what? When I read this about Nehemiah getting angry, I think about Jesus. You know why? Because Jesus saw the spiritual decline of his day He saw them abusing the temple. And what did he do? You know that he cleansed the temple. He took a cat of nine tails. He cleared that temple out. In fact, what we see here with Nehemiah is really a foretaste of the action that Jesus did when he cleansed his temple. We see the same righteous indignation. The only difference is Jesus didn't pull anybody's hair out. But I would say this, on the other hand, he allowed his hair to be pulled out. He suffered. For our sins. You say, where does it say that? Well, in Isaiah 50, verse 6, when he's prophesying the sufferings of the Messiah, listen to what it says. I gave my back to the smiters. And my cheeks to them that pluck off the hair, I hid not my face from shame and from spitting. And so Jesus, our great high priest, allowed himself to suffer on behalf of the very sins that other people were committing. And when I think about that, why should we tolerate sin in our life? Why should we tolerate spiritual decline when Jesus suffered so greatly for our sins? We shouldn't. So let's take some lessons here from Nehemiah. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, as we come before you, we ask for your help. And we pray the prayer of Nehemiah: Remember me, O my God, for good. Help me, Lord. When spiritual decline very subtly sets in. Father, give us discernment to see if beginning to take place. And give us the courage and the backbone that Nehemiah had to deal with it thoroughly, to take no prisoners. To be uh thorough in the way that we come to our spiritual walk. And cleanse ourselves of sin or anything, Lord, that causes us not to walk with you. Help us, Lord, because we live in a very decadent world. And if we're not careful, Lord, it can happen to us And I'm just wondering with heads bowed and eyes closed, if anyone will say, I I just need this in my own life. I I I think that Inadvertently, I've allowed spiritual decline to set in my own heart. And I'm not pursuing the Lord like I once did. I'm not mortifying sin in my life the way I once did. And I've allowed some things to creep in. So I need to take decisive action in my own life. And friend, I'm just going to ask you, I'm not going to ask for anyone to raise your hand, but I'm just going to give you a moment of prayer right there And if this is true of you, would you just take a moment and say, Lord, would you help me? Would you help me not to continue in this spiritual decline that I'm in? Would you help me to get out And to have the courage of Nehemiah to do what's necessary to stop the decline in my life. So father Again, thank you for your word. May it speak to our hearts tonight. Use it, Lord, in our lives. For your glory's sake, we pray it