And I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the Book of Romans, chapter eight. As you know, we've kind of uh uh put off the uh study in First Timothy. We will get back to that And just for a few weeks I've been dealing with the issue of the Christian and the battle that they have with sin and learning from Scripture how we can be victorious over sin in our life. So look in Romans chapter 8. I want to look at just thr uh three verses tonight, verses twelve down to verse fourteen. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Now it was said of Seneca, the great Roman philosopher, O that a hand would come down from heaven and deliver me from my besetting sin. His plea kind of echoes throughout the centuries those who have been weary over the battle of indwelling sin in their life. We can certainly relate to that expression In fact, the Apostle Paul made a similar cry that we studied in Romans seven, verse twenty four O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death Erwin Lutzer is right when he wrote in his book Winning the Inner War, he said, quote, Sinful habits begin innocently enough, but if we don't master them, they will surely master us And then he described in his book the war that we face. He said that his quote, we have all experienced the cycle, enjoy a forbidden pleasure. Feel guilty, determined never to do it again, take pride in brief moments of self-control, and then fail once more. And each time we repeat the pattern that ruts are cut a bit deeper and the chain pulled tighter. And I think that he said that well and it's so true. Now we all have besetting sins, we would admit that. The Bible tells us in Hebrews twelve, one, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. We all have that particular sin or sins that seem to trip us up in the race of life. And the question is, is it possible to overcome that stubborn sin that seems to dominate us at times and cast us down and make us depressed and so on. Well, I think the answer to that question is yes, we can overcome it. I think Romans 8 gives the answer to that important question, and it is again a resounding yes. But before we um really consider what Paul has to say in these few verses here, I want to just briefly mention some inadequate approaches to sanctification that are often recommended as a means to victory, and I think they all fall short. Number one is just a method There are just if you read anything about this, there seems to be in some circles of believers that are fighting against sin. They just kind of throw out a method that if you just follow this method um then you'll have victory over sin. It might be, you know, um the way you read the Bible or a special approach to prayer. It might be a a special way of ordering one's life uh or something like that. And and don't get me wrong, methods are good and and and it's certainly good to pray and read the scripture and do all those things. There's nothing wrong with these things. I recommend these things The point is that a method in and of itself does not guarantee victory over sin if your faith is in just that method, and just kind of a legalistic approach to sanctification. In church history, the pioistic movement kind of uh required this rigid uh discipline of of these methods that they would put out. But it did not guarantee victory over sin. And then other people think in terms of a formula, you know, not a method, but a formula. Here Here is uh or they they they put out little cliches of things that you need to remember to follow. Let go and let God take it by faith, you know. uh turn the wheel over, Jesus take the wheel, you know, just little things like that where people say it's just a little formula. And you know, the problem with those things is they're just too easy, too simple, and they simply do not work in and of themselves And then there are other people that think in terms of an experience. There are a lot of people that want to they want to have victory over sin in their life. They pray that God will just give them some kind of experience so that all of a sudden they're zapped and they no longer struggle with uh sin. And I I just want to tell you believer uh you believers that I wish that that were true. I wish that you could have entire sanctification like some people teach, the Holiness Movement, which is rooted in Westland theology, which you know basically says, you know, you can pray for a second blessing or a special baptism to where that you no longer uh struggle with sin. You know, you can just flip the switch and boom, you have victory. But uh there's a lot more I can say about that, but that just does not happen. God does not encourage us to seek some kind of mountaintop experience that will all of a sudden just rid us of any a problem with sin. So how does Paul tell us to get victory over stubborn sins in our life? One man wrote this sin cannot be annihilated through legalism, monasticism, pietism, asceticism, Phariseeism self-flagellation, confession booths, rosary beads, hail marys, or any other external means. The real instrument that God uses and This process of sanctification and working out our salvation is through the power of the Holy Spirit. We need the work of the Holy Spirit, and it's a daily, continual Process, we make progress in our Christian life, and it's a lifelong process Now in this, what I want you to see here tonight are three principles that the Apostle Paul will give us in this passage. We have to understand this If we're going to have victory in this long process, in this long warfare that we wage against sin and learn to walk in the Spirit and be sanctified. Here's number one And these are just basic principles. Number one, we must remember our obligation to live in the spirit. You have an obligation. That obligation is to live in the spirit. Sanctified life is not a matter of a method or a formula or an experience. It starts out with you remembering your obligation. Look at verse number twelve. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. Now we know what a debtor is. This word here means one who owes another, one held by some obligation or bound by some duty. And you have to remember that you have no obligation to the flesh. Paul says you're not a debtor to the flesh. By implication, you're what? You're a debtor to the spirit. You owe it to God. It is your debt. To God to live victorious over sin. What is the reason for that? Why did Paul say we're debtors not to the flesh? Again, by implication, we are debtors to the Spirit. Look at the first word in verse 12. Therefore Right? You have to go back. Because of what he previously said in verse, well, we could say really in all of the first part of chapter 8. In fact, we could even go back farther In Romans chapter six, Paul declared our victory over sin because of our identification with Christ. In Romans seven, he described the struggle of indwelling sin and the weakness. of the law to give us victory. But here in Romans 8, he describes the triumphant experience of life in the Spirit. And you remember here in Romans 8, Paul taught that the Spirit will basically liberate us from the law of sin and death. He taught us that the Spirit enables us to fulfill the law, because the Spirit in us works to help us fulfill that law. And then also he taught us that the Spirit changes our mindset. We saw that in verses 6 to 11. And Paul speaks of two different mindsets. Those that have the carnal mind and those that have the spiritual mind. And remember I said last week, he's contrasting the mind of an unbeliever. Versus the mind of a believer. Those who follow after the flesh, those who follow after the Spirit. The believer is someone who has the mind of the Spirit, who walks after the things of the Spirit. Now, there are times when a believer can walk in the flesh. There are times when a believer can rely on self, but that's not the normal pattern And I think the key is walk. We see this in verse 4. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. And so these next verses describe a mindset that is dominant in a person's life. In a sense, there's only two kinds of people in the world. We saw this last week. Verses five to eight. Two kinds of people, those who follow after the flesh, those who follow after the spirit. Those who are lost follow after the flesh and the things of the flesh. Those who are gods follow After the things of the Spirit But the point Paul makes is that the life in the Spirit is opposite of the unbeliever. All true Christians are in the spirit. They do not walk according to the flesh. And verse 9, notice again where he says, Now if any have not the spirit of God, he is none of his. In verse number nine. And in verse fourteen, as we read, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And so there's only two kinds of people in the world. Those who walk in the flesh, those who walk Now, of course, there are in the spirit people on many different levels spiritually. In the flesh people come in varying degrees of wickedness as well. But everyone is either in the flesh or you're in the spirit. There's no category of in-between here. So Paul suggesting that the Holy Spirit changes a person's basic disposition when they are saved, when they are born again. But the point that I want you to see here is that believers are no longer of the flesh And you have to get that into your mind. You're no longer of the flesh. The spirit dwells in the believer. The word for dwell here means inhabit. Paul says the very Spirit of God indwells every person who trusts in Jesus Christ. The Spirit is in believers, and they are in the Spirit. They are not in the flesh. Believers are not of the flesh. Now we are still in this body here, and we still have to deal with our sin nature, but that is not the mindset of a child of God. But look at verse number 10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. Body here is referring to the physical body. Dead actually means physical death In verses ten and eleven, Paul uses the term Soma instead of the uh the the term sarks, which means flesh, the word That Paul used for the first nine verses. So by using the word Paul makes his meaning clearer. And what he's saying is man's spirit, the immaterial part of man, is alive, but his body is still is dead. In other words You know, this this body that we have, um, it's gonna die. Guess what? You get a brand new glorified body. We talked about that at the resurrection. God's gonna give you a brand new body. And so there's a sense in which we don't really have any debt to this body, this flesh now. And that's what Paul's talking about here. The Christian has no obligation to his mortal side. You have no obligation to your body to obey all of its lusts. And look at verse number 12. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. Now, Paul switches terms. He used the word soma to talk about the physical body, but here he uses the word sarks that talks about the fleshly part, sin nature. He's talking about that. And the in a sense the sin principle. Now why does he do that? Why does he go from soma to sarks Talk about the physical body, then talk about indwelling sin, the sin principle. The reason he does that is because these two are related. Because whenever the sin nature accomplishes his Evil desires, what does he use to do it? He uses this body here. And so he makes the connection Because the body, the physical body is the source of the impulses. The physical body is the means through which sinful thoughts and desires and deeds are transmitted. So if you live according to the flesh Or respond and live according to bodily impulses, Paul says you know you must die. So here's the point. You have no obligation anymore to that sin principle that works in this body You have no obligation to it. There's no debt there. You don't have to obey. All of this apply uh implies that, as a believer, you're free from all of that And the reason Paul, I think, makes this point here is because a lot of people still go back to the old unsaved mindset to live according to the flesh. That's not your mindset now. You live according to the Spirit. Every once in a while the old man, the old signature will rise up and try to dominate us, tell us what to do. He'll use the body to do all that. But Paul says you have no obligation. You have no debt to the flesh. Your debt is to the Spirit. The freedom of the Spirit brings an obligation to say no to the flesh. That's the whole point there. And again, what is he implying? That now as a believer, you have the power to say no to sin, to the sin principle, to the body. You have the ability and the power to say no. Every once in a while people say, well, I just couldn't help it. But you know, yes, you can help it. If you're a child of God You're born again, you have the spirit, your obligation is to the spirit, not to the flesh. So living in the spirit is not a matter of convenience. It's not a matter of suggestion. It is an obligation. You have a debt to pay. You now belong to God. The Spirit of God is in you. You have no obligation to this body and the indwelling sin principle. You have an obligation and a debt. To the Spirit. Understand that? Here's principle number two. We must consider the consequences of living according to the flesh. Look at verse 13. For if you live after the flesh, Ye shall what? Ye shall die. And what does he mean by that? If you live after the flesh, ye shall die. Does he mean that a believer can lose their salvation? No, absolutely not. Because how does Paul begin this chapter? There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. That he ends the chapter by saying, nothing will separate us from the love of God. You can't lose your salvation. Okay, he's not talking about that. So what does he mean? And there are basically two different views about what it means when it says, if you live after the flesh, you will die. Here's the first idea. Some say Paul is simply reiterating what he said again and again throughout this epistle. He's drawing a line of distinction between those who are Christians and those who are non-Christians. whose lives and hearts are altogether fleshly are not true Christians. And if they continue to live in the flesh, they are going to die. They're already spiritually dead. Unless they repent, they're headed for eternal death So it's talking about an unbeliever there. That's how some people translate this or interpret this. But there's a second interpretation, and some say what Paul's referring to here is the sin unto death. You see, even for a believer, it's possible for you to live according to the flesh. And if you continue to live according to the flesh, even for a believer there is death In fact, the late great preacher Donald Gray Barnhouse, he's very dogmatic in his interpretation of this verse. In his commentary, he wrote this. He said, What is this death then that is mentioned in our text? I believe the answer is to be found in a series of verses. in the New Testament which speak of a sin unto death. And then he goes on to quote 1 John 5, 16 and 17, which says, there is a sin unto death for a believer. It's possible for you as a believer to live so much in the flesh and so much in sin that you finally cross a line and God says, That's it, I'm done. You will die. God's going to take you home. And Barnhouse went on in his commentary to tie these two passages together, 1 John 5, 16 and 17, and here in Romans 8, 13, where he says, If you live after the flesh, ye shall die. Again, he believed that Paul here is speaking of physical death as a punishment to a believer who lives according to the flesh. And I agree with that. I agree with his interpretation here. If a believer continues to live in sin and live after the flesh, What's God going to do? God will chastise his children, right? We know that. And you've heard me say before there are different levels of chastisement that the Bible teaches. The Bible says in Revelation 3. 19, As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. So first of all, there's rebuke. There's speaking. God will first speak. If a believer who is Saved, has a spirit dwelling in them, who should be minding the things of the Spirit, reverts back to the old pattern and starts living according to the flesh. What's God going to do? The Spirit of God will begin to speak to them The Spirit of God will convict them. God will speak through his spirit, he'll speak through a conscience that is not satisfied, that is not appeased, he'll speak through perhaps the preaching of the Word of God. Someone else sharing God's word with them. He'll speak through a lack of peace, but you can rest assured that if you're a child of God and you're living according to the flesh, God will be speaking to you about that But then there's another level of chastisement, and that's spanking. Suppose a believer doesn't listen to God, well then God he'll up it a little bit and he'll begin to use chastisement. He'll use providential circumstances. He'll take away blessings. He'll turn us over to the consequences of our actions. He'll take his hand off of us We'll feel his absence. There'll be no joy, no peace. There'll be misery there instead. Well, what happens if a believer still walks according or lives according to the flesh? There's another another level, and that's scourging. Listen to Hebrews 12, 6. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. If speaking doesn't work and spanking doesn't work, God will be more severe in his punishment, and there will be scourging. And that might be s you know, who knows? I mean, God can be severe in his punishment with Disobedient Christians. Now what happens if that doesn't work? Even that, a person still doesn't turn. God says, look, I'm going to take you home. There is a sin unto death. There's a point in time in which God says to a believer, Look, you've crossed the line. I'm not going to leave you here and let you shame my name. There is a sin unto death. But no matter how you choose to interpret this, it still has the same conclusion. To live in sin and to live according to the flesh has horrible, indescribable consequences that far outweigh any pleasure that sin could ever give. And that's the thing that we need to remember. Don't get the idea that sin is a small thing. Don't get the idea that it's nothing big. Think lightly of it. Don't think, you know, if I can just indulge myself in this small indiscretion, what harm will it do? Sin always brings an awful price As Christians, we should be aware of the serious consequences of sin and never treat it lightly. You say, what happens? Well the Holy Spirit is grieved. You can grieve God. Our prayers go unanswered. God will not listen to us as we're living according to the flesh. Our life becomes powerless. Paul feared the power of sin could disqualify him from ministry. Our praise is unacceptable to the Lord. You can't continue to praise God if you're living according to the flesh. You have to do that in the Spirit. God's blessing is withheld. Jeremiah rebuked the nation of Israel in the Old Testament, saying, your sins have withheld good things from you. If you live in sin or live according to the flesh, don't get the idea that God's going to bless you. He won't. He will withhold good things from you. You can't live that way and be blessed by God. Our joy is forfeited. When David was living in that way. He lost his joy. And when he repented, he asked for the joy to be restored. Again, God will chastise us. Our spiritual growth is hindered. The Apostle Paul couldn't minister to the Corinthians, what he wanted to do because they were walking according to the flesh. Our service is limited. We have to be vessels fit for the master's use in order to be really used by God. We can't do that if we're in the flesh Our fellowship is polluted. Paul instructed the believers in the Corinthians to clean up their life before they came to the Lord's table and fellowship with Christ. Our lives are endangered, as we saw in 1 John. God is dishonored, and on we could go. There are awful consequences of treating sin lightly and uh playing with it in our life. The best analogy I can think of is cancer. When we hear cancer, we don't, you know, it strikes fear into our heart, right? We we don't say, you know, well, it's just a little cancer. It's okay. That's not how we think of it. Oh, a little cancer, it's not all that bad. We don't reason that way. Why? Because even a little cancer can bring death And even so it is with sin. In fact, another term for cancer is malignancy. Medically, the word describes a tumor that has potentially unlimited growth. It can grow in us It can metastasize in the body and cause death. And sin is spiritual malignancy. Sin doesn't stay small, it grows That's the problem with it. Left unchecked, it'll spread throughout our entire being, corrupt every part of us. A little bit of leaven, Paul says, leavens the whole lump. It seems to me that the church in this day Thinks lightly of it. I don't think that we think of sin the way God wants us to. As serious about it as God wants us to think Just an example of this, go to a Christian bookstore and see if you have any recent books about sin, how bad it is. Just try to find one. That's recent. Most of the books written on sin are written by guys who are dead now. They go all the way back. I can't find any books that are recent about this whole issue of sin. In fact, I You know, I you know a lot of the books that you read today, even in Christian bookstores, about you know, to some extent are about this feel-good philosophy, how I should feel good about myself I I should beware of this negative emotion of guilt. That's the philosophy of our times. You know, everyone's a victim. We all, you know, are looked upon as people that are basically good people, but we just need help along certain areas of our life. That's not the way the Bible talks about sin and the believer's life. The Puritans of the 17th century had a different view of themselves. And this issue of sin. I had four books in my library on sin by pastors in that era. Let me give you the titles of them. The Sinfulness of Sin, The Mischief of Sin, The Anatomy of Secret Sins. And the evil of evils, or the exceeding sinfulness of sin. One title wasn't enough for that guy. He had to have two. These pastors all saw sin for what it was, a deadly diabolical force within us. In fact, Ralph Venning, the author of the book entitled The Sinfulness of Sin, originally the book was titled The Plague of Plagues. He was educated at Cambridge University, pastored in London. He was fired from his position at the Church of England and became minister of an independent church in London. But then he states that That he was writing against sin because sin is against man's good and happiness. And he used some really colorful words to describe sin over the course of his book that I read Let me just give you some of them. Vile, ugly, odious, malignant, pestilent, pernicious, hideous, spiteful, poisonous, virulent, villainous, abominable, and deadly Here are some of the things that he wrote. He wrote this on page 18. It cannot be but extremely useful to let men see what sin is. How prodigiously vile, how deadly, mischievous, and therefore how monstrously ugly and odious a thing sin is, he said. And then he goes on to say this: Shall I not plead for God and your soul and entreat you to be on God's side and to depart from your tents of wickedness? Poor soul, can you find it in your heart to hug and embrace such a monster as this? Will you love that which hates God and which God hates? God forbid. And then he says, Oh, look to yourself, for sin, notwithstanding all its flattering pretenses, is against you and seeks nothing less than your ruin and damnation. Sin in the Christian is self-civil war. And on you could go And this is the attitude that we have to have against this monstrous evil of sin. So number one, we must remember Our obligation to live in the Spirit. Number two, we must consider the consequences of living according to the flesh. But then here's the third and final principle I want to give you. Number three We must daily put sin to death in our lives. Look in verse number 13 again. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Now the word I want to focus on is the word mortify here. It's the Greek word which means to kill. To put to death. And Paul says, as believers, we have to mortify sin in our life. We have to put it to death. We have to actively be Declare war, be at war with sin. There can be no peace treaties with it. And Paul is calling upon every believer to deal thoroughly with sin, or sin will deal thoroughly with us. Remember what Jesus said? If your right eye offend you, what? Fluck it out. If your right hand offend you, what? Cut it off. And he was using hyperbole there, obviously. He wasn't being literal He didn't expect us to literally go out and start to mutilate ourselves. But the the idea there is that we are to uh deal so thoroughly with sin in our life that we do not allow it to our body to be used to uh sin against God. And so Jesus calls for uh us to be radical In the way that we deal with it in our life. Now, what is mortification? Let me talk about the definition of mortification. First of all, what is not? Let me tell you what it's not. It's not final elimination. Again, there are some who teach a doctrine of perfection. They believe it's possible for you to get to a place where you're sinlessly perfect But the in Proverbs twenty nine it says, This who can say I have cleansed my heart, I am pure from my sin? You know, there's no pu there's no absolute perfection here in this life. That will be when we are with the Lord. And so this doctrine of perfectionism sometimes can be very frustrating when people believe it. B. B. Warfield characterized perfectionists as imperfect souls who tolerate the more readily the idea of imperfect perfection than the admission of lagging perfect perfecting. They must at all costs have all that is coming to them at once. In other words, these perfectionists reject this this idea of a long a lifelong process. They insist that God can do it all at once is what he's saying there. And so they're forced by sheer reality to conclude that God's work of sanctifying must stop short of true conformity to the perfect likeness of Christ. They say, you know, after they reach a stage of perfection, they no longer sin. They just make mistakes And they substitute all their language, their words, to justify their theology, which is not true. It's not elimination. It's not pretending that sin is removed. When a perfectionist fail, they simply pretend that they have no sin. This John Owen said that this only adds hypocrisy to iniquity. It's not covering up our sins. You know, people are good at hiding their sins, covering them up like Achan who took the accursed thing and then buried it in his tent. But what Aiken forgot is that you can't hide anything from God. It's not occasional conquest of sin. You might have times when you do have victory. But there are cycles of sin where sin might uh lay low for a while and then, like the Amalek in the Old Testament, attack again. Um and then it's not substituting one sin for another Some Christians think, you know, I got victory over this one area, but they substitute that for something else. They exchange the devil for a wish, so to speak. You know, something not so bad for something considered worse. What good is it to trade sins? To trade the lust of the flesh for the lust of the eyes? A person who's willing to barter one sin for another shows that they're really not broken over sin. They're really not broken over the fact that it grieves the holy God. It's not outward conformity while ignoring inward corruption. You know, sometimes we have the ability to keep the outside whitewashed while on the inside our heart and our thoughts Our desires run rampant that are sinful. That's not mortification. It's not white washing the outside while allowing sin to grow in us. It's not that. It's not repressing one's sin. That's a diversion tactic. What is it? Several things that it is. It's the habitual weakening of sin in your life. The Greek verb here does mean to kill, but in the context here it has the idea of subduing evil desires springing out of our bodily desires. Remember, we have no obligation to the body. Remember, Paul equates the deeds of the body, our physical body, with the flesh, meaning indwelling sin, because indwelling sin uses the physical body to accomplish its purposes. Mortification is putting to death the desires and deeds of the body to subdue, to weaken those desires. And it happens again over time. It is also declaring war against sin. We have to declare war against it. Again, there can be no peace. It's a constant watch. It's a constant warfare. When Joshua went into the land of Canaan, he uh and his army crushed all of the major strongholds in the land of Canaan, but it was still left up to the tribes to do the mopping up operation. Jesus on the cross broke the back of sin, but it's still up to us to do the mopping up operation. We still have to work and and against sin, like the Canaanites had to drive or the Israelites had to drive out the Canaanites, we still have to drive out sin in our life. And we have to have that constant warfare against it. That's all what mortification is. And how do we know that we're winning? The evidence of it is an appeased conscience. When our conscience is no longer shaming us, it's no longer screaming out against us of these sins in our life. That's part of the process of mortification. It is working through the guilt of your sin. Do you know again this is the reason it's hard for some believers today is because we've listened too much to the world. And what the world says, you know what the world says about guilt? It's such a negative thing. You know, forget your guilt. Don't let your guilt affect you. You know, you know, basically silence it, ignore it. But what if I told you that guilt was a gift from Almighty God to help you overcome sin? That's what the how the Bible describes it. Those who attempt to evade guilt for sin You really haven't properly confessed your sin if you are if you're trying to ignore the guilt of it. You can't fully be cleansed and forgiven. John Owen said this. Talking about if you want to mortify sin, here's a believer that perhaps failed. They fell into a sin. He said, if you want to mortify sin, John Owen wrote this: load thy conscience with the guilt of it. And what was he said- mean what did he mean by that? When you fall and you fail, allow the guilt of that sin to sink in. Feel the shame of it. Don't try to write it off. Don't try to ignore that. Push it aside No, you think about the shame of that sin. You allow that guilt to have its work in you because that is part of the mortification process. That is part of putting it to death. Contrary to popular wisdom, he believed that the pains of guilt were healthy. It's a healthy consequence of this war that we have against sin. He wrote this, be ashamed, he said. For shame is an advantage in the mortification of sin. He went on to write, those who give a nod of the head to their guilt Claim the promise of forgiveness, quickly reassure themselves and think no more of their wrongdoing, are subjecting themselves to the heart-hardening deceit of sin, especially when sin threatens to become a habit. In other words, he was saying, we're too quick to just, you know, confess first John 1 9 and then forget about it. Now I'm not saying, and he's not saying don't Don't use 1 John 1. 9. We certainly want to do that if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us, but not so fast. When you fail, allow yourself to think about the guilt of what you've done before a holy God. Allow the shame of it to sink in And let that do its work is what he's saying there. Let sorrow do its full work in your heart to produce a deep, honest repentance And by doing that, what it does is it weakens that desire for the future. And that's what he's talking about there. It will severely weaken that sin, and that's all part of the process of mortification. And so that's what we mean by mortifying sin. But then the discipline of mortification, how is it to be done? Daily. It's a everyday struggle. The word mortify is present, indicative, continual action. Every day. We gotta do it every day, you know. Again, John Owen, and I'm quoting again from his book, Mortification of Sin, but in the ordinary course of daily life, this sin is actualized in the deeds of mortification. In other words, we have to just do this constantly, daily, mortify sin. But then secondly, diligently. We can't be passive about it. We have to be proactive. Mortify is the imp in the imperative mood. This is a command. God commands us to mortify sin in our life because it has such an insidious power to spread within us. If we allow it to go unchecked, if we don't deal with it thoroughly, it is so very dangerous for us. But then decisively Decisively. Purpose in your heart. Make a solemn vow once you deal with sin that you will not Allow that to happen again. The psalmist said like this, I have sworn and I will perform, I will confirm it, I will keep. Thy righteous ordinances. He made a solemn vow to oppose sin. It's like Daniel who purposed in his heart not to defile himself. But then also defiantly. Defiantly. As I read this, I see a defiant tone in Paul's words in Romans 8, 12, and 13. Be defiant against it, and then discerningly. Let God reveal to us Sin in our life. Like the psalmist prayed, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me. And then finally, let me give you the last thing quickly here. The devices of mortification. What are the tools? What are the instruments that God uses to weaken sin in us, to mortify it? And they're very simple. First of all, Christ A person to love. I call this a person to love. You know sin is mortified as we focus on Christ. You want to get victory over sin? Think about Christ. Think about the cross. Think about all that took place there on the cross. Think about the work that He did for you to have victory over sin in your life, to accomplish that. And by the way, that's one of the reasons why the Lord's Supper is so meaningful, because what we should be doing at the Lord's Supper is focusing all our affection and attention upon Christ and what happened at the cross. That weakens sin in our life. And then uh we can go on But uh there's so much to say about that. But another thing, and by the way, part of that is communion with Christ and prayer True prayer gives the heart a sense of its own vile character. It helps us to hate sin when we are communing with Christ in prayer. John Owen said, He who pleads with God for the remission of sins also pleads with his own heart to detest sin. And then number two, a power to live, that's the Spirit. And again, it's the work of the Holy Spirit in us. That is mortifying sin. He convicts us when we yield to him. We will not fulfill the lust of the flesh as we yield to the Holy Spirit. The Bible says, He does his secret operation in our heart And let me just say this, and I hope this encourages you, that even in those defeated times, in the discouraging times When we may see little progress in the battle against sin, we can be confident that the Holy Spirit is still working in us. We might not see it, but if you're a child of God, he is still working in you, revealing Christ, convicting us of sin. Helping us as we pray, and so on. And then finally, the last thing, again, very simple. We have a power, a person to love, Christ, a power to live, that's the Holy Spirit. We have principles to learn, that's the Word of God. There is no substitute for knowing learning God's word memorize it meditate on scripture the Bible says wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way By taking heed thereto according to thy word. Meditate on God's word. Jesus said, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is true. Truth. God's word has a sanctifying power on us inwardly when we are thinking about it constantly in our life. And so that's basically it. So let me just summarize again as we close. Three principles. We have to remember our obligation to live in the Spirit, not according to the flesh. We have to remember the dreadful consequences of living according to the flesh. We must daily put sin to death in our life, and we do that diligently, decisively, defiantly, discerningly. What are the tools we have Christ, focusing on Christ. We have the Spirit of God working in us, allowing Him to do His work. We have the Word of God that is the tool that helps defeat sin in our heart and life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Kind of a lot there to consider. But I I pray, I know that if you're a child of God and you love Christ, that your desire to live a life That's pleasing to him to walk in the Spirit, to be blessed, to have the joy of the Holy Spirit affirming you as you Perfect holiness and the fear of God. That's the desire of our heart. But Just remember this as well as your heads bowed and eyes are closed. We have a merciful, loving Savior. And we have a tendency to think that when we fail, that He's waiting up in heaven to whack us with a divine hammer. But I want to tell you that's the opposite. When we fall and we're broken and we're sorrowful over what we did, the first one to run to our side And love us and sympathize with us because he knows the weakness of our flesh is the Lord Jesus He's the first one to come to our side. First one to affirm us through the Holy Spirit to encourage us. Don't get the idea that throw up your hands and say, you know God must hate me. Oh no, man. He loves you. He loves you so much. And he wants to help you in this war, this inner warfare that we all do battle with. Remember that Father, we just come before you. Nee believers, we're so thankful for your grace that saved us. So thankful, Lord, for the work that you're doing in us. And yet at times, Lord, it's frustrating. And at times, Lord, we are defeated. And yet we don't have to be. Because you've given us victory in Christ. You've given us inward resources by the Holy Spirit, through the Holy Spirit. You've given us your word, which is a source of strength, and produces holiness in us. As we read it and meditate on it. So, Father, give us the grace to use all these tools To have victory over that besetting sin, Lord, for your honor and for your glory. Encourage hearts tonight, Lord, for those who may be a little bit discouraged Encourage hearts, Father, with your word. Remind us, Lord, through your spirit of your love and your mercy and your grace. And we thank you for all of that in Jesus' wonderful name.