I want you to take your Bibles this morning and I want you to open to the book of Genesis chapter three. Genesis chapter three. And so uh it's an important subject that we learn what the Bible has to say about the conscience because I think there's a lot of confusion. in the world today about the work of the conscience and what it is and how it helps us in our life and in our sanctification. So Genesis chapter 3 verse number 6 And uh uh let me read this passage. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam, his wife, hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. And the Lord called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? I heard about a pastor who had a very close relationship with his dog, and he wrote a book about it. You'll never have me write a b you know here writing a book about my dog. But this pastor did, and it's nothing wrong with being close to your dog. I just don't have a dog and every dog I've had, they don't ever listen to me, so I'm not going to write a book about them So in this book he shows how his dog and his relationship taught him many valuable spiritual truths. And the name of the book is The Gospel According to Gipper. Uh so this pastor, Pastor Joe Hamlet, he had a uh a golden retriever. And uh he wanted to make sure that his golden retriever, Gipper, wouldn't get hit by a car. So this is what he did. He installed an invisible fence around his property. He buried an electric wire a few inches deep under the soil, which was connected to a small box that sent out a signal that was received in a receiver in the dog's collar. And whenever Gipper walked near the property line, the collar would give off this chirping sound. And it war was warning him to stay back. And if the dog ignored the warning and started to cross the boundary The dog would receive a shock from the invisible fence, which taught him to stay inside that certain area. And after a fur uh after a few chirps and shocks The dog eventually began to figure out where he could go and where he could not go. And so from that, Pastor Hamlet uh kind of drew some spiritual truths about the conscience. And he began to say that God, whether we realize it or not has put kind of an invisible fence uh inside of all of us and that warns us what uh when we're about to do something wrong. And that of course is the conscience. Now that's kind of a broad summary of a conscience, but we want to get down into some of the details, some of the spit uh some of the specifics about what the Bible has to say about the conscience This inward guide, we could say, this inward law, maybe. But however, it's not just that. It's just so much more detailed than that. And so Romans 2. 15 says it is the law is written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternating accusing or defending them, alternatively accusing or defending them. And so what I want to do is I want to clarify this idea. What is your conscience? What is it? Because I think that there's a lot of misunderstandings about uh the conscience. So let's talk about this. And uh first of all I would say it's not the voice of God. I hear some people say, well, the conscience is the voice of God Uh the conscience is not God's voice. In fact, a conscience can sometimes wrongly accuse you or falsely accuse you. If it was the voice of God, it would never be wrong. Because God is not wrong. But your conscience can accuse you falsely. For example, in 1 John 3. 19 it says this: By this we know that we are the truth, and reassure our heart before Him For whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart. You get that? Sometimes our heart might condemn us. And I think it's re uh talking there, making a reference to the conscience. Sometimes the conscience can condemn us when in fact God, who is greater than our heart or our conscience, might actually be excusing us So there can be such a thing as the constant conscience accusing and God excusing you. And so in other words, again, there's times when your conscience can accuse you. wrong. And in those times, the writer here, John, says you need to appeal to a higher court, which is God. So it's not the voice of God. And then along with that, we would also say, therefore, it's not the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit can certainly use the conscience, and the Holy Spirit can certainly convict us through the conscience, but the two are not the same. For example, everyone has a conscience, right? But not everyone has the Holy Spirit. A conscience can make you feel bad, but it's the Holy Spirit that actually does the work of convicting you. You can feel bad about something without being convicted by the Holy Spirit. Okay? And so, you know, sometimes even people that are not really good people by uh moral standards can be uh can uh can have a conscience that will make them feel bad about something. For example, uh I read in York PA where an armed robber uh gave back to a homeless man after he robbed him. According to the news report, a man by the name of Sanderson was stopped by an armed thief. He was stopped at gunpoint. Sanderson gave the thief his wallet, his cell phone, his MP3 player, a pack of cigarettes, and then the thief wanted to know if that was all he had And the guy Sanderson said, well yes, all I have, I'm homeless. And the thief said, oh really? Well I can respect that. And he gave it all back to him So even a thief can have a conscience. Alright? You can have a conscience, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you have the Holy Spirit. And we would also say this, it's not the moral law of God. Some people think the conscience is God's law in us. The conscience is not God's law. The conscience is rather that thing that acts according to the law that we have in us. Okay? We would say it like this. The conscience is not the law, but rather the enforcer of the law Just like there's a difference between a written law and a policeman, there's a difference between the moral law of God and the conscience. Um you know the uh policeman doesn't make the laws, the policeman simply enforces the law. We could say the same thing about the conscience. The conscience doesn't make the laws. The conscience inside of us merely reminds us when we are not obeying those laws and it can enforce uh the laws that we have been given us. And we'll talk a little bit more about that in detail later. But we'd also say this, the conscience is not your super ego. And here when I mean superego I'm actually referring to the teaching of Sigmund Freud. who um in his theory of your personality basically said that your personality is made up of two components. One is called the id And the id is that component of personality. He says, according to Freud, it's present at birth. It is the primary component of your personality, he says, and it is driven by what he calls the pleasure principle. Which this that is there's something inside of us that is constantly striving for pleasure. There's something inside of us that is constantly striving for desires and wants an immediate gratification of all those desires and all those wants. That's the, according to Sigmund Freud, the id inside of us. But then there's another component of our personality, he says, and he calls it the superego. And the superego is was really things that we internalize that others gave us Or maybe a standard, some ideas, some principles that others basically gave us, and we internalize those things, and this superego comes along and it squashes this id inside of us. We would say that the superego basically suppresses all of these natural urges of the id, he says It would crush them, and it's what brings about guilt and negative emotions. All right. So that's just a little bit of Freud there. That's all we're going to say about him Just all that to say he's absolutely wrong. He's basically equating the conscience with the what he calls the superego, but he views the superego as something that is terrible. Something that is negative, something that crushes you, something that gives you guilt, and so therefore it's a very negative thing. The superego really consists of ideals that are fed to us by our parents and by society. Well, the conscience is not that That's Freud's understanding. Well, what is the conscience and where did we get it from? And when did we get it? And that's the thing that we want to look at right now. And it was in the passage that we read just a moment ago in Genesis chapter 3, verse 6. And this is the story of the fall in the Garden of Eden, and uh that's where the conscience came in this story. With the eating of the forbidden fruit came the birth of the conscience. Before that a conscience was unnecessary. Why? Because there was no sin. If there's no sin, it's not necessary. And so there came what we would call the the uh first of all the guilt of the conscience. Um you know in Genesis 3, 6 to 11 again we saw this with the eating of the forbidden fruit came uh the birth of the conscience when Adam and Eve uh disobeyed the Lord, what they sensed for the first time ever In human history, was this emotion called shame and guilt? They saw that they were naked. They sensed the wrong. They sensed the evil that they had done. And so Satan deceived them. You remember he said, you know, when you do this, if you eat this fruit, you will know good and evil. You'll be like God's knowing good and evil. What he didn't tell them, however, was that they would know good and evil not from a good angle, from a good perspective, but from a negative experiential knowledge they will know evil. You know, for example, an oncologist, he knows cancer, but a cancer patient who's suffering from it, they know cancer from a totally different perspective. They know it from a a bad, a uh a negative perspective. The cancer patient knows it from, but the doctor knows it from a totally different perspective. What the devil didn't tell Adam and Eve was, you'll know uh evil alright, but you'll you're you'll know it from a evil or a negative perspective. And so their innocence was destroyed instantly When they took of that fruit and they felt that immediately. They saw themselves immediately in a new light. So this is what I would call the guilt of the conscience. But now let me just say this. I would say that the conscience is not something that is negative. This is Contra what Sigmund Freud would say, this super ego that crushes you, that gives you this negative guilt feelings. Our society today views guilt as a negative emotion. But I would say that the conscience is actually a gift from God. It's the gift of God's common grace. You see, because when man sinned, mankind was plunged into depravity. Right? The doctrine of depravity. How many of you believe that mankind is depraved today? Say amen. Yeah, just look around. Look at what's going on in our world. There's a uh we're born sinners. But the doctrine of depravity teaches that man is as uh positionally is as bad off as he can be positionally, but practically he has not fully lived out the full measure of that depravity You know, before God all people are depraved. And if you don't believe that, just read Romans chapter 3, right? It goes right down the list of the things that are inside of all of us. However Mankind has not fully lived out that depravity. There is something in our society, in our world today, that is holding back The depravity of man that is holding back the evil that is in man. Now, there are several things that we could say are there to help hold back the evil that is in man. For example, we know that that's one of the reasons why God gave human governed government. God instituted human government in Romans chapter 13 because Human government, the primary responsibility that I understand from Romans 13 of human government is to do what? Punish evildoers. To punish those who do wrong. And so there's a sense in which human government holds back evil in man. Uh the police, even though you know you say we have, well the police is corrupt. Well, every institution that involves people is corrupt But as corrupt as it may be, the police hold back the full measure of man's depravity. You don't believe that. You let the police just go on strike and leave and see what happens. So human government is one instrument that God uses to hold back sin. Another one would be family. By just teaching our children right and wrong, parents that teach children moral values. That basically helps to hold back the depravity of man. We could say the government, family. We could also say the church, because when a person gets saved and they're indwelt by the Holy Spirit, there's that sanctifying influence of the church, the gospel of Jesus Christ holds back the evil that is in man. But before all of those things that God gave to humanity to hold back the depravity of man, God gave the conscience to man. And this conscience was given by God to restrain the sin nature That dwells in man. The conscience then would act as that invisible fence that was telling man, don't go any farther here. Don't go any farther. It gives off a warning. Those of you here that were here for the original illustration, it's that invisible fence that begins to sound off inside of us. And even maybe may even give us a little bit of a spiritual or emotional shock value, we could say. That lets us know that we are doing the wrong thing or we need to stop doing whatever we are doing. And one of the reasons why man is not worse off Practically, now positionally, he's as bad off as he can be before God, but practically he hasn't fully lived out that depravity And the reason for that is because of this conscience that God has placed inside of them. So we talked about the misunderstandings of the conscience and then the manifestation, but then the morality of it So we would just say that it is this inward sense of right and wrong. Okay? This inward moral guide. It's not a tyrant, much to the contrary of what Sigmund Freud would say. It's not a tyrant. It is a gift from God. You see, guilt is an emotion that was designed by Almighty God for man's good. Now again, we we you know today You know, psychologists and society today, they look at guilt as a negative thing because guilt will will cause you to behave in negative ways. It can bring depression, it can bring All kind of other negative emotions. But remember this that guilt was an emotion given by God as a result of the conscience. And what is guilt d designed to make man do ultimately? It's designed to cause man to turn to God. That's what guilt is supposed to do. Guilt is to drive sinful man to God. Why? Because God is the one that can forgive us for our sins We can find cleansing before God, and the conscience can be renewed, and the guilt is gone. But what has society done today? Instead of teaching man To go to God, if you have guilt, that means there's something wrong. That means there's something that you have to deal with before God. What does society do today? Well, they give all kinds of other alternatives about how to deal with guilt, which is including just blame it on somebody else. It's not my fault, it's your fault. Okay, it's not it's not me, it was my parents. They didn't let me push my mush off the high chair when I was little They they just they were not you know they were they were too hard on me. And uh and it's really the emotional impact of all it's not me, it's society around me. I'm not bad, the society around me is bad that's making me bad You see, that's what we see in the world today. It's never our fault. And so what is being taught is that what you do with guilt is that you shift the blame, you push it onto someone else, you ignore it You drowned out the voice of the conscience with other things, and you look at it as a negative emotion, and so there's all these different ways of dealing with guilt, except the right way, the biblical way Which is to if you feel if you're feeling guilty, go to God for cleansing through Jesus Christ. Let the guilt drive you to God. But today people they defy the guilt or they ignore the voice of the conscience, and by doing that they they corrupt their own conscience or they make their they turn off that automated warning system inside of them That is designed to drive them to God. They shut it down or the conscience becomes hardened. And so we could say it's this inward moral guide. Not a tyrant, although the conscience can be pretty loud and could bring this feelings of guilt. It is a gift from Almighty God We could call it this inner life. Proverbs 2027. The spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord searching all of his inmost parts. I think that what he's referring to there, the spirit of man, he's referring to the conscience. It's this inward light, this inward lamp that searches us out in our inner being in our soul. We could use another metaphor here. The conscience is a kind of an inner traffic light, right? This internal warning that lets us know when we're we're going to do something wrong. And so the conscience can accuse us. All right. Romans 2, 14 and 15, for when the Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do what is the law requires, they are a law unto themselves. Even though they do not have the law, they show that their work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts And so what it's saying there is that God is putting kind of a inward moral code in everyone's heart and the conscience works according to that inward law that God has put in there Again, the conscience doesn't make the law. The conscience only works according to the law it's been given. And it will either accuse or it will excuse a person So this inward traffic light, first of all, it can accuse us. When we do something wrong, the conscience will let us know. The conscience will tell us that will flash the red light. Remember the story in 2 Samuel 24, 10? This was the story when David was running from Saul. And you know, Saul wanted to kill David because David was the anointed uh king, and Saul was the kind of the outgoing king, you would say, but he was still king. And one day in Geti, where David was hiding in the cave, Saul went to relieve himself, and David was in there in the cave, and Saul didn't see him, and David's men are in there. Remember that scene in the Old Testament, and David's men say were saying, Man, look what God has done. He's Brought your enemy right here. Just kill him. And David, he couldn't do that. He thought, I can't kill the king. That's wrong for me to do. And uh but they what David did do was he took the the edge of Saul's robe. Now think about this. On the edge of the robe, they had these tassels, and normally in the Jewish mind, tassels were a symbol of authority. And so what he did was he took the wing of that robe, he cut off a symbol of Saul's authority, and he did that without Saul knowing it. And when Saul left the cave, the Bible says David's heart. Look at the verse. And David's heart smote him. Oh, this is this is after he had numbered the people. I'm sorry, different story, but it's the same same thing here. And David said to the Lord, I have sinned greatly and that I have done this. But this the the the phrase David's heart smote him is also used in the story when David also Cut off a part of Saul's robe. It's used again here in 2 Samuel 24 10, when David numbered the people. Both times the Old Testament uses that expression, David's heart smote him. What is it talking about there? It's talking about the conscience. It will accuse us. And then the green light, it excuses us. In Romans 9. 1, I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. Here Paul is getting ready to say something really, really incredible. And he says, What I'm going to tell you, I'm telling the truth. My conscience bears witness. In other words, my conscience Well, it's is excusing me, it's it's it's vindicating me that what I'm telling you is absolutely true for my heart. And so well the conscience can on one hand Accuse us, like David said, his heart smote him. The conscience can also excuse us. by giving us peace and bearing witness with us, the Bible says. Paul said this also in 2 Corinthians 1. 2. For our boast is this, the testimony of our conscience that we behave in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom, but by the grace of God, and supremely so towards you. And so Paul says, you know, I have the testimony of my conscience in me. Now many of the Corinthians, they were making accusations against Paul, accusing him of doing this, that, and the other. And Paul said, look, you might accuse me But my conscience doesn't. My conscience basically does not accuse me And so the other thing is the conscience, we're talking about kind of an inward traffic light, it also warns. It will warn. It will tell you that what you're thinking of doing, or what you're about to do It's wrong. Don't do it. Don't go any further in this. And so it's kind of a caution light as well. And just kind of an illustration of this in First Timothy. Paul said, Discharge I commit unto thee son Timothy according to the prophecies which went on before thee, that thou by them mightest war good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith. have made shipwreck. In other words, there were some, Paul was referring to, that rather than functioning according to a good conscience, they basically put that conscience away. That is, they ignored the inward warnings. And when they ignored those inward warnings, what was the ultimate result? They made shipwreck of their faith. When they did not act according to that inward warning, that inward conscience, it brought damage. So again, we could say That the conscience that God has given all of us is a gift. We've been given this kind of inward self-awareness. We can contemplate motives, actions. We can make moral self-evaluations, self-judgments. And so this conscience then is a gift. So that's the clarification of the conscience. Now I want to move on to the next point here. I want to call this the courtroom of the conscience. And I've been using several metaphors to help us understand actually what the conscience is and how it operates. And there are several good ones For example, we had said it's an inner traffic light or an inner voice, a warning system, we could say an internal GPS, all those things. The Puritan John Trapp called the conscience God's spy. an overseer of man. He called it the domestic chaplain. Another Puritan wrote this, listen to this. And the Nehemiah Rogers said this, the Lord God has set it at hit as his deputy in the breast of man, which though it be oftentimes a neutral that is inactive, When the act of doing and while sinning is com is is committing, yet afterwards it will prove a friend and a faithful witness for the Lord, but an adversary against man. And so he calls it kind of an inward police officer, we would say, an inward deputy. Someone else compared the conscience to a alarm clock that goes off. And the searing of the conscience is like putting the pillow over our ears so we don't hear it. How many of y'all have ever done that? Alarm clock goes off. Put the pillow. Some of you I'm coming in late. That's what you did this morning, right? Put the pillow over your ears. And and when we don't listen to the conscience, what will happen is it becomes the biblical term is seared. First Timothy five, two, by means of the hypocrisy of liars seared in their own conscience as with a branding iron. Now these are all metaphors given. about the conscience, but I think in all the reading that I've done on the conscience, the very best metaphor to help us really understand the workings of the conscience is found in the writings of the Puritan Richard Sibbs. And he called it the courtroom in R. So again, this is not original with me, this is Richard Sibbs. the Puritan who gives this imagery. And you might be thinking here this morning, why are you quoting Puritans to us on the conscience? I'll be honest with you because it's hard to find books today that deal with this subject. It's hard to find good books recently written that deal with the issue of the conscience. If you do a lot of reading of the Puritans, you'll find that they did a lot of writing on this one issue because they understood the value of the conscience for our soul sanctification, how that we need to work in a according to the conscience that God has given us. And so Richard Sibbs, this great, great. a theologian and Puritan pastor and writer compares it to an inward courtroom And this is what he says to clear this further concerning the nature of conscience. Know that God has set up in a man a court And there is in man all that are in a court. And so it's, he says it's a courtroom. All that is in the courtroom. Now So we would say this now wait a minute, there are many members of a courtroom, right? Um So the question would be then, which member? He said it's it's like a courtroom inside of us, but there are many members of a courtroom. There is the registrar who records what has been done, and then there is the accuser that lodges the complaint. There are the witnesses that are either for us or against us. Then there is the judge who either condemns us or vindicates us. He either says guilty or not guilty. And then there's another member of the courtroom, which is the executioner, which, according to uh Richard Sibbs Which punishes us after we have been found guilty. Now again the question is, with all these members of the courtroom, and we said the conscience is like this inner courtroom, which member of the courtroom is the does the conscience represent or in this metaphor? Which member is the conscience? And the answer to that, according to Richard Sives, to this one question is basically, Richard Sib says, the conscience assumes every role in the courtroom. He's not just one of these things. The conscience serves as all of these things. Every member, okay? The registrar who records what is done. The conscience makes a record of what you've done. He's the recorder. Here's what Sibbs wrote. The conscience keeps diaries. It sets down everything. It is not forgotten, though we think it is. There is a registrar that writes it down. Conscience is that registrar. You can hide things from others, but you can't hide it from your conscience. Nothing is hidden from that you do is hidden from your conscience. And so according to Sebs he writes, this should discourage us from having secret sins. The truth may escape your family, your friends, your neighbors, your counselors, but it does not escape your conscience. And so again, I refer to the story in 1 Samuel chapter 24 when David was hiding in the cave. And Saul didn't know what he had done, but he knew what he had done. And the Bible says again that his heart smote him. that he could not do anything against the Lord's anointed. And so it is the registrar Um and then also the uh the conscience is the witness, it bears witness. You say, well, what's the difference between the registrar who writes it down and the witness who also sees it? What's the difference between the registrar and the witness? They both see it. Well the registrar doesn't testify. against the person, but the witness does. So not only does your conscience um write down the deed and not forget it. But the conscience is also the witness against you in the courtroom. The conscience will bear witness against you. Again, Sibbs writes this: the testimony of conscience Conscience doth witness, this have I done, or this have I not done. That's why Paul says in Romans 9. 1 I speak the truth in Christ. I'm not lying. My conscience bears me witness. My key witness in this courtroom is my conscience. And this witness will either vindicate you or will witness against you. So the conscience is the witness in the courtroom. But also, Richard Sib says the conscience is the accuser that lodges the complaint. It will continually accuse, he says Sib says that uh there is an accuser with the witnesses, the conscience it accuses or excuses. Um and so A person with an accusing conscience is someone that is always restless or never at peace. And they're always uh you know, when you ask them a question, they're like, What do you mean by that? I didn't mean anything by it, I'm just asking What is that? That's a person with an accusing conscience. They're never at rest. Listen, the Bible says the wicked flee when no man pursues, but the righteous are as bold as lions. If there's nothing in your heart, there's nothing that no secret thing there, you know, you're as bold as a lion. I have nothing to hide. But if that's not the case, you're always running from something. Or s someone or something. You're always worried about what other people know or might find out. That's that's the uh accusing of the conscience inside. The conscience is constantly accusing you uh a person like this they always feel like they're being investigated but then sibs also says the conscience is the judge The judge, he goes on to say, there it doth judge. This is well done, this is ill done. And so it renders a verdict. The conscience will either say guilty or not guilty To us inwardly. And then finally, he said the conscience also serves as the executioner. The conscience will punish us. Along with all of that. Again, Sibs writes this, upon accusation and judgment there is punishment. The first punishment is within a man always before he come to hell. The punishment of the conscience is a prejudice, or we could say a prejudgment. of future judgment. And so he says the conscience is kind of a preview of of hell on earth. It will torment your soul. And will not let you off the hook. It'll constantly, constantly torment you, Richard Siv says. He calls it a flash of hell presently or in the present. A few years ago in the state of Washington, there was a horrible murder committed. A hitchhiker murdered a young man who had given him a ride. The body was found, but no trace of the murderer. Several years went by, and one evening in the state of Missouri, a man was coming home from work. He was carrying his lunchbox in his hand. At the door of his home, a young wife awaited They had been married about two years, and a little boy had been given to them. But the report goes on, before reaching his door, a man stepped out of the shadows, placed his hand on his shoulder, and arrested him for the murder in Washington. And this man who had been finally caught for that murder, this is what he said. I'm glad it's over. I've lived in hell for three years. What did he mean by that? His conscience had been tormenting him. Did not let him off the hook. And he said he could still see the body in his mind's eye of the man whose life he had taken. And so the conscience works also as an executioner. It will render the punishment. It does it all. So again to quote Sivs here summing it up, he says, God has set and planted in my man this court of conscience. As it is God's hall, as it were, where he first keeps his first judgment, he uh uh assizes and conscience does all the part. It registers, it witnesses, it accuses, it judges, it executes. It does all of those things. Now, that's all uh from Richard Sibbs, and that's a br to me that's a brilliant understanding of how the conscience works in man, this gift that God has given to men inwardly. Now, I'm going to add something to what Richard Sibbs writes. Now, this is where Richard Sibbs stops and Dr. Harmon takes over here. And I'm going to add one thing here. I would say this: the conscience is not a perfect judge. The conscience is not a perfect judge. The conscience is not infallible. You say, why do you say that? Well think about it. Just as a human judge can be mistaken in his verdict, even so the conscience can be mistaken. Have you ever heard of a judge making a ruling where you found out later it was a wrong ruling? And you know why? That ruling might be wrong because perhaps that judge did not get all of the facts. Or perhaps that judge was not, you know, had a bad day, or we could say. But if a judge doesn't get all of the facts, if he doesn't get it right, then whatever verdict that he renders can be wrong if the information he has been given is wrong. You see? So that's why it's so important for us to make sure that we educate our conscience. The conscience can be wrong in its assessment. The conscience can falsely accuse you. And the conscience can falsely acquit you. And you know what it's according to? It's according to the standard that you have been given. The conscience can only operate according to the information that it's been given. Okay? That's why it's so important that it gets the right information. And so um that's why and and I'll make a point of this as we continue talking about the conscience What we must do in order for the conscience to work effectively in our own life is we have to educate the conscience and we have to make sure that the conscience gets the right information. And what information does it need to get? The Word of God. We need to educate ourselves with the Scripture, with the Word of God, so that the conscience will operate the way God wants it to operate. Colin Cruz wrote this, listen to what he said here. The conscience is not to be equated with the voice of God or even the moral law of God, rather, it is the human faculty which adjudicates upon human action, and listen to this. By the light of the highest standard a person perceives. And he's absolutely right. The conscience functions according to the light of the highest standard. That it's been given, that it receives. Okay? The conscience doesn't furnish its own light The conscience acts according to the light that it's given. Okay? Another now analogy here, we could say that the conscience is really like a skylight, not a light bulb or a lamp. It does not produce its own light, but merely lets moral light in. And again, the question is, where does that light come from? That's the key. Since the conscience holds people to their highest standard, believers need to set that standard to the highest level. We need to set it by the word of God. Again, that's why in order for the conscience to operate correctly, It has to be educated with the moral standards of God. By the way, this is why it's so important that we teach our children right from wrong according to what the Bible says. Because what's happening in the world today, wrong is no longer wrong according to the world standards. One of the biggest uh strategies of the devil, one of the most effective strategies of the devil was to take the Ten Commandments out of the schools or to in any way blur God's moral standards And what is wrong clearly in the scripture, according to society today, it's no longer wrong. It's accepted. And in fact, if we as Christians say it's wrong, we are being Bigots. We're being puritanical. We're legalists. We are tyrants. We're not letting people be who they are. So what's happening in society today is that the moral standards are being watered down. And and so therefore people aren't you know, people don't feel guilty anymore. People don't feel shame anymore. Things that were shameful fifty years ago, people are boldly doing out in public now. And you know why? It's because the conscience has been given a light that's not according to the Word of God. And p people they don't know how to feel shame anymore. It's either that they've been given the wrong information about moral standards or they've ignored the conscience so much that that automated system inside them it's it's not working anymore. And so people don't know how to blush. They don't know how to be ashamed. Things that were shameful years ago are paraded in the streets. And the conscience isn't working the way God intended it to work. And so this is a problem today. That's why And by the way, that's why Satan attacks the Word of God. The Word of God is that light that is let in by the conscience, this m the the laws of God. And so um And so it's a problem today. If we fail to educate our conscience, it will not function properly. In Philippians 3. 19, Paul spoke of people whose consciences were so misinformed Their conscience was so convoluted that listen to what he said in Philippians 3. 19. Their glory is their shame. Their conscience is so convoluted, so twisted, so misinformed that their glory is their shame. Their misinformed value system has caused their conscience to make reverse judgments. about what should be made. Now Paul also speaks of a weak conscience. What's a weak conscience? This is a conscience that may be condemning you because the conscience is not really informed. And we really don't have time to deal with that today. We'll talk about that next week. As we're dealing with uh understanding the conscience, how it works in our in our sanctification. Um but again, suffice to say, the thing that we need to do as believers is we need to We need to be aggressive in informing our conscience according to the Word of God. Educate your conscience. A weak conscience is simply a conscience that hasn't been sufficiently educated in the scripture And uh it may therefore falsely accuse us or excuse us. And so next week we'll talk about um uh the cleansing of the conscience. Now today we talked about the clarification of the conscience, what it is. We talked about the courtroom of the conscience. how it operates inside of us. And next week what we'll talk about is we'll talk about the cleansing of the conscience. How God will clean us inwardly. How do we make sure that our conscience is operating as effectively as it can? Because again, this is a great tool that God uses. And the sanctification in our life, in this battle that all of us have against sin and this perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord, we have to have a conscience that is working correctly. And we have to always obey that conscience. Um and again we'll we'll talk about the cleansing of the conscience uh next week. All right? Um I think we have time for maybe one question. Anyone have a question today? about what we've said so far. Question. I must have done a really good job teaching that today. Let's all stand together. Let's stand together. We'll have a word of prayer and we'll let you guys go. Father, thank you for your word. And how it instructs us, Lord, may we as your people have consciences that are pure and undefiled, that is yielded to the Holy Spirit in this work of sanctification in our heart and our life. Pray in Jesus' name, Amen.