Bibles this morning, and if you will please open to the book of First Samuel chapter 24. Go to the Old Testament. Go to First Samuel chapter 24. this morning. And uh let's look at this passage here together as I kind of introduce our topic. We know we're talking about the conscience and we want to to continue talking about that this morning. But look at 1 Samuel chapter 24. This is a story I alluded to last week. And this is the story when David is running from King Saul. And as he's running, he hides in a cave in a wilderness of a place called Angeti. It's kind of a little natural oasis in the middle of the of the desert. And uh there's beautiful caves and And all around through there. And David hides in one of these caves. And look in chapter 24, verse 1. It came to pass when Saul was returned from following the Philistines. That it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi. Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. It's literally what Engedi means. Well uh the uh Springs of the wild goats or rocks of the wild goats. Verse three. And it came to p and he came to the sheepcoats by the way that where there was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet, and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. And the men of David said unto uh the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which the Lord said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it seemed good unto thee. Then David arose and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily. And it came to pass afterward that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt. So David is there in the cave quietly and he reaches over and he cuts off just kind of the end. There's tassels on the end of a royal robe like that, which is a symbol of the king's authority, and really it was a symbolic gesture on David's part And basically he was saying by that one day I'm going to be the king and one day all the authority is going to be mine instead of yours. And uh but even that act, now David couldn't bring himself to kill Saul. because he was God's anointed. But even that one act right there caused David to have a uh a time of where his conscience accused him. And that's the expression that you see there where it says, David's heart smote him. You see, David had such a high esteem of uh God's servant, the anointed, that even to do that act, which some people wouldn't r regard that as something that they would have a fit of conscience over, But David's conscience evidently was so sensitive and it had a standard of how to treat uh God's anointed that when David did this act, the Bible says his And that's a illustration of the work of the conscience. And that's what we've been talking about in our first study here on the conscience. We were talking about um how the conscience works and uh how it's kind of in our heart it uh it it's something inwardly an inward uh understanding of right and wrong And we talked about some misunderstandings about the conscience. Let me just review while before we push on. We said it's not the voice of God Um because the voice of God is always right, and sometimes our conscience can be wrong. We'll talk about that as we move on. It's not the Holy Spirit, along with that. Uh everyone has uh a conscience, but not everyone has the Holy Spirit So it's not the Holy Spirit and it's not the moral law of God. And it functions according to whatever standard it's been given. It's a functions according to the highest standard that has been taught or how how depends on how your conscience has been educated. And then it's not your super ego with all due respect to Sigmund Freud who said that the super ego is that inward part of man that suppresses the id, that's the part of you that wants to fulfill all the that's the the the pleasure principle in you. You want to have all this fun and do all these things and and and do what comes natural even when it crosses the moral line, well your superego comes along and just crushes that. And uh and that's according to Freud and it's none of those things there. And you remember we said that, okay, what is the conscience then? It is something that God has given us, and it came about right after the fall in the Garden of Eden. Man felt something that he did not feel before. He felt shame. And so we see then the the the the pangs of guilt that first entered into the heart of Adam and Eve came after they had sinned. So you might say that and by the way, guilt uh e despite what society today tries to tell us Guilt is an emotion. It's not a negative emotion. It's a positive emotion in this sense that guilt is designed by God to drive us to God. So that we can be forgiven, and that guilt can be gone. So there's the guilt of the conscience, and then there's the gift of the conscience. And I have said that the conscience was something given by God to man as an expression of his common grace, because when man sinned that plunged mankind into depravity And the doctrine of depravity teaches that man is as bad off positionally as he can be before God, but he's not as bad off practically. People are not living out the full measure of their depravity, and the reason for that is because God has placed some restraints uh not only in society but in man to keep him from living out the full measure of that depravity. And the conscience is something that God gave man That is a restraint on the inside that keeps him from living out the full measure of his depravity. Uh it's this inward sense of right and wrong. And the Bible in Proverbs calls it the uh the sp uh the lamp of the Lord. It's an inner light. The spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord searching all his innermost parts. And we said that a good metaphor would be a traffic light inside of us. And there are sometimes this this inner warning system will flash red and and then green and then yellow according to how uh we act. Uh the it's It can accuse us. It can tell us, you know, when we've done something wrong. Um it's uh it would uh will uh flash red so to speak, and uh we here's another passage about David's heart smoting him in 2 Samuel. where he numbers the people. And then also it can excuse us. It can bear witness. It can give us peace that we've done the right thing. or that you're you're doing the right thing. It can it can actually bear witness to you in a positive way. Paul said this, I'm not lying. My conscience bears witness in the Holy Spirit that I am telling the absolute truth. And then also it warrants. And when w The conscience warns us if we ignore the warning of the conscience, then it could actually lead to the shipwreck, as this verse here tells us. Um when you put away your conscience, you can Now we said that of all the metaphors, however, the most helpful metaphor is that of a courtroom inside your soul. And that's what we talked about last week. And this metaphor uh was uh uh not original with me, but it came about by the Puritan Richard Sibbs who kind of gives this imagery that you can think about it like this, think about it like a courtroom inside of you. And um this is he Richard Sib says to clear this further concerning the nature of conscience, know that God has set up in a uh set up in a man a court, and there is in man all that are in a court. And so um And so there are many members of a court. We talked about this. The registrar records the deed, the accuser who lodges the complaint. There's the witness who would Is this for or against us? The judge, and then there is also the executioner. And the question comes about which member of the court represents the conscience? And and the answer that Richard Sibbs gives is that the conscience assumes every role in the courtroom. It does all of those things. Uh it's the registrar, it records what is done. You can't do anything without your conscience knowing it. Your conscience will write it down. He says this. He also says that it is the witness. The conscience bears witness against you. It'll tell you it'll bear witness either in a good way or in a bad way. And then also it's the accuser who lodges a complaint Your conscience will accuse you. And then also the the conscience acts as a judge. Conscience is the judge. He will either declare you guilty or not guilty. And then he also says, Richard Siv says, is that the conscience is also the executioner. When you do what is wrong, your conscience will basically punish you. And uh it will torment you. Uh so the conscience actually performs the punishment as well And so um and Richard Sivs in this quote here calls the punishment of conscience a prejudice or a prejudgment, we would say, a prejudgment of the future judgment. in in hell. And so now the one thing that I added on is that it's not a perfect judge. And again, this is where I said last week, this is where kind of Jerry Harmon takes over. Using Richard Sibbs imagery of the conscience being a courtroom inside of your soul, all those things that he said are true. And I think that's just a wonderful metaphor of how the conscience works inside of us. But I would add one thing to teach us more about the conscience and its functioning, and that is the conscience is not a perfect judge. You see, just as in a a human judge can make a mistake in his verdict, the conscience can be mistaken. in the verdicts that it renders. And uh remember we talked about that last week. Is it possible for a judge to give a wrong verdict? Yes. And why do we how can that happen? Well, if the judge doesn't get all of the right information, if the judge is given the wrong information. or given the wrong standard, then the judge can make a wrong verdict. And so it is with the conscience. The conscience can be wrong in its assessment. And you remember we talked about that, and because we have people today whose conscience basically is not functioning correctly. Because again, the conscience will function according to the light that it has been given, just like a judge This is a quote from Colin Cruz who said, The conscience is not to be equated with the voice of God or even the moral law of God. Rather, it is a human faculty which adjudicates upon human action And listen to this, by the light of the highest standard a person perceives. Remember we said that the conscience will function according to the light that it has been given. Okay, the the the conscience doesn't um give its own light. The conscience only functions according to the light that it's been given. And another metaphor that we talked about was that the conscience functions more like a skylight, not a light bulb or lamp. It does not produce its own light, but merely lets moral light in And so um and so we uh so we have to understand this. And this is where we said that um That people today, their consciences are not functioning correctly, and you know why? Because their conscience is being educated not by the word of God, it's being educated by other things. It's being educated by the standards of the world. Now whatever God says is right, the society says is is wrong. Whatever God says is wrong, society says is right And so therefore people are functioning according to the standards that have been given it, which are wrong standards. So we have a society today that is filled with misinf with wrong values. And they make reverse judgments. And Paul said this in Philippians 3. 19. He spoke of those whose consciences were so convoluted that their glory is their shame. Shameful things they now glory in. And is that not where we are today? Yes. Because of the way of the world today. Um things that were shameful are now you know paraded down the street. And and and people boast and brag in those things that are wrong. And there's no pain of conscience with these folks. Why? Because the conscience is functioning incorrectly according to the wrong standard that's been given. It adjudicates them because the judge in their heart has been misinformed. And so there's really no work of conscience there. And so that's just something that we need to understand. That society can inform the conscience. Um if you listen to the wrong people who educate you wrongly, then the conscience can be misinformed that way. And so the conscience then is not functioning the way God intended it to function because it's not functioning according to the Word of God or according to God's standards. And so that's why it's so important that we educate the conscience And we'll talk about this as we move on. But let's talk about we talked about then the clarification of the conscience, what it is and the courtroom of the conscience using this helpful metaphor. We want to talk today about Because here's the thing, this is what we want to get at as believers. We want our conscience to function correctly. We want our conscience to be pure before God. In fact, look at 2 Corinthians chapter 1 real quick. Would you just go there? Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and look in verse number 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 12. It says, For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience. That in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, he says here. Not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world and more abundantly towards you. And so Paul's confidence was, he says, the testimony of his conscience This was not pride, but just a rather a legitimate consci uh confidence, we could say. And Paul said, you know, you all may accuse me, and um if you study anything about the church of Corinth 2 Corinthians is where Paul's very autobiographical. He's kind of defending himself. He doesn't like to defend himself. Nobody likes to do that. But he was he has no other choice because no one in the church is defending him Because they're making these accusations against Paul. There came some false apostles, false teachers that came along, and they raised up these accusations against Paul. And Paul now has to uh entertain this, these accusations and defend himself. He calls it folly. In other words, he just doesn't like to do it. But he has to do it. But one of the things he says in the very beginning is, you may accuse me, but my conscience excuses me. And more than that, it gives me joy. It gives me rejoicing and simplicity and godly sincerity. And that godly sincerity there means holiness. And uh he is living a life that is right. In fact the word the the Greek word for sincerity here is from two words from sunlight and cleanno. And it's the idea here, uh picture of something being held up to the to the sun for inspection. You ever do that? You ever look at something? You need to really get a good look at it, you hold it up to the sunlight. And then you're able to look at it real well. That's the idea in this Greek word here. Paul's saying, you know, um my conscience is evaluating me And I holding me up, and guess what? There's nothing there to accuse me. Um there's nothing there that would cause me to be um to be concerned. My conscience is clear. And so he is saying that my conscience not only is clean, but it gives me great joy to know that there's nothing there. Now beloved, I would just submit to you that that's where we all want to be as Christians, amen. We want to be in a place where there's nothing uh between our soul and the Lord or our soul and anyone else. There's nothing that our conscience would uh accuse us of as we evaluate our own heart, our conscience exonerates us from any moral wrongdoing. And uh so we need to keep the conscience clean. And that's the goal of the Christian life, to have a a conscience that is clean before God and before man A pure conscience as we're living out this Christian life. We need to have a blameless conscience, we could say this, not ministering any blame towards us, whether it's correct or incorrect You know, as I said before, your conscience can call you guilty when actually you're innocent. And but I don't want my conscience doing that. I want my conscience to be functioning correctly. And I want my conscience to be accurate in the way it judges me. And I want to have a pure conscience before Almighty God. So there's the need then for a blameless conscience in all of us. In fact, the New Testament teaches this. We should strive for this. Paul at one time wrote to Timothy, and he said, Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience and faith unsained. Timothy, I want you to have A pure heart. I want you to have a good conscience. I want you to have a faith that is not hypocritical. Later on in 1 Timothy 3 9, he'll say, holding the mystery of faith uh faith in a pure conscience. You know, I would just say here I'm preaching to myself a little bit. It's necessary for leadership in the church. It's a necessary for for the for godly leadership. It's necessary for the our sanctification process. If you want to really be sanctified into the image of Christ, then you have to work in harmony with your conscience. Because the conscience is a great tool that can help you in this process of sanctification and aiding to our growth and holiness. And in godliness. And let me just say this, and I've said it before, if you don't win the battle on the inside, you're not going to win the battle, right? We have to win the battle with sin on the inside. Alright? And the inside is where the conscience works That's where it works. And so Paul said in Acts 23. 1, before the Sanhedrin, I have lived my life with a perfectly good conscience before God up to this day. A perfectly good conscience. In 2 Corinthians, Paul wrote again to defend himself against the false apostles. And we we read that verse there in 2nd Corinthians chapter 1. And so we want a conscience that is functioning correctly. Now let me give you some biblical descriptions of the conscience here. What does the Bible say about it? And I want you to have your Bibles ready open and look at a few verses. First of all, the Bible talks about a weak conscience. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and look at these verses with me. 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And look down at verse number seven. How be it there is not in every man that knowledge, for some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being what? Weak See there? That's one description. You can have a weak conscience. And again, in verse number 10. For if any man see thee which hath knowledge, sit it, meet in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is what? Weak. So again, it's described as being it can be weak there. And then in verse number 12, but when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. And so the Bible can describes the conscience as being something that can be weak. A weak conscience. Alright? And we'll talk about that. But then we saw in verse number twelve where he mentioned that you can wound the conscience. And so the Bible describes a wounded conscience in verse number 12, there. And then also a defiled conscience. We saw this again in verse number 7: that their conscience being weak is defiled. So the conscience can be defiled as well. And then we also saw again in verse number 10. For if any man see thee which hath knowledge, sit it meet at the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened. So there's another description of the conscience. The conscience can be emboldened We could take to sin and boldly to eat those things which are offered to idols. Okay? And then there's the guilty conscience, and that's in Hebrews chapter uh 10 verse number 22. But let's let's talk about these others For just a minute. And really, we see all of this in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. This is probably the chapter that deals a lot more with the conscience than many other chapters in the New Testament And in order to understand what Paul's talking about here, about the conscience, we have to understand a little bit of the context, what's going on here in this chapter. Now you remember that when Paul writes the letter at Corinth, he's answering questions that were addressed to him. There were several questions that he deals with. He deals with in chapter 7, a question about singleness and marriage. And then in chapter 8, he begins a new topic to tackle. And there was a controversy brewing in the church over eating meat that was sacrificed to an idol. I'm sure you've heard me talk about this before. were. This is the whole context of it. There was the uh in the polytheistic Greco-Roman world, they had a belief that demons uh were trying to enter into people's bodies. They had gods that were basically for all different types of gods for every circumstance. They had a God of war and a god of love and a god of travel and a god of justice and on. They were polytheistic, but they were also polydemonistic, which meant there were many evil spirits, and these evil spirits were constantly trying to enter into people. And one of the ways that they did this according to the way they believe was that a demon would attach itself to um meat. And when a person ate that meat, then the demon gained access inside that person And so according to them, the way that you kept that from happening was that you would take the meat to the temple, you would uh dedicate it to the God, and it would be cleansed. It would be ceremonially cleansed, it would be cleansed from any demon spirit, and so therefore you were free to eat that meat. Now when a worshipper brought the meat to the to the temple, a third of it went to the priest. A third of it was sacrifice, and then the worshipper could take the rest of it home. And so these priests were doing this so often that they couldn't eat all the meat that people were giving them to be cleansed. And so what they would do is they would take some of this meat, these priests, and they would take it to the marketplace and sell it at a kind of a reduced price. And people would come along and buy this meat and they would eat it and and so on. And so there was this practice then of buying meat At the marketplace that was uh meat that was a sacrifice to a a god or meat that was cleansed by this pagan ritual. And so the question became back in that day in the early church was should a Christian go and buy that meat? That was the big issue there. And there were people in the church at Corinth that said there's nothing wrong with it. It's okay to do that. In fact, Um if this meat costs less, I'm being a good steward of God's money. I'll just go ahead and buy this cheaper meat, even though it was cleansed or Dedicated to a God, and I'll eat this meat and I'll be a good steward. And there were other Christians, however, in the early church that were saved out of that whole pagan lifestyle. And they were still functioning according to what they had been previously taught about polydemonism and polytheism. And to them in their heart, those things were still very real. They were still very real. So a new believer that was pay uh saved out of that pec uh pagan uh lifestyle, that Greco-Roman uh theology They couldn't imagine going to the market and buying that meat and then eating that meat. They couldn't imagine doing that. And so there was this problem in the church. There were Christians eating the meat, and there were other Christians who felt like it was wrong to do that. Now here's where the problem came. These more mature Christians we could say or knowledgeable Christians were actually encouraging these younger believers to not pay attention to what they were thinking and just go ahead and eat the meat because there was nothing wrong with it. Well there was a problem there. And the problem was in order for them to do that, what would they have to do? They would have to ignore their conscience. They would have to set all that aside. Even though the inner pangs of conscience was telling them don't do it, they would have to ignore that. And just go ahead and do it. And by doing that, they began to practice something that is unhealthy for any Christian to do. And what is that? To ignore your conscience. You say, what if my conscience is wrong? You obey it anyway. Why? Because if you get into the habit of ignoring the voice of conscience, that's a dangerous pattern to get into So what you do is rather than ignore your conscience, you educate it. You uh uh give it time to grow. And if you're an older believer and you there's a younger believer who has the pain of conscience over some deed, or maybe they're watching you do some deed and it's and it's grieving them, then you know what? You need to be careful not to teach them the wrong message. If I'm going to do something that's going to cause this other believer to be conflicted inwardly or in any way that would cause them to stumble, I'm not going to do that. And this is the whole issue that Paul's talking about. Look at chapter 8, look at verse 1. Now it's touching things offered unto idols. We know that we have knowledge Now who's he talking to there in verse 1? He's talking to the group in the church that were rather mature or more knowledgeable in the things of God, but they weren't acting in love. And rather than rather than um limiting their liberty, they had the liberty to eat that meat. But rather than choosing to limit that liberty out of the good of their fellow believer, they would say, oh, listen, we have knowledge. We have knowledge to do this. And Paul says in verse 1, knowledge puffs up a charity what? Y'all with me? Charity edifies. Edifies. So Paul's saying, look, you need to work according to love, not necessarily your knowledge. Because, you know, in general, there was a group of people in the church of Corinth that were walking around bragging about the liberty that they have in Christ. Doing all kinds of things and even, you know, um spitting out slogans about the liberty they have. Look in chapter 6 of 1 Corinthians, back up there. Look in verse number 12. This is one of the sl slogans that these some of these Christians use to brag about their liberty. Verse 12, all things are lawful unto me. That was the slogan. Don't you try to limit my liberty, all things are lawful for me. And Paul would answer with the yes but argument. Yeah, but all things are not what? Expedient. Look again in verse 12. All things are lawful unto me. But Paul says, I'll not be brought under the power of any. And then here's another slogan: meats for the belly and the belly for meats. In other words, we have the liberty to do all this. And so there was this group in the church that were kind of arrogant, you could say, that were going around talking about their knowledge. Oh, this is we have knowledge. And we have liberty. And we know that all things are lawful. And Paul's trying to correct this one group. You know, you can be you can have so much knowledge that you can be arrogant and kind of hard to live with. Anybody know people like that? Don't raise your hand. I mean, you know, and you brag about your knowledge and you know, brag about all the things that you understand. And there was a group in the church at Corinth It was like that. Oh, we have knowledge. All things are lawful for us. And Paul says, Yeah, but hold on here. It might be lawful, but it's not expedient. And and then we chapter 8 verse 1, he again is referring to this group sarcastically, I think, in verse 1. Now as touching things offered on the idols, we we know that all things uh that we all have knowledge We know that we all have knowledge. Paul says, yeah, I know. You all know a lot, and I understand. I know what you know. Yeah, we all have knowledge. Got it But knowledge puffs up, charity edifies. And so he goes on to expound on that. Look at verse 2. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, and he knoweth nothing, yet is as he ought to know, you're not as smart as you think you are That's Paul. Verse 3. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. Do you love God? I mean the question, I'm not questioning your knowledge. I'm questioning do you really love God? Look at verse four. As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. And that's what they were talking about when they said, Oh, we have knowledge. They said, you know, we know that these, you know, there's not really Demon or false gods, they're not real. Um and let me make it really clear here. There there's only one God. This is what Paul's saying here. These false gods that people are talking about, they're not real And Paul says, yeah, we understand that. We know that. Idols represent gods that don't exist in verse number four. We got that. So these, there was a certain group in the church that understood that. They understood it very well. And Paul says, yeah, yeah, that's very true. There's one God. Look at verse number five. For though there be there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, As there be gods many and lords many. But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him Paul further affirms the truth that there is one God, the Father, and one Lord Jesus Christ. There's a lot that are called gods, but they're not gods. There's only one God, and we understand that. We have that knowledge. We understand that. We believe that. Alright? But look at verse 7. However, how be it. There is not in every man that what? Knowledge. Not everybody gets that. Now again, who's he referring to here? He's referring to the these Newer converts that were saved out of this pagan religion, this pagan worship, and they really believed that there were other gods. I mean, obviously they turned to the one true God, and now they worship and serve Him, but they haven't grown to the point where they understand that these other false gods are not real. They haven't gotten there yet. They don't understand it. Look at verse 7 again. For some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol. And their conscience being weak is what? Defiled. So this is what a weak conscience is, a weak conscience. is a conscience that's not informed about things. And so Paul's saying, there are some who don't understand this truth And if they eat meat that was sacrificed unto an idol, if you as an older Christian are doing that in front of them and saying, Oh go ahead, there's nothing wrong with it, and their conscience is telling them, Don't do that And they ignore their conscience and they go ahead and eat the meat. What happened was their weak conscience is now accusing them, and now their conscience is defiled. What is defiled? That's a conscience that is accusing you. Or a conscience that is not clean. They can't do it with a clean conscience. It becomes defiled. Now, therefore, what is a weak conscience? A weak conscience is a conscience That is not informed as it ought to be. And those so therefore that weak conscience can accuse you of things That where there's where there's nothing wrong with it, but your conscience is only acting according to the standards that it's been taught, or the knowledge that it's been given. So these are these younger Christians, the knowledge they know is that these this is meat sacrificed to a false god. If I eat this meat, I'm actually participating in a ritual of worshiping this false god. How can I do that if now I'm a Christian and I name the name of Jesus Christ? How can I do that? Their conscience is educated according to that principle, and so therefore It's telling them, don't do it. But here's an older believer saying, ah, there's nothing wrong with it. And so they listened to the older believer. They ignored their conscience, their weak conscience, and now it's a defiled conscience. And so that's what Paul's saying there. Now again, the lesson that we need, I want you to draw from this among many things, but one thing is this: don't ignore your conscience. Don't ignore it because that gets into a dangerous pattern as a believer. And that's what Paul's talking about here. Oh yeah, we know as you grow in the Lord, now this younger believer, as they grow in the Lord, they're going to get further educated into the scripture and they're going to understand that there is only one God, one Lord Jesus Christ. Those false gods that are a part of that ancient world, they're not really, they don't exist. There's only one God. Those are all non-existent gods. And so therefore there's nothing to this. And once they get educated into that, their conscience will no longer be weak, and their conscience will no longer accuse them and be defiled And so as older believers, what should the proper thing for them to do, for them to do in this situation is they should teach them, don't go against your conscience. That would be love. So how do I do that? I limit my liberty. If I'm in the church of Corinth and I say, you know what, I have the liberty to eat this meat, however. If this is going to offend this other brother and teach him to do something they shouldn't do, I'm going to limit my liberty right now. Even though I have the liberty to do it, I'm not going to do it. Because of because why? Out of love for this other brother. Look at verse 9. Or verse 8. Let's back up to verse 8. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we the better. If we eat not, are we the worse? You're not being spiritual by eating this meat. And there were perhaps some in the early church there in Carmen that were probably taking on that attitude. Well, let me show you. You know, there's nothing to this. And let me eat this meat. By doing that, I can help you free you from this chains of that old belief. And, you know, they're thinking it's a spiritual thing if they eat the meat. You know, I'm going to flaunt my liberty. And Paul says, that doesn't commend you to God. You're not any better if you eat, if you eat the meat. Neither if we eat not are we the worse. So look at verse 9. But take heed Lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block, he says, unto them that are what? That are weak. And so a principle here is for other believers is look, we never want to flaunt our liberty and cause others to stumble. In the Christian life. Is everybody on tracking with me here? So there's, as Christians, we have to choose at times to limit the liberties that we have. Okay? You don't want to act in pride. And you act in pride when you forget about others. In verse number seven, Paul says, not everybody understands this. Don't forget about those younger believers who have a weak conscience. And then And then they defile their conscience. And then you cause others to stumble. And verses eight, nine, and ten. Look at verse number um ten. And if any man which see thee hath knowledge, that hath knowledge, and again I think he uses that as a sarcastically, if anybody sees those of you that have all this knowledge Those of you that are really smart, sit at meat at the idol's temple. Shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to us idols. Now let me just make another clarification here in verse number ten. Because we need to be careful to distinguish between buying meat at the market, bringing it home and eating it, and then going to a temple and actually eating the meat there. Because let me just say this. What was questionable was buying the meat in the market, bringing it home and eating it. That was the questionable practice. But Christians thought they had the liberty to do it. Others, their conscience being weak, thought that they couldn't do it. What was not debatable or questionable was going to a pagan temple and sitting down in a pagan temple and eating meat. That was wrong. That's not even in question In fact, that's that's a sin. But some of the Christians in the church at Corinth, they had they were practicing their liberty so much They felt like they had the liberty to eat the meat. They were so emboldened that they would even go to the temple. By the way. The temples back then, and archaeology has proven this, they were kind of like restaurants today. People would often go there. to eat meat. And in fact they found at one temple there in Corinth um the remains of a of a of an eating area Where they had places where people would sit down and eat. And so this was part of the common practice in the culture of that day. They could just go to a temple, they could eat meat, sacrifice to an idol. And Paul said, that is wrong. That's a sin. Because if you do that, what are you doing? You're partaking with demons there. Now see, how do you know that that's a sin? Because Paul talks about it in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul makes it very clear that it's wrong to do that. Because if you do that, you are engaging in your fellowshipping with your dining with demons. And by the way, even though the gods aren't real, there are demons that are real. And they're behind all of this pagan practice. And so what is not in question is going to the temple and eating there. That's wrong. That's just out and out wrong. You don't do that. And Paul makes that very clear in chapter 10. That you don't do that. But here's a believer, and they're flaunting their their liberty so much. That they're even going to the temple. And Paul says, Look, if any man see you, those of you that think you have all this knowledge, verse 10, sit at meet at the Audil's temple. Here's the next thing. Shall not the conscience of him which is weak be what emboldened? Now it's a conscience. That is emboldened to sin. You can flaunt your liberty so much that you can actually embolden other Christians to not only ignore their conscience, but to say But to sin. An emboldened conscience is a conscience that is prone to sin. You've You've ignored the conscience so much that you're prone, you're emboldened to commit a sin. And look at verse 11. And through thy knowledge Shall the weaker brother perish for whom Christ died? And so again, here's the thing. You are teaching a believer to do something that they should never do. And by ignoring your conscience, you can actually bring destruction to yourself. Here's a brother, a new believer. Paul says, a believer for whom Christ died. They can actually be um uh bring great ruin to themselves spiritually if they get into this pattern of ignoring their conscience. there. The word perish a fullamai to utterly destroy. It's the idea of causing a person to sin and the sin brings them to ruin. So if you can get into the pattern of ignoring your conscience and sinning, then that that sin will actually be the thing that brings you down, that will bring you to ruin. If someone sees you sinning and they say, well, if so-and-so is doing it, then it must be okay. And they have an emboldened conscience to do the same thing. thing. Now they are ignoring their conscience. That's an emboldened conscience where a person is just ignoring it and you want to just So I hope all of this is clear. So we're talking about the difference between a weak conscience and a wounded conscience and a defiled conscience and a and a conscience that's emboldened to sin. These are all different descriptions that Paul's giving to us here in 1 Corinthians 8 about the conscience. But again, the one thing I want to emphasize is as believers, you know, you don't want to go against your conscience. You want to educate it. According to the word of God, study and grow in the things of God. Therefore your conscience will be correctly educated. And then number five, there's an evil or guilty conscience. And then number six, um just let me talk about this uh in fairness, uh a seared conscience. What's a seared conscience? A seared conscience is one that no longer functions, it is effectively it's just silent. It's no longer functioning the way God intended it to function. And Paul speaks about this, but how does one sear or silence the conscience? Well, let me give you some ways that we do that. And by the way, in 1 Timothy 4. 2, Paul talks about this seared conscience. A conscience is not working. And I think there are several ways of doing that. And one of them is just simply by ignoring it. Ignoring the voice of conscience. This is why I said before, don't get into the pattern of ignoring the voice of conscience. Just obey it. Even though it may be wrong, educate it, but don't ignore it. Okay? I read about a airline crash that took place in 1984. An Avianca airline jet crashed in Spain. The investigators studied the crash And they made an eerie discovery. They found the black box that records everything that took place in the cockpit before the crash. And um several minutes before the crash, they could hear from the black box this computer, you know, generated voice, which basically said in English, pull up, pull up, pull up. Because the warning system in the plane was saying to the plane, you're you're flying too close, you're going to hit a mountain, pull up. And what they found was the pilots, the pilots, um didn't listen to the system. What the pilots did, they they could record the pilot and they heard a pilot say, shut up, and they turned the box off And when that happened, they crashed into a mountain. So what happened was very simple. The pilot ignored the warning system. And as a result, destruction came. There's a sense in which the conscience inside of every one of us is that warning system. And when the conscience tells you, don't, don't, don't, don't And you ignore it, you say, shut up. That's what Paul meant when it says it can bring destruction to you if you get in the habit of doing that. We silence the conscience by ignoring the conscience that is correcting you. Or here's another way we get to develop a seared conscience. That's by just steamrolling. What do I mean by steamrolling it? That is, we just repeatedly sin. We have repeated sinful thoughts. We don't deal with those thoughts or sinful attitudes. We don't deal with them. We just have continual sin. It just piles on and piles on. And what happens is that sin dulls the conscience. It dulls it to where your conscience becomes harder and harder. You got all these things coming in and you're not dealing with it. And your conscience is going crazy, saying, hey, hey, what's going on here? And you're kind of steamrolling one thing after another after another. Sin defiles. And deceives the human conscience and it becomes hardened and it doesn't work correctly. And then here's another one: self-justifying arguments. Simply argue with your conscience whenever it objects to anything you do. Just argue with it. You know, kind of like a rebellious teenager arguing with the parents over every little thing. You argue with your conscience continually. What will happen is eventually you'll shut it down. You know, we can justify the things that we do. You know, we're good at that. What does the Bible say in Proverbs? A slothful man is wiser in his own conceit than ten men that can render a reason. Proverbs 12, 15: The way of the fool is right in his own eyes Proverbs 16, 2. All the ways of men are clean in his own eyes. We have a way of justifying, you know, reasoning out why we're doing those things that we're doing. And we kind of excuse ourselves. And so we get into this logical debate with our conscience, and we're constantly self-justifying everything that we do. And pretty soon you're you're silencing the conscience on the inside. And then also there's diversionary tactics. You say, what is that? Well, just divert your thoughts every time the conscience speaks. Or just drown it out. Just drown it out with noise or other things. Drown it out with music. Drown it out with entertainment. Drown it out with is what some people do. They drowned it out the voice of conscience with alcohol or drugs. So that they're not listening anymore. Every time the conscience speaks, just use some kind of diversion and not deal with what the problem is. But then here's another thing, it's reprogramming the conscience. And again, this is what I told you before. What do we mean by reprogramming the conscience? This is where you change the inward moral standards you may have been taught How is it that a a young person can come to church, be taught the right thing all their life, when they get up, when they grow up, they leave home, they go out, they start doing their own things, they begin to do things that they would never dream of doing when they were growing up They got into the world and the world, you know what the world did? The world told them, Oh, you don't believe that old silly book, do you? You don't believe that book that tells you don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, and takes all the fun out of life. And what happens is you begin to they begin to get their conscience reprogrammed according to the the values of this world system The values of the world. And suddenly that conscience that was taught a higher moral ethic, it's silenced because it's being reprogrammed by the things of the world. And the conscience becomes seared. And this is why it's necessary to cleanse our conscience. to make it clean. You say, now how do we do that? And by the way, there are two areas to keep a clean conscience. The Bible says in Acts 24, 16 Where Paul said, I also do my best to maintain always a blameless conscience, both before God and before men. You know what Cleanses our conscience. Let me tell you the first thing that does it is simply salvation. Salvation. When you get saved. You know, you ever see someone and they're so burdened down with guilt? You know why? It's because all their lost life, they have all these things, all these sins, all these issues, and their conscience is so guilty. And it has burdened them down so much that they're constantly depressed. And life is a burden And there's all this shame, and the conscience is constantly throwing it back at them. You know what happens when that person comes to Jesus Christ? They are absolutely cleansed and made new. All those sins are forgiven. The conscience is completely Cleansed, clean. And that's why you see after a person gets saved, you know what the response is? Absolute total joy and exhilaration. And there's a thrill and there's a happiness. Why? Because that conscience has been absolutely cleansed from all of those sins of the past. And that person is made absolutely new. And boy, they look it. I think I told you one time I was at a at a um a hospital that would deals with people that were so overburdened by the things of life, and I was preaching the gospel and there was this one lady right in the middle of the service and she said, God can't forgive me. And I said, Oh yes he can She said, God can't forgive me. My sin's too great. I said, Well, I don't know what you did, but God can forgive you. She said, I murdered my boyfriend. Can God forgive me? And she was carrying around this terrible guilt. And I just shared the gospel with her. I shared how God forgave other murderers in the Old Testament. And if she came to Jesus Christ, she could be forgiven. And right there in the middle of that That time we were having, she just dropped down on her knees and she prayed and she begged God to forgive her. And I want to tell you, when she got up off her knees, she looked different You know why? 'Cause all the guilt it was all falling away. And now she had been absolutely m been made new By the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. God had cleansed her. And this is what the Bible tells us in the book of Hebrews When we come to God, Hebrews 9. 14 says that the blood of Christ cleanses your conscience. You're absolutely made new, and it's a wonderful thing. All of that is gone. But quickly here, let me just give you a few things. You know Make sure you confess and forsake known sin. As a believer, deal thoroughly with your sins every day. Ask forgiveness and be reconciled to anybody you've wronged. Anyone that you know that you wronged, where there needs to be reconciliation, you just go and you take care of that. And that'll free you from any guilt that your conscience may give you. If you need to make restitution with someone, go and do it Go and do it. You say, what if I'm I wonder, I'm I'm questioning whether I should, but I'm not sure. Well then just do it anyway. Just do it anyway, just to relieve your conscience Of of the guilt. And then don't procrastinate in clearing your wounded conscience. Don't procrastinate. Do it immediately. And friend, that will cleanse your conscience. The Bible says, and I'll close with this because we're out of time. We're way out of time. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life, the Bible says. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your word. Help us, Lord, to have a a a conscience that is blameless, that is clean before you, that's effectively being used in us to sanctify us into the image of Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.