It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles open to the book of Second Kings, chapter 18. We uh continue our study in 2 Kings and we're learning from the lessons from the lives of these kings that we can apply to our own life and help us to have a life that's pleasing to the Lord. I want to talk tonight about dare to do what is right. Second Kings chapter 18 and verse 1, and uh we're gonna look at the life of uh Hezekiah the king here tonight. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshiach, king of Elah. Or excuse me, son of Eli, king of Israel, that Hezekiah the king of Ahaz, son of Ahaz, excuse me, king of Judah began to reign. Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem And his mother's name also was Abba, and his father, uh excuse me, the daughter of Zachariah. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord according to all that David his father did. I was reading about some runners one time in a NCAA Division Track and Field Championship. It was 128 runners, and they set out on a course of about six miles. And while they uh were running that course, the course had been marked earlier by the officials. And toward the end of the course, however, one of the runners in the middle of the group realized that something was wrong. uh Mike Del Vacco of C Colorado saw that the main pack had missed the turn and basically um he began to yell and say, you know, the the course is uh the course is over here. But no one followed him. In fact the whole group took a shortcut that was not marked and uh that allowed them to run the distance shorter and to finish the race sooner. However, Mike be continued to run in the course that was laid out and followed that course. And at the end of the course, however you know, a decision that was somewhat criticized, the officials allowed for the shortcut, which meant that the runners that took the shortcut finished first and Mike Delveco who uh would followed the right course finished uh 123rd in that race. He finished dead last When I read that I thought, you know, that's kind of a an illustration of the world. The world has its own course. God has laid out a specific path that He wants all of us to follow. And yet the world doesn't follow the path that is laid out. It kind of goes after its own path. And people that follow the course that God laid out, a lot of times in the world's eyes, they might come in last. And those who do their own thing and follow their own way, it seems like in the world's eyes that they come in first. But you know there's going to be a judgment day, and Jesus said in that day the last will be first and the first will be last. It matters that we follow the right path that God has laid out for all of us. Because when we stand before the Lord, no shortcuts will be recognized. Only those that have run the right kind of race will be rewarded and will be honored. Now as we've been studying the books of First and Second Kings, we have been examining the lives of these kings of Judah and kings of Israel. And the majority of these kings have when they and w we evaluate their life, they have strayed from the path that God has laid out. They haven't really been following what the Lord expected. You might remember that 1 and 2 Kings, as we said, is one book in the Bible. It's not divided in the Hebrew Bible the way it is in our Bible, in the English Bible. And really it's a continuation of the story of Samuel David was anointed to be the king, and then David becomes king, and he unites the tribes, and uh he becomes the rightful king after Saul had failed. And David is a man after God's own heart. And the book of 1 Kings opens up with David giving a challenge to his son Solomon. You know, David is old, he's going to die. He's challenging Solomon to follow God's path. to follow the covenant, to do what's right in God's eyes. And at first we know that Solomon did do that and he did a lot of good things and asked God for wisdom and built the temple. But we have learned as we studied this that ultimately Solomon failed, right? And he made a lot of disastrous decisions. And we might say that Solomon laid the seeds that brought the fruits of destruction for the nation of Israel. Uh he in fact all the the commandments and guidelines that God laid down for kings that we read about in Deuteronomy, Solomon basically violated all of them. So by the the time Solomon comes to the end of his life. He's multiplied wives to himself, he's multiplied horses and chariots and riches, and he's done slave labor to build things, and he's done all these things against what God has said And he looks more like a Pharaoh of Egypt than he does a king of Israel trying to follow the covenant of the Lord. And then his son Rehaboam and his pride splits the kingdom, and we saw that the kingdom split up from The northern kingdom of Israel took ten tribes, and the southern kingdom of Judah took two tribes. And then what we see is going back and forth between kings who ruled over the north. of Israel, kings who ruled over the south of Judah. And as we studied these books, we found that there were basically 20 kings that ruled each of these kingdoms, the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom. And the author introduces us to all these kings as we go through it, and he gives an evaluation of their life and what we've discovered in our study so far. Is that of all these kings, very few of them did what was right in the sight of the Lord. In fact, of the northern kingdom, they had twenty kings. And basically the northern kingdom, we find no good kings. We could say that they were zero for twenty. None of them really followed the Lord. None of them walked in the way of God. And it brought destruction. In fact, we looked the last time at 2 Kings chapter 17. This is what we can call the exile chapter in 2 Kings where it shows the destruction of Samaria, the kingdom of the Assyrians swoop in and they carry exiles away, and that kingdom, the northern kingdom of Israel, is never ever again restored. They're completely judged by God. And then from here on out, however, now from chapter 18 and on, what we see is the focus now is on the southern kingdom. Now, again, there were 20 kings in the southern kingdom. Eight of those got a relatively positive rating. The other ones were also bad kings. But we come here now to chapter 18, and again remember that now for the rest of 2 Kings, it's all about what happens now in the southern kingdom of Judah. This is the lone kingdom that's left. The northern kingdom of Israel is gone now And so now the question is, is the southern kingdom of Israel going to follow, or I should say the southern kingdom of Judah going to follow the bad path that was taken by the northern kingdom of Israel. And so we this is the final movement of the whole book from chapters 18 on to chapter 25. And we start off here with King Hezekiah. And as we look, King Hezekiah's resume is good In fact, he's a breath of fresh air, because what we see about King Hezekiah is that he is known for doing what is right. He is a champion for the worship of the one true God. And the writer of kings focuses on him because in the midst of all the compromise that's around them, all the corruption, King Hezekiah dares to do what is right before God. And so what I want you to see in these first eight verses of chapter eighteen are what I call eight ways in which King Hezekiah dared to do what is right. Here's the first thing. Number one, he he chose the right motive. Look at verse number three. Talking here about King Hezekiah, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. He starts off real good here, doesn't he? He does what is right in the sight of the Lord. Notice King Hezekiah is not trying to please men. He's concerned about pleasing God. He wants to do what's right before the Lord. Someone has rightly said if you if you please God, it doesn't matter who you displease. And if you displease God, it doesn't matter who you please. And King Hezekiah is out to please the Lord. Remember what Paul said in Galatians 1. 10, for do I seek to persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men, I should not be the servant of Christ. Paul said, you know, the mark of a true servant of Christ is those that are out not to please men. But their whole commitment is to please the Lord. Later he wrote in 1 Thessalonians 2 4, But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which trieth the hearts. Now this tells us that our motives are really important. It's important that we do the right thing, but it's extremely important that we do the right thing for the right reason. It's not enough just to do the right thing. We have to have the right motive And the greatest motive that anyone can have is pleasing the Lord. We do what we do to please God. We do what we do to honor the Lord. The highest motive that we could ever have is the glory of God. That's the thing that we should all strive to do. Remember what Paul said, whether we eat or drink or whatever we do, we do all to the what? All to the glory of God. That's got to be the highest motive. Because there's going to come a time when we stand before God, and God will judge us for our works, and what will be revealed at that time is not just the works that we do, but the motives behind it. Remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 3? that every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work. Our works will be tried to see what manner it is. Is it of gold, silver, and precious stones, or is it wood, hay, or stubble? You know, if you're a believer, you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you don't have to be afraid of the fire of hell. But we should be afraid of the fire of heaven. When our works are judged by fire, what will be left? It'll be the motives that'll be revealed in that time. So he chose the right motive, but here's the second thing. He followed the right example. Look at the rest of verse 3. According to all that David his father did. Now remember that the writer of kings measures all the kings according to the standard of David, right? David was the gold standard. You either walked like David or you didn't. You either had a heart that followed God like David or you did not. In fact, it was God who laid down this standard. In fact, in 1 Kings 3 14, when Solomon Went to the Lord and asked God for wisdom. Here's what God said to him. I'm going to give you wisdom. But he also said this. He said, If thou will walk in my ways, this is 1 Kings 3. 14 to keep my statutes and my commandments As thy father did walk, then will I lengthen thy days. God said, Solomon, I'm going to give you wisdom, and I'm going to give you a lot of other blessings, but I want to tell you that if you walk like your father David walked, I'm going to lengthen your days. And so this is why the writer of Kings uses David as the standard because God, in the very beginning, is the one who laid down that standard. Solomon, you walk like David. But we know that Solomon failed to do this in 1 Kings 11 4. It says, For it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned his heart away from away unto other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. And so he failed to meet that standard. Later on it says in verse six of chapter eleven, Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord as did David his father. And then of course later Jeroboam, who became king of the northern tribes of Israel, God came to Jeroboam and said the same thing. He said, Look, if you do what my servant David did, if you walk like him, then I'm going to build you a sure house. As I did for David. But Jeroboam failed in all that. In fact, he failed so desperately that he started a new religion with two golden cash. Remember that? I mean, he really failed. And so over and over again in the books of 1st and 2nd Kings, we see the phrase, either he did what was right according to David his father, or he didn't do it according to David. And there were some kings that were not like David at all, like the ones that we mentioned, Jeroboam and Ahaz, for example. A few kings did some things right like David did. Very few walked like David. But here Hezekiah receives real praise because in verse 3, notice again when it says According to what? Some of the things that David did, according to all that David his father, did of all the kings, Hezekiah was the one who was most like David. Philip Reichen, the commentator, writes this. This verse leaps off the page as a reminder of what God's people have been looking for. A perfect king from the tribe of Judah. Now, I know he says here perfect Hezekiah wasn't a perfect king, but he was the closest thing to David. And David really wasn't a perfect king either. We know that he failed at one time, but except for that He was a man who was after God's own heart. But he was the gold standard. But by the way, David points to who? Jesus Christ, his later son, and let me tell you about Jesus, he was the perfect king and is the perfect king. And he is our standard. You say, you know, the kings in the Old Testament, David was their standard. What's our standard? Our standard is Jesus Christ. As you're saved, God has called you to be like Christ. In fact, everything that God is doing in our life is to that one purpose. He is sanctifying us and molding us and making us like the Lord Jesus Christ. In Romans 8. 28 it says all things work together for good. What good? It tells us the good in the very next verse. That we might be conformed to the image of his son. That's the good. That's why God is working it all together. You say I'm going through a trial. Yeah, I know God's going to use that trial to do good in your life. What's the good? He's going to make you like Christ. Because He's the standard of our sanctification, He's the goal. Now, Jesus isn't here today, so it's hard for us sometimes to know exactly what we what we do, but you know what? The good thing is God has put godly people in the church. that are Christ-like that we can look at and we can use as an example as we follow Christ. Amen? That's why I encourage Some of our older saints that have been saved for a long time walk like Christ because there are other younger believers following and they need someone to use as an example. Remember what Paul said In 1 Corinthians 4, 16 he said, Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. Now Paul wasn't on an ego trip. He just knew that believers need a pattern, an example to follow after. And he said, if you want to walk like Christ, then just watch my example. He was confident enough in his own walk with the Lord that he could point to himself, not in a proud way. Because Paul would later say, I am what I am by the grace of God. Anything good you see in me is all by God's grace. But God's grace was not bestowed on me in vain because I labor harder than anyone. And so he had confidence in his Christian walk that others could follow in his path. He said in 1 Corinthians 11, 1, be ye followers of me, even as I am of Christ. Later in Philippians 3. 17 he said, Brethren, be followers together of me. And mark them which walk so as you have us for an example. You mark those believers. That are godly and Christli, and you follow that example. Hezekiah followed the right example. He chose the right motive. He followed the right example. But here's number three He put things in the right place. Look at verse 4. And he removed the high places and break down the images and cut down the groves. Now, again, this is another way that the writer of kings measured the kings. What did they do with the high places? Remember, I've told you about this several times before. This is another M yardstick we could say. What do the kings do with the high places? Remember what the high places were? They were places where people would go, high hills. Where there were grows of trees, perhaps, altars that were built there, with poles pointing up to the heaven. They were places where idolatry took place, where people worshiped Baal and Ashtaroth and false gods. And those high places were all over the land. And the writer of kings would judge the kings by what they did with those high places. A lot of the kings just tolerated them. Some kings just ignored them. There were only two kings that actually tore them down. One was Josiah, and now we read of the other king right here, Hezekiah, because again it says in verse 4, he removed the high places and break the images and cut down the groves. And so he got rid of all that idolatry that was taking place. And by the way, he didn't stop there. The Bible says it doesn't have it here, but in 2 Chronicles, which is a parallel account of Hezekiah, 2 Chronicles 29. He also cleansed the temple, all the uncleanness that was a part of the temple. He got rid of it. He got rid of all those things and he brought back in the vessels that were used for proper worship. He reinstated the Passover. The Passover feast had been completely forgotten. In fact, it was his father who basically canceled Passover. But he rein-instituted all of that. He reorganized the priesthood. He got the true worship of God back to where it belonged, where uh God was being honored. The things which dishonored God he broke down and he threw out, and the things which honored God he reinstated, and he made sure to bring it back into the temple. And so all those things which help us, here's how we apply that. Anything that hinders us from worshiping God and loving God and serving God, you know what we got to do with that? We've got to break it down and we've got to throw it out. We've got to get rid of it. All those things that help us in honoring God and exalting God, we've got to bring those things in. We've got to receive those things I was talking to a younger b believer last week who was saved out of you know the occult and and a lot of the some of the demonology and the the the terribly dark spiritual things that are part of that world And they were saying, you know, a lot of that stuff still haunts me. And I was just basically saying, look, you need to make sure that in your house you got rid of anything that has anything to do with that. Get rid of any CDs, any books, anything that has anything to do with that past life, you know what you need to do. You need to get out get it out of your house. Get rid of it. Burn it. Toss it away. Make sure no one else gets it. And you know what you need to do? You need to bring into your house those things that honor the Lord. Make sure you have good Christian books. Biographies of Christians. Talking about following examples, some of the great ways to do that is read of the biography of great Christians. And also, of course, the Word of God. And play Christian music in your house, godly edifying music. And put scripture verses on the wall You know, I I I want to make any spirit uncomfortable that ever tried to even come into my house. You know. That's what I was telling this person, you know, make your place a little holy temple of the Lord. You know some believers just need to cleanse the temple. Just need to get out of your life any of those things that hinder you from being what God wants you to be. And you need to put God in his proper place. That's what Hezekiah did. He chose the right motive. He followed the right example. He put things in the right place. Here's the fourth thing. He called things by their right name. Look at verse number four again in the next part of it. And he break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made, for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and he called it Nehushtan. Now, evidently the children of Israel had turned the brazen serpent into an idol. And this is the serpent that Moses made in the wilderness and he lifted it up. You remember that story? It's recorded in Numbers 21. That the children of Israel, they began to speak against God and against Moses and say, you know, you brought us out here to keep to kill us here in this wilderness. There's no bread, there's no water. And so on. And they murmured and they complained against God. By the way, God hates complaining. He hates murmuring. How bad does he hate it? Well, God sent fiery serpents among the people. And they bit the people. And many of the people of Israel died. And so the people came to Moses and they said, We've sinned, we've done wrong. Please help us. And Moses prayed for them, and God said, Moses, I'll tell you what, make this brazen serpent, put it up in the middle of the camp, and anyone that looks at that serpent, they will live. And as you know, that became a beautiful type of the Lord Jesus Christ. Later on, Jesus will refer to that incident and that serpent as a type of looking to Christ for salvation. Now, in the past, this was something that was spiritually good, but hundreds of years have passed, and now this brazen serpent had devolved into an idol. The serpent became a source of superstition In the same way that sometimes church traditions can devolve into superstition. You know. Why do we do certain things? Well, that's just the way we've always done it And we're afraid to not do it because, you know, if we stop doing it, something bad could happen. That's called superstition, you know. And sometimes you know, some traditions are good, don't get me wrong. If they're based on the Bible. But sometimes we can be superstitious instead of being people of faith. And that's what happened here with Israel. They began to make unholy sacrifices. They began to actually worship this thing. They began to burn incense to it. And this became a hindrance. This became an idol. And so, and by the way, this demonstrates how the heart of man is prone to idolatry. How easy it is for human nature to want to take and honor religious relics and exalt them to a place where they don't belong. and become an idol and uh you know we we some some people do the same thing, you know, when they wear a cross around a neck, there's nothing wrong with that. I'm not saying it's wrong, but if you have Thought that there's any power in that thing that's hanging around your neck, then maybe it's it's not healthy for you to have that. Your power is in the living savior, not in some piece of metal. Right? Put your faith in Jesus Christ. It's okay if it's just a symbol, but if you exalt it beyond what it is, it becomes an unhealthy thing. And this is what happened here with Israel. And so Hezekiah, who was a man of faith, who trusted in the living God, who followed the word of God, didn't want people worshiping a dead, useless image. In fact, notice again in verse 4, he called it Nephishten. What does that mean? This is the only time this name is ever used in the Bible. And I think it's really a a word that perhaps Hezekiah coined. It's a play-on words. It actually is a combination of two Hebrew words. one for bronze, the other for snake. And in Hebrew, they those two words sound almost exactly alike. And so that's why you have this one word here. He's kind of bringing it together. But actually what he's saying is It literally means this is a piece of brass. That's what he's saying here. No he's stand. It's a piece of brass, you know. It'd be like the people coming there burning incense to it and Hezekiah saying, What are you doing? All it is is a piece of brass. It's nothing more than that. You know he does? He calls it what it is. You know, sometimes it takes boldness to call something what it is. Just to call it out for what it is. Doing the right thing is calling things by their right name, not sugarcoating it. Calling it what it is. Call brass, brass. Call sin. You ever notice how our society wants to put new labels on things now? To alleviate any guilt or shame. They're trying to re uh to label sins, to make them not no longer sins, uh so that people don't feel guilt about it. You can rename sin all you want to, it's still sin You can call it whatever you want to. The right thing a lot of times is to call it what it is. Call it out. Call it what it is. Today man calls pro man calls it pro-choice. God calls it murder. Man calls it an alternative lifestyle, God calls it an abomination. What man calls infirmity, God calls iniquity. What man calls preferences, God calls perversion. It's sin. It is what it is. And sin is defined in Scripture as transgressing the law of God. No matter how you name it, when you transgress the law of God, it's still sin. And the Bible says, woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. And so Hezekiah called things by their right name. He chose the right motive, followed the right example, put things in the right place. Call things by the right name. But here's the fifth thing. He put his confidence in the right person. Look at verse five. And he trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah nor any that were before him. He trusted in the Lord more than any. Says a lot about him. Where you decide to put your trust says a lot about you. What are you trusting in? Some people trust in themselves. They think that they can they can help themselves. They they don't need anyone else's help. They figure out how they can deal with things their own way But the Bible says in Proverbs 28, 26, he that trusts in his own heart is a fool. If you're just trusting in yourself, the Bible says that's that's not wise, that's foolish. Some trust in things. Things that are made, technology. Psalm 20 verse 7, some trust in chariots, some trust in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. We have to remember that the things that are made are just simply instruments in the hand of God. It's good to have some of these things, but our ultimate trust has to be in the Lord. Not in these secondary things, because God is sovereign. Some trust in powerful people. The Bible says in Psalm 146, verse 3, put not your trust in princes, nor the Son of Man in whom there is no help. And as we studied the books of kings, we find that there are certain kings that when they got into trouble, what's the first thing that they did? They didn't pray, they didn't seek the Lord. The first thing that they did was they they went to a foreign king, even an ungodly king, and tried to form an ungodly alliance to get them out of trouble. Rather than trusting in the Lord, they tried to scheme. They tried to work their connections in order to get out of trouble instead of trusting in the Lord. The Bible says in Psalm 118, verse 9, it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. It says in Psalm 40, verse 4, Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust. And respecteth not the proud, nor such as nor as such turn aside the lies. In Psalm 62, verse 8, it says, Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Isn't that a great verse? And that's exactly what Hezekiah did. He put his total trust in the Lord. So much so that the Bible says there was nobody like him in this respect. Nobody after him or even before him. That put their trust in the Lord the way Hezekiah did. What a testimony that he had in this respect. And so he chose the right motive. He followed the right example. He put things in the right place. He called things by their right name. He put his confidence in the right person. But here's the next thing. He walked in the right path. Look in verse number six. For he clay to the Lord. And departed not from following him, but kept his commandments which the Lord commanded Moses And I love that where he says he clay to the Lord. He was absolutely committed to God. He was radically committed to the Word of God. Radically committed to following God's commandments. And it was Hezekiah's commitment to God in a dark time that really turned things around for the nation. You know, it was Hezekiah's father, again, who closed the the temple, that basically took away the worship of the temple and the Passover. And you know Hezekiah was living in a very dark time. And you know, he could have looked around and said, you know, it was my father who shut it down the temple and Idolatry is rampant and we have all these terrible things happening and a lot of our territory now is taken over by other nations and you know we're under the thumb of the Assyrians and and all these things could have depressed them and it could have done nothing. But instead, you know what he did? You know how he responded? He committed himself to the Lord. He claved to the Lord. He rallied the priests. He opened up the temple for worship. He called the nation back to God. And I want to tell you something, friend, it doesn't matter how dark the situation is. When you cleave to the Lord and when you call upon God, God can take any dark situation and make it light. God can turn it around. In fact, that's what we have seen down through history when there was a need for revival, when things were dark. And when God's people got committed to God and they called upon God, God turned things around. This is what we see in the life of Hezekiah. This is what we see in history. And so we can apply this to our day today. I want to tell you, as I look around our nation, I see sin abounding. I see people flaunting their perversion. And their degradation. I see religious liberties being taken from the church. I see the basic moral principles that were the foundation of this church now being eroded away. And I want to tell you, if there was ever a time for revival, it's right now for our country. It's right now But I want to tell you something, friend. If we as God's people commit ourselves fully to God, there is hope. God can turn the darkest situation around and God can make it light. God will break into the church and the nation with his light. And there is no limit to what God can do if we call upon him and we trust him and we commit ourselves to him the way Hezekiah did here. This also applies to you personally. You may be in a very discouraging situation here tonight, and you've given all your effort and strength to dealing with it, but to no avail. Do you think that problem is too big for God? It's not. Not if you call upon the Lord and you cleave to the Lord. One time they asked the missionary Adnar Judson, who was going through a dark time, you know, what's your future look like? And he said, my future is as bright as the promises of God. And that's true for the church, that's true for the child of God. Let me give you the next thing. He enjoyed the right kind of success. Not only chose the right motive, followed the right example, put things in their right place, called things by their right name. Put his confidence in the right person, walked in the right path. But as a result of that, he enjoyed the right kind of success. Look at verse 7. And the Lord was what? With him. And he prospered whithersoever he went forth. Now this is true success. The Bible has a different definition for success than the world does. This is the Bible's definition for success. You know what it is? When God prospers you And when God is with you, when God blesses whatever you put your hand to, that's biblical success. That's God's prosperity. It's having the, I call it the spiritual mightest touch. You know, God is pleased with you, you're committed to him, and whatever you put your hand to, God just seems to honor it and he seems to bless it. And he's just with you. And that's what happened here with Hezekiah. And I want to tell you, friends, that unless we have the blessing of the Lord, we have nothing Unless we have God's blessing on all of our efforts and the things that we do, blessing on our life, blessing on our home, blessing on our church, blessing on whatever ministry we want to do, if we don't have God's blessing, we have nothing. The Bible says, unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain that build it. So we need the blessing of the Lord. Do you covet that? Finally, let me give you the last thing. Here's the last thing. He showed the right kind of independence. He showed the right kind of independence. Look at the rest of verse 7 and verse 8. It says, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria. And serve him not. And he smote the Philistines even unto Gaza, and the borders are from the tower of the watchman to the fence city. That reminds us of David. David smote the Philistines and gained territory. Now here's Hezekiah doing the same thing. And Hezekiah was under the thumb of the Assyrian king, but he rebelled. He said, I'm not going to serve a pagan foreign king. He refused to have any master except God. He would be no man's slave but a slave to the Lord only. You know, Hezekiah knew what later Jesus would confirm that no man can serve two masters. And since God was Hezekiah's master, he would not serve the king of Assyria. And so he rebelled against this ungodly king. You know it's okay to rebel against ungodliness and fallenness and false masters Someone said the man who is the most dependent on God is the man that is the most independent of man, not controlled by others, but a servant to God. And there's a principle in Scripture, and it's simply this, you're a servant to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. Paul would later say that. Romans 6, 16, know you not that to whom you yield yourself service to obey his servants you are? To whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. And so we are to yield ourselves completely to Jesus Christ the Lord and serve him only. And now that we're saved, we're free to serve Jesus Christ and Him alone. And so we need to be yielded to him completely. And so these are some great lessons that we learned from Hezekiah. He dared to do what was right. And he did that which was pleasing in the sight of the Lord. I pray that this will encourage all of us to live a life that is pleasing to God. You know, sometimes people will ask me, what's the big idea of the Christian life? What's the overarching goal of the Christian life? And you know many theologians use this term quorum dio. You know what that phrase means? It means in the presence of God. It's Latin. in the presence of God. And it literally means that we live our life before the face of God, as if God is watching our entire life. Everything we do, we do in the presence of God. And everything we do, we do to please God. That's the big idea of the Christian life. That's the way we are to live. Acting under the gaze of Almighty God to live a life of integrity is to live a life that is quorum deal, a life totally devoted to pleasing the Lord, to doing the right thing. before God. And you know what? That takes boldness nowadays. We need some people that will dare to do what is right. Dare to do what is right. Let's bow for prayer together today. Night Father, as we study the life of Hezekiah, we're encouraged, inspired. Lord, give us the same boldness and determination that He had. He lived in a dark time when things were down. He was exalted to the throne in a time of apostasy. When his sister nation was carried off into exile, when many of the people around them were still apathetic. When the worship of God was at an all-time low. And yet, Lord, because of his determination to do what was right, he brought renewal, he brought revival. He inspired many around him. And the nation of Judah returned to the Lord under his reign. And what an impact that he made And Lord, I pray that you'll give us the same desire that we won't just live a life where we draw breath and we just try to make it through the days and not have any impact. Lord, that's not the way you've called us. You've called us to make an impact on the world around us. You've called us to dare to do what is right in a fallen world. And Lord, that takes boldness, that takes a desire to please you above all things. And Lord, give that to us so many times we forget that. That's really the big idea of our whole life. To please you, to do what is right in your sight, to honor you, to glorify your name. And to do what is right. So Father, give us that heart. And if there's someone here that's never trusted Christ, Lord, may they realize that the first right thing they can do is to realize that like all of us, they're sinners. And that they'll do it every every person here that is a Christian, a child of God, has done. Confess their sin. In fact, the word confession means to see things the way you see them. To name sin the way you name it. Not sugarcoat it, not excuse it, but just say, I'm a sinner, I've sinned, I need forgiveness, I need salvation. And to turn to you, Lord, with all their heart, I pray that if there's a soul here tonight that's never been to the cross and repented of their sin, that this will be the first right choice that they make in a new life. That they would turn to Christ. And with heads bowed, if that's your condition here tonight, you've never Truly repented and put your faith in Christ. Would you be willing right now to reach out in prayer? Just just tell the Lord, Lord, I'm a sinner. I know that. And I'm not going to try to excuse it or explain it away anymore. I have sinned against the holy God. And I need forgiveness and I need mercy. And I know that Christ died that I might have that forgiveness and mercy. And I put my faith in what he has done for me. Save me. Pray that and mean it. And he will save you. Turn to Him. Just tell Him, Lord, I'm a sinner. Save me. Save me. And for those that are children of God, would you just pray and say, God, give me a heart To do what is right in your sight in any circumstance, Matt, do what is pleasing to you. Father, we pray all this in Amen