2 Samuel chapter 21. And look at verse number 50, uh actually verse 16 is where we're going to start tonight. Tonight I want to talk about David's mighty men. When David Livingston, the missionary pioneer, was working in Africa, some friends wrote and said, We would like to send you some men. Do you have a good road to get into where you are yet? And David Livingston wrote back and said, If you have men who only come if there's a good road, I don't want them. I want men who want to come whether there's a road or not. Such is the commitment of David Livingston. And by way of contrast, um there was a cartoon in a leadership magazine that kind of poke fun at the low level of commitment. That many churches require nowadays. And it went something like this. I pictured a church building with a sign in front and it read this, the light church, 24% fewer commitments. Home of the 7. 5% tithe, 15-minute sermons, 45-minute worship services, and we only have eight commandments, your choice, which ones you want to obey. We have just three spiritual laws And have a eight hundred year millennium instead of a thousand. Everything you wanted in a church and less. Yeah, ouch, right? One pastor put it like this, 90% of our parishes across the country require less commitment than the local Kiwanis Club. You know, down through the ages, whenever God wanted to do a significant work, he has always done it through a band of committed people. That's the point. God doesn't use lukewarm half-committed people. He uses people who are committed to Christ. He uses people who have a fervent love for Christ and are completely committed to his kingdom. And this was the case in the life of David. When it came time for David to establish his kingdom, David, although a great man, greatly gifted and called by God, couldn't really do it on his own. He needed a band of committed people around him. And think about what the kingdom of David meant. The establishment of his kingdom meant for the future, the establishment of the kingdom of God. Because through the kingdom of David and the kingdom of Israel God would send his Messiah and then of course the coming kingdom under Christ. And so this was so very important What David did, he didn't do by himself. Surrounding him were a band of men, mighty men, who accomplished great And we read about them. Actually, we read about them here in 2 Samuel chapter 21, verse 16 on down to verse 22. And then in chapter 23. verse uh eight on down to verse number thirty-nine it also kind of lists on it so it's kind of bookend in a section here and really in this these narratives that we're looking at at the end of 2 Samuel is kind of a they're put together they're not chronological But they're designed to teach us about some things regarding the life of David. And one of them here is the the mighty men that were around him Again, if God's going to accomplish a great work among us, then he has to raise up a band of mighty men in our midst who can do great things for God. Now in saying mighty men I'm not excluding women from that. Uh women are of course included in that. God uses, thank God for the the mighty women that God uses for his cause. Where would we be in the church today if it were not for women who were committed to Jesus Christ. And so this applies not just to men, but it also applies to women However, I do want to focus on men and especially apply this to men because the New Testament makes it very clear that God desires for men to be spiritual leaders. God has called men to be leaders of their home. He's called men to be spiritual leaders in the church. And what the church needs are are is, I could should say, is a band of mighty men. who are committed to Christ. Now I want us to look at these mighty men of David and see what characterized these men. What were the qualities that were true in these men. And these should be things that are also true in us. And David really is a symbol of his greater son Christ. who is our our king. He's the one that we serve. These mighty men serve their king David. We serve our King the Lord Jesus Christ. And as these men were devoted to David their king, even so we should be devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want us to look at these qualities here. Number one, I want you to see they were committed to a great cause. So look in chapter 21 and look down at verse number 15. Moreover, the Philistines have yet war again with Israel, and this is something that we see often in 2 Samuel, where there's warfare with Israel and the Philistines. David had been fighting against the Philistines all of his life. However, at this point he's he's older now. So looking again in verse 15, wherever the Philistines had yet war again with Israel, and David went down. And his servants with him. And again, you have to admire David. He doesn't call out commands from the sideline. He enters into the middle of the battle. The Bible says he went down, right? himself in the middle of the fight, and this is the mark of a great warrior, great leader. He's not afraid to get his hands dirty, so to speak, and to get down into the fight. He takes off his crown, he puts on his warrior armor. And by the way, thank God for Jesus Christ who came down from heaven to come into this earth to fight the fight against sin and death. Now, notice that in verse 15, at the end of verse 15, however, it says, and basically he was with his servants and fought against the Philistines. But that it says that David waxed faint. Now David didn't have the strength and endurance he once had. The word here living means he grew weary. He became exhausted. He was so tired. He was unable to retreat to a safe place while he was there in the battle. And so in this condition, he was very vulnerable to the enemy. He was vulnerable to the Philistines. And so notice in verse 16. And Ishbabinob, how'd you like to have that name? Ishbabinob was one of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass and weight, he being girded with a new sword thought to have slain David So here on the battlefield, there's one Philistine warrior, a giant, who sees David in this vulnerable state, and he targets him. The Bible says he was one of the sons of the giant Uh and the word here is referring to a group of giants. There were still giants back there in those days Uh he was a very well-known warrior. The fact that his name is listed here reminds us of uh someone who was uh a well-known warrior, a giant, remind should designed to remind us of Goliath And notice his weapon. He has a a bronze spearhead. It weighs 300 shekels. That's about eight pounds. I mean, think about throwing a spear. Spears are supposed to be light, right? Here's the spearhead. It's eight pounds. And he sees David. And not only with his spear, he also has a new sword, the Bible says. And notice at the end of verse 16, thought to have slain David. That is, we could say it. He said he would slay David. I think that he others this out loud. I think he sees David, he sees him in this vulnerable vulnerable condition, and he says, I am going to kill David. In his mind, he's probably thinking, what a great trophy this would be to be able to kill the king of Israel, the great David, on the battlefield. And so he's going after them. Picture that in your mind. They're on the battlefield. David is weak. He's exhausted. He can't retreat. Here's this giant, this great warrior giant. And he's coming after David. But someone steps in in verse 17. But Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, succored him. That is, he came near to help David. That's what that phrase means. He came to the aid of David. And smote the Philistine and killed him. Here's one great feat from one of David's mighty men. He comes to the aid of David. He kills this giant. Now the Bible Doesn't tell us how he did it, but just that he killed this giant on behalf of his King David. And then notice what happens at the end of verse 17. That the men of Israel swear unto him, saying Thou shalt not go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel. They came to David and they said, David, you can't go to battle with us anymore. No more on the battlefield because if something happens to you, this would quench the light of Israel. And the idea of quenching here to extinguish the light, to put out the light. The idea of a an oil lamp breaking and the light being extinguished. And the idea here is this, David, if you die The light of Israel's eyes. And what are they referring to here? I think they're referring to the fact that David was promised by God that he would have a son who would reign on the throne forever, that his dynasty would be everlasting, that through his family God would build not just a kingdom of an Israel, but an everlasting kingdom, and that Israel would be a light to the Gentiles, a light to the world. They understood that. They knew that promise And so they were basically saying, David, you're the hope for our nation Israel. God has made you promises, and there's a great cause here. There's a great cause. And the cause is not only your kingdom, but a kingdom that goes beyond that, an everlasting kingdom. The kingdom of God. These men were committed to that cause, David. We're not going to let you go back out on the battlefield because we don't want anything to happen to you because if anything happens to you, then the promise of God it will not be fulfilled. And so they are committed Not only to their King David, they're committed to the cause of the kingdom, that Israel would be a light to the nation. Now there's something that we need to learn about that with us. You know, we should be our greatest commitment should be to Christ and the cause of Christ. And what is the cause of Christ? To be a light to this world, to share the light of the glory of Christ to this world. That's why we're emphasizing outreach. That's why we're saying Share Jesus with others. Invite others to come. We want the light of the glory of Christ to shine onto all men. We don't want that light to be extinguished. And so we need people who are committed to that great cause, who see that cause And are committed to that cause. Let me ask you a question. Are you committed to that? Are you committed to the cause of Christ? These men were committed men. But here's the second thing about them. They were giant killers. Notice another thing I see here in verse 18, they mentioned some other giants that were killed. Verse 18, it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob And Sibekai, the Hushethite, slew Saf, which was of the sons of the giant. Here's another giant. In fact, we're going to see a list of them here. There's a battle at Gob. This was a small place somewhere near Geezer, 20 miles west of Jerusalem in Philistine territory. And Sak was killed by Sibekai, who was from the town of just west of Bethlehem. And so here's another man who kills another giant. And then we see in verse 19, and there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines, and there was El Haina. Or Hel Hanan, excuse me. And notice he s he also kills a giant, and the Bible calls him the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. And so here's Al Hannon, brother of Goliath. And by the way, the name of Goliath's brother is given in 1 Chronicles 25, Lama And uh it talks about him killing him there. So here's a brother of Goliath that's killed by another giant killer. And then there's a six-fingered giant, he doesn't give his name, verse 20, and there was yet a battle in Gath And where was a man of great stature that had on every hand six fingers and on every foot six toes And uh this guy was also a giant. In verse 21, he defied Israel. That kind of reminds you of Goliath. He's out there defying Israel. And Jonathan, the son of Shemiah, the brother of David, slew him. So here's another giant that is killed. And so here are these men following in the example of David, aren't they? Who was the first giant killer that we know of? It was David, right? And these giants, just as Goliath defied the God of Israel, these giants do the same. And just as by faith David faced these giants and defeated them. Here's a group of men that follow in the example of David, and they also face these giants, and they also by faith kill these men. And so what do we learn from this? We're going to face giants, aren't we? David's not the only one who faced giants. His mighty men had to face them. And by the way, guess what? You're going to have to face some giants here yourself. Uh you know, we might not like it, but every one of us have giants in our life that we have to deal with. You can't run from the battle. You have to learn to face these giants. There's no other alternative. And you know what? God wants us to face the giants. He doesn't want us to run from battle because, in a sense, God puts these giants in our life because facing giants makes us better soldiers. If you want to become a mighty man of God or a mighty woman of God, then you have to face the giant. You can't run You know, Martin Luther commented that there are three things necessary for the development of a man of God. He said one is meditation on the Word, number two is prayer, and he said number three is temptation. What he meant by temptation are the daily testings that we all face. Reading the Bible is good and prayer is great, but you'll never develop into the the spiritual mighty person that God wants you to be until you face the testing. Until you face the giants. And so here's some men that have learned to do that. So let me ask you a question. What are some of the giants that you're facing What is a giant in your life? What pops into your head when you say, here's a giant? What what is it? Is it pride, self-centeredness, doubt, unbelief, despair, discouragement, self-condemnation, and on we could go Down the list. What is yours? Might be an impossible situation at home, financial difficulty, some task that you think that you can't handle. All of us will have these giants But you have to learn to face them and be a giant killer. Here's a third characteristic I see. They were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. But here's the third thing. They defied the odds. Looking go down to chapter 23. Let's look at the other list that's given here in chapter 23, and really from chap verse 8 on down to the end, it's a list of these men and their feats that they did. In verse 8 it says, And these be the names of the mighty men whom David had. And again, they list some of the their victories and their names. But in verse 8, we're introduced to a man by the name of Adino, the Esnite. He lifted up his spear against 800. Now think about that. This is an amazing feat. Here's one man, and he kills 800. You say what it had to be eight hundred, you know, during his span of warrior lifetime, you know, and battles, but no, that's not what the Bible says. Look at the end of verse eight. He lifted up his spear against eight hundred whom he slew at what? At one time. Now that's one bad dude right there. Eight hundred at once? Eight hundred to one? Are you kidding me? Can you imagine taking on eight hundred men? This is incredible odds. Here's a man that wasn't worried about the odds. He defied the odds. How are you going to fight against 800 And when? How can this one person accomplish so, so much? It's incredible. Reminds me of the short guy who applied to be a lumberjack. The foreman looked at him and said, You don't look like you can swing an axe very well. You don't look very strong. The guy said, Well just give me a chance. And the foreman said, Well, here's a some trees over here. Let me see what you can do. And Man, this guy went at him like a human buzzsaw, whack ity whack, chop ity chop. I mean there were trees falling. And the foreman said, Wow, that's pretty impressive. Where did you learn to chop wood and cut down trees? He said in the Sahara Forest The guy said, You mean the Sahara Desert? He said, Yeah, now it's a desert. This reminds me of the story here of Dino. He was kind of like that. I mean, here he is in the middle of a battle 800 men all around them, and they're just falling like trees. This guy's just killing them all at once in battle. These are the enemies of God But notice now, I think the reason why he doesn't or he or he doesn't uh get killed and the reason why he has such a great victory is because he's not looking at the odds What is he looking at? He's looking at the Lord. He probably doesn't really know how many men are in this battle, probably until it's all over, and he counts how many were slain. But he's not looking at the odds. He's trusting in the Lord. There's a phrase that we see again and again. It's in verse 10 At the end of verse 10 in chapter 23, where it says, And the Lord wrought a great victory that day. You see that in verse number 10. We see it also in verse 12. And the Lord wrought a great victory You see, these men, these mighty men, again, they weren't considering the odds for victory. They were looking to God for victory. Where did they learn that? They learned that from David. That was a principle that David learned early on. Remember when he first came to the public stage by killing Goliath? It wasn't because he was looking at the odds on a human level He was looking to God. He was trusting in God. And these men learned that principle. And because they learned that principle, they were able to face great odds. And it didn't bother them. And we need to carry this principle with us today. You know why? Because let's face it, the odds are against us when we serve Christ. You know the church today is outnumbered. We're in the minority. Now don't let that bother you because You know, Noah, when he got on the ark, was in the minority, but when he got off the ark, he was in the majority. We're in the minority today, but one day when the storm's over and the Lord judges, we'll be in the majority. But we're still a force for God. However, we have to understand that we face great odds. But we don't need to worry about the odds. We need to keep our eyes on the Lord And trust God for victory. So they defied the odds. Here's the fourth thing. They were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. They defied the odds. But I like this, they clung to the sword. Now look in verse number nine, and there's another man that's mentioned here, another one of David's mighty men, and after him was Eliezer, the son of Dodo. Now you would have to be tough with a name like that. Yeah, the son of Dodo. I imagine he went through a lot of fighting when he was growing up there. And the Bible says of him that he de uh that when they defied the Philistines, the mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that were gathered Together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away. Here's a battle, and in this battle, all the men of Israel decide to leave. But here's Eliezer. He's out there on the battlefield by himself. And by the way, we can look at some parallel accounts in 1 Chronicles to get a little bit more information. And we learn that this there's this a battle scene. That is called really uh the the Hebrew means the dell of bloodshed. And by the way, this was the same area, the same region where David faced Goliath. Interesting And by the way, this place will be mentioned again and again. This seems to be a place of r uh that was a recurring headache for Israel where they were constantly fighting battles there. And there's even something to be learned here. The enemy will often take us back to the old battlegrounds, won't he? The victories that we won before, don't think that you'll never have to fight those victories again. The enemy likes to take you back to those places. Some of your greatest battles will be fought over the same thing on the same battleground. So we have to be on our guard. But here's Eliezer, and he's at this place, and and he's he's wielding his sword, and all the other men leave, but he does not. He stays there And the Bible says in verse 10, he arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword. Think about that. He's fighting, he's fighting so long in the battle that when finally the battle's over, he couldn't even release the sword. The sword just would cleave to his hand. He was stuck to his sword, so to speak. Boy, what a metaphor for the Christian, huh? What is our weapon? It's the sword of the spirit, isn't it? The word of God. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 10, 4, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God. to the pulling down of stronghold. The weapon for us is the truth of the word of God. We are fighting enemies all around us. And you know what the weapon of choice for our enemies are? Error, it is untruth, it is falsehood, it is lies. How do we fight that? We fight it with the truth. We fight it with the truth of God's word. So the word of God is our weapon. The only way we can overcome our enemies around us. is to cleave to the sword of the Word of God. Therefore you have to know it. You have to study it. You have to get into the scripture. You have to handle it. I was reading it that one of the first things that an Australian soldier is issued when he enlists in the army is an automatic rifle. And each soldier is taught everything about that rifle. They keep it with them. They know how to take it apart and put it back together. They have to learn how to do it blindfolded. They have to learn how to do it in seconds. He's the only one who's allowed to pick up his rifle, that individual soldier who's been issued that rifle. No one else can touch it. No one else can use it If he misplaces it, he's severely disciplined. And why do they do that? Well, the point of all this training is so when he goes forth into battle, he knows his weapon so well. That he's confident in the battle because he knows his weapon will work. So it is with a child of God. We should know God's word so well. We should know it inside out. We should Always cleave to it so that when the battle comes, we're confident in the scripture, in the word of God. We know That it will do the job. And let me just tell you, beloved, I am that confident in God's Word. I know that I know that the Bible is the Word of God, and it is the answer for all men. It is the truth, and we need to get the truth out. The Word of God needs to cleave to our hand. So they were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. They defied the odds. They clung to the sword. But here's the fifth thing, write this down. They refused to surrender any ground to the enemy. They wouldn't surrender any ground. So look in chapter 23, look in verse 11. Here's another mighty man mentioned. And after him was Shamah, the son of Aja. And notice what it says, and the Philistines were gathered together into a troop where there was a piece of ground full of lentils. Now here's a piece of a partial of land. It's a field of lentils or a field of beans. Or as one country preacher said, the devil was after his pea patch. And so here is this field filled with beings, and when the Philistines come, The again the people fled from the Philistines at the end of verse 11 we see there. But here Shama, he stood in the midst of the ground. He doesn't run. He defends it. And he slew the Philistines. Now he refuses to give up one inch wine. Now you might ask, well, you know, what's so important about a a parcel of ground, a patch, a field filled with beans? Why was he willing to risk his life? Just for some dirt. I mean, what's the deal here? Well, what you need to know is this that according to Old Testament law, the Lord owned the promised land And the Israelites were given the charge or the responsibility to be the caretakers of that land. And so really this was a stand on behalf of the Lord. This was a stand on behalf of the Old Testament law, where he knew that this was God's land, and he wasn't going to give any of what belonged to God up to the enemy. So this really was a statement of faith. This was an expression of a deep level of faith in God's promises regarding Israel's right to the land. And so the Bible says God honored that faith. God honored his determination not to give up anything to the enemy, to stand on his ground, because the Bible says That the Lord, look at the end of verse number 12, and the Lord wrought a great victory. God honored him And through Shammah's sword, the enemy was slain, but it was really the Lord who gave the victory. You know what we learn from this as children of God? We don't yield one inch to the devil. Don't give one inch to the devil. Don't yield up any ground. If you give him an inch, he'll take a what? Take a mile. He'll take much more. As God's people, we must stand on the truth. The devil tries to come and intimidate us away. But you know what the church is called? I love this expression about the church in the New Testament. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. This is where the truth should be preached. And we don't compromise the truth. We don't let the world or the devil intimidate us away from the truth of Scripture. And society is trying to do that today, by the way. They try to bully people into making them believe or to frighten people away from what is true and what is right. But we are to stand for truth because truth all over is being attacked It's being attacked all over. The truth about man, the truth about marriage and family. Let me just touch on one issue. You know why there's so much racism in the world today? You know why? Because people don't believe the Bible. That's why. Because they don't believe the truth of God's Word. You know why? Because the Bible says that man was created in the image of God. Every man was created in the image of God. Every man. And so that means that racism is not just an attack against your fellow man, it's an attack against Almighty God, who created man in his image. It is an attack. It is hostile against God. You know, it's interesting to me that the world teaches evolution. But evolution is the basis of racism. And yet at the same time, they call racism evil and don't believe the Bible The Bible is very clear. There's only one race, it's called the human race. We're all children of Adam. And if you attack your fellow man, you're attacking Almighty God who has create who has created man in his image. If people believe the word of God, then this would stop. But they don't. And we're and that's just one of the things that's under attack out there. There's a truth about marriage in the family. The world wants us to capitulate on the issue of marriage. Marriage is between a man and a woman, period We're being intimidated and bullied to believe something different, but we're not going to give up one inch of ground on that issue The the truth about biblical manhood and biblical womanhood, the truth about a creator and creation, The truth about Christ and salvation. All of these things are under attack, but we need people who are mighty and will not give up one inch of the truth. That's what these muddy men were like. They were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. They defied the odds They clung to the sword. They refused to surrender any ground to the enemy. But also, number six, they refused to follow the crowd. And just kind of note this by the way that when others ran away from the battle, they didn't follow the crowd. We already saw that that happened in verse 9 and verse 12, that they just ran away. It's interesting that this crowd that ran from the battle, that when the battle is over, they come back for the spoils. When the battle is over. Look at verse 10. It says that he arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand claved unto the sword, and the Lord brought a great victory that day. And watch this at the end of verse ten. And the people returned after him only to spoil. That is, they came back to get the spoils of the battle. When it was time for the battle they ran. When the battle was over, they came back and they got the spoils. Now Eliezer, you have to commend him because he wasn't selfish. He allowed them to enjoy the spoils, but they benefited from his courage because he didn't follow the crowd, and neither did uh the the man before him. And so here's a group of men that refuse to follow the crowd, they stand. You know, often the majority will capitulate to the world. But God needs mighty men and women of God who will stand and will not go the way of the crowd. But here's number seven. They demonstrated great love and devotion to their king. There's another interesting story in chapter 23, verse 13, where it talks about David Now this is a story really from the past. And this narrative is just put in there just to show how devoted that these men were to David. This is an incident that really took place in the life of David when he was running from Saul. This was probably before he was anointed king, or perhaps he was anointed king in Hebrew and he was still running from Saul. But this nevertheless was from the past. And look down at verse 13, where it says, And three of the thirty chief went down and came to David in the harvest time under the cave of Adullaum, and the troop of the Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim. Now, this was an incident, again, that when David was hiding in the cave of Adullah, the Philistines were in Bethlehem, that's David's hometown. It was harvest time, which meant there had been no rain, and the cisterns that normally held water were empty, and so there was no water available there in the cave. And David thirsted for water In fact, he thirsted for the water that was from Bethlehem. That's the what the well that he used to drink from there in his old town. was so refreshing and he remembers the water from that well and he thought back to how cool it was how refreshing it was and so he says in verse 15 And David longed and said, oh, that one would give me drink from of the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate. Now David's not issuing a command here. He's just kind of giving a wish. You know, he's thinking about he's kind of thirsty, but he's thinking about that water from that well because man, I could use a drink. From that well right about now. I wish someone uh had some of that water. Boy, I would love to have that. You ever say that? You know, boy, I wish I had this, you know. You're just kind of You're not really demanding it. You're just talking out loud, or thinking out loud, I should say. And basically, that's what he's doing here. Now these men, they overhear that. They're close enough to hear him whisper these words They're loyal enough to take his wish as their command. And they are brave enough to obey at any cost. Because what do they do? They travel 12 miles, they break through the enemy lines. Remember, the Philistines are there in Bethlehem, and they get water from that well and they bring it back to David. Now David is so touched by this. He's so moved by it. That when they bring this water back, the Bible says in verse 16 that David he would not drink. He wouldn't drink it. In other words, this act was so sacred to him. This measure of devotion that they displayed, this love and loyalty was so superior That David didn't feel that he was worthy to drink that. The only one worthy of such devotion and honor is God. And so what does he do? He pours the water out. You say, oh, that's waste. No, he's pouring it out. Notice where it says he pours it out. Look in verse 16. Nevertheless, at the end of verse 16, nevertheless he would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto the Lord. That's the key phrase there. He pours it out unto God Because he says this measure of love and loyalty should be given to God. It should be devoted to the Lord And so by doing that, really, he honors these men. He shows how sacred that act was. But the thing I want to draw your attention to was the incredible love and devotion and loyalty that these men show to David. And here's the question for us. Do we show that measure of devotion to our King, the Lord Jesus? Do we show him that much devotion, that much love, that much loyalty? Are we willing to put our life on the line? Because we know this is something that the Lord would want. This is what our king would desire, and because he desires it, I'm going to do everything I can to make it happen. In other words, are we living a life that's pleasing unto him? Because of uh we have a devotion, we have a love, we have a loyalty to our king. That's the thing that we should take from this. May we have that same kind of loyal love and devotion to him. Let me give you a the eighth. characteristic I see. They were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. They defied the odds. They clung to the sword. They refused to surrender any ground. They refused to follow the crowd. They demonstrated great love and devotion. But here's number eight. They were not afraid to take the initiative. Look in chapter 23. Look in verse number 20. We're introduced to another man, a man by the name of Beniah. And what we know about him, we can learn a little bit more in 1 Chronicles. He was born to serve as a priest, according to 1 Chronicles 27, 5, but he became a soldier. And he became the commander of David's bodyguard. Now, in the Bible there were certain men who were born to be priests, but became prophetsmen like Jeremiah and Ezekiel. and John the Baptist, but Beniah is the only man who was born to be a priest that actually became a soldier instead. He chose to be a soldier And the Bible says of him in verse number 20 that he slew two lion-like men of Moab. Here are two formidable Moabite warriors that he kills. And so he's noted for this act of bravery. But there's also one other thing that we see here where it says he went down also and slew a lion. At the end of verse 20, it tells us it says he slew a lion in the midst of a pit. in the time of snow. That's interesting to me. You say, why would this guy do this? I mean if you're walking along and you see a lion in a pit, how many of you think, I'll just go down there and fight this lion? Especially on a snowy day. That's just not something you would normally do. That's not something that you would do arbitrarily. Oh, there's a lion I think we'll fight. He doesn't do that. You say, well, why did he do it? Why does he go down to a pit and fight a lion? I would leave him alone. Well, the word for pit here kind of helps us. The Hebrew word here is a word that means a cistern. And of course, cisterns were dug out to hold what? Water, right? This was a dry climate. Sometimes these these cisterns would be dry, but when the rains would come, they would fill up with rainwater. Or when the snow would melt. The snow would fill these cisterns and people depended upon this water to drink from it. It was really a source of life for them. And so these cisterns were very, very important. I remember when I was over in Israel at that We were digging at uh at AI, Curbidal Makata, and on that plot of ground where we were walking around, you had to be careful because there were holes in the ground and they were cisterns. You could fall down and it would be a huge wide pit down there. And some of them were were hewn out where they were uh with or put in bricks were put in to make it stone uh to hold the water. And so these were big, these were deep, these were wide pits. And so evidently a lion came along and fell into this pit accidentally. Well, something had to be done about it because this lion couldn't stay there, because that lion would defile the water And people couldn't drink from it. And it was necessary for life. They had to have that water. So someone had to go down into that pit and get the lion out. There's there's the issue. The lion can't stay there. He's got to go. Any volunteers to go down into the pit and get the lion out. Oh by the way, it's snowing out. Be careful now, you hear. There's no one that really stepped forth except Benaiah. This was an incredible act of bravery on his part to go down into the pit. To fight this lion, to kill him and take him out. There was a great preacher named F. W. Aburam who preached a wonderful sermon about Beniah killing the lion And he points out three things in his sermon. He says, it was the worst of enemies, a lion. He said it was in the worst of places, a pit And he said it was under the worst of conditions on a snowy day. And yet he did it and he won, the Bible says. It's impressive to kill a lion. It's even more impressive to do it in a pit But it's incredibly impressive to do it on a snowy day. What an incredible act of bravery. And you know what this man did? He showed initiative. He took the initiative. He saw something that needed to be done, and he did it. You know one of the greatest blights in the Christendom today, you know what it is? Passive men who don't take the initiative for Christ. In fact, Chuck Swindoll was once He once asked a Christian counselor, what was the number one problem he faced in counseling Christian families? And the Christian counselor without hesitation said, passive males. Why is it that men allow their wives to be the spiritual leader of the home? Why is it that men let their wives do all the discipling of the children? and lead the family in devotions. Why is it that the men leave all of that to the women? This is this is something that is a shame. We need mighty men in the church who will take the initiative to lead spiritually. That's the thing that we learn from this. This doesn't mean barking out commands at your family. It means setting the example by loving Christ, serving them, and loving them. Let me give you the last one. They were committed to a great cause. They were giant killers. They defied the odds. They clung to the sword. They refused to surrender any ground. They refused to follow the crowd. They demonstrated great love and devotion. They were not afraid to take the initiative. But here's the last one. They came from diverse backgrounds, but they were united by their love for David. Now, look in verse 24 on down to verse 39 I would like for someone to volunteer to read that passage for us here today. No, I'm just kidding. Look at all those names there. I'm not about to try to pronounce all of those. names. This reads like an ancient Middle Eastern phone book here. But let me just point out a few things about this list of names that's given here. Now all of these are mighty men that are listed here. But just a few observations about these names. They're really from obscure places. These men that are listed here and where they're from, many of them are foreigners. They're not from Israel. Some of them are, obviously. Men like Uriah the Hittite, remember him? He was a mighty man for David So many were foreigners, and really none of them seemed to have anything noteworthy about them regarding their families or their hometowns. In fact, there's a lot of obscure places that are mentioned here in this list. Someone said that there are a lot of hick towns mentioned here. Not to be offensive to use that. Someone said, what is a hick town? It's a place where you you can park as long as you want to, but you don't want to. And so they're from these obscure places. And they're people from different backgrounds, very diverse. But they were all drawn together by one thing. They were united by one thing. You know what it was? It was their love for David It was their love for their king. That's what brought all these men together. And that's true of the church. That's true of us as well, isn't it? We come from different backgrounds, all of us that are here tonight, different social backgrounds, economic backgrounds. racial backgrounds. But you know what? We're all united together. You know why? Because what brings us all together in love and unity is our love for our King Jesus Christ. It is our love for our Savior. That's what unites us together. You see, these mighty men, David was their hero. David was their rallying point. He was the lamp of Israel. He was the light of Israel. That's true of Jesus for us, isn't it? He's our hero. He's the one we rally around. He's the one that we love. And he's the one that places love in our hearts for each other. I think these mighty men were united. They were united around David. They were united around his They all come from difficult backgrounds. In fact, if you go back to 1 Samuel 22, don't do it now, but one that you remember that these were men who were discouraged, they were in debt They were depressed. They were distressed under the reign of Saul. They all had problems. They all had difficulties. And yet they all came to David. And David accepted them in, and he made them mighty warriors. In the same way, that's the way we come to Jesus, isn't it? You know, you don't have to have everything right in your life before you come to the Lord. In fact, if you have everything right in your life, you probably won't come to the Lord. It's those that are down, that are depressed, that have been beaten up by the world. That are distressed. And that's when we come to Christ. And that what Christ does is He He changes us. He changes our life. And that's what unites us all together. So with all that in mind, let me just ask you a question as we're closing. How's your love for Christ? How's your devotion to Him? How's your commitment to your king? May the devotion and loyalty and love that characterize these men for their King David, may that characterize us, that and more. For our King Jesus. Because the church today needs mighty men and women of God. Committed to the truth, not afraid to display our devotion and love to our King, not afraid to take initiative, willing to defy the odds. Those who will cling to the sword, the word of God, who refuse to surrender any ground to the enemy, who refuse to follow the crowd, but are committed to the great cause that our King has given us. May that be our testimony. Let's let's bow for prayer tonight So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to I want us actually to do two things tonight. I want us to have a time of prayer with our heads bowed and eyes closed. There are two things I'd ask you to pray about. First of all, I want you to examine your own heart and say, is is my love for the Lord waning? Has your heart grown cold and complacent towards Christ? Then you need to start right there. You need to remember from whence you're fallen, the Bible tells us that in Revelation. And take time to draw near to your Lord. Take time to repent and do and do the first works the Bible said. Not only renew your devotion to Christ, but also be willing to do something for him. Get off the bench. Commit yourself to his cause in the church. You remember on Sunday we talked about we're going to have an initiative on October 15th to invite your one. To everyone find someone that you can invite to come and hear the Word of God, to hear the gospel, and focus on them and pray for them that the Lord would save them. I want you to make a commitment to the Lord to do that. Or ask God that he would use you to point someone to Christ today. That's the great cause right there. He's the light in this world of darkness. We don't want the lamp of Christ to be put out. So we want to point people to Christ. And so I want you to take a moment, I want you to pray. for your one and pray that God would use you. You take a moment and do that And then I want you to pray specifically for the people in Houston, those who are right now under distress. That are gone are going through a trial right now and they need they need God's help. They need his people to be praying for them. And so I want you to take a minute and pray for those two things. And we're going to do that quietly with The music is playing in the background. I want you to take a minute and just seek the Lord and pray right where you are for those things. It's why is it And so Lord, we we thank you that your word teaches us that when your people come together and they pray together in unity That heaven hears the symphony of prayer. All of our hearts are lifted together as one And we come to your throne, Lord, and we ask that indeed you would make us mighty men and women of God, committed to your cause. We pray, Lord, that you would use us to shine the light of the gospel into this dark world, to share the love of Christ with those around us. Lay some soul, Lord, on our heart that we can reach out to. And then Lord, we pray for all those that are so distressed. Many of your people, Lord, that are Right now they're they're destitute, they're without. They don't have what they had a week ago. And Lord, we pray for your divine protection, your help We pray, Lord, that you would send rescuers and helpers, Lord, that would meet their needs. And help us, Lord, not to be idle, to do what we can do. To give, to do what we can do, Lord, to be a help. But we lift these folks to you tonight. And again, Lord, we thank you that we can be used of you, that we can be mighty men and women of God for your service. Lord, may it be so. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen So