Take your Bibles tonight. Open, please, to the book of Romans. I want you to look at Romans chapter 6. We're continuing through our study in Romans, and tonight I want to talk about being dead to sin but alive unto God. And we're continuing to talk about this concept of learning to be victorious over sin in our life. Now I don't know about you, but I'm trying to be victorious. over my sins and this battle that we face every day with the sin nature. It's a constant battle, isn't it? And you might have victory one day. It doesn't guarantee you victory for the next. It's just a continual battle. And really, in order to win this battle against sin, you have to understand this concept that the Apostle Paul is going to lay out. Actually, he lays it out in the first two verses, and then he elaborates more on it In these next verses that we're going to look at, in verses 3 down to verse number 14, he's going to talk about again this concept of being dead to sin, although we're dead to sin, yet we're alive unto God. I read a rather unbelievable incident where a young man forgot that he was married. Uh after he returned home from their honeymoon, the husband was three hours late getting home from work one evening because he absent-mindedly went to his mother's house. Forgetting that he was married. That didn't really go well for him. His new bride didn't really appreciate that. So a tip for you new husbands is don't forget you're married. All right, just kind of keep it simple. Don't forget that you're married. Now, well that sort of thing is rare in the realm of marriage. It's fairly common. uh for those who are married to Christ. Did you know that when you got saved, you became the bride of Christ. You were married to Christ. The Bible tells us that in Ephesians, the church is the bride. We are the body of Christ. And so we have this union with our Lord Jesus Christ. We are identified with Him in His death, in His burial, and in His resurrection. So much so that the power of sin is now broken. And that's really the whole idea that Paul's giving us here in chapter 6. Your union with Christ means that the power of sin in your life has been broken since you've been married to Christ. You're one with him. That power is now broken. This is an essential truth that we need to remember. But you know what? Every time we fall into sin, we forget that. You could say that in a sense we forget that we're married to Christ. We forget that we're united to Christ, that we're so one with Him Now remember here in chapter six, Paul is rebutting the charge that his teaching of the gospel of grace will lead a person into lasciviousness or They will treat the grace of God as a license to sin. That was one of the arguments that was used against the Apostle Paul in this message of grace, the gospel of grace that he preached. And Paul is showing that that is simply not true. And again, the reason that's not true is because of our identification with Christ. Because of our oneness, our union with Christ That frees us from the slavery of sin, and now we are free to walk in newness of life. In other words, when you got saved, you died to sin, and now you're alive unto Christ. And you have to remember that. And Paul wants to really hammer this whole idea home. Now you remember that last week I said that Paul was actually dealing with an argument that begins in chapter 5. Go back up to chapter 5 and look down in verse number 20. Moreover, the law entered that Uh the law entered, uh that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. So he lays out that idea that wherever sin abounds, God's grace is so much greater that God's grace hyperabounds, literally is the Greek word there, or superabounds. And this might lead the out to the idea, well then if that means that every time we sin, God's grace overcomes it Shouldn't we sin all the more? That makes God's grace appear all the greater. It magnifies the grace of God if we live in sin. And Paul anticipates this kind of thinking. He anticipates this kind of objection. And you remember last week we looked at Paul's anticipation And look what he look at his response in verse number one of chapter six. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? If that's true, shall we remain in sin? Look at the word continue there. That's an interesting word. It's mennow. It's where we get the word mansions. Remember what Jesus said, In my father's house are many mansions, right? Same Greek word meno, and it's a place where you dwell, where you abide. And the prefix is on this one, epi meno, which intensifies the idea here So it is, here's the question, are we going to just remain in this house of sin since it uh it causes the grace of God to abound all the more? Are we going to remain in Sin? Is that the lifestyle of a believer? And again, um this is a big question Because there are some out there that believe that when you say yes to Christ and you're justified, that no matter how you live afterwards, you're saved. In other words, they divorce sanctification from justification. And the and you know when a person is justified, sanctification automatically takes place. And I think the Bible is pretty clear about that. If you're justified, there will be sanctification in your life. If there is no sanctification, then there is no justification. You can't just say that I'm a Christian and live any way you want to. What is that called? Anti-nomianism. We looked at that last week. Anti means against Gnomian, Nomas law. You live as if there is no law. You live as if you have no moral laws in which you have to obey. You can do whatever you want, live however you want. Sometimes you know a person will come and make a decision at the altar And they'll say, uh, you know, I prayed and asked Jesus to come into my heart, but their life has never changed. There's never been any true repentance in the sense that they've turned from sin And they're living just like they used to. And if you approach them about that, they'll say, well, you know, I prayed and I asked Jesus to save me, and he's got to save me. But meanwhile, there's no sanctification taking place And so this is an important issue. And Paul says that if you're a Christian, you're not going to want to live in sin. You're not going to want to continue in sin. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And again, Paul's answer, look in verse number two, God forbid How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? There's Paul's answer. And remember I told you that God forbid is really just the dynamic equivalence of the Greek expression, which is the strongest negative in the Greek. Which is something that would shrink back to the thought. Makes you horrified to even think this way. And God forbid it's the strongest English negative. May it never be. By no means, absolutely not, a Christian would never have this kind of twisted logic as to suggest That God would delight in sin so he might display his grace all the more. That's not even the way a Christian thinks And so we see Paul's anticipation of the argument. We looked at that. And we looked at Paul's answer, God forbid. And Paul's argument is in verse 2. How shall we that are dead to sin? Now let me remind you what I've already told you. That the word dead here is an aorist past tense. And um if you were in my Greek class last week here in church Remember what I said about the verb eris? It's completed action that happens at one moment in time in the past. It's not a present tense verse or verb, excuse me. We're not dying to sin presently And it's not future. We will not one day die to sin. It's not an imperfect verb. We haven't died and am dying. No, it's heirs. We already in the past Have died to sin. When you got saved, you died to sin. That is to say that the relationship that you had to sin before has changed And this is the thing that Paul really wants to drive home. You have a new master, and his name is Jesus. Whereas before, the old master was the old sin nature. Now you have a new master. I was reading in history about when Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation and freed the slaves that there are many slaves that went back to the plantation and they continued to live as if they were still slaves. It really didn't cross their mind if they were free, they could do whatever they wanted. They still had the mindset of living like a slave. And there are many Christians that live that way. You are now free from the old sin master, from the sin nature. That relationship is over. The sin nature no longer has any authority over you. You're absolutely free. You're dead to sin. Again, I say, you ever hear someone say, you know, you're dead to me You're dead to me, which means that relationship is over with. It's done. That's the idea here. We are dead to sin, therefore we are free to live in righteousness. And that's what he wants us to understand. John Owens used to say that a pastor has only two problems. He said, number one, persuading unbelievers that they are under the dominion of sin, and persuading believers that they're not under the dominion of sin. And that's really our two problems. And so what I want to do with you tonight is to persuade you, if you know the Lord Jesus, if you've been saved, then you are not under the dominion of sin. You don't have to listen to the sin nature. You don't have to capitulate to sin in your life. You have a new master, his name is Jesus. You are alive unto Christ. You are dead to sin. Now, in order to drive this home, well there are three key words here in Romans chapter 6 that I want you to see. And there's the word no. We see this in verse 3 and in verse 6 and in verse 9. And then we see the word reckon, we see this in verse eleven, and then we see the the word yield, verses twelve and thirteen. Now I would suggest to you that these are three words that will help us To apply what Paul's trying to say about you being dead to sin, yet alive to Christ. So let's look at these. Number one, no. Just know, write that down. It's a matter of your mind. You have to know this You know, you can't have victory unless you know this. And some people don't realize it. And Paul says, look, I want you to know. I want you to realize This relationship is over that you had with sin. You are dead to it. And you have to remember that in your mind. This is a basic truth. Now there are several principles we have to know. Look in verse 3. Know ye not. That so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death. Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death. That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. And so here's the first thing Paul says you have to know. You have to know that you that we are baptized into Christ. were baptized into him. Now remember I've told you before, this isn't talking about water baptism. This is talking about an immersion But it's not an outward immersion in the water. First of all, what he's talking about is an inward baptism, not an outward baptism He's talking about a spiritual reality that takes place in our life that is symbolized when we do receive water baptism. You realize that when you're baptized in the water, basically here's what you're saying to the world that I am united with Christ. I'm identified with Christ. I'm one with Christ. You see, the baptism tank is kind of the marriage altar for the believer when they are married to Christ, in the sense that they're showing everyone that they're married. Really, you were baptized. When you publicly confirm that or express that through baptism, you're showing everyone around who you belong to. And what you're saying is this That I'm so one with Christ that when Jesus died on the cross, I died. And when Jesus was buried, I was buried. And when Jesus rose, I rose. I have this oneness with Jesus. This water baptism is a symbol of that spiritual reality One time a pastor was trying to he was actually in in California, he was baptizing uh people there in the ocean, and a woman came up to him and said, You know, I want my nine year old to be baptized, and this pastor was kind of reluctant And so he began to quiz the girl and try to teach her about baptism. And he was gesturing with his hand while he talked. And when he did that, he kind of saw the shadow of his hand on the sand And he said to the little girl, You see that shadow there? And she said, Yes. He said, Well that shadow is not my hand. It's it is it? She said, No. He said, My hand is the reality. The shadow is a symbol of it. He said, that's what baptism is. You see, the reality is you're already one with Jesus. Baptism is the shadow of that It is the symbol of that. And the little girl seemed to understand that. But that's the whole point of the verse, our union with Christ. And you remember, I spent the whole sermon talking about the mystical union of the believer. that you're united with Jesus. You're one with him. And that's what this is telling us right here. You were baptized into Jesus. You were totally immersed in the Christ. Remember the word baptiso always means immersion. Total immersion. And in the Greek world, a blacksmith would use this word when he would take a piece of hot iron and dip it under the water completely, he would use the word baptizo. When a woman was putting uh a piece of cloth into the die and she she put the cloth all the way under the die she would use that word baptisa when a ship sank to the bottom of the ocean The word that was used was baptizo. Always, always, always. This word means immersion. And here's the thing. When you got saved, you were immersed in the Christ. You were completely placed in Christ. And the illustration I've used before, and I love it, is the illustration of Noah on the Ark Noah was completely baptized in that ark. He was completely immersed in that ark, and that's a beautiful picture of salvation. In fact, if you remember when we studied through 1 Peter, Peter used this As an illustration of salvation, that just as Noah was placed inside the ark, even so when you got saved, you were placed inside Christ. Whatever happened to that ark Happened to Noah. Whatever happened to Jesus, happened to you. That ark went through the water, so did Noah. That ark was buried in the storm of God's wrath, poured out on the world, so was Noah, as he was in that ark. That ark was raised up and exalted on Mount Arat. So was Noah, because Noah was in that ark. Whatever happened to the Ark happened to Noah And here's why this is called mystical, because it's hard for us really to comprehend. But beloved, you are in Jesus. Whatever happens to Jesus happens to you. Because you are in him. And that's why I've said before, where is Christ now? He's seated in heaven in heavenly places. Where are you now? You're seated in heaven in heavenly places. You say, no, wait a minute, I'm here at grace. I know, but you're also in heaven. That's a spiritual reality. You're so much there in the mind of God. And even Paul says that in Colossians, he says, we are seated in heaven. In heavenly places in Christ Jesus. You're so one with him, you're so united to him. And that's why we can't continue in sin. That's why a believer would never think of continuing sin. Why? Because we're so united to Christ. Wherever you go, you take Jesus with you. And a believer would never think of bringing Jesus into sin with them. And so therefore a believer understands that relationship and would never want to do that and live in sin. And when a believer does do that, they receive the chastisement of God on their life, and they can't live that way for long without God intervening and doing something. Remember Paul warned the Corinthians when some some of the Corinthians uh were living an immoral loose life, Paul said this, he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. He said this in 1 Corinthians 6 Verse 17, he went on to say, Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid How can you do that? You're so one with Christ wherever you go, wherever he goes, and so because of this union This is the argument that Paul uses. Also, write down Galatians 3. 27. Paul said this: As many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. Here he's equating it with putting on Jesus. It's the same spiritual concept, different kind of idea there. You're putting on Christ, you're baptizing to Christ. That's all the same thing. What's it conveying? That you're one with Jesus You're one with him. And Paul says, look, you have to know this. You have to get this in your mind. Do you have it? Get it there. So know that. Here's the second thing. Know we are identified with Christ's death and resurrection. Look again in verse 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death Therefore, we're buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. And again, so what he's saying is that when you got saved, you died to the old world, the old life, you're living a new life. There's newness of life now. Again, let's think about the illustration of Noah. When Noah got into that ark, you could say that he died to that old world That pre-flood world, the world that he once knew, when he got on that ark, that old world died. He never knew that world ever again. When he got off that ark, he got off into a new world, a brand new world. And that's the way it is when you get saved. When you come to Christ, you're baptized into Jesus, that old life that you once knew, you know that no more. That's over with, that's gone. You see, you got saved, you became dead to that old life, just like Noah became dead to that old anti-deluvian world. That world was never again uh uh existence in his life And you see, that's our position in Christ. We die to the old life. We die to the old world. Our practice in Christ is that now we live in a different realm. We walk in newness of life. When Noah got off that ark, it was a brand new world. That old world was gone. It's a brand new world now. And that's what again happens when you get saved. It's a brand new life, a brand new world. You're alive unto God. And then we see our pattern in Christ. Look at verse 4. Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father. Even so we should walk in newness of life. And the word newness there is canos. Paul's referring to a new quality of life, not in terms of chronology, but in terms of quality. Righteousness now becomes a pattern for the believer because we're whereas before our life may have been characterized by habitual sin, now in newness of life our life is characterized by habitual righteousness. And so we have this new pattern of life. Now we are to know these things then. We must know that we are identified with Christ in his death and resurrection, but also know this. Know that the body of sin is destroyed. Look at verse um. 5, for if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection. Look at verse 6. Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him That the body of sin might be destroyed, and henceforth we should not serve sin. And notice again, he says, know this. You have to know this next principle is that the old sinful self has been destroyed. That old sinful self has been crucified. Again, it's past tense. It's no longer you. You're not the same person you were. I think I've given you the illustration of Augustine who was saved out of an immoral lifestyle. And God did a great work in his heart in salvation. And one day he was walking down the street. And one of his old girlfriends said, uh she called his name, and he began running the other way. And she said, Augustine, it is I! He said, Yes, but it is no longer I. And friend, that's true of the believer. You are now not the same person. Why? Because that old man, that old sinful self, has been, the Bible says, look at verse 6. That the body of sin might be destroyed. Destroyed. Again, there's two lines. The old, there's the old Jerry. Before salvation, there's a new Jerry after salvation. If Noah was going to write a biography about his life, volume one would be before the flood, before the ark, volume two would be after the ark. And the same is true of a believer. There's who you were before you were baptized into Jesus. There's who you are after you were baptized into Jesus. The old life, the old lifestyle is gone. And so Paul is saying our old nature then, this body of sin. Notice where he says old man there. You might want to circle that in verse number six: that our old man is crucified. He uses the word telias for old, which refers to things not merely old, but worn out by use, is the word there. Paul is saying that our old nature has been worn out by use. It's therefore useless. It's to be discarded on the scrap heap. Our old nature is what we were before salvation, depraved and damned. Paul said, as an Adam all die. That old nature then is that Adamic nature that is old. It's worn out. We need to discard that old nature, Paul said. That's the old unregenerate self And then he says this really in Ephesians, where he says that we are to put off the old man and put on the new man. The new man is that righteousness and holiness that God has put inside of us. And look at the word, the phrase body of sin in verse number six, that the body of sin, this is best seen as referring to sin's absolute dominion over us. The body is not the physical body, but not only the physical body, but the mind as well. He's basically saying that while that old sin nature had total dominion over all of us, all of our members our body, our mind. But now it's been destroyed. Again, that's another key word in verse 6. You might want to circle it. Destroyed. Now, that word there doesn't mean that the sin nature is gone. How I wish that that were true. How I wish that when we got saved. The sin nature was absolutely destroyed to where it's gone. It's no longer in me, because you know what that would mean? No more sin nature. I can live in total righteousness. No more sin. And by the way, there are some that teach that That you can get to the point in your Christian life where uh the sin nature is completely eradicated from you. There's no more sin nature. Anybody here got to that place yet? I would like to talk to you after the service or talk to your spouse To see if that's really true. I think all of us would say that's not true of any of us. We still battle sin. So what does the word destroyed mean? It doesn't mean that it's going to be completely, totally eradicated, gone The actual Greek word here is a word that means to be rendered ineffective or to be rendered inoperative or we could say rendered invalid. It's there, but it's been rendered ineffective. The sin nature is still there, but again, it doesn't have the same power. The same word is used. When Paul asks this question, have we made void? Same word there, void the law. No, the law hasn't been destroyed. Paul's just saying it's not effective to a believer anymore like it was in the Old Testament. And it's also used in Romans chapter 7, talking about the same principle, the same idea here. It doesn't mean that it's absolutely gone. One Greek scholar, Joseph Henry Thayer, says of this word, katargeo, it means to render idle, unemployed, inactive, inoperative to deprive of its strength, to deprive of force, influence, or power, bring to naught or make of none a fact. So we get the idea of what he's talking about there. I like the way the uh J. B. Phillips New Testament translates verse 6. He says it like this, let us never forget that our old selves died with him on the cross, that the tyranny of sin over us might be broken. I like the way he says that. So here's the next thing you know. Know that just as Jesus died to sin, we died to sin. Look at verse number 8. Now, if we be dead with Christ, We believe that we also shall live with him. And again in verse 9, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more. Death has no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died in the sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. And again, here Paul is using Christ as an illustration of what it means to be dead with sin. And I said this last week Christ had a relationship with sin. What was it? He died for it, and then that relationship was over. He was the sin bearer. He took all the sins of the world on him. That was his relationship. And once he died for sin, he has had nothing more to do with sin after that. That relationship is gone. And this is the idea for the believer. Once you got saved now, no more relationship to sin. You died to sin, just like Jesus when he had that relationship to sin and dying for it, that relationship is gone, it's over. He has nothing more to do with it. And so even so that is true for the believer. We are free. Look at verse number 7: for he that is dead is freed from sin. And you just have to know this, Paul says. Just know this. Get it down in your mind. You are free from sin. The sin nature doesn't have dominion over you. That old master, he has no more control. You are free. So know that. Now here's number two. No, that's a matter of the mind, but then reckon. That's a matter of the heart. Look at verse 11. So based on all that, Paul says, likewise, reckon ye yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. Just like Jesus is dead to sin, he has no more relationship, you reckon yourself. To be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And what his point is, is that doctrine has to give way to belief. You have to know it here in your mind. But then it has to be mixed with faith and you have to live like this is true. You have to r calculate and reckon this to be true and live like this. And that's by the way what the word reckon here means. It's uh logizumai. Which means it's really a mathematical calculation. You calculate this, you count it as true, and this is the way that you are to live then The rest of your life. Know this and reckon it, count it as true. That way, when temptation comes, this is the way you reckon it. You say to sin, you have no more dominion over me. I do not have to give in to you I do not have to listen to you. I have the choice of my own will, strengthened by the Holy Spirit, to say no. Sometimes I'll hear believers say, well, you know, this sin is so powerful, I can't say no to it. And I want you to know that that's a lie from the devil. Because you do have the power to say no. You have it not of yourself, but through the power of the Holy Spirit, which strengthens your will And that sin no more has that dominion over you. You don't have to listen. You do have the power to say no. You do have the power to resist. What did Paul say there's no temptation taken to you but such as is common to man? But God is faithful in that he will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. When someone says, Man, I just couldn't help it, yeah you could help it You say, I had no way of escape. Yes, you did. There's always a way of escape. You say, well, my temptation, it was the most unique temptation. No one's ever suffered this temptation like me. That's a lie, too. Because no temptation has taken you but such as is common to man. So your situation isn't unique. You do have the ability to say no. And you can depend upon God to let you show you a way out because sin does not have dominion over you. You simply do not listen. You look at sin as an old master who has been defeated, who has no more rule over you. You have been divorced With this old Sin nature. And there's no more relationship there. It's over with. Adrian Rogers used the illustration of an elephant tied to a stake. You know, he he used to say, you know you ever go to a circus and see an elephant tied to a wooden stake or chained to a wooden stake. You ever wonder why the elephant just doesn't free himself? I mean surely that little wooden stake doesn't keep him there, right? So why doesn't he realize that he's free? Because when he was a little baby elephant, they put him, they tied him to a stake that he couldn't move. And all he grew up all his life realizing that he can't move. Once he's chained, uh that in his mind he has it that he can't move. Now he's this huge massive elephant. They just put a stake into a ground, chain him to it, and in his mind He can't move, but the actual truth is he can move that state whenever he wants to. He just doesn't realize it. And a lot of times that's true with believers. You are free from sin. You don't have to give in. You don't have to be addicted to anything. You have the power through the Holy Spirit because you've been freed to overcome sin and to say no. The problem is you just don't reckon it, you don't live like it, you don't count it as True, you still feel like you're chained to this old habit or this old sin. And because you have that in your mind, you won't live as if you're free. And so Paul says you have to make this practical. You have to count it true. Make it a matter of the heart. Live like that. And then let me give you the last word. We said, no, that's a matter of the mind. Reckon, that's a matter of the heart. But here's the third word. Yield. That's a matter of the will. Look down at verse twelve. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey in its lust thereof. Look at verse 13. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourself unto God. As those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, for sin shall not have dominion over you. Now notice there's a negative command. Paul says, first of all, don't yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness. What does he mean by members? He's talking about the members of our body. I don't yield my mind, my hands, my feet, my tongue. I'm not going to yield those members to unrighteousness. That's what I don't do. Don't yield yourself to those things. Our faculties, our thoughts, our reason. They're not to be used for unrighteous purposes. But they are to be an instrument, and actually the word instrument here refers to a weapon or a tool. They're to be instruments of righteousness. unto God in verse number 13 and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. So you don't yield to unrighteous. You don't let sin or Satan use the members of your body for sin, ever. And again, you have the ability to do that. You don't yield. to that. You know, again, we I hear sometimes people use the word addiction as a Christian. Some people will say, well I'm addicted to this, I'm addicted to that. And really that's the biblical word is a slave. That's what addiction is. You're a slave to something. And the Bible says you are a slave to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. You make the choice. Now friend, if you want to be a slave to sin, if you want to be a slave to unrighteousness, you just keep yielding your members to it, and you will be a slave, and sin will come and reign in you and make you miserable and make you defeated, but that's not God's will for you as a Christian. You don't yield yourself to sin and unrighteousness. But here's the positive command he gives us. In verse 14, he said, actually verse 13: neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourself unto God. as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. So we are to actively consciously yield all of our body, all of our members unto God for an instrument or a weapon of righteousness. And that's what we must do. We must choose to yield ourselves unto God. And notice the conclusion of it is in verse 14 where he says. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for you're not under law, but you're under grace. God says if you're a believer, you know Jesus You know that you are united with him. You died with him. You were buried with him. You rose with him. Because of this union, the power of sin is is gone. You're free now. You reckon this to be true, you live like it, and you actively yield all of your members as a weapon of righteousness unto God. And we're to do this daily in our life. This is something we have to remember continually. Because very frankly, as a Christian, you can get sloppy in your Christian walk. And you can forget these things that Paul's telling us about. And you can allow sin to sneak up on you And the old sin nature starts barking out commands again. And you know what you do if you're not careful, you snap back in the line to the old sin nature. And the next thing you know, you're forgetting, you're not counting it as true that you're freed from sin. And the next thing you know, you're listening to sin. And now sin is reigning in you. And you're not yielding your members as instruments of righteousness, but as unrighteousness. And Paul said, you're a slave to whomever you yield yourself to. I'm not saying a Christian can't be an addict to something or addicted to something. You can, but it's a matter of what you choose. If you don't reckon this to be true, if you don't yield yourself to God continually, sin can come back and reign over you. And friend, you'll be defeated, but that's not God's will for our life. He wants us to be absolutely, totally free from sin to serve him. That every part of us would be dedicated to the Lord. You know, the song that we sang tonight was really an appropriate song. What was it? Take over Take over? That's really what he's saying right here. Lord, I just want you to take over. Now that I'm your servant, now that I'm dead to sin, I I I know that I count it as true. Now I just yield all of myself to you, and I ask you, Lord Jesus, just take over. Take over every part of me. I surrender every part of me to you. And friend, that's Victory. That's reckoning yourself to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God. Let's bow for prayer together. bow for prayer. And so Father, I just pray that you'll help us to understand these things. Help those who are here that have heard this Lord, let this sink down into their heart, into their mind. It may be that there's some here that's struggling over a matter in their life Sin is one in them, had victories, and they may be frustrated. Lord, I pray that you'll help them to know in their mind That they're dead to sin. They don't have to listen. And Lord, you've given us power. Your grace is working mightily in us. Lord, that we would count this as true in our life and yield every part of us. to Christ. Give us this victory, Lord, that is ours. Let help us to claim it. Help us to know it. How many with uplift uplifted hand will say, That's my prayer tonight? Lord, I claim this victory. God help us Help me to know it and give me this victory. And so, Lord, bless your truth to our hearts. Lord, how we need this. And Father, we pray in Jesus' wonderful, precious name. Amen.