But you take your Bibles tonight and open to Ecclesiastes chapter 10. Ecclesiastes chapter 10, and we're going to deal with the whole chapter tonight. We're going to bite off a bigger chunk than normal. So if you take notes, you're going to have to write a little faster and listen a little closer. But this all has to do with one's theme. And so we're really going to look at more of a bird's eye view than a worm's eye view, I guess you could say, if worms have eyes And we'll look at it kind of more of a survey fashion. And the title of the message tonight is Dead Flies in the Ointment. And you'll see why, based on verse number one. Look at verse one of chapter ten. Dead flies cause the ointment of the Apocrypherry to send forth a stinking savior, so does a little folly to him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. A wise man's heart is at his right hand, but a fool's heart is at his left. And yet also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to everyone that he is a fool. If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place, for yielding pacifies great offenses. Now, if I were to mention to you the name of a president tonight, I want you to think, you know, what immediately comes to your mind, don't say it out loud, but if I were to mention the name Richard Nixon Uh do would it come to your mind how effective a president he was? It may surprise you tonight to know that many historians look back on the presidency of Richard Nixon. They actually praise him for many of the accomplishments that he was able to do during his time in the White House. In fact, there was a recent article from New York Times that said this, I'm quoting, we forget how effective Richard M. Nixon was as a president. And then in this article it began to list a lot of his accomplishments, the Equal Rights Amendment, ending segregation, revenue sharing, ending the draft, new anti-crime laws. He started the process of ending the Cold War. He launched initiatives to fight cancer. He was the only president that achieved a balanced national budget between 1961 and 1998. And then it goes on to list some of his foreign policy successes, his summit meetings with Russia, uh produced a treaty to limit nuclear arms He visited Beijing and reduced tension with China and also the Soviet Union. But when you mention the name Richard Nixon, none of those things come to mind What comes to mind when you mention his name is the word Watergate. That little burglary, that that third rate burglary that took place in the Watergate Hotel where uh there was robbery and cover up and a president had to resign in shame. And the lesson of that is that one foolish act can destroy a person's reputation One foolish act can bring shame to a person who may have previously had a reputation for honor. One foolish act can undermine all kind of wisdom. Now that is the theme and the warning that we find here in Ecclesiastes chapter 10. In this chapter, Solomon is warning about the danger of folly. In fact, the word fool occurs nine times here in chapter 10. Foolishness has a lot of power to undo a major amount of wisdom that has taken place. Now really what Solomon is doing is he's continuing in this whole chapter to elaborate on an argument that he started in chapter 9, verse 18. Look at 918 again real quick. Wisdom is better than the weapons of war. But one sinner destroys much good. Look at that phrase, one sinner. We could say it like this. One foolish man destroys much good. wisdom or folly destroys much good. Now Solomon is going to elaborate on that one idea. right here. But first of all, let me just answer this question. What is foolishness and what is folly? Folly is a term that we don't often use, but it's used a lot in Scripture. And it really suggests a lack of good sense, a lack of foresight, failing to realize the consequences of a foolish action before it occurs. And then what is a fool? Well, the Bible uses the word fool a lot in the book of Proverbs. And just in short, a fool is someone who uh defies and rejects the principles of the Word of God. He doesn't submit to God. He has more of a rebellious spirit. Psalm 14, the fool has said in his heart, Ain out and I, no God. The there is is italicized, so we can say it like this. The fool has said in his heart, kind of shaking his fist, no God. No. I'm going to do my thing. I'm going to do things my way. I'm not going to acknowledge you. I'm not going to submit to you. I'm going to live as if you're not there. I'm going to do what I want to do without any thought to the consequences or any thought to uh where it may lead. I'm going to do what I want to do. That is a fool, and he lives a life of folly. Now in Ecclesiastes chapter 10, I want you to see five reasons for the danger of living that way. Five reasons of folly. And if you're taking notes, just write down number one the rottenness of folly. The rottenness. And again, in verse 1 Solomon uses a vivid illustration to show us that one little bit of folly can do a lot of corruption. In fact, that's the first thought. Corruption. Look at verse one. Dead flies cause the ointment of the apocalypse uh apoc uh excuse me, apocryphaly the drugstore, to send forth a sinking saver. That's a hard word to say. Try that three times real quick. And of course this is talking about the ointment there is talking about perfume. And it's talking about perfume that is in a box. or a bottle or even a vase, the container that holds it. Now what he's saying is that in that day, of course, now we already know that in that day perfume or cologne was very valued. People didn't get the opportunity to take showers and baths like they do today. Uh, you know, and so people wore a lot of perfume to cover up a lot of stuff. And so, however, uh Only those that were really wealthy could afford the best perfumes. And uh but what he's saying here is that people would notice back in that day that when one little fly dropped into that box or dropped into that bottle or vase, that one dead fly had the ability to change something that was very sweet into something that was very rancid. Something that would have a terrible odor to it. Here's a person who opens up the bottle of perfume thinking they're going to get a sweet smell, and in fact it is a putrid smell. It is a terrible smell And so Solomon is saying, even so, one little act of folly can undo a whole amount of wisdom that was done, or it can destroy a reputation. You get the idea. Just one dead fly in the ointment. One foolish act can do much damage. Kidna writes it like this. It's easier to make a stink than create sweetness. It's a good way to say it. It's very true. Folly can do much damage. Folly has a corrupting power. That's why in the book of Proverbs Solomon warns his son about hanging around fools. Write down Proverbs 1320. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. Proverbs 17, 12. Let a bear robbed of her whelps, or we could say cubs, meet a man rather than a fool And his folly. You want to know how dangerous folly is or being around a fool? Solomon says in this proverb, it's better for you to meet up in the woods a she-bear that's just been robbed of her cub than for you to meet up with a fool in his folly. If you had to choose between the two, which one would be more dangerous? Solomon said the fool in his folly is more dangerous. than meeting up with a mother bear who has just been robbed of her cubs. And so there is a corrupting power. It's a folly. But then also he talks about character. Look in verse 2. A wise man's heart is at his right hand, but a fool's heart is at his left. Now, no knock against left-handed people here It's not really talking about being right-handed or left-handed. In the culture in Solomon's Day, the right hand was the place of honor. It was the place of power. Jesus is seated on what? The right hand of the Father, right? The Bible says in Psalm 121, the Lord is the shade upon thy right hand. And then in Psalm 16, verse 8. The psalmist said, the Lord is at my right hand. So the right hand is the position of honor. But now on the other hand, no pun intended, the left hand represents weakness. It represents rejection, evil, deception. In fact, the English word sinister comes from the Latin root that means on the left hand. And so while a wise man holds his heart in his right hand Solomon says a fool holds his heart in his left. Now, obviously that's not literal, and it's not talking about the literal heart. The heart means the center of his being. the the master of his uh of his soul uh it or the or the the control faculty of his life is on his right hand that is it's the place of honor and all this is referring to his character A wise man has character while a fool acts in shame. And so look what he says in verse three. Yea, also When he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to everyone that he is a fool. Now you know what he's saying there? If you're a fool, you don't have to go around and tell everyone, they're already going to know. Because you're your own advertisement. That's what he's saying. People will be able to tell. Your actions, the way you walk, will give you away. You won't be able to hide it. Someone said it's bad to act like a fool, but it's even worse when it's not a act. Someone else said it's not the ups and the downs of life that bother me, it's the jerks. You're supposed to laugh on that. And so there's the rottenness of folly. There is a corrupting power to folly. And the character of a person like this is made evident. But then write down number two, the rashness of folly. Look in verse number four. If the spirit of the ruler rises up against thee, leave not thy place For yielding pacifies great anger. Now Solomon here is referring to a servant who's working in the king's court. And remember, he's talked about that before And this king is an abusive leader and he's angry and perhaps there was counsel given that the the king didn't like. And so he lashes out on the servant. And I mean he really lets him have it. I mean he gives them both barrels And so Solomon has advice for someone like this. If you happen to be in the court of the king or working under a leader that is somewhat abusive like this, What he's saying is that don't match fire with fire. Again in verse 4, if the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place. That is, don't resign, don't quit. But what do you do in verse 4? For yielding pacifies great offenses. Solomon's advice is yield to the fury. Submit to it. You say, man, I don't like that. What he's saying is, don't act like a fool. It's better to have only one person angry than two. And if that person is angry, you yield to it, you stay in control, because a wise person will remain peaceful and in control. Write down Proverbs 25, 15, though patience Through patience, a ruler can be persuaded, and a gentle tongue can break a bone. Don't be impulsive. Don't be rash in your spirit. It's only going to hurt you. How many times, don't raise your hand, have you or my or myself, I thought about this when I was studying, how many times have I made a rash decision and it only hurt me? It only ended up hurting myself and maybe people close to me. A person called me on the phone just today and someone that I counseled years ago and they were going to do something, I said, don't do that, that's a rash decision You need to wait, and they didn't, and now they're calling me years later in tears saying I shouldn't have acted so rashly. Now, that's what he's saying here. There's a rashness to folly But then I want you to write down number three. Folly is dangerous because of the rottenness of folly and the rashness of folly. But then number three, there's the reversal of folly. Look in verse number five. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceeds from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place. Now, in this idea of the danger of folly, Solomon is relating something that he has observed, and he says, this is very evil, that is, it's very burdensome. And he gives us the source of it in verse 5. He said, as an heir which proceeds from the ruler. Now again, for some reason Solomon Ecclesiastes Uh Ecclesiastes is taking aim at civil rulers or leaders because he's seen a lot of folly in the leadership there. In fact, if I were ever going to teach a leadership course Or a seminar on leadership, I would come to Ecclesiastes because Solomon has so much to say about leadership, and a lot of it is what not to do. And here he's taking aim at a foolish leader because he makes an error. What is it? Verse 6. Folly is said in great dignity. And the rich sit in a low place. Now, folly is really an abstract word for fools. That is a foolish put in a high place and the rich in verse number six, that's not necessarily talking about those who have w wealth, but those who are rich in experience, those who are rich in wisdom. And what he's saying is sometimes the foolishness of a leader is made evident because he'll put a person in a position of authority that has no business being there. And so what happens is other people around are hurt as a result of this. One preacher wrote this. He said, It often happens that the chief ruler of a people is a fool and manifests the fact that he's a fool by appointing fools to a high office, passing over the wise or the rich. Now any president when he's elected, the first thing that that president will do when he's elected is what? He'll start appointing cabinet members. They will point people around them. And that really is not just for presidents. Other people in other leadership positions will begin to put people around them. And Solomon is saying is, what he's saying is if you put incompetent people around you, that is only going to hurt the people that you govern. It's not wise. You remember the story in 1 Kings 12, Rehoboam was a young king, the son of Solomon on the throne, and his father's counselors were there counseling him But Rehaboam had put around him some youthful counselors that didn't have wisdom and experience. And rather than listening to the old wise man, who did he listen to? He listened to the younger man And what happened? It divided the kingdom. It split the kingdom. In verse 7, notice what it says. I've seen servants upon horses and princes walking as servants upon the earth. Now, in biblical times to ride upon a horse was a status of authority and power. Only rulers really did that. Servants didn't ride on horses. But here it's reversed. Solomon says, I see servants on horses, and princes are walking. Again, he's talking about slaves that arise up on a horse back in that day and princes that walk, he's saying there is a reversal of things. There are people put in positions that don't belong. And so everything is topsy turbian. What he's saying is, when folly is on the throne, things are reversed Things are upside down. I want to tell you folks, whenever we see a society celebrating immorality and punishing righteousness, we know that folly is reigning. When right is wrong and wrong is right, when sin is exalted and morality is scorned, when wicked people are protected and righteous people are persecuted, folly is reigning. Things are reversed. Biblical, godly values are reversed. And friend, that is the reversal of folly. Now let me give you the fourth point. There's the rottenness of folly, and the rashness of folly, and the reversal of folly. But then write down this, the retribution. Look what he says in verse number eight. He that diggeth the pit shall fall into it, and whoso breaketh a hedge, a serpent shall bite him. Now what's Solomon saying? There's another reason folly is dangerous, and that is the principle of retribution. We may call this in the New Testament the principle of selling in what? In other words, the acts that a foolish person does, those foolish acts carry with it its own consequences. Those things will come back to hurt you. The foolish things that you do will come back to hurt and cause pain to you, not only just to other people, but also to you Now, he points out some of these foolish things. We could say flies in the ointment. First of all, digging pits. Look in verse 8. He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it. Now there were some civil rulers back in that day that spent much of their time digging pits for their destruct for the destruction of their enemies. They were concerned about their rivals, that's all they were concerned about. So they went about digging pits To overcome their enemies. I use the illustration of Richard Nixon at the beginning. He spent much of his time trying to find out information so he could use it against people. That's what the whole break-in was about, trying to find information to use it against others He was digging a pit, and you know what happened? He fell in the pit that he dug. And there are many people that do that out of trying to preserve their own position and status, they'll dig pits around them for others, and Solomon says, sooner or later, you're going to fall into that pit. Write down Psalm 7, verse 15. He makes a pit and digs it and is fallen into the ditch when he made His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own plate. Now Not only is there digging pits, but also there's breaking down walls. Look again in verse 8. He that diggeth the pit shall fall into it. Whoso breaketh a hedge, a serpent shall bite him. Now back in these days, sometimes snakes were hiding in walls. And when a person would break down a wall, but they found that there was a serpent just waiting there in that wall, and it would just bite him. Now the walls here can speak of walls of protection. That God has set up. Did you know that God is in heaven and he actually wants you and I to be happy? And He wants us to have joy. And you know why God has given us commands in this world not to take away our happiness, but to protect us from sin, which robs us of happiness. The walls that God set up are for our protection. But now when people begin to pull down those walls, walls of God's commandments. Walls of God's morality. When you break down those walls, when you destroy those walls, Solomon said there's a serpent, the serpent of sin, is waiting there to bite you It'll come upon you. Philip Riken wrote a really good word here. He said, for every folly there's an equal and opposite self-destruction The addict seeks the calm drink or thrill of the hick, but ends up wasting away. The lusty sinner wants sexual pleasure, but by gratifying desire outside the bounds of matrimony, he ends up spiritually unsatisfied. The selfish husband or wife wants to have things his or own way, but in trying to get it ruins the relationship and loses everything. Dig the pit and you will fall therein. Break down the wall and the snake of sin will come back to bite you. And that is so true. But there's another activity, removing stones. Look in verse 9. Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith. Now what was he talking about here, removing stones? Well, these were landmark stones back in that day when you wanted to mark the boundaries of your land, the borders of your land would be marked by landmarked stones. Now if you had a dishonest neighbor, you know what he would do? He would come out and gradually just move that stone little by little. Little by little. He would move that stone. What is he doing? He's robbing his neighbor of land. He's moving the landmarks. And that is robbery. In fact, There's a command against that. Deuteronomy 27, 17, cursed be he that removes his neighbor's landmark, and all the people shall say, Amen. So there's a curse that comes with doing this thing, God says. Curse is the one that does that. When you move your neighbor's landmark, you bring The judgment of God down upon yourself, you bring a curse upon yourself. You know what I think of? I think of Ahab. Remember Ahab in the Old Testament? He tried to rob Nabal of his vineyard, and actually he did illegally. And what happened It cost him. God brought judgment down upon him because of that very thing. Removing stones, but also there's cleaving wood. Look again in verse 9. He that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby What's he talking about cleaving wood? Well sometimes rulers out of spite would cut down trees, but not just any trees. They would cut down fruit-bearing trees And why would they do this? Out of spite, just to hurt people. Fruit-bearing trees are what was used to nourish people. People depended upon trees that bore fruit. Why would someone do such a thing just to hurt others, just to spite others? And again, there was a command in the Old Testament not to cut down trees that that were fruit-bearing trees. Write down Deuteronomy 20, verse 19. He says, and God is making these commands to Israel when they're in war time. He says, When thou shalt besiege a city a long time and making war against it, thou shalt not destroy the trees thereof by forcing the axe against them, for thou mayest eat of them And thou shalt not cut down the tree of the man's uh field to employ it in the siege. Only the trees which thou knowest that they uh be not trees for meat. In other words, God says, You can only cut down the trees that don't bear fruit. But the fruit bearing trees, you better leave them alone. Don't do that. And Solomon is warning again, this is a foolish act to cut down a tree that bears fruit that will feed others and that will hurt them. But Solomon says that very tree is going to fall on you if you do that. And then there's also another thing he talks about, and that is using brute force instead of wisdom. Look in verse number verse 10. If the iron be blunt, and he do not wet the edge, then must he put some more strength. But wisdom is profitable. This is another foolish act. Using brute force instead of wisdom. Now, this again, this is very simple. He compares wisdom to sharpening the blade on an axe Now if you're going to chop down a tree and you have a dull blade, you know what you're going to have to do? You're going to have to put more strength into that to get that tree down because the blade is dull. Solomon says a wise man will stop and take time to sharpen the blade, and he'll work smarter, not harder. Because he'll sharpen that blade, but a foolish man, you know what he'll do? He won't be wise. He'll just use brute force and forget about being wise. Now, this principle here applies in many areas of life and education. Whatever you want to spend your life doing, it's good to get trained. It's good to learn all you can uh in relationships, if you're going to get married, you it's good to get counseling and learn and have a good godly courtship, a long courtship, rather than uh a quick decision A marriage has more chance of being successful if it has a good, godly long courtship with good counsel and preparation than a whirlwind romance. And then in ministry, if you're going to be a missionary, prepare, plan, study. Make sure you prepare yourself. You're going to plant a church. Make sure you get yourself ready for that. And so the idea is that you prepare You sharpened the axe. How sharp is your blade tonight? But then there's another thing. There's acting too slowly. Look in verse 11. And surely the serpent will bite without enchantment, and a babbler is no better. Now, verse 11 is a bit difficult to interpret, but Solomon is making, I think, the opposite point. From the previous illustration, but yet both of these have the idea of preparation. You see, a man chopping wood is acting too quickly by beginning to chop without sharpening the blade But now on the other hand, here's a snake charmer, and he acts too slowly. You know why? Because he doesn't charm the snake quick enough, and because he doesn't, you know what happens? The snake bites him So what he's saying is, and by the way, both illustrations, there's the idea of preparation. A snake that has not been charmed will bite, but once the snake charmer is able to skillfully charm that snake, he now has them under his control. And so the message is, charm the snake before it bites you. All right, does that bless you tonight? Charm the snake before it bites you. And again, it's the idea. Don't act too slowly. When the time is right, act quickly. That's the idea, that's the principle. And so there are times when we have to wait before we act and prepare, and then there are times when we have to quickly act. You say, how do I know the difference? Well wisdom will tell you the difference The wise man knows when you have to slow down and be careful and prepare or act quickly Wisdom will teach you how to do that. Wisdom knows the difference. Now, here's another activity he mentions, using self-destructive words. Look in verse number 12. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious. But the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. That is, a fool is rash with his mouth. His mouth will get him into trouble. It'll swallow him up, literally, devour him. In other words, the fool's words that he speaks, as soon as he speaks those words, those words will turn right back around and they'll devour him. That's what he's saying here. In other words, he doesn't have a disciplined tongue. He's an undisciplined talker Like some person wrote in an acrostic, an undisciplined talker, they use the acrostic harm, hit and run mouth. And that's true for the fool. Okay? So, and by the way, Solomon elaborates on this. This is something that he really wants to nail down. So look in verse 13. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness. And the end of his talk is mischievous madness. In other words, when the fool begins to talk, he's starting from a false premise. And when he begins to talk, you're not really sure what he's talking about. And by the time he's done, you're just so totally confused, you're ready to strangle him. Or kill yourself, maybe. I'm of course I'm being facetious when I say that. Uh one time my son Jeremiah had a teacher that called me and said, I need to talk to you. Your son was disrespectful to me in class. And I said, I'm sorry about that. I'll come and talk to you. So I went and sat down with the teacher and Jeremiah. And the teacher said, uh, I said, well, what did he do? He said, well, he spoke out in class, disrespectful words. I said, well tell me about it. He said, Well, I was lecturing in history and the bell rang and I told the students not to move that I'm not finished. I have a lot more to say, and your son spoke out and said, Someone shoot me, please. And um I looked at my son and gave him that look and he looked at me and later on he said, Dad, you would have done the same thing if you were there. And the idea here is by the time a fool is done with all his speaking, you want to say, somebody shoot me. I don't understand what he's saying. These are senseless words, but also ceaseless words. Look at verse 14. A fool is also full of words, and a man cannot tell what shall be and what shall be after him, and who can tell him That is, he just don't know how to be quiet. You can't get a word in edgewise. You can't tell him to be quiet. And he's talking big words, saying he knows the future. He thinks it's all a done deal, and he's using real braggadocious words about what's going to happen when actually he really doesn't know. In verse 15 it says the labor of the foolish and I think he's Still talking about laboring, talking there, the labor of the foolish weareth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city. That is, even the most obvious things he doesn't get. And so your words can return to hurt you. And what's our point? We're talking about the retribution of folly. The foolish things we do turn around and hurt us. That's what Solomon is saying, and he uses all these illustrations. To hammer home that one point to talk about these flies and the ointment that will hurt you, folly is so dangerous because it comes back to haunt you. Now let me give you the last point tonight The last point. We talked about the rottenness of folly, and the rashness of folly, and the reversal of folly, and the retribution of folly, but here's the last point: the reign of folly. The reign of folly. Look in verse 16. Now he solomon is pointing to another place where folly becomes dangerous for people. Verse 16, Woe to thee, O king, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning. Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season. For Strength and not for drunkenness. Now, the place where wisdom is needed the most is in the leadership of a nation And the man in charge has to be wise. This is the point that Solomon is making. And in these verses, he's talking about really a national disaster. What is it? When an incompetent person is put in charge. Look at the word child there. Na heir. That's a small toddler. A small child. And he's saying, Woe to thee O land when thy king is a small child. Now when he says small child, he's being figurative. He's not being literal In fact, he used this same word Solomon did to talk about himself. Remember when he prayed for wisdom? And he said, God, I need your wisdom He had just come to the throne of his father and he said, Lord, I'm just a child. Same exact word, na heir. I'm just a small little child. And what he was talking about is inexperienced I don't have the experience that I need. I don't know how to how to go out and come in, which was a Hebrew euphemism for leadership. David knew how to come and go Joshua knew how to go out and come in. But Solomon says, I don't even know how to do that. I don't know how to go out and come in. I'm just a small child. I'm inexperienced. Oh Lord, give me your wisdom And now here Solomon is using the same word, and he's saying, Woe to thee O land, when your leader, although he may be a fully mature grown man, is immature, he's like a child. He doesn't have the experience and the wisdom that is needed in governing. You say, what are some of the characteristics of that? Look in verse 16. Thy princes eat in the morning. This is indulgence. He's describing a court where princes have a gluttonous and drunken feast. One man paraphrases it like this. They are already drunk in the morning. They're self-indulgent. Instead of getting up to defend the country, these leaders are in a drunken stupor. There's one example of that that comes from European history. King Charles XII was the king of Sweden when he was just a teenager. And they described him as a young man who was wild, and he would ride horseback through his grandmother's apartment. He would knock down people to the ground in the city. He would practice firearms by shooting them out his window. And all the response of the preachers, the leading preachers in Stockholm was to do this. They all agreed to preach on the same Sunday on Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse 16, this very verse. Woe to the land when that child is when there's a king uh a child for a king and the princes are feasting in the morning Now Solomon said there's nothing wrong with feasting. Look in verse seventeen. Blessed art thou, land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength and not for drunkenness Nothing wrong with princes feasting. Nothing wrong with men getting food to give them strength so that they might defend the land. Food for strength is fine. But throwing off responsibility, that's not good. There's nothing wrong again with uh eating what is right, but you have to be responsible. And then there's the next thing, incompetence Look at verse 18. By much slawfulness the building decayeth, and through idlen of the hands the house droppeth through. And so these foolish leaders are so busy with enjoyment they don't have time for employment. And the buildings and the organization just starts to fall apart. Rather than using the office for the good of others, they're holding the office for themselves. Someone wrote, immature people enjoy their privileges and ignore the responsibilities While mature people see the responsibilities as privileges and they use them to help others. Woodrow Wilson, the president, said this one time. He said that every time a friend of mine takes an office in Washington, he either grows or he swells. And he said, I watch to see whether they're going to grow or they're going to swell. And that's a very wise thing to say. But then there's indifference. Look in verse 19. And in this verse he's declaring the personal philosophy of these foolish Civil officers, eat all you can, enjoy all you can, get all your can, all the money is for us, all these things are just for us They spend all the people's money and resources on themselves. And we've seen this on TV where in a foreign country a dictator will be deposed and they'll find all the wealth that this man hoarded for himself rather than using it for the good of others And that's what Solomon is talking about right here. A statesman will ask, what's best for my country? A politician will ask, what's best for my party. A mere hireling will ask, what's best for me? And so, now Solomon closes in verse 20 with this advice. Notice what he says. Curse not the king, not in thy thought. And curse not the rich in thy bedchamber, for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter. You ever hear the saying, A little bird told me? You know where it comes from? Comes from this verse right here. Now Solomon says, now no matter what, don't curse the king. Don't do that. Again, we're talking about rashness of folly. Solomon says, don't be rash. And it doesn't matter how bad things are, don't curse the king, because eventually he'll find out. A little bird will tell him and you'll be in trouble. That's what he's saying. Don't do that. Why? Because even if you can't respect the person, you respect the authority, you exp respect the office or the position. And the Bible says in Exodus 22, 28, you shall not revile God nor curse a ruler of your people. Now, all of this is warning. The danger of folly, the rottenness of folly, the rashness of folly, the reversal of folly, the retribution of folly, and the reign of folly All of this should encourage all of us to throw off foolishness and to pursue godly wisdom. That's what it should cause us to do. You say, how do I do that? That's very easy, friend. You just look at the life of the Lord Jesus. Put the Lord Jesus down next to these verses. It's like putting a diamond on a black velvet setting, isn't it? There was not one fly in the perfect perfume fragrance of the life of Christ. He lived a life of perfect wisdom. He never acted rashly He never ran ahead or lagged behind. He was always right on time. He never did anything for himself. He always did things for what? Everyone else. Jesus was the most selfless leader there ever was In this world. He never dug pits for his enemies. Instead, he pulled them out of the pit, his enemies. And the only walls he broke down were the walls of separation between God and man, and the only wood that he Uh Cleve was the wood of the cross when he went to the cross for us. You know, last week we saw the story of a city that was besieged by a king and a poor man was in that city. Remember that? And they and his poor man was wise? And he had a plan to deliver that city? You know who that poor man speaks to us about? It speaks to us about Jesus. Because I want to tell you something, friend. He's the man who came And he left the riches of heaven to come to come to this world to live in poverty. And he, in his wisdom, had a plan to deliver this whole world against the king Satan. Who's besieging the soul of man? Jesus had the plan. You know what the problem is today? People don't listen to his wisdom. That's the problem. The Bible says this in the book of 1 Corinthians, we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, but unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God. And what? And the wisdom of God. You want to know how to live a wise life? Just look at Jesus. And then do what he says. Let me show you one verse and we're done. Look at Matthew. I showed you this Sunday night. We're going to look at it again in closing. You know, uh Jesus knows the difference between wisdom and folly, and here he just spells it right out. You say, I want to be a wise person. I don't want to live in folly. Well then look at these verses. Matthew 7, verse 24. Look at it. We looked at it Sunday night. Therefore, whoever hears these things of mine And do it them, I will liken him unto a what? A wise man. You want to be wise? It's not hard, it's not rocket science. You just listen to what Jesus says, and then you do it. You obey it. But if you want to be foolish, Look at verse 26. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and what, doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man. And so again, living a wise life isn't hard. We just do what Jesus says. You know, when I first got saved, I didn't know what all the Bible said, but I knew this. Whatever Jesus said, I just wanted to do it I wasn't sure about that, but you know what the Christian life is about? Learning everything that he said. And then just doing it. Just applying it. That's what the Christian life is all about So each day we ask Him to direct our steps. Each day we ask Him to guide our every decision because we know, listen, life is made up of just small decisions that we make And I want to tell you something, friend. Don't allow one small fly in the ointment of your life by making a bad decision. And you know how we avoid that? We look to Jesus. We ask Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, again, we thank you for the wisdom of the Word of God. We have a book that gives us wisdom, and we have a person to love that shows us wisdom. And then we have a power to live, the power of the Spirit of God. That energizes us and grants us wisdom. We have no excuse for folly if we know you. So Lord help us to uh to take heed to this warning that Solomon has given us tonight. Help us, Lord, to uh to keep the dead flies out of the the bottle of our life, the perfume of our life, so that Lord, none of the wisdom, the things that we do will bring shame to your name. Help us, Lord, to live for your glory. and depend upon you daily for your strength. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.