Take God's word today, would you please, and open to the Old Testament book of 1 Kings chapter 14. 1 Kings chapter 14, and I want to read verses 12 and 13. of 1 Kings chapter 14 with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? 1 Kings 14 verse 12 is where we start. Arise thou therefore, and get thee to thine own house, and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found something good, some good thing. Towards the Lord God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam. This is the inspired word of God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for your word. I pray that it will minister to our hearts today. Speak to us through it, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well this October, this month is recognized as Infant Loss Awareness Month. This was uh started under Ronald Reagan back in 1988. He proclaimed this month to be set aside for a time where we remember moms who bear the pain of losing a small child. I know that we've has had many moms are uh many families in here that have been touched by this kind of uh unbearable pain, this kind of sorrow. Some of you know that my daughter Abby lost a a baby girl, uh her infant daughter, Matilda Grace, about three years ago on Good Friday. And so we our family has been touched by that. We certainly know the pain of something like that. I remember preaching her funeral at the uh Westminster Chapel in London there. It was a beautiful service, but I remember also watching the pain that uh my daughter and son-in-law had gone through as they had to say goodbye to this little girl. And I and again I know many of you moms have gone through something like that. And I I guess when we come to the Bible, the question we ask is Does the Bible offer any hope? Does God offer any hope through the Scripture? And I want us to look at this story here, the story of Jeroboam's son. And we can certainly learn some things from this that will help us when we think about the painful death of an infant or a child, I think that we can find some hope from this passage. And so there are four lessons I want us to learn from this story here in the Old Testament. The first lesson is this The death of a child should cause us to seek God earnestly. It should cause us to seek God sincerely Not playing any games, but truly seeking the Lord. Look at verse number one of chapter 14. Let's look at this whole story. And at that time Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, fell sick. And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou may uh uh be not known to the wife to be the wife of Jeroboam, and get thee to Shiloh, and behold there is a a Ahijah, the prophet, which told me that I should be king over this people. And take with thee ten loaves and cracknels and a cruise of honey And go to him, and he shall tell thee what shall become of the child. So here Jeroboam has a son who gets very sick Now in this day, of course sickness is serious anytime, but especially in this day in the ancient Near East, when someone got sick, it often led to death. They didn't have the medicines that we have today. And this situation got critical. It's obvious that this child, unless something happens, unless there's divine intervention, that this child is going to die. And so God says uh Jeroboam excuse me, Jeroboam says to his wife, go and seek the prophet of God and see what he will say about this. Now earlier on, God had told Jeroboam He said, Look, if Jeroboam, if you obey me, if you just do my word, I will build you a sure house. That is to say, I will establish you as king over Israel. I will establish your dynasty. All you have to do is obey me and do what is right. But as we read the story of the life of Jeroboam, that's not what happened. Jeroboam did not do what was right He did what was evil. In fact, just a few verses above verse one of chapter fourteen, the last two verses in chapter thirteen establishes Jeroboam's sin. Look at verse 33, just above it. After this thing, Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but made again of the t of the lowest of the people, priests of the high places uh whosoever would, he consecrated him, and he became one of the priests of the high places. And and this thing became sin unto the house of Jeroboam, even to cut off and to destroy it from the face of the earth. Rather than obeying the Lord And seeking the Lord with his year of he does what is evil, the Bible says. He establishes his own religion. He sets up a a false religion. And it has his own priests. He doesn't get priests from the tribe of Levi, the way the Bible says. He has his own system. He sets up his own priests among the lowest of people, the Bible says says and what he does is not right in the sight of the Lord. And so, um, what does God do in result? God said that if that happened that he would cut off his house. And so here we see this happening. This prophecy is coming true. Jeroboam's Princely son is now sick. This child was to be the heir to the throne, and now he was dying. But every sickness is an opportunity to turn to the Lord. Every illness is a reminder that we live in a fallen, sin-cursed world, that our bodies are weak, and that one day all of us will die, and we better be ready for that. day. Sickness is an opportunity to reach out to the Lord and trust in the Lord and and and grow our faith. But Jeroboam doesn't do that. He kind of plays games here. Because notice, rather than praying for mercy, rather than trusting God, rather than turning to the Lord with all his heart and saying, God, please help me. Rather than doing all that, he refuses to submit to God. He refuses to do that, and he has he's trying to manipulate the whole situation. So look in verse number two again. And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam, and get thee to Shiloh, and behold there is a Ahijah the prophet, which told me that I should be king over Israel And then and take with thee ten loaves and cracknels and a cruise of honey and go to him and he shall tell thee what shall become of the child. He says to his wife, Look Disguise yourself, go to Shiloh, take some gifts with you, take some food, take some honey, take some cracknels. You say, what's a cracknell? I'm not really sure, but it sounds good And and and go to this prophet and speak to him and see what if we can get a word from the Lord that maybe God will heal. Now, all this shows us that deep down Jeroboam actually believed in the one true God. He had just set up a false religious system, but he knew in the crisis who to really turn to. He knew who the real God was. Even though he had rejected God earlier, things got desperate and he knew where to turn. He didn't send his wife to one of the priests of his own religion. No, he sent her to the only prophet he knew of there in Shiloh where the tabernacle was to go get help from God. You know, this this teaches me something about people. You know, people are very cavalier with rel with regard to the relationship to God. They don't really call upon the Lord in the normal time and they don't even really have time for God, but you let the crisis come. And they know where to turn. Even people who say beforehand they don't really believe in God. You know, there are no such thing as atheists. One time a man came to me and said, I don't believe in God, and I said, I don't believe in atheists There's no real atheists. Atheists believe you know everyone in their heart knows that there is a God. They're not willing to confess that. It's just stubbornness. But you let the crisis come And by the way, that is the reason why we should be loving and friendly to all people because we should be go-to people in those crisis times so that we can point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he comes, he, or actually he sends his wife with the disguise. Why the disguise? Well, Jeroboam didn't want the prophet to know as his wife. He was hoping to get the prophet to pray for his son without the prophet knowing whose son it was. And so he was uh wanted he wanted a miracle. After all, he had seen this in his own life. One time Jeroboam had a hand that was crippled up. And a prophet prayed for him and the hand became instantly whole. He had seen the power of God, and now he wants it for his son. The only thing is He knows that he's walking in disobedience. He knows he's not pleasing the Lord. And so somehow he thinks that he can fool God. He knows that God is all powerful. He just doesn't know if God is omniscient, if he knows all things So he sends his wife in disguise. He believed that he could fool the prophet and maybe get a good word from God. Oh again, he believes in the power of the word of God. He saw it. And so he's wanting to get this good word from God. He knows he doesn't deserve any help. He knows his sins were great against God. But rather than simply just repenting, he tries to fool God and get what he wants. And so he sends his wife. One commentator explains it like this. Jeroboam wants the help of the Word in the emergencies of life, but not the rule of the Word over the course of his life. And this to me shows he has a guilty conscience. It's this is not a time to play games with God when something like this happens. But yet he seems to be doing that. And many times people Do that. Rather than turning to God earnestly and seeking God with all their heart, they try to manipulate God or they try to mini to manipulate the situation. And this story teaches us that we should earnestly seek God in times like this. But secondly, the death of a child should cause us to examine our own life. Jeroboam's only fooling himself by doing this. So notice in verse 4, she obeys her husband, verse 4. And Jeroboam's wife did so, and arose and went to Shiloh and came to the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see for his eyes were set by reason of his age. So she goes, she conceals her royal identity. And the Bible tells us something else that's interesting in the story that would make it easy for her to deceive this prophet. The old prophet, his vision was impaired. He suffered from failing vision. So how could he ever be able to see through Mrs. Jeroboam's disguise? But you know none of that mattered because he was a true prophet. And God sees clearly. God sees very clearly. So look in verse number five. And the Lord said unto Ahijah, Behold the wife of Jeroboam cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son, for he is sick Thus and thus shalt thou say unto her, for it shall be when he shall come in, that she shall feign herself to be another woman. Now this sets up one of the most dramatic discovery scenes in the Bible Jeroboam's wife came to the doorstep. She's totally disguised. She is she's taken taken this trip all the way on this trip. She's not recognized. She comes to Shiloh in this disguise And before she can even say trick-or-treat, the prophet speaks to her. Look in verse number six. And it was so When Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam. Why feignest thou thyself to be another? For I am sent to thee with heavy tidings. You can never fool God. You can never put one over on God or manipulate God with your schemes. God knows every detail of our existence. He knows us completely down to he's got the very hairs of our head numbered. And so when Mrs. Jeroboam reaches the very doorstep, she has to be shocked with these words. Come on in, Mrs. Jeroboam. I've been waiting for you. I have a word. It's not a very happy word. And what you see here in this visit that she has with the prophet is she does none of the talking. All of the talking, we don't really read of a word from her. The prophet does all the talking. And what he says is not good. Look at verse 7. Go tell Jeroboam, thus saith the Lord, God of Israel, for as much as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my people. She he reminds her, hey, I exalted Jeroboam. You tell him this. I drew you up from among the people to be a leader among my people. Look at verse 8 And I rent the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to thee, and yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments, and who followed with me in all his with all his heart To do that only which was right in mine eyes. God says, Look, even though I did all this for you, and I even gave you a model to follow after, just be like David. Follow after the pattern of David. You haven't done that. And you've been disobedient. So then verse 9, but has done evil above all that were before thee. For thou hast gone and made the other gods and molten images to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me behind thy back. This shows his general attitude towards God. He he cast God behind his back, God said. That's the attitude of disdain. You know, when you you you think you find something, you look at it, you realize it's worthless, you throw it over your shoulder. This was Jeroboam's attitude towards God. He didn't value God at all. He didn't value God's um uh the worship of God, none of that. And that should cause us to examine our own heart, how much do we truly value God in our life? Do we treat God at times carelessly? We toss God behind our backs when we worship other gods like money or sex or power. We do it when we neglect to thank God for all of the blessings that He gives us and when we complain about the troubles that we have in this life. We do it when we fail. To feed upon the Word of God and to pray and to worship Him consistently with His people. In these and a thousand other ways, we uh toss God behind our back. But God announced through the prophet Jeroboam that judgment was coming towards Jeroboam's house. In verse number 10, God says, I'm going to bring down the house of Jeroboam. And this is a very strong expression in verse 10. He's going to cut off all the males of the house of Jeroboam. And And so this is a strong judgment that God gives. And then look in verse 14. And moreover, the Lord will raise up a king over Israel who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day. And so God is pronouncing this judgment, and sure enough, the judgment comes to pass. If you drop down the verses 19 and 20, we find that Jeroboam dies, his son Nabat Rains, but he's not there very long, and two years he struck down in cold blood. As with all the rest of the children are sons of Jeroboam. And look back up to verse 15 and 16, because this speaks about the future of Israel. For the Lord shall smite Israel as a reed is shaken in the water And he shall root up Israel out of this good land which he gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river, because they have made their groves, provoking the Lord to anger. And verse 16, he shall give up Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam. That is to say that these verses talk about the future of the nation of Israel. It's not good. Because they have fallen in the sins of Jeroboam, because they have committed idolatry and worshipped other gods, God said the punishment is I'm going to scatter the nation. Because they have participated in the sins of Jeroboam. Now, included in this judgment is the death of a child Because look at verse 12. Arise thou therefore, get thee to thine own house. He's talking here's again the prophet he's talking to Mrs. Jeroboam. Arise. Get thee to thine own house, and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die. This is not good news. The prophet tells her, Look, I know your child is sick. And when you go back to the city, as soon as your feet go to the city limits, the child will die. And sure enough, in verse 17, that's what happens. Look in verse 17. And Jeroboam's wife arose and departed and came to Tirzah. And when she had came to the threshold of the door, the child died. This is a terrible sorrow that came upon her. Matthew Henry writes this, When sickness comes into our families, we should inquire whether there be not some particular sin harbored in our houses, which the affliction is sent to convince us and to reclaim us from. You know, God at times uses tragedies like this to do a spiritual work in our own heart. I remember the story that D. L. Moody used to tell of a wealthy couple that lost a little baby, and they were inconsolable. And they decided to take a trip to Israel to kind of fill the void of their heart. And while they were there, they watched a shepherd with his sheep. And the shepherd was trying to coax the sheep over a stream of water. The water was fast moving, and the sheep were afraid. And so the shepherd reached down and he picked up a little lamb and he Jumped over the other side of the stream, and instantly the mother sheep saw that and she lost all fear of the stream and she jumped over, and soon all the sheep followed her. And when the couple saw that God spoke to their heart and they realized what God was doing by taking that little child. They realized that God was teaching them a spiritual lesson to focus more on spiritual things, eternal things. and and a and a hope of heaven that they did not have from before. The death of a child should cause us to examine our own heart. But here's the third lesson. The death of a child should remind us of God's special grace towards children. Because I want you to see in verse thirteen what else God said about this child. And all Israel shall mourn for him And bury him. When this child dies, all of Israel will mourn and bury him. For he only, O Jeroboam, shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing. towards the Lord God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam. Now, scholars debate the age of this this child. In verse 12, the Hebrew word is Yeled. In verse 3, the word is Naer. Yaled is a word that means to bear. It could has the idea of a someone who just bore a child or a child that was just born. So we can think that that's an infant child there. Now the word uh naer can mean uh a baby all the way up to a young adult. But when you use these two words together, it normally refers to a baby. In fact, the only other time really we see this where these two words are used together to talk about one person, it refers to the baby Moses who was placed in the ark by his mother and put on the Nile River. So this was a baby. This was an infant child. He was not old enough to be influenced by the evil of Jeroboam's house. And God says, because in him there is found some good thing. towards the Lord God of Israel. Why did God decide to take this child, this particular infant? Well, because God desired this child. God had favor. God found some good thing. The word for good is tav desirable. Favorable. God said, I desire this child. I favor this child. I want to set this child apart for myself. It was because of the love that God wanted to take this child unto himself. Because God delights sometimes in bringing children to himself. Doesn't God have a right to do that if he wants? Where God says, I I favor this child. I delight in this child. There are children in heaven. I think that to make heaven all the more beautiful. To make it all the more sweet. Sometimes God will delight in taking babies to his holy habitation. Just like us when we in our gardens we we pick the flowers that we like. And we bring them into our house to beautify our house. Sometimes God will take a little bud, a little flower, and bring it unto himself. But also another reason why God took this child was to protect the child from the future troubles. You see, God had just pronounced evil upon Israel and evil upon the house of Jeroboam because these were not people that were following the Lord And because of that, there was trouble that was coming down the road for them. And God wishing to spare this child because God delighted in this child and found favor. And Grace decided to spare that child all of that, a hard future, and took this baby unto himself. You know, that's where we get the understanding of providence. You know, the word providence comes from two words, pro before, video to see, to see before. One of the concepts of providence is God sees before. He sees way down into the future. And God's actions today are based on what God sees tomorrow. What he sees way down into the future. What today might look like cruelty to us. is actually kindness because God sees way down the road. God sees way into the future. I remember when we uh got the news that we had lost Matilda Grace, that was on a Friday night. And the very first thought that entered into my mind was this one thought right here, the providence of God. That was the first thought I had. And I think that was of the Lord. And God reminded me my actions today are based on what I see tomorrow. And my first words were, you know, God knows best. He knows he sees into the future. He knows what is best. When I look out into this evil world and I see the direction that this world is headed. I gotta be honest with you, I worry over my grandchildren And over my children. I worry over that. I pray for them. I know you do too. We pray fervently. But you know what? There's one grandchild I don't have to pray about or worry about. That's little Matilda Grace. She's in the kingdom of heaven. She's there. I don't have to worry about her. I don't have to pray for her salvation. She has been spared sorrow and pain and trouble. that are a part of this world. And I think that sometimes God will take a child unto himself and in doing so he will bless that child and bring them into his kingdom. And delight in that child. What better place is there to be than in the presence of God? What better place is there to be than to be there? In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are our pleasures forevermore. John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace, he was certain of this. And he wrote to close friends who had lost a young baby and said this This is what he wrote, quote, I hope you are both well reconciled to the death of your child. I cannot be sorry for the death of infants. How many storms do they escape? Nor can I doubt in my private judgment that they are included in the election of grace. And I agree with them. God wants to spare sometimes children for the pains of this world and he delights in them. And he brings them out of this world. So that they're not a part of the storms of life. And he brings them to his kingdom. God's actions today are based on what God sees tomorrow. Now, some you might be saying, Well, how can we know for sure that Babies go to heaven. Well, we have to go to the scripture. The Bible has to be our source of authority on this. This is not my opinion. The scripture teaches that there is a condition of accountability. And children who have not reached that age or that condition of accountability, you know what the Bible calls them? The Scripture calls them innocent. They're innocent in God's sight. For example, when we see the testimony of Moses, Deuteronomy 139. Moreover, your little ones, which you said should be a prey, and your children, which in that day had no knowledge between good and evil They shall go in thither, and unto them will I give it. In other words, when God was judging that generation of Jews that were unbelieving God withheld his judgment from the younger ones. Why? Because they were innocent in his sight. They didn't know good from evil. They didn't know the difference how to choose at that point. They were not morally accountable to God because they did not Have that ability yet in God's sight to choose between good and evil. Then we have the testimony of Isaiah. Listen to what Isaiah said Isaiah the prophet took his son Shir Jashu. Shir Jashu was just a little baby. Isaiah's wife had just had a baby. And God says, take the child and go to King Ahaz. And so picture this in your mind when he goes to make a prophecy to the king Ahaz, Isaiah is holding a little infant baby in his arms. And then Isaiah makes this prophecy about the future of Israel. For before the child shall know to refuse evil and choose good The land that thou abhorest shall be forsaken, O both her kings. In other words, King Ahaz, before this child knows to choose between good and evil, this is going to happen. And by the way, that pro prophecy was fulfilled about nine years later, which means that that child still at that age had not in God's sight uh had the ability to be morally accountable yet to choose between good and evil. He was still considered innocent by God. Now when I say innocent, that doesn't mean that they don't and have a sin nature, every baby does, or that they don't have inherited guilt, every child does. But they're innocent in the sense that they do not have a full comprehension of right and wrong and moral evil. And when God judges us in the end day, his judgment is going to be based on our works, the works that we do. You see. And so thus, like John Newton said, they are covered by the grace of God. Listen to what the testimony of Jeremiah. Jeremiah the prophet, and he says this, because they have forsaken me and have estranged this place and have burnt incense. And it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their fathers have known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place with the blood of innocence God says, I'm going to judge Israel. Why, God? Because they have filled this place with the blood of innocence. Who are the innocents? The innocents were their own little children. Little babies that they were offering to the God Molech, if you can imagine that. They were offering their own children. into the fires of the God Molech. And God said, you have burned the innocent God viewed them as innocent. Now their parents were idolaters. But God said these little children, they're innocent. They're innocent. These were not the children of believers. They were not baptized babies. These parents were idolaters, and yet God said, these children are innocent. The Hebrew word nauki, exempt free from punishment. In fact in Ezekiel chapter 16 verse 22, God calls these children the one sacrificed to idols that Israel was doing. God says, These are my children. Listen to what God said. Moreover, thou hast taken the sons and thy daughters, whom thou hast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to be devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter? God said, You think this is a small thing that you're doing this? That thou hast slain my children? And delivered them and caused them to pass through the fires. God said, this is not a small matter. These are innocent and these are my children These are my children. When I think of this verse, I think about all the children who are aborted. God says they're my children. They're innocent. And they're mine. You think this is a small thing? It's not a small thing to God. Now why would God rebuke and judge Israel for putting their children in a temporary fire And then after that, allow that little baby to go to an eternal fire. That would be the epitome of hypocrisy. God would not judge Israel for putting their children in a fire and then allow that little soul to go to an eternal fire. No way. No way. And God said, They're my children. He takes them to his house in heaven with him. In 2 Kings chapter 12, you know the story. David had a little baby, a baby that got sick. And David wanted this baby to live, and so he began to pray, and he fasted and he prayed for seven days, and he laid out before the Lord. He wouldn't eat. His servants came, they were worried you have to eat something. He refused to eat. And then the baby died. And the servants were afraid to tell David about the death of the child. In fact, the baby died on the seventh day. Which is kind of significant because children were in Israel were circumcised on the eighth day, so you could say that this child was really outside the covenant of Israel's blessing, the covenant blessing of circumcision. And yet that didn't matter to Cod, none of that does. And the servants were afraid to tell David And when he found out, the Bible says he got up and he cleaned himself up and he ate a meal, and the servants were amazed at his reaction. And David explains his reaction. And in 2 Samuel chapter 12, verse 22, he said this, and he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he is dead. Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him But he shall not return to me. I shall go to him, he said. I shall go to him. Now where did David go? Do you think David went to heaven when he died? It was David that gave us the 23rd Psalm when he said, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. David went to heaven. And so did that little baby. Whether that baby was circumcised or not, that didn't matter to God. I know some people, I say that because some people relate circumcision to infant baptism a day, and they there are some theologians out there that say, well, you know, uh the a baby will go to heaven if the baby is baptized and they're part of the covenant community, na na na na. Yeah, that's no. They're innocent. They belong to God. They're his. And he takes them unto himself. And then there's the testimony of Jesus. If that doesn't persuade you, let me just give you the words of Jesus. Jesus said this. In Matthew 19, verse 13, then were they brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them, but Jesus said, Suffer the little children. And forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them Jesus said the kingdom of God belongs to little children like these, little babies like these. So let me give you the last thing. The death of a child should cause us to make sure of our own salvation. Of our own salvation. Now, we here, we are accountable to God. We're morally accountable. We know right from wrong. And we all know that we're sinners. We sinned against a holy God, and God is holy. He must judge sin. But he's also a God of love, and he doesn't want to judge you. And that's why he sent the virgin-born son of God Jesus into this world to pay our sin debt. He took all of our sins upon himself. And the wrath of God fell on Christ. And God's wrath was satisfied. And now salvation is a gift to those that are repentant that will place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus is offering salvation to all who will, all who want it. We better make sure of our own salvation. Spurgeon was preaching to grieving parents, just like I'm doing today, parents who lost little children. And let me read to you his words. He said this, now let every mother and father here present know assuredly that it is well with a child. If God has taken it away from you in its infant days. And then he continues on and he kind of makes an evangelistic call based on that. He says, Many of you are parents who have children in heaven. Is it not a desirable thing that you should go there too? Don't you want to go there too, now that your child is there? Doesn't that make you long for heaven to go there all the more? And then he goes on to say, Father, ungodly and penitent Father, the little eyes that once looked joyously on you look down now upon you. And the lips which scarcely learn to call you Father ere they were sealed by the silence of death, may be heard with a still small voice, saying to you this morning, Father, must we be forever divided by the grave gulf Which no man can pass. Does not nature itself put a sort of longing into your soul that you may be bound in the bundle of life with your own child? You know what? When we have a a child in heaven or a baby, it should just make us want to go there all the more to make sure that we are saved, that we know the Lord Jesus Christ. And that was what Spurgeon was saying. And so we have hope in Christ. We have hope. Moms, you have hope. It's well with your baby. If you want to see that baby again, make sure you know Jesus. Make sure you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll never forget when we buried Matilda Grace, my daughter Abby, she knelt down there at the grave and she looked in. That was a hard thing to watch. But you know what? We can look into a grave like that with hope. With hope. Now we grieve, but not as others who have no hope. When we look into the grave of one of these little ones, we do not place our hope in the false promises of an unbiblical theology. Or in the instability of sentimentality, that's not what we're saying here, or in the analysis of cold logic, we Or in the ambiguity of or or in the refuge of ambiguity I should say, some people they just say, Oh we just don't know. Well I know Because of the word of God, we place our faith in Christ to fulfill his word. That's where our hope comes from. And based on the Word of God, we have assurance of the grace of God. We know that heaven will be filled. With little children who never grew to maturity on earth. But when we greet them in heaven, they will be complete mature in Christ. And they're waiting there for us. And so we need to resolve by God's grace to meet them there. And so the death of a child should cause us to seek out earnestly, to examine our own life. To it should remind us of God's special grace towards little children, and it should cause us to make our own salvation sure, to make sure. That we are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just say this one thing and I'm done. A man was converted in Spurgeon's church. His wife didn't like it. She didn't like the fact he was going to that church. So she decided one time, just out of curiosity, to go there. And so after her husband left, she got ready and she went to that church, but she disguised herself. She put on a veil and a big shawl And she sat and she entered into the upper balcony there in the back. She didn't want anyone to recognize her. She was disguised. And just as she was walking in the church, she heard Spurgeon announce the text. The text was 1 Kings 14:6. Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam. Why feignest thou thyself to be another? And the woman swore that when he said that, he pointed to her. She swore that. And then she heard Spurgeon say, God will search you out. God will unmask your true character. Disguise yourself as you may. You can't fool God. And then she heard the gospel of grace. She confessed her sins. She believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, the Christ who died for her sins and rose again. She put her faith in Jesus Christ, and she was converted and she got saved. And friend, that's what God wants for you. If you're not sure of your salvation, turn to Christ and make sure of it. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for the comfort of your word. How we can rest on the promises of God and be at peace. Even in the midst of our grief and sorrow and pain, there's hope in Christ. There's hope in the promises of your word. And Lord, that's where we put our faith and our hope today. And that's why we have joy. That's why we can rejoice even in the face of death. Because Christ has conquered the grave. Christ has conquered death. For all those that will put their faith in the risen Christ. In Christ, in Christ alone, there is joy, there is victory, even in the face of death. And we thank you for this promise. We thank you for the assurance that you give us. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here that has never done that, has never put their full faith in Christ, that today they will, that they'll reach out in faith. And say, Yes, Jesus, I believe in you. I believe that you are Lord, that you died for my sins, was buried and rose again, and my faith is in you. Forgive me for my sin. Save me. I repent today. I turn to you with all my heart. Save me. And Lord, I pray for grieving parents. I don't think parents ever quite get over losing a child. And Lord, surely, we need your grace every day in matters like this. I pray for your comfort, your grace. I pray that your word will grant that comfort in every heart, every grieving heart of every parent. That's lost an infant, a child. Lord, give them your hope through the Word of God. And may they rest upon that. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.