Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Nehemiah. We're in studying Nehemiah on Wednesday night, and we're going to look at Nehemiah chapter 5 And tonight I want to talk about dealing with conflict head on. Now the book of Nehemiah is all about building or rebuilding, and it may be that you're here tonight and uh God is rebuilding something in your life. He is trying to help you to rebuild perhaps walls in your life that have been torn down in the past. And we can learn some principles from Nehemiah about building and rebuilding. And we've already learned a lot about him from the first four chapters that whenever you begin to rebuild your life, it's not going to be easy. There's going to be challenges. And we've already looked at some of the challenges that Nehemiah had. But tonight here in chapter five, it's really a a chapter about conflict resolution. You know, that's kind of a hot topic in the business world, in the social arena, and rightfully so because Um conflict can tear your team apart, whether you have a team in the church working together or you have a team on the court, let's say, in athletics, or a team on the field uh or in home in the home or in the office. Conflict can do irreparable damage to whatever team is trying to work together. And let me just also say this you know, we're a bunch of sinners trying to live together, isn't that true? Would anybody confess that tonight? Okay, nobody. So we're all sinners just trying to live together, even in our relationships, and and there's going to be disagreements. Isn't that true? Disagreements are inevitable. And you know, there are some men and women that go from job to job or place to place. They bounce around from one place to another simply because they've never really learned uh this idea of resolving conflicts in their life. They're kind of like the little boy who never learned to untie a knot in his shoe, so he would carry a around with him a penknife And whenever he got a knot in his shoes, instead of trying to untie it, he just simply cut his shoelaces. So he never had, you know, either he had shoelaces that were in knots or he never had shoelaces because he never stopped to untie them. He would just cut them. And you know, true leaders will never cut what they can untie. We need to learn to untie the knots that come in our life rather than cutting loose those things. And this is why we see sometimes relationships that don't last. Sometimes we see splits in churches. Sometimes we hear of employees that are fired and and so on. It's because we've never learned some of the principles of conflict resolution Well, if that's the case, then we can learn a lot here from Nehemiah chapter 5. Nehemiah now here in chapter 5 is faced with the possibility of not finishing the wall. And this is this is uh And uh he's making such good progress. We saw this in the first four chapters. However, here in chapter five, he stops work on the wall. This is unique because what opposition from without could not do, conflict from within was able to do, and that is to stop work on the building of the wall. And so he has to kinda lay down his tools, lay down his construction hat, and stop building the wall. and start dealing with a wall that the people were putting up between themselves because there was conflict that was taking place among the people. The what the external enemies could not do, the internal strife was threatening to do, and that was to bring this work to an end before it could ever finish. I'm told that when a group of thoroughbred horses face an enemy, they stand in a circle facing each other with their back legs, they kick out at the foe. And then I read where that a mule will do the opposite. A bunch of mules, they'll uh kick at each other rather than kick at the foe. And that seems to be what's happening here. They're starting to kick at each other here, and Nehemiah has to deal with this. He has to learn to resolve this conflict. Now, it may be that you're here tonight and you say, Well, I don't have any conflicts in my life. Well, that's good But you know what? If you live long enough, there's going to be a conflict. Something is going to happen. So you might want to just take some notes down and let's learn from Nehemiah about how to resolve conflict And so what I want to give you tonight are just several principles, okay? Here's the first one. Number one, if you're taking notes, write this down. Recognize legitimate complaints. Recognize legitimate complaints. Look at chapter 5, verse 1. And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brethren, the Jews. For there were that said, We are sons and our daughters are many, therefore we take up corn for them that we may eat and live. Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands and vineyards and houses, that we might buy corn because of the turf. There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king's tribute, and that upon our lands and our vineyards, and now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren. Our children as their children, and lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants. And some of our daughters are brought unto bondage already, neither is it in our power to redeem them. For other men have our lands and our vineyards. Now this is there's a complaint going on here among the people, and let me just sta say that when people complain Not all complaining is legitimate and worthy of our attention. You know, there are some people that complain just because they like to complain. And if there's really nothing to complain about, they complain about that They like to find something to complain about. And the best thing to do with those types of people is really just ignore them and don't give it any traction. Catering to a malcontent only makes them worse They'll just continue to be malcontented. However, having said that, there are legitimate complaints. And those legitimate complaints must be recognized and they must be dealt with. And this is what we have here in Nehemiah chapter 5. Who are the people that are complaining here? There's a great cry. And who's making this cry? Well, these are the workers. These are the ones that are putting the work into the wall. These are the ones that are sacrificing. These are the ones that are really devoted to doing what God once done. But they have a problem in verse 1. It says, again, a great cry in the midst of this great work For a great God, there was this great cry. And they were not crying out against the Samaritans, the outside foes. They were not crying out against the Ammonites or the Arabs, but they were crying out against their own people. Jews were exploiting Jews. The economic situation had become so desperate that even the wives that were normally quiet, even they, the Bible says in verse number one here were crying out against their brethren, the Jews. You know what was happening? Some rich noble rulers there in Jerusalem were were taking advantage of the situation and they were exploiting their fellow Jews. Kind of compare it like this, you know, whenever there's a big hurricane, uh, you know, like you years ago we heard of Hurricane Andrew down in Florida, and then some people are always in desperate situations, and you always hear of businesses that are uh price gouging. You know, people that the the gasoline all of a sudden becomes real high. A gallon of milk is like what, ten bucks a gallon? And you have people that are just taking advantage of the situation of other people in this desperate time. Well, that's really what's going on here in this situation in Jerusalem. There were four different groups of people who were in this crisis. The first group were people who owned land, but they didn't have any food. Look again in verse 2. There were that said, We are sons and our daughters are many, therefore we take up corn for them that we may eat and live. That is, they had big families, and they were trying to feed these large families, but they couldn't hardly feed them I mean they were doing everything they could, but they just couldn't feed their family. They were working hard on the wall, trying to feed their family, but they just couldn't. Then there's another group there were verse three, look what it says. Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands, vineyards, and houses that we may buy corn because of the dearth There were landowners who had to mortgage their property in order to buy food. Just imagine that. Imagine it was so bad for you that in order to just buy groceries, you had to mortgage your home That's how desperate it was for these people here. Inflation was on the rise, prices were going higher, many had their homes repossessed by moneylenders. And the combination of debt and inflation wiped out any equity that they had. And so they were selling their land to buy food. And then there's another group mentioned in verse number four. Look at that. There were also that said we have borrowed money for the king's tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards. Many people were forced to borrow money just to pay their tax bills. You ever hear of someone who had to borrow money to pay maybe you're in that situation, you know, at the end of the year Uh instead of getting taxes you owed taxes and you owed so much that you didn't have the money to pay those taxes. And here that that was their situation. They had to borrow money just to pay taxes. Now this tax here was not for local services like we pay taxes for, but all this money went straight to the king. This was just to fill his coffers. In order to pay the tribute to the king, they had to borrow money. And they weren't even able to feed their own families. And then there were those who were exploiting others. Look in verse five. And yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children, and lo we bring into bondage our sons And our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought into bondage already. Neither is it in our power to redeem them, for other men have our lands and vineyards. really high interest rates and taking land and even children as collateral. And so families had to choose between starvation, And being in slaves, servitude. When the crops failed because of the famine, the creditors took away their property, and they took their children and they sold their children into slavery Wow, this is incredible. This is what's going on here. And this is Jew against Jew, brethren against brethren. Now, it's not against the law of God to loan money to one another But it is against the law of God in the Old Testament to charge interest on that loan. For example, just write down Deuteronomy 23, 19, and 20. Listen to this. You shall not charge interest on loans to your brother, interest on money, interest on food, interest on anything that is lent for interest You may charge a foreigner interest, but you cannot charge your brother interests, that the Lord your God may bless you in all things that you have undertaken. in the land that you enter to possess. And so God made it very clear: when you loan money or you loan anything to your brother, you do not charge them interest And yet this was happening. Not only were they charging them interest, they were charging it high. And when they couldn't pay it back, they were taking their lands, they were even taking their children and selling them into slavery You know, one reason for the year of Jubilee that's mentioned in Leviticus 25 was to balance the economic system in Israel so that the rich could not continue to get richer at the expense of the poor as the poor got poorer. So all debts were forgiven in the 50th year. All land restored to its original owners, all servants set free. That was so God could balance out that economic system. But they weren't really following this. And these wealthy businessmen were exploiting the poor here in this situation. This is a real problem. And Nehemiah recognizes this as a real problem. It was causing division among the Jews that were building the walls. They were saying, how can we continue this work? When this is happening, we can't feed our children. We're losing our house. We're losing our land. Our families are being sold into bondage. How can we do this? And so, first of all, here's the first thing that we must do. We must recognize a legitimate problem, and then we must confront that problem. That's what a leader does. When he sees a problem that is legitimate, he doesn't hide from that problem. He doesn't sweep it under the rug. He confronts it. But here's number two. Think before you speak. Number one, I said recognize legitimate complaints. Here's the second principle we learn. Think before you speak. Look in verse number six. And I was very angry When I heard their cry and these words. This is Nehemiah. I guess so. Nehemiah was angry at what was going on here. Very angry. And uh, you know, it's interesting how some commentaries struggle with this. There are some that actually think that Nehemiah is wrong to get angry here. Now I would disagree with that. Not all anger is sin. You understand that? There's certain anger that the Bible calls righteous anger or righteous indignation. There is unrighteous anger, to be sure. But there's also righteous anger. And I think Nehemiah is filled with a righteous indignation when he sees this exploitation that's going on among the people of God. And you know, it's okay to get angry when we see injustice, folks. I don't know about you, but I can't watch the news lately without getting angry. at some of the things that I hear, some of the exploitation, some of the terrible things that are going on where people are abusing other people. Some of the things that are happening cause us anger. There's a book that's called A Time for Anger. It's written by the son of Francis Schaefer. Francis Schaefer, of course, we know is a great apologist, but his son wrote this book. And this is what he said There are times in which anyone with a shred of moral principle should be profoundly angry. And then he says, we live in such times. I agree with that. If we have any moral integrity, there are things that are going to make us angry. And here in Nehemiah, he gets angry And he's filled with righteous indignation. This is like Moses who uh is angry in Exodus 32 and he breaks the stone tablets. This is like Jesus who is angry at the money changers at the temple and he casts them out in righteous indignation. But now here's the thing with Nehemiah. He didn't allow his anger to cause them to act foolishly. Because look what it is it says again in verse 7. He was angry in verse 6, verse 7. Then I consulted with myself. I like that. I consulted with myself. You know what that means? The Hebrew literally reads this: my heart consulted within me Some commentators have suggested another form of the Hebrew verb here could mean this. I controlled myself. I mastered my emotions. I mastered my feelings. And this is significant. You know, Nehemiah, he got filled with anger, but he didn't go off in a rage. He didn't blast those that were wrong. He stopped, he cooled off, he prayed through the situation, he thought about it deeply. What does the Bible say in Proverbs 16, 32? He who he who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. How many times have we acted in anger only to make a bad situation worse How many times have we lashed out? In case you didn't hear him, he said never. So he doesn't need a Sermon Franklin, you can leave. I think all of us have done that How many times have you uh have we lashed out before we've had time to cool off? And by doing so, we've done irreparable damage. to the situation. If you write a strongly lettered word, wait twenty-four hours before you send it. That's a general rule, right? So Nehemiah, he consults with himself And he he thinks before he speaks. But here's the third principle we learn from him. Not only recognize legitimate complaints, number two, think before you speak. But here's the third principle. Meet face to face. Because look at verse 7. Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles and the rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact ushery, every one of his brother, and I set a great assembly against them. Now, after thinking things over, Nehemiah decided to publicly confront the people whose selfishness created this strife. And so in verse 7, it seems to indicate that, first of all, he confronted them privately. And then he confronted them publicly. First he dealt with them privately, and then he says in verse number seven: I set a great assembly against them. And it might be that and we don't know this for sure, but it might be that after he met with them privately and he confronted them about what they were doing, he didn't like the response, and so he decided that, you know, let's just make this a public matter. After all You're doing this publicly. You're you're exploiting people publicly. So let's just confront this whole thing before the assembly, the great assembly, and spell out the problem. And he does do that And in fact it says here in verse number seven that he rebukes these leaders in this great assembly. Now I know that Nehemiah didn't know it at the time, but he was following a pattern that later Jesus would lay out in Matthew chapter 18. And it really basically tells us that look, when there's a conflict between you and someone else, when someone has sinned against you or offended you. What does the Bible say that you're to do? You're to go to them first of all privately. You go to them one-on-one. If your brother sins against you, there's the possibility that could happen if The person is your brother and they sin against you. Go and tell him his fault alone. And if he listens to you, what? You gained your brother. That's the first step. And preferably that would happen. Privately you go and you speak graciously about the problem, and if they listen, then you gain your brother. But what if they don't? What did Jesus say you take two or three witnesses next, right? And if they still don't listen, what do you do? You tell the whole church. You tell the whole assembly. And there's a sense in which this is what Nehemiah is doing. He brings the assembly together and he confronts them about what's going on here and about the wrong that is taking place. But he meets with them face to face. And that's a principle in Scripture. Listen, if you have a problem, if you have with someone else or you've been offended, listen, don't go out and tell other people about it. Just go to that person very graciously Lovingly, go to them. Meet face to face. That's what Nehemiah does. Let me give you a fourth principle. Not only recognize legitimate complaints, think before you speak, Meet face to face, but here's number four. Remind one another of your special relationship in God's family. Remind yourself of that. Remind the other person of that. You know what I see in verse 7? The word brother Look in verse 7, ye exact usuary every one against his brother. In verse 8, he uses the word brethren twice. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our brethren. And again he uses it in verse eight, where he says, And will ye sell your brethren? And again in verse number ten, and I likewise and my brethren. So four times in this speech Nehemiah emphasizes brother, brethren, brethren. And we need to be reminded of that. You know what? We are brothers. We are in the family of God. And you know what that means? There should be a special bond that exists between us and the family of God. We're to love everyone. But there's a special love, I believe, that's in the family of God. And we need to remind ourselves of that. And I think this is something that Jesus emphasized. He said it's a sign to the world that you're my disciples. He said, by this all All men shall know that you are my disciples when they see your love for one another. They should see a special bond, a special love between the people of God. And by the way, this is also a mark of being a true child of God. Remember, we see that as a principle in 1 John. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is what? Born of God. This is how you know that you're really a child of God, because you really love one another. It's a sign of true salvation. And so we have to remind each other of this in times of conflict. So that's the fourth principle. Number one, I said recognize legitimate complaints. Think before you speak. Meet face to face. Remind one another of your special relationship, your special bond that you have. But here's number five. Address the offense biblically. Because look what he says in verse eight. And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our brethren, the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen. And will ye even sell your brethren, or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they their peace and found nothing to answer. So in Nehemiah's appeal, what he's doing here is he's making veiled references to Scripture in the Old Testament. He reminds them of God's redemptive purpose. He reminded them that the Jews were a redeemed people. God had redeemed his people. He redeemed them out of Egypt, and now the second time out of Babylon. And Nehemiah's logic is impeccable. Listen, God who has redeemed these people, are you going to put them back into bondage yourself? These people that God brought out of bondage? Are you now going to put them back into bondage? God brought these people out of bondage. Why? So that they could serve Him. But you're putting them back in bondage under you, so that they will serve you. Is that really what you want to do? And the Bible says they couldn't answer. And look in verse number 9. And I said, It is not good that ye do. Ought ye not to walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen, our enemies. And again he appeals to God's word. When he says what you're doing is not right, what's he saying there? This is not according to the law of God. You're not following the word of God. You know that the law teaches that you're not to charge interest to your brother. You know that you're not supposed to do this to your brother. You know that this is not right, and you're not fearing God the way you're acting by doing it. So he reminds them. That they weren't right according to the Scripture. You know, if we just follow the Word of God, it's going to solve a lot of conflicts. If we just remind each other of what the Bible says, and we're all willing to submit to what the Scripture says This will solve a whole lot of conflict here. And Nehemiah was also concerned about the name of God. Look at the end of verse number 9, where he says Ought ye not to walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen, our enemies? They needed to remember that they were a witness to the rest of the world. The heathen were watching them to see how they were treating each other. And you know, Israel was to be a light to the nations. Their behavior was to show the way of how you're to treat one another But they weren't being a light here. They were walking in darkness here. And instead of making people thirsty for God, they kind of lost their saltiness. Because they were filled with selfishness. And Nehemiah's concern was about the name of God and the glory of God because the way God's people act reflects upon God You ever say this to your children when they go out? You remember who you are, and you remember whose you are. You know what you're saying to them, don't embarrass me. And don't embarrass the family name because the way you act is a reflection upon me and upon my name, and the same is true of a Christian. The way a Christian listen, if you take the name of Christian upon you, you claim to be a Christian, and the way you act before the world is a reflection on God. Does the world see Christ in a positive light when they see you? I believe this is what it means when it says to take the name of the Lord God in vain. If you take God's name upon you, don't take it in vain and live an ungodly life. And do things that bring shame to the name of God. And Nehemiah reminds them that you need to remember that you're to be a witness to the rest of the world. Let me give you the sixth principle I said address the offense biblically number five, but number six, seek restoration. Seek restoration. Look in verse eleven. Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day their lands, their vineyards, their olive yards, their houses, also the hundredth part of the money, and of the corn and the wine and the oil that ye exact of them. Now this is Nehemiah's whole purpose for the confrontation. He wants there to be a restoration in everything. In fact, the word restore, we see it used twice. It's used in verse 11, and it's again used in verse number 12. And Nehemiah is saying to these Greek nobles, restore back to them what you've taken, give it back. It's not right what you've done So first of all, he says, first of all, I want you to absolve the loans to the poor that you've made. I want you to absolve them in verse eleven. Give them back return their properties which you have seized for failure of payment. Give them back their vineyards, give them back their lands, he says in verse number eleven, their olive yards. And then refund the hundredth part of the money. That's the 1% per month charge on the unpaid balance. In other words, give back the interest that you've taken from them on the loans. Give all of it back. Because what you've done is against what God said. Now you know what's really interesting? Look how the nobles respond in verse 12. Then said they. We will restore them, and will require nothing of them. So will we do as thou sayest And so you know what? I love that verse because it shows that they're willing to do what's right. They said, okay, we'll give it back. They didn't take time to think about it. They didn't say, okay, Nehemiah, let us pray about it You don't pray about what God's already commanded or what God's already forbidden. When it's the right thing to do, you just do it. You obey. And so that's what they said. They said, okay, we're going to do that. And I think this must have brought joy to Nehemiah's heart when he saw that. He's seeking restoration. They agree to do it. But I want you to notice the next thing, remind one another that God is watching. That's the next thing. Remind one another that God is watching because you know what? Nehemiah takes you to the next level. Look at the rest of verse 12, the latter part. Then I called the priests. You know, he could have taken him at his word and said, okay, it's settled, but he doesn't. What's he do? Then I called the priests and took an oath of them. That they should do according to this promise. Verse 13. And also I shook my lap and said, So God shake out every man from his house. And from his labor that performeth not this promise, even thus be he shaken out and emptied. And all the congregation said, Amen, and praise the Lord And the people did according to this promise. So again, he upgrade he upgrades their promise to an oath. Okay, you're not just going to say this. You know, Nehemiah, he knows the nature of human nature, and you can make a decision to do something with good intentions and never really follow through. He's going to make sure that that doesn't happen here. So he takes these rich men, he takes it them to the priests, and he makes them give a public oath that they're going to follow through with what they said. And basically he shakes out his garment. That was kind of a symbolic gesture that basically was saying that may God shake you loose, everything you have. Uh when you had a robe like that in the fold of the robe you would keep a lot of your things and to shake your robe out, you know, everything would kind of come out of the pocket, so to speak. Be like emptying out your pockets And so this is what's happening. He shakes out his robe, he empties himself of what he has, and he says, if you don't fulfill your oath, may God shake you until you're empty, until you have nothing. And so this was a symbolic, this was symbolic of a curse. He was basically saying God would shake them out of their possessions if they ever broke their word. What was he saying there? That when you take this oath, you're not just doing it to me. Who are you doing it before? You're doing it before God. You need to know that God is present here with us. And He hears you. What are the promises that you make? He sees what you're doing. And all the people there said, Amen. Now, what Nehemiah is doing here. is later what Jesus would also say if you remember in Matthew 18. Remember what Jesus said? He said this. Again I say unto you that if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything, that they shall ask, it shall be done of them for my of my Father which is in heaven. Listen to verse 20. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. I'm there too. Now you have to keep that verse in its context. Because in Matthew chapter 8, what's the context of that? It's resolving conflict. If your brother has a problem, you go to him, first of all, just you, then with two or three witnesses, then you take it to the church, and Jesus says, listen. Where two or three are gathered, I'm there with them. So you get the idea? Jesus said, listen, when you go to resolve a conflict and you want restoration in a relationship and you take several with you, guess what? I'm there too I'm there with you. Because the Lord takes this serious. He wants there to be restoration between his people. And so when you go to do this Jesus is there with you. His presence is there with you. That's the exact thing that Nehemiah is reminding these men But I love the way verse 13 ends because it says, and the people did according to the promise. They fulfilled their word. They did what they said. Now let me give you the last principle here Again, let me review. Recognize legitimate complaints. Think before you speak. Meet face to face. Remind one another of your special relationship in God's family. Address the offense biblically. Seek restoration. Remind one another that God is watching. But then here's the last thing. Be an example of selflessness. Be an example of selflessness. You know what's the overall problem here in chapter 5? It's just selfishness. This is why this is happening. Because a group of men are so selfish. They're thinking about getting riches. Selfishness is the problem. I would venture to say that 99% of all conflicts that happen come because of selfishness. I think it's just innate, it's in the human nature. In the fall of man, when man fell in the garden, there was this selfishness that that took place there in the heart of man. Selfishness has broken up. Marriages, whenever I do marriage counseling, I normally tell couples that the one thing that I see that breaks up more homes is this one thing of selfishness. Selfishness destroys relationships, it divides churches, it brings misery. And so Nehemiah You know what he's going to do? He's going to be an example as a leader of selflessness. He's going to model the opposite. And expect others to act as he acts. Don't be selfish, but be selfless. How do we know that? Well, look back in verse number 8. He says, and I said unto them, We after our own ability have redeemed our brethren. He spent his own money to redeem fellow Jews from slavery. He spent his own money on others. In verse 10, he loaned them money without interest. I likewise and my brethren and my servants might exact of them money and corn. And I pray you leave us, let us leave off this usury. In other words, he would loan money, but he wouldn't charge interest on it. That again is a very selfless thing to do. And also look down at verse 14. Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the Two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes, the king, that is twelve years. I and my brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor. What's he saying there? Well, Nehemiah was appointed to be the governor. He was governor for twelve years And and basically the practice of the governor was to take m uh th money from the people To take their bread, to take their money for himself, to pay for his own expenses. But Nehemiah, he wouldn't do that. He laid aside his rights. He didn't take advantage of the people with his position and power. He had a right to that allowance from the people, serving them as governor. But he wouldn't do it. And that I mean after all, think about it. When he ate a meal, it wasn't just him. He had 150 people that sat around his table. Who's going to pay for all that? Rather than taking from the people, Nehemiah took out of his own pocket and said, I'll take care of it myself. That's what he did. And you know how much it will require. Look at verse 18. Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox, six choice sheep, also fowls that were prepared for me, and once in ten days store of all sorts of wine, yet for all this required not I the bread of the governor because the bondage was heavy upon this people. That as you think about it, he had so many people to feed every day that it would take one ox, six sheep, plus poultry, and more. That's a lot of mouse to feed every day. I mean, you know, that's a lot of hamburgers, a lot of lamb chops. And yet he did all of it out of his own pocket. He didn't take the money from others. Why? Because it says in the verse 18 at the end, because the bondage was heavy upon the people, because he said they already have a heavy bondage on them. I don't want to add to that. So rather than take it from them, he just paid for it himself. Besides, it says he feared God, and he and he genuinely cared about hurting people. Now you might think well Nehemiah here he's bragging You know by telling us how much he did how much he paid out of his own pocket No that's not what he's trying to do here He's not trying to brag He's just trying to say look I'm just trying to set an example of being selfless and serving other people. You know, and I know there are people in here that have done this. You've given to people who've had a need, and no one else has known about it but you. You've given out of your own pocket to help others. I know many of you have done that. Um, you know, it's very easy to be generous with other people's money. I mean Nehemiah, he didn't take money from the people or money from the king of Persia and say, here I'm going to give this money out. No, it wasn't other people's money, it was his own money from his own pocket. Where he said, I'll do this just because there's a need there. And so he wanted other people to follow his example. He was so generous. And ready to give. You know why? Because God was generous with him. And he wasn't doing it to get applause from the people. Look at verse 19. Look what he says: Think upon me, my God, for good. According to all that I have done for this people. He was doing it under the Lord. He was saying, Lord, you watch, you see what I've done. And you reward me. He was not working for man's applause, but he wanted God's will done. Lord, you see what I do. And you reward me for this. He was so committed to the work that he applied himself. He gave sacrificially. He was so generous. He was concerned about all the people And let me tell you something. If you develop a selfless lifestyle where you put other people ahead of you, you know how many conflicts you're going to be in? Very little. When you put others ahead of you, when you think of others before yourself. You model selflessness. By the way, who is the most selfless person that ever lived? That was the Lord Jesus. You remember when then there was a conflict in the church at Philippi and there were people that couldn't get along? You know what Paul did? Paul said, let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. What was he talking about? The selfless mind of Christ, where he left the glory of heaven, he laid aside all of his glory, he laid aside all of his privileges, he became a man. Why? So that we might have salvation. The most selfless thing ever done was our Lord Jesus when he went to the cross and he died in humiliation that we might have eternal life. What a model of selflessness. And friend, if you're a selfless person, you'll have very few conflicts to deal with in your life. And so let me just close with this. I read in an old monastery in Germany that there were two racks of ancient deer antlers that were permanently locked, interlocked And apparently what happened was you can go in that monastery and see those antlers, and it was a reminder to the the the people in there that you know don't you know don't get into conflict Or if you get into conflict, learn to get out of it. Because these two deer who locked their antlers together died of hunger. Because they could not get out of the conflict they were in. That's the lesson. So let me ask you a question. Are you tangled up with somebody right now? You need to get out of that. You need to learn from Nehemiah these things. And learn to resolve that conflict. And learn, let there be peace, because it's only going to hurt you in the long run and your team, whatever team you're working on. Let's bow together for prayer. So Lord, we are just amazed at how practical your word is. It just seems like any problem that we have, we open the pages of Scripture and there it is. There's the answer. Thank you for your word, Lord. Now pray, Father, that you'll help us to live by it. To learn it is one thing, but to live by it is another. And there are times, Lord, when in our pride we don't apply what your word tells us. And so forgive us for that. Give us the humility and the self-awareness to know. When we need to just apply these things to our own life. Help us to see ourselves as we really are. And Lord, if there's someone here tonight that's in conflict, I pray that you'll give them the grace and the selflessness and the humility. to to resolve whatever conflict they're in, follow these principles and be blessed, to have true peace. And again, we look at our Savior as our model, our selfless Savior, who died for us, the most selfless act ever committed on our behalf, that we might have salvation. May we follow In his footsteps, may we uh follow the admonition of Paul to have this mind, the mind of Christ. May that be our desire tonight How many would say that's my desire? I want to have the mind of Christ. I want to follow in his footsteps. May God help me. Father, you see these hands. Make this a reality, Lord. We know that this is a daily challenge. We know that we can't just pray a prayer once in church and expect it to happen. But we know that every day we have to embrace the mind of Christ. Like Paul says, let this mind be in you, which was in Christ Jesus. Make that a reality each day of our life we live, and we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.