Take your Bibles tonight, please. Open to the Old Testament book of 2 Kings. Some of you remember that a while back we finished 1 Kings and then we did a series in James, and I want to come back to 2 Kings. And I want you to look in chapter one. We're going to look at the story of King Ahaziah. And the title of my sermon tonight is Dealing with Terminal Illness. Dealing with terminal illness. Every day thousands of people get sad reports from their doctors about themselves or perhaps a loved one that are facing a terminal illness. One of the questions I'm asked sometimes as a pastor is, you know, Pastor, should I tell my loved one that they're terminally ill? The doctor tells a family member but doesn't tell the person And I believe that if a patient is terminally ill, that person has a right to know so they can prepare their themselves spiritually for whatever might happen. I think that the truth should be told. And this is certainly what happens here in this passage. God is certainly up front with King Ahaziah about his terminal illness. King Ahaziah fell through a window and he became very ill. Look in chapter one, look down in verse number one. Then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. This is the con the historical context of what's going on. Verse 2. And Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber that was in Samaria and was sick. So he falls down through this lattice. He had an accident in his home. We're not sure about the specific details of it. The Bible just simply says he falls through this lattice. The word lattice here just simply means window or balcony. Was he drunk? Did he lean against the baluster and it give way? Well, we don't know. But the story opens up with King Ahaziah. His life is hanging in a balance. He's lying on his bed in the royal apartment. He's trying to recover from his illness, but he's not sure if he will recover. And he's asking the question, what's going to happen to me? This is the question that many people may have when they're battling an illness. Will I get better? One never knows when you're going to get a diagnosis from a doctor that will change your life. And I know that there's perhaps people in here tonight in our church that have received news like that. about an illness and and uh they're very hard to receive. But what do we do when things like this happen? Well the prognosis for Ahaziah was not good. Because three times in this narrative, God says to him, You're not getting out of that bed, you're not going to recover. He says it uh in in uh verse four Uh where it's it where it says, Now therefore thus says the Lord, thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, but shall surely die. God says it again to him in verse number six, and he says it again in verse sixteen, three times. Why was God's pronouncement against Ahaziah's illness so final? Well, I'm convinced it's because of the sins he committed. Now, not all illness is due to sin. We know that. Jesus made that point very clear in the New Testament. Uh one time the disciples came and they asked Jesus, they said, Master, who did send this man or his parents, that this man was born blind? And Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. So sometimes illness is not because of any sin, it's simply because God may have chosen you to glorify his name in some special way by suffering through this and being the example to other believers. purposes, sovereign purposes for putting his people through affliction and trials. But I think in this case, however, it was because of Ahaziah's sin. Sometimes illness is because of sin. And here we uh God makes it pretty clear. What stands out in this passage is Ahaziah's response to this. predicament. What would you do if you got news of a terminal illness or you're lying on your deathbed? And really his response is what seals his fate Ahaziah did several things you should never do when you get a report about serious illness. And I want you to see what they are. Really, he's an example of how not to respond to a diagnosis regarding a very serious illness. Here's the first mistake he made. Number one, he failed to amend his ways. He failed to amend his ways. If you look at the text carefully, uh Ahaziah was the son of King Ahab. Does that name sound familiar? Ahab was a pretty wicked man And in fact, if you back up just the verses right before chapter uh chapter one, verse one, in the previous chapter, chapter twenty-two, verse fifty-one, as it's closing out, it gives us a little uh testimony or report about Ahaziah. In verse fifty one, Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, began to reign over Jerusalem in Samaria. Look in verse fifty two. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the ways of his father, and in the way of his mother. And in the way of of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin, he was a chip off the old block. He was just like his father, King Ahab, and his mother, Jezebel, by the way. So Ahaziah was an idolater like his father. He provoked God's anger by worshiping Baal. And like his father, he was wicked. Like his father, he committed idolatry. And like his father, he will not have the blessing or the help. of Almighty God, he will be on his own. Now terminal, when you hear a report about something being terminal, it doesn't always mean terminal. Just remember, beloved, that God is the one who has the final say in any matter. Many times God will providentially allow us to go through something like this to warn us or to try to bring us back. Sometimes uh God's judgments are remedial and what he's trying to do is He's trying to work repentance in our heart and in our life. He wants us to change our behavior. Later on in 2 Kings, you'll see the story of another king by the name of King Hezekiah. This is in chapter 20, and Hezekiah becomes very proud, and God judges him for his pride, and God says, Hezekiah, he was going to die. But the response of Hezekiah is totally different. The Bible says he humbles himself. It says in chapter 20, verse 2, he turned his face to the wall and he prayed unto the Lord. He begged the Lord. He pleaded with the Lord through tears. And God sent the prophet Isaiah to King Hezekiah, and he said, Through the prophet, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears, and behold, I will heal thee. I will add 15 years to your life. God was very merciful with King Hezekiah because of the way he responded. You know why? Because God's a merciful God. And he will work with someone who's truly repentant. We have a man who comes to this church on Sunday morning about a year ago. I led him to the Lord. I went to the hospital to see him. Um it was hard to get in, but I was able to get in. It was because of that they thought he was going to die. He looked horrible. Um he looked like he was going to die. And uh I was able to talk to him, and after another visit, I was shared to gospel with him. He got saved, and uh we began to pray for his healing. And you know what? God began to heal him. And now you would never know there was anything wrong with him. The doctors actually thought he was going to die. They didn't give him much hope. And he comes to church every Sunday morning, Sunday night. And uh, you know, he's just a picture of health now, and he knows it was God who healed him after he turned to the Lord. That's the way our God is. He's a very merciful God. But we don't see King Ahaziah Turning to the Lord. He's not like Hezekiah. He doesn't humble himself. Rather than turning to God, he turns to the devil. Here's the second mistake he made. He placed his hope in the wrong object. And this is what really angered God. Because King Ahaziah sends messengers to a false God to see if he would get well. Again, look in verse number two, and Ahaziah fell down through the Aladdis in his upper chamber that was in Samaria and was sick. And he sent messengers and said unto them, Go inquire of Baelze Baalzebad The God of Ekron, whether I shall recover of this disease. He sends these men forty miles away to a Famous temple in Ekron where they worship the god uh Beelzebub or Beelzebub as some would pronounce that. And the name Beelzebub literally means Lord of the Flies or the Fly God. Or Baal of the Flies. Sounds pretty hopeful, right? Now there are several explanations for this title. Some believe that this was the God who was the medicinal or medical God for the Philistines. And he was a god that was supposed to deliver the people from these insects that were said to infest uh Philistia That's one explanation of this, but I think there's another more plausible explanation. The more likely explanation is that this is a Hebrew insult to a false God And the writer is having a bit of fun with his name. You see, Biel Zabull means Lord of Glory or glorious Baal if it's B L's a bull with a L on the end of it, but if you change the L to a B, it changes to Lord of the Flies. And it's a distortion of the name of the God. And it kind of makes it a laughable name. And I think this is the more likely explanation of what's going on here. The writer is saying, yeah, you're going to go to your false God. He's no more helpful than a fly He is Beelzebub, Lord of the Flies. You know, why are you going to go to the Lord of the Flies for your help? It's almost like you know the the you know the the the uh caricature for Satan is this or the devil is this guy in a little red outfit with cloven hoofs and a pitchfork. And uh, you know, a a tale and and uh this is kind of a humorous picture of the devil. Where did that come from? Well that came from the Middle Ages. You see, the church in the Middle Ages believed in the reality of Satan They were aware he was a fallen angel, but that his sin was pride and that his weakness was pride. And so this was the idea that since his weakness was pride, that's his vulnerable area And so the theory was if we attack Satan at his weakness, he will flee from us. And what better way to attack Satan than to uh depict him as being this little funny figure in a red suit with a pitchfork This silly image was intended to make fun of the devil and cause him to flee. That's the sense that we're getting here in this passage. The writer is poking fun at this weak theble god, Beelzebub. And you know, they believe that gods dwelt on mountains back then. You know, Baal had his Mount Carmel. But here it's almost like the writer is saying, yeah, this God dwells on a mountain. It's a mountain of manure. He's the Lord of the flies. By the way, Jesus in the New Testament used Beelzebub, this name, and Luke chapter 11, when they accused Jesus of casting out devils by the power of Beelzebub. You remember what Jesus said? Jesus said, if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom your sons cast them out, you know, a kingdom divide against itself will not stand. Satan will not cast out Satan. So he calls Beelzebub Satan. He's saying it's just another name for Satan This is what got God angry. Ahaziah, instead of turning to the Lord, literally turns to the devil And God sends messengers to confront the or sends a messenger, or the prophet Elijah, to confront Ahaziah's messengers. Look at verse number three. But the angel of the Lord, that's probably a free incarnate appearance of Christ. The angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishvite, Arise and go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, Is it not because there is not a God in Israel that you go to inquire of Beelzebub, the god of Ekron? And in verse 4, now therefore thus says the Lord, thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up. But shall surely die. And Elijah departed. Again, there's a very famous temple in Ekron. forty miles away and Elijah meets these prophets on the way to that temple and he asks the question Um you know This rhetorical question, is there is it because there's not a God in Israel that you're set that you're going to Ekron there? And then it's followed by a declaration in verse 4, you're not going to recover. You're not going to get out of that bed. Because of this, because of what you've just done. And what does that imply? That before that there was some hope. There was some hope that you could be healed, that you can rise up off this bed because there's nothing too hard for God. But now, you're going to surely die. That shall surely die, verse 4. Literally, dying you shall die. Philip Riken wrote this, yes, there is a God in Israel. The burden of Elijah's ministry had been to demonstrate the reality and the sovereignty of Almighty God. But Ahaziah would have nothing to do with him, and by consulting with evil powers, he was denying the sovereign reality of God. He chose to dance with the devil rather than to walk with God. Where you turn to for help in a time of crisis reveals a lot about you and a lot about your character. Where do you turn when it looks hopeless? Some people turn inward, they turn to themselves, they get depressed Like the psalmist did in Psalm 42 when he said, God, I'm drowning in this affliction. All of your ways, all of your billows are passing over me. He felt helpless. And some people turn to other people. And there's nothing wrong with encouragement and counsel from others. I mean that's the why got what the reason why God gives us Family and friends and counselors. They are a gift from God to help encourage us. We certainly need people to help us in times of crisis. But there's a difference between encouragement and counsel and placing all of your hope in people. People are nothing but instruments in the hand of God. Don't trust in the instrument, trust in the hand of God who is working. The psalmist said it like this in Psalm fifty six three, at what time I am afraid I will trust in thee And some people turn to substances. That's why substance abuse is astronomical. People try to forget their illnesses and problems by drowning it through alcohol or through drugs. And I'm not talking about prescribed drugs. I'm talking about drug abuse. There's nothing wrong with using prescribed drugs to manage pain and help in a time of sickness. In fact, to me, this is a this is an expression of God's common grace. The fact that we have people and uh we have medicines where people have learned to use the the plants and things from the earth to create these medicines that will help people withhold the curse of the earth and And and help people through sickness. This is an expression of the common grace of God in this fallen world. And there's nothing wrong with using those. They are a gift from Almighty God. And we have biblical warrant for this in Proverbs 31. The uh uh the mother who was talking to her son rebuked him about using wine or alcohol. But she said, give strong drink to him that is perishing. In other words, there's a legitimate use for alcohol or strong wine, and that's to help someone who's dying or someone that's with an illness. And so there's a biblical warrant then. We're thankful for doctors, we're thankful for medicines, we're thankful for hospitals, but we ultimately place our hope in God He is the healer. And we should cry out like the psalmist who said, Hope thou in God. God is the healer God is Jehovah Rapha. But Ahaziah does not hope in God at all. He refuses to seek God. In fact, he's hostile towards God. He knew where to find Elijah. If he really wanted to know the truth about his outcome, all he had to do was to reach out to Elijah, but he doesn't want to hear from God. And so that's why three times God says, uh, you're not getting out of this bed. You're not going to be able to get up But here's the third and final mistake he made. Number one, he failed to amend his ways. And number two, he placed his hope in the wrong object. But then following that, number three, he hardened his heart against the Lord. After confronting or after being confronted by Elijah. The messengers go back to King Ahaziah. Look at verse 5. And when the messengers turned back unto him, he said unto them, Why are ye now turned back? I mean he was shocked that they got back so quickly. Why are you back? Verse six. And they said unto him, There came a man up to meet us, and he said unto us, Go turn again unto the king that sent you. And say unto him, thus saith the Lord, is it not because there is not a god in Israel that thou sendest to inquire of Beelzebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore thou shalt not come down from off from the bed on which thou art going up But shall surely die. So Ahazi gets the report. Unfortunately, he's more concerned about the man who gave this message. than the message itself. And so he asks in verse 7, what manner of men was he which came to meet you and told you these words? He probably suspected who it was. And they give him the answer in verse 8, and they answered him, he was a hairy man, and gird with a girdle of leather about his loins, and he said, It is Elijah that's who I thought. Harry Man could mean, you know, uh he was kind of a fuzzy guy, or that he wore a camel hair coat and a leather girdle, which that was probably likely what's going on here. That's the clothing of a prophet. And uh he hears this description, he knows it's Elijah, and he is very familiar with Elijah. After all, his mother and father dealt with him. And he remembers what his parents had to go through with this prophet. He remembers the episode where fire falls on Mount Carmel to show that God is the real God. He remembers all that. He remembers the battles that His mother had with Elijah. You would think at this point that Ahaziah would repent, right? But he doesn't. He's still very hard-hearted He doesn't seek the Lord. And it's interesting to me that he has to go outside the land of Israel to find servants of Baal to get the word. This kind of tells you the effective job that Elijah did in stamping out Baal worship in Israel. They have to go outside of Israel to do it. But rather than seeking the help of the Lord, he continues to harden his heart. And then he does something incredibly stupid and futile. He's angry at God because of this pronouncement that he will not recover, so he attempts to have Elijah arrested Why would he do that? What was he thinking on doing that? Reminds me of the little boy who was praying for Jesus to give him a brand new bike, and he's trying to figure out how to get the Lord to do that. So finally he gets an idea, goes downstairs. He takes the statue of Mary that was sitting in the parlor, takes it back up to his bedroom, wraps up in a blanket, puts it in a closet, closes the door, gets back on his knees, and says, Jesus, if you ever want to see your mother again You'll give me this bike. That's not gonna work. This is kind of what Ahaziah is trying to do. He's thinking somehow if he can just capture and arrest the prophet of the Lord, maybe he can manipulate God to give him what he wants. Maybe he can get a good word from God. And that's of course ridiculous. He seems to forget who he's dealing with here, Elijah the prophet. But he does something very foolish in verse 9. He sends men to arrest Elijah verse nine Then the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty, and he went up to him, and behold, he sat on top of a hill, and he spake unto him, Thou man of God, the king has said, Come down. And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I be a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume thee and thy fifty. And there came down fire from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. Here these soldiers come to arrest him and Elijah's sitting on the top of a hill, probably because he's looking for safety. He's fearful of what these men are going to do to him. They're trying to do him harm. And the captain goes up and says, Come down, O man of God. And Elijah's response is, Since you called me a man of God, let me prove it to you. And in verse 10, the fire falls on them. Now remember, Elijah had called down fire from heaven on Mount Carmel. Ahaziah and the rest forgot that. So here's a reminder. Only this time the consequences were more serious. It's not fire on an altar consuming an offering. Now it's consuming these men. And one would think again that after this, King Ahaziah would get the message and he would repent, but he doesn't He remains hardened and unmoved. And then he sends another fifty. Look in verse 11. And again also he sent unto him another captain of fifty with his fifty. And he answered and said to them, O man of God, thus hath the king said, Come down quickly. Now the second captain was even more impatient than the first. He says, come down right this minute. Right now. Come on down here. This proved to be another big mistake. Because Elijah answered, If I am a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. And the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. You know, it's interesting to me that when people get angry and bitter at God, things they do, and it always seems to be they try to take it out on God's servants. Or God's people. You know, I've had people get angry at me over nothing. And some people say, I'm not coming back to your church, and they never really give a reason why. I've gotten letters or I'm angry and they never really say why they're angry. And really the issue is not me. The issue is they're angry at God. Maybe it's some circumstance in their life. Maybe they got some bad report and they can't just they can't deal with it. And rather than humbling themselves and going to God for mercy and casting themselves upon the Lord and drawing near, they get angry and they do irrational things. Uh years ago, I pastored another church and a man got very angry at me. And uh he he was trying to do all he could to destroy my reputation. uh which you know i it you know I I don't really care about that stuff just to be honest with you. But one day he came to my office he was really, really angry and he said, You I want you to know you are a liar and you are a deceiver and I said, Sir Could you please tell me what I lied about or what I deceived? Because if that's true, then we really do have a problem. He said, Well, you said the church voted ninety percent to do something, and that's a lie. I said, Well, sir That was a ballotted vote. I didn't count the votes. The other men counted the votes. So you're really calling them a liar, not me. You understand that? I had nothing to do with counting that or giving the numbers. I just reported what they gave to me. Well that wasn't enough for him. And then he said this. He said, My gift, my spiritual gift is to get rid of pastors that don't belong here, and I'm going to get rid of you. That's literally what he said. That's almost a quote. My spiritual gift is to get rid of pastors that don't belong here, and I'm going to get rid of you. And I and I just said to that man, I said, sir, you know, it's really up to me to earn your trust, and I look forward to that challenge of trying to earn your trust. And that's really all I said. He left angry. Very sadly, a few months later, he got a report from his doctor that he was going to die. Terminal illness of cancer that came upon him. And uh I went to his house months later, on his he was on his deathbed, and I tried to make things right with him. And even then his heart was hard. And he would not make things right and get right with the Lord. Now it grieves me to recall that. But I want to tell you it's a serious thing. It's a dangerous thing to harden your heart against God. It's a very dangerous thing. Are you angry at God? You may not come right out and say it. It might be expressed in different ways. Maybe just irritability, uh maybe you're just angry at the circumstances in your life, you're resisting his plan or you're grumbling about his purposes and his ways. This is what was happening with Ahaziah. And he's still angry at the Lord. Now, a third time we're surprised. That two times God consumes these men that came to Elijah with fire. And really what Ahaz was doing, he was confronting God. He was doing what his father used to do, oppose God. And God was sending a message, you don't mess with God, and you don't mess with his servants. But still Ahaziah is unrepentant and he sends a third group. What does someone say insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and trying to get a different result? Well, this means that King Ahaziah was crazy. He was out of his mind. Because he sends another group to do the same thing. Look in verse 13. And he sent again a captain of the thirty uh a third fifty of the third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up and came and fell on his knees before Elijah. Now here's the right way to do this. And he besought him and said unto him, O man of God, I pray thee, let my life and the life of these fifty thy servants be precious in thy sight. I mean, divine judgment had put a proper fear of God into this third captain. And like Ahaziah, he had every reason to believe that he was going to die. He wasn't going to recover from this. And so he throws himself on the mercy of God. This is the contrast with the attitude of Ahaziah. This is the attitude that Ahaziah should have had. This is exactly what he should have done. He goes up on his knees. He has the right posture, he has the right position of petition. Please let us live. And he knelt, he pled, he trembled, and guess what? He lived. And God did have mercy on him. Because look what he said in verse number thirteen, he said, um he fell on his knees before Elijah and besought him and said unto him, O man of God, I pray thee, let my life and the life of these fifty Thy servants be precious in thy sight. And behold, there came fire down from heaven and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties in their fifties. Therefore let my life now be precious in thy sight. And so here he's pleading for mercy. Again, this is the way to approach God. This is the kind of thing that a Heaziah should have done. Whenever we are sick or injured or dying, you know the thing to do? Throw yourself on the mercy of God. Throw yourself on his mercy And so he does. And look in verse 16, or excuse me, verse 15. And the angel of the Lord said unto Elijah, Go down with him, be not afraid of him. And he arose and went down with him unto the king. God says, Don't be afraid. You go ahead and go down and you go with the king. And they take him in before King Ahaziah. Now I don't know what Ahaziah thought he was going to accomplish in getting Elijah to come before him. All it does is it gives Elijah the opportunity to tell the king face to face, eyeball to eyeball, that you're not going to recover. You're not going to recover. God's word always comes to pass. Always. And sure enough And verse sixteen. And he said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, for as much as thou hast sent messengers to inquire of Beelzebub the god of Ekron, Is it not because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? Therefore thou shalt not come down off that bed on which thou art going up. But shall surely die. And in verse 17, so he died according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken. It happened just like he said, and it wasn't the illness that killed Ahaziah, it was his pride And his hardness of heart against God. Now, King Ahaziah laying on his deathbed with no chance of recovery is a picture of all of us, is it not? We're all sinners without hope. Did you know that we all have a terminal illness? It came on by a fall from a king in a garden many years ago, a rebellious king at that, King Adam, when he fell in the garden. We were all in Adam and we fell with him. Romans 5 makes it clear that Adam was the federal head of the human race, and we were all in him. And when he fell, we fell. In Adam's fall, we sinned all, as the old saying goes. And so we are born sinners. We have a problem with sin. Sin brings death. Positionally, we are sinners. We're dead in trespasses and sins. It's almost as if we were born into this world on our deathbed, laid in a coffin instead of a cradle. Where is good as dead, spiritually speaking, and spiritual death leads to eternal death. And outside of Christ The only thing that remains is a fearful judgment of a fiery indignation that the writer of Hebrews says, because our God is what? A consuming fire. That's all there is for those that are outside of Christ. And so, really, in a sense, anyone who doesn't know the Lord, anyone who doesn't worship Jesus, Elijah's prognosis applies to them as well. You're not going to recover. You're not going to make it. If we want to live, really live, we have to turn to Jesus Christ We have to go to Him. We have to throw ourselves on His mercy for salvation, for forgiveness. Because Jesus, of course, on the cross atoned for our sins. He took the sins of the world upon himself. And satisfied the wrath of God. And the only way to make a full recovery of sin that came through our fallen King Adam is to throw ourselves on the mercy of Christ. and ask him for his salvation. You know, that's exactly what a famous baseball player did. You ever hear this story, the story of Mickey Mannell? During the summer of 1995, Mickey Manno lay in his hospital bed. He had severe cancer of the liver. A lifetime of drinking had finally caught up with him He was having chemo and but there was really no chance of recovery. The doctors told him he wasn't going to recover. Uh Mickey Mandel started drinking when he joined the Yankees as just a young man. Um but he had an outstanding baseball career. In case you don't know, just let me give you these stats, alright. Five hundred and thirty-six home runs, a lifetime batting average of two ninety-eight, seven World Cherries World Series championships Three most valuable player awards and a triple crown, and of course he went to the Hall of Fame. But you know what? None of that will get you into heaven. None of it. And when death comes knocking, none of those things really matter. But when Mickey Mann was going through chemotherapy, he picked up the phone and he called his friend Bobby Richardson, who also played for the Yankees. But more importantly, Bobby Richardson was a devoted Christian. And through the years had witnessed to Mickey Manno and shared the gospel with them time and time again. And Bobby Richardson came to the hospital room of Mickey Manno and he said to him, Mickey, I love you and I want to spend eternity with you in heaven. And Mickey Manor looked at him and said, Bobby, I wanted to tell you that I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And I just wanted you to know that. You see, facing death, he felt The weight of his sin with the prospect of facing a holy God and knew that he would not be able to stand. And so he repented of his sin. He desperately asked God for forgiveness, and he received it And in the last weeks of his life, Mickey Mano loved to quote the verse, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You see, laying there on his deathbed, his earthly prognosis was, you're not going to recover. But his eternal prognosis was very good, as it is with anyone who puts their faith in Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. So, Father, we thank you for these stories in the Old Testament that remind us of who you are, how powerful you are. And it reminds us, Lord, that you're a jealous God. And when we turn to other things instead of you, it provokes your anger. Lord, I pray that you'll forgive us for the idols that we have in our life. Forgive us for depending on other things instead of you. And I pray especially, Lord, for people who may hear this sermon that are going through uh maybe a difficult report, a difficult prognosis, uh report of an illness that is very serious, that they won't make the same mistakes that Ahaziah made. That they will examine their life and amend their ways and turn to you, Lord, with all their heart and true repentance. That they will not place their hope in the wrong object. While we enjoy your gifts of common grace in this world, our ultimate hope is in you. You are the healer. And we put our total faith in you. And Lord, may we never harden our heart against you. Because of the difficulties that we face in this life. May we keep our heart tender before you. May we trust in you and hope in you completely. And may others see this hope and be strengthened by it And Lord, if there's someone under the sound of my voice that's never trusted Christ as their Savior, I pray, Lord, that they will realize that they have a terminal illness of sin. From which they will not recover. No recovery outside of Christ. But if they turn to the great physician, if they turn to Jesus And put their faith in his finished work, they will have life, true life. Because whosoever believes in you, though they be dead, yet shall they live. And have eternal life. Lord, may it be so. May there be those that reach out in faith to Christ and Christ alone. For your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.