It's good to see you here in God's house tonight. I invite invite you to take your Bibles, to open to the book of Romans, chapter 16. We're finishing up our study in Romans. We've been in this book for a while, as you know. And we've come to the last chapter of Romans, and we're kind of dealing with uh the end of it. And we're tonight we're going to look at verse 17 down to verse 20. You want to follow along as I read this. Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you have learned and avoid them. For they are such that serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. For your obedience is come abroad unto all men, and I'm glad therefore on your behalf, but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple. concerning evil. And the God of peace shall brew Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen Now one of my favorite uh peanut strip cartoons is about Linus. He's laying on the living room floor, he's watching TV. Lucy comes in and she says, turn the channel. Linus says, why should I? But as Lucy says, you see this hand? It's not much to look at, but when I bring these fingers together like this, it becomes a mighty force to reckon with. Linus said, what channel do you want? And then he looked at his hand and said, How come you guys can't get together like that? This is Paul addressing the church at Rome. And he's addressing the issue of being together, of unity in the church. And really this is a warning that he's going to give. It's a warning in regards to divisive people. This always seems to be a concern of Paul. If you read much of his letters in the New Testament, it seems like almost in every letter, somewhere along the line, he brings up the issue of unity versus division. And if you look into scripture, you're going to find that this is always a major concern of spiritual leaders. True spiritual leaders value unity among God's people. All the way in the Old Testament, just some preliminary thoughts. Unity is a precious thing. The Bible says in Psalm 133, verse 1, Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. Unity is the desire of godly men. Those who truly want to see good done in the body of Christ and the household of God are always craving unity in the body. You remember the story of the Old Testament when there was a division or a schism between Lot and Abram, their their servants. And Abram said to Lot, look, you choose one way and I'll go the other He put lot ahead of him because he valued unity. Discord is the product of the ungodly Just write down a few verses. Proverbs 16, 14, throwwardness is in his heart talking about the wicked person. He devises mischief continually. He sows discord. Proverbs 16, 9, a false witness that speaks lies, and he that soweth discord among the brethren, this is one of the things that God just hates, is the sowing of discord. The other thing to think about is that this was the great prayer that Jesus prayed in John 17. One of the main themes of that prayer was unity among God's people. In John 17, 21. Jesus prayed and said that they all be may be one as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world might believe that thou hast sent me. This was the desire of Christ that his church, his people be one. This is the desire of the Apostle Paul. We see this in 1 Corinthians. He says, I beseech you brethren, that you all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you. And we have to be reminded that really unity is something that God automatically gives us when we get saved. That unity is provided by the Holy Spirit. And what we have to do is we have to keep it. The Bible says in Ephesians 4. 3, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. This is something that we must guard. It is something that we must keep and view it as something that is precious. And it requires the mind of Christ. In Philippians 2, Paul reminded the believers there that was in a little bit of a schism that, look, let this mind be in you that was in Christ Jesus. If you have the mind of Christ, there'll be no problem with unity in the church. And so this is an important theme in the scripture, we could say. It's getting along. It is God's people being united because disunity and division is damaging to the cause of Christ. It's damaging to the church. Mark Twain used to say that he put a dog and a cat in a cage together as an experiment to see if they could get along. And he said after a while they did. So he put a bird, a pig, and a goat in the cage. To see if they would get along. He said they too got along fine after a few adjustments. Then he put additionally in the cage a Baptist, a Presbyterian, and a Catholic. And he said soon there was not a living thing left in that cage. God hates division. He hates disunity. Now there are some people that just seem to thrive on controversy. You ever notice that it almost is like a sport to them. I've been a and thank God and I'm not just saying it, it's really not this way here at Grace in this church. But I've been to other churches where it just seems like something always has to be stirred up. There's some controversy that always has to be brewing. Some people live on it. They seem to thrive on it. Ordinary church, ordinary worship is not enough. They have to have something brewing that almost becomes like a narcotic, a drug that they get addicted to They go to the internet, they go to the blogs, they go to social media, they want to start a Twitter war or a Facebook war. They're always wanting to do something to stir things up. Now I want to tell you something, friend. It's one thing to take a stand for truth. There's nothing wrong with standing firm on the Word of God. Nothing wrong with that at all. In fact, God calls us to do that very thing. And I know that there are many godly Christians, and many of you here tonight, there's been times in your life where you've had to take a stand on the truth of God's word. It hasn't been easy for you to do that It took no delight for you to have to take a stand and perhaps it cost you relationships, it cost you friendships. That is bound to happen. With people, even Jesus said this. Jesus said, I haven't come to bring peace, but I can't come to bring a sword. What do you mean by that? It means if you follow Christ the way you're supposed to with all your heart, there's going to be people who are divided from you who naturally will be cut off from you because of the the stand that you must take. And again, this is sometimes God might call upon us to do that. I once took a seminar for pastors called How to Rock the Boat Without Sinking the Ship. And the whole seminar was about how that sometimes in our ministry, uh, even though you might not want it, you you really don't uh really want to stir things up, but every once in a while there has to come a point in time where you stand for the truth, where you stand for what is right and you let the chips fall where they may. But it's not controversy just for the sake of stirring it up. And again, there are some people that just love to be divisive. They major on the minors. They have their own agenda of things that they think should be done. They have their own uh pet doctrines and they demand that everyone around them adhere to those things which are not very important but are important to them. They make mountains out of molehills by simply adding a whole lot of dirt to something There I'm not talking about people who humbly, graciously, boldly, valiantly stand for truth. We're talking about people who are just divisive. People who are not a help to the body of Christ. And this is who Paul is addressing here, not people who are valiant for truth, who lovingly stand on the Word of God. He's talking about another group. And a lot of times it's people that are teaching something different, that are veering from the Word of God. Those are the ones causing division, not those who are standing graciously and humbly on the truth of God's Word. I remember reading in church history about the time when during the Reformation Martin Luther was challenging the corrupt teachings of the medieval church. He, because of the study of Romans, rediscovered the gospel in all of its purity that a person came to salvation not through church um rituals or anything like that, not works, but it was all faith. Simple faith in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when Martin Luther rediscovered the gospel and he made his stand on the gospel, it stirred up a whole lot of things. And during that time the Pope was Leo X. He issued what was called a papal bull. What is that? That's just simply a particular letter issued from the Pope Which has all the Pope's authority. And the name of the bull, of course, was what he called it was a wild boar ravishing God's vineyard. And that whole letter from the Pope was directed toward Martin Luther, and he called him a wild boar. He said, there's a wild boar in God's vineyard, and he's ravishing everything. Well, the truth of the matter is Martin Luther wasn't ravishing anything. It was the teaching of the Catholic Church that was doing it. Martin Luther was just simply graciously, boldly standing for truth. And again, God will call upon us to do that at times in our life. But even there, we need to be careful how we approach that. I don't mind a person disagreeing with me because of my position. I just don't want a person disagreeing with me because of my disposition. I want to graciously lovingly stand on The truth of the Word of God. But having said all of that, Paul is dealing now with an issue of division, possible division in the church at Rome Now this is very interesting when we're here in the last chapter of Rome. What we saw last week is that Paul is just, he's really, he stopped teaching at the end of chapter 15, and he just starts greeting people. And we saw there's a whole list of names. I mean the whole last chapter of Romans reads like a church membership directory because he's reading one name after another. He's saying, salute this person, salute that person, and so on. And really from verses one to sixteen, he's just saluting people In verses 17 to 20 is kind of parenthetical because in verse 21, if you'll notice, he picks back up saluting Timotheus, and Lucius, and Jason, and so on, and he continues these salutations all the way down until he gets to a uh a appraise a doxology at the very end of the letter. But right in the middle, almost very parenthetically, Paul just slips in this warning here. And it's the warning that we just read. I want you to just notice a few principles about what we can get from this, where Paul tells us how to deal with divisive people in the church. First of all, I call the detection, know who they are. Look what he says in verse 17. Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause The word marks scope means to be watchful. It's where we get our word scope. We use it in microscope or telescope. It just means really to keep your eye on or to examine It's the same word used in Luke 11 35, take heed that your light be not darkness. In classical Greek, it was used in the sense of examine something, examine it carefully, either as a judge Or as a philosopher, it was used to describe an inspection of evidence for determining the right time or circumstances for something to happen. And Paul is calling upon all in the church to be discerning. You okay with that? God wants you as a believer to learn to discern or to judge. God forbid, oh, that's the world's favorite verse. Judge not. But here Paul's very clearly saying, no, you need to learn to discern. You need to learn to make judgments. You need to learn to watch carefully. And those who are there in the church that are perhaps very insidiously making divisions or causing divisions, you need to mark them. You need to use some discernment and be careful about them. Why? Because if they remain hidden in the body, they could do a whole lot of damage So we are to mark them. You remember when Jude, when he gives his little epistle uh designed to help believers detect uh false teaching or false teachers in the church? One of the things that he says is, but there are certain people that have crept in unawares. They they kind of slid in. Actually the word means to slide in the side, almost like sliding in the side door. They just kind of slip in, they kind of slip in unawares. They they look like Christians, talk like Christians, act like Christians. They may even in some case uh um you know uh uh even be a Christian. Most of the time, however, I feel like they're not. But Jude says, you know, you need to watch out for them. Watch out for them. He refers to them as hidden rocks. These are rocks hidden just below the surface of the water. If a guy's boating down the lake, he doesn't see these rocks, and they're shipwreck. There's damage. And he says people are like this in the church. And there are normally in the church people that are there because they love Christ and they want to hear from the Word of God, but every once in a while there will be those that slip in. that are damaging because of their division. So the detection, know who they are, but then the danger, know what they can do. Look again in verse 17. I beseech you, brethren. Notice Paul was passionate about this because he saw this as a real danger. The word beseech pericole, an intense word. This is the same word Paul used in Romans 12. 1. I beseech you by the mercies of God that you present your body. Same word. Paul begs for them to take this seriously. This is a vital matter. Divisive people are a serious threat to the well-being of the church. This is the reason why Paul writes with such passion about this subject. They're like spiritual turmoiles that wither away, widow away at the foundation of the church. Now why did Paul do it right here? Some suggest that this is right after verse 16 when he said to greet one another with a holy kiss. There are some who suggest that Paul might be remembering how easy it is to disrupt the peace and the love that is in the church, and he felt compelled at this point in the letter to issue this warning. Or it maybe it came to Paul's mind because where is he writing the book of Romans from? He's writing it from the uh the city of Corinth and the church there. And the Lord knows they had a lot of division in the church that was there. And Paul could see firsthand the damage that division was causing that church. And so he wants to give this warning. It may be that Paul received some reports already about some things that were going on at the church at Rome that caused him to concern. We do know this, that his fears were not groundless You say, how do you know that? Well, because when Paul finally did get to Rome, he found precisely what he warned them against. Well how do we know this? Because in the book of Philippians, you remember where did Paul write the book of Philippians from? He wrote it from Rome. While he was under house arrest at Rome. And he was talking about some of the believers there at Rome and their attitudes. In fact, look at look at Philippians real quick, chapter 1. Just go to go that go there and let me show you this. Look at Philippians chapter 1. Philippians chapter one and um let me just show you this verse these verses here Look look what he says starting in verse number 14. Many of the brethren in the Lord Waxing confident by my bonds, or much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul is saying, look, don't worry about me. I know I'm in prison. But do you understand that me being in prison is actually helping the cause of the gospel? How is it helping? Well one of the things he says is, well, I can see that there are some brethren that are waxing bold because of my bonds. That is, some people see me in prison They see me taking a stand. They see me defending the gospel. And what it's done for them is it's caused them to be bolder in their own life, bolder in their own approach. And sharing the word of God. They're doing it now without fear, whereas before there may have been a little bit of fear. Now they're doing it boldly. But look what he says in verse 15. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, some of goodwill. And I said, there's some out there, and they're preaching Christ out of envy and strife. And some of goodwill. Look at verse 16. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. But the other of love, knowing that I'm set for the defense of the gospel, what then? That is so what? In other words, what he's saying is there's kind of a rivalry going on there here at Rome. There are some people that actually are they're preaching Christ, but they're not doing it out of a pure motive. They're doing it out of strife. They're doing it out of contention. There are actually some people that were preaching Christ on one hand and criticizing Paul on the other. What was Paul's response to that? He said, what then? In other words, so what? Notwithstanding in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. Paul said, look, as long as Christ is preached, I'm okay with that. I have no problem with that. But the bottom line is there were some there that were doing it out of envy, they were doing it out of rivalry, they were doing it out of a selfish motive, they were doing it out of a divisive spirit. And so the problem was very real there in Rome. So getting back to Romans chapter 16, notice what else he says, I beseech you mark, brethren, mark them which cause divisions. This is the whole problem here. The word divisions literally means to stand apart. They're causing opposing groups, is the idea, and offenses. The word offense is scandalon, which means to cause someone to stumble. These people in the church are they're dividing, they're causing groups to take place, and they're causing others to stumble. In the body of Christ. And so that was a danger. But also notice the path he talks about and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned. The biggest danger is leading stable believers away from the truth that they have learned, have learned in the Greek eris. They've already learned it. They've already come to the truth. But now they're having their faith unsettled. They're being uprooted from their faith. And what they're getting from these people, from this group, is things that are contrary to the doctrine of God. The word here is very interesting. Para alongside the doctor key teaching, what they're doing is they're laying their teaching alongside of the Word of God, and they're leading people away from it. And they're doing this in a very subtle way, with fair speeches and so on. They're just leading people away. Now some people might ask the question, is it possible for true believers to be led away from the truth? Is that possible? I mean, doesn't the Bible say in 1 John We have an anointing, we have the Holy Spirit, and it's that Holy Spirit that teaches us the difference between truth and error. Well, that is all true. We do have the Holy Spirit. We do have the Word of God, but beloved, don't Think that even stable believers can't be deceived and led away from the real truth of God. That can happen. That's why we always have to be on guard. Mature believers, stable believers, if they're not careful, they can be led away by subtle teaching from people that are very persuasive. And teaching and things. And that's why John gave the warning in 2 John. He said to the to the woman there that was entertaining false teachers, look, you better watch out. If you entertain them, they're going to lead you away from the truth And be careful that you don't lose what you've worked for. That is, you can lose ground in the Christian life. You can even lose your reward. Be careful that you don't lose that full reward as a believer. Be careful about that. You can be spiritually detoured down a wrong path, and so this is the danger. And then notice the next thing, what I call the departure. No to avoid them. Look again in verse, the last two words in verse 17, or last three I should say, and avoid them. them. No, mark them that cause divisions, that teach contrary to the doctrine, that which you've learned, avoid them. And Paul is very clear on what we're to do. We are to saturate them with our absence. We're to stay away from them. You mark them, you mark their teaching, and then you avoid them, and you avoid it. That's the idea. Now I can understand why some Christians want to get a general understanding of error. There's nothing wrong with that. But what I can understand are Christians that spend all their time investigating error because that's not really necessary, I don't think. I think there's a fine line between helping to understand error and exposing it. And allowing that error to get a hold of you and bring you down. And I remember, not to be critical here, but I remember uh spending some time in seminary and um And in in certain classes, it just seemed like all the professor would do is spend all this time talking about what the liberals were saying about this particular passage or book. And we were Finding out what all these liberals had to say and what their stance were were on certain issues and and how they were questioning this and all the different attacks. Half the semester was gone and we're still talking about what liberals say And I'm sitting there as a student going, okay, I got it. They're wrong. Got it. Move on. Again, there's nothing wrong with understanding a general survey of some of the things where the Bible's being attacked. I get that. But I don't want to spend all my time there. One person wrote this. Most seminarians who typically are more familiar with Scripture than most other Christians of their age have become so engulfed in dialogue with theological error that their effective ministry is all but forfeited. They do not of course lose their salvation, but they can easily have their usefulness to the Lord severely weakened. and sometimes even destroyed. And I agree with that. Some people who get overly exposed to error inadvertently short circuit the process of their own sanctification in their life. You know what you to do as a Christian? You just know this truth so much. You know God's word so well that when error comes along, you automatically know it. You automatically already know it. You know when it's not in harmony with truth, it's not in harmony with Scripture. And this is what Paul is saying. Look, avoid it. Mark those who are among you who teach contrary doctrine. And then avoid them, avoid it, get away from it. Turn away, literally, is the idea here Now notice the Bible does not tell us to go out as heresy hunters, hunt these people down, round them up, and throw them in jail or anything like that. You say, why do you bring that up? Because there was a time in the church age when that happened. When there were people in the church age who felt they had to burn heretics. And burn witches. That was the disciples' mentality in Matthew 13 when the wheat was growing up with the tares. Remember what the disciples said, Lord, should we just pull out the tares? Let's just let's just root them out. Let's just get rid of them. And Jesus said, no. Don't do that. Lest in doing that, you're going to uproot some of the wheat also. You can do a whole lot of damage to the church in general by going around and playing heresy hunter and then rooting out those people that you think are need to be rooted out And I think also uh the Catholic Church got into doing that. Remember, there was a period in the time of the Catholic Church when they were basically killing everyone that didn't believe what they believed. I mean, read your church history about that, the Inquisition. Whoever was not a Christian by their definition, and this was this was counter the Reformation, this was kind of a knee-jerk reaction to the Reformation, the rediscovering of the gospel, where the Catholic Church uh basically sent out a bunch of uh you know, forgive me, but spiritual hitmen to go out, they're called Jesuits. I hope you're not Catholic here. I'm probably gonna offend you by saying some of this These Jesuits that went out zealously in their counter Reformation mindset, and they they they meant to burn all heretics and those who did not sign off on what they believed. And when a group of Samaritans refused to render hospitality to Jesus, you remember James and John, who Jesus nicknamed the Sons of Thunder They said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and just consume them? Let's just get rid of them, Lord. Let's just burn them up. Let's burn these heretics. This was James and John, the sons of thunder. And what did Jesus say? You don't know what kind of spirit you're of. That's not the kind of spirit that I'm teaching or promoting. And even when they came to arrest Jesus and Peter got out the sword and he swung it at this guy's head and uh cut off his ear. He wasn't trying to cut off his ear. Peter was a fisherman, he wasn't a swordsman He was he was aiming at the guy's head, it only got his ear. And what did Jesus say? He said, put back your sword in its place. For he who lives by the sword, what? Dies by the sword. This is not how we promote the gospel. This is not how we defend the gospel. This is not the spirit of the church. We're not to go out there and do that. That's not our responsibility. What we are to do is as Christians, when we see heresy, we call it out, we let it be known, and we stay away from it. We stay away from it. And so, but notice the next thing. There's the danger, know who they are. Or excuse me, the detection, know who they are, the danger, know what they can do, the departure, know how to avoid it and them. But then the description know why they do it. Look at look what Jesus says in verse 18. For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly. That is, they serve their own appetites. The word for Sir Dulas, they're not slaves to Christ. They're slaves to their own appetites, their own desires, their own passions. Their end is destruction, the Bible says in Philippians 3:19. In other words, their God has their own selfish desires. They do what they do to gratify themselves. They do it for money, they do it for fame, they do it for ego, they do it for success. All those things. And I don't have time to go to all these passages that I have. But they basically the Bible says that they are just just go to one passage with me. Look in 2 Peter real quick. Go to 2 Peter chapter 2 and look down at verse number 1. Where Peter kind of gives a little summary here. 2 Peter chapter 2 verse 1. But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily, that is secretly, Insidiously shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, and bringing upon themselves swift destruction And many shall follow their pernicious ways by reason of whom they uh by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. Watch this in verse 3. And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you That is, they're out for themselves. They they're doing it for their own benefit. They'll make merchandise of you. They will they will try to get your money. They will try to live off of you They'll try to satisfy their own appetites by using you, is what he's saying. They promise liberty, but they're servants of corruption, Peter says in verse 19. Peter said, you know, just be be aware of them and know how they do it. Go back to Romans 18. It says, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. They they have all of this these sway uh or all these words that are that are so easy to believe. They have all this eloquence. They know how to sway people with their smooth smooth talk, their fair speeches. And they just deceive, they pull down people. And what they say seems to sound good on the surface, but when you listen to it, it's it's so deceptive. Now, beloved, I I don't have time to go into all of it. But you need to be careful who you watch on television. You need to be careful who you listen to. Because they're all around us. These are people that pretend to receive special new revelations from God for you. Give you an illustration. There was a guy who built a TV empire bringing in $65 million a year by promising healing to people who would covenant with him by sending a large financial gift. And this is what he claimed, quote, God showed me a vision that almost took my breath away. I was sucked into the spirit and found myself standing before the presence of God. And this he said these exact words to me. And at that point, what he did was he began to introduce a plan to raise money. And this guy brought in 65 million. And by the way, he was exposed later on for being a fraud. ABC did a special on him, exposed him for the fraud that he was. They showed how his listeners, their prayer requests, when they were sent in with the money, they were simply stripped of the money, and the prayer requests were put in a dumpster behind the ministry. Just thrown away. And he was exposed for deceiving millions, but he got rich. He got rich. Sometimes when you really listen to these guys, some of the things they say, and I just wrote down a few things here from listening to people on television. And I'm gonna I'm not gonna tell you the network. But it's the same initials as the blasphemy network. TV and anyway. I know that's probably gonna offend some of you, I'm sorry. Listen to what one guy on there said. He said, God cannot do anything for you apart from or separate from faith because faith is God's source of power You hear what he's saying there? Faith is God's source of power. In other words, it is our faith in God. That's his source of power. You give God power by your faith. Here's another quote: God is the biggest failure in the Bible. The reason you've never thought that is because he never said he was one. And then this guy went on to teach about God, that God stands somewhere around 6. 2 and 6. 3. And he was saying that God has a body. It wasn't talking about Jesus coming to earth and becoming a man. He was talking about God the Father. God the Father is 6-2 or 6-3. And he basically says that God has blue eyes. So now you know what he looks like. This is blasphemy. And these are the people on TV that are wearing these expensive suits and asking for money. And they're and they're preaching a a a heresy and a false doctrine and people are just listening and thinking that these people are of God when they're not Here's another quote. Jesus' death on the cross was not enough to save us. And I and I've got I can give you the exact program and date. Jesus took on the nature of Satan when he was on the cross. He lost his divine nature and took upon him the nature of Satan. Another thing he said was Jesus was dragged down into the bowels of hell, where he was beaten and bruised by Satan and his demons until Jesus could finally fight his way out of hell three days later. This is just bizarre. This is just ridiculous. And the most ridiculous thing is that there are people who claim the name of Christ that are listening to this and they don't see anything wrong with it. And I could go on, I got pages over here. God traveled to Earth on a spaceship called Light. God Satan wanted God to interject himself into the world, which would be illegal, then Satan could turn God's lights out. And what he was talking about there, who knows And so on. They bring God down in a way that is blasphemous. And then on the other hand, you know what they do? They deify man, they exalt man. Here's another quote from TBN. We are gods. And I am a little God. This is the host of the show. I am a little God. I have his name, and I'm one with him. He's a little God. And so on. Faith is a force, said one, kind of like Star Wars. And they also have this gospel of greed where they're constantly asking for things for themselves. And beloved, let me just tell you that these people are not of God. It's not of God at all. And this is what Paul's talking about. They're giving you things which is contrary to what you've learned. It's contrary to the whole word of God. And they're deceiving the hearts of the simple. The hearts of the simple. Let me give you the last thing and we'll be done. Look at verse 19. For your obedience has come abroad unto all men. This is Paul saying to the church. Be careful about these people, because your obedience has come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf, but yet I would have you wise unto what is good and simple concerning evil And Paul is basically giving some reasons why they should shun these false teachers, shun uh these teachings. One is because of their testimony. Paul says, do you realize that throughout the M throughout the Roman Empire, you have a good testimony? That your obedience has come abroad, people are talking about you, they're talking about what's going on at the church at Rome, and you have a good testimony Among these people, don't ruin among the uh Empire, don't ruin that. And he says, I'm glad of this. But then he says this, but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil. And that's a very interesting thing here. What he's saying is that when it comes to the things of God, I want you to be wise. In other words, Jesus said like this, you need to be as wise as serpents and as harmless as doves. You need to be understanding in the things of God, and when it comes to the things of evil, when it comes to some of this teaching, you just need to be innocent. You don't need to measure it on these things. You don't need to experience sin in order to know sin is wrong. You don't need to experience evil to know that evil is wrong. You don't need to delve into Heresy in order to understand heresy is dangerous and is wrong. So Paul said, I want you to be wise concerning that which is good. I want you to be simple or innocent or naive concerning those things which are evil. Jesus said this. He said, look, I send you as lambs in the midst of wolves. Just remain a lamb. Don't take on the nature of them, flee them, flee their evil desires, flee all the things that come along with all their heresy and their division. And then notice verse number 20 and we'll be done. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. In other words, Paul's identifying the source of all of this. Who's the source of all of this division? Who's the source of all of this confusion? Who's the source of all of this false doctrine, this empty theology that is so blasphemous, so subtle yet so God-denying, so blasphemous? It's Satan. And Paul says, just remember, the God of each the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet Satan has no authority over you as a believer. You have authority over him. He is bruised. He is under our feet. Christ has won the victory for us. There's no reason why we need to submit ourselves to him or any of this. Just remember that where your victory comes from. It comes from knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul's encouraging these people: stay in the path in which you are now, stay in the Word of God, be careful. of all those who are so dangerous in what they teach. Let's let's bow for prayer together tonight So the sermon tonight, as we're our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed, is really just a form of a warning from Paul to all of us to be careful. About these who are divisive, who teach dangerous things, know who they are, know what they can do, know how to avoid them, know why they do it, not for God, they do it for themselves. Know how they do it with fair speech and winsome words. And friend, know the source of your strength. Your strength is in God. Your strength is in knowing the Word of God. And standing firmly upon it. So may God give us discernment and the boldness to stand for truth. Father, thank you for your word and how it warns us. Help us to take heed, to take to heart everything that we have studied tonight. Help us, Lord, to be discerning. In this dangerous day, in which all around us is abounding error and false doctrine that can lead people astray and even lead people to hell. So Lord, help us to stand firmly on your word, to stand for truth. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.