Thank you so much. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Second John. Second John, second epistle of John. And uh we're going to be looking at a few verses here in 2 John. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? We're going to look down at verse number Verse number 10 and verse 11. We'll read that together. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine Receive him not into your house, neither bid him Godspeed. For he that biddeth him Godspeed is par is partaker of his evil deeds. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father in heaven, thank you for the privilege that we have to be here to worship and to hear from your word. Lord, we believe that this is your inspired word, and it speaks with all the authority of heaven. So Lord, help me uh to make clear what you intended when you inspired the writers to write these words. And may we apply truth to life. We know that we need the help of the Holy Spirit to hear and to submit to your words. So bless us as we hear today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When my wife and I were uh in uh England one time, we had the privilege of visiting Heartland Abbey in Devon. This was an Augustinian monastery that was built in eleven sixty And it was in operation for 378 years until finally it was dissolved in 1539 under the reign of King Henry VIII. One of the things I learned that was very interesting to me was that the monks that lived in that monastery were given very specific instructions on how to answer the door when someone would knock on the door. According to the Benedictine order, the porter would sleep close to the door so that he could get to the door whenever anyone knocked. And uh when someone knocked, he would always give these gentle kind words without even knowing who was on the other side of the door. He would always speak through the door and say, Thanks be to God and God bless you. One ancient monastic author wrote this. He said, the way we answer doors is the way we deal with the world. Now John would agree with that. He would agree that it's important how you answer a door, but I think he would disagree with giving a blessing to the person on the other side of the door without knowing who that person is and where they're from. This is exactly what John is talking about here in 2 John. And these are the verses that we read just a moment ago, again in verse number 10. If there come any unto you, any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither uh g uh bid him godspeed. That is to say, don't don't even say God bless you or God be with you. If there's someone that comes to your door and they're and they don't believe this doctrine or perhaps they're teaching some other doctrine about the Lord Jesus Christ You don't say God bless you to them. Why? Well this might sound harsh to us. It might sound unloving. But John here in this epistle is going to show us how to how truth and love relate to each other. And how to be discerning. Does love deny or ignore truth? Can we just throw truth away in the name of being loving? There are some who emphasize love at the expense of truth. I remember reading a story about Dr. H. J. Arnside, that great preacher, he would tell a story about uh one Sunday morning uh after uh a pastor a certain pastor was relating how that uh a person would come by and shake hands with the pastor and one time he came by and said, Pastor, I just want to thank you. You've been such a blessing to this church since you've been here. When I first started coming to this church, I had No regard for God. I had no regard for man or the devil. And since knowing you and hearing you preach, I now love all three. True biblical love does not welcome the devil or his lies. And this little epistle teaches us how we are to hold on to both love and truth. Truth without love is cruelty. Love without truth, that is compromise. But truth and love That is conviction. And John is going to help us to understand the relationship between truth and love. So this is 2 John. This is a very short letter, as you can see. This is one of the shortest letters in all the New Testament. It only has 245 words in the Greek text. Well, and this and 3 John as well are two of the shortest letters in the New Testament. And notice how John identifies himself in verse number one. the elder unto the elect lady. The word elder presbuteras, which means old men or aged man. And sp that's because normally leaders in that day in this day were the elderly men That's a term that's kind of borrowed from the Old Testament that referred to an official leadership position. However, elder in the New Testament can also just refer to the overseer or pastor And the New Testament pastors and elders are the leaders of the church. And this is a very personal letter that John is writing, but he's emphasizing in the very beginning, I believe, his spiritual authority, because he's going to in this letter give a gentle rebuke. to this woman that he's writing to. And so I think in a sense he's kind of emphasizing his authority as a shepherd, as an elder Sometimes pastors have to correct God's people. We don't like to do that, but that's part of the call. And John's going to give a gentle correction here to this woman. And notice again the recipient unto the elect lady in verse number one and her children. Who is this elect lady Now generally there are two views about who this woman is. There's the literal view, and that is the view that John is writing to a woman and to her children. And then there is the figurative view, which some scholars hold to, which says John is writing to a church and the believers in the church. And the phrase elect lady is a figurative term for the church. And her children are the believers that are in that church. Now, that's the figurative view. And by the way, there are other speculations about who this elect lady is. Others again say it's some unnamed local church. Some say it's the mother of Mary, or excuse me, the mother of Jesus, Mary. Others say it's Martha. Uh others say it's some lady named Electa. You say where do they get all of that? I I d I don't I don't know I don't know. Actually, all of these are suggestions. None of it's based on historical support. Uh they're unfounded speculation. I think that the right view is that John is writing to a woman, a real woman, and her children, there in the first century. And I think that because, first of all, the simplicity of this letter, this has the normal form of a first century letter. It has all the elements of that. It's a very short letter. It has the uh normally the form in a letter like this, a personal letter, would be the name of the sender and then the recipient and then a greeting, and we see all of that in this letter here And uh this is short, which again implies it's written to a person, not a whole church, like we saw in 1 John, which is a long letter to a community of believers. But also John refers to having met this woman's children. We see this in verse number four. I great rejoice greatly that I found thy children walking in truth. So again, that's more evidence of a literal person here with her children. And also John mentions her sister's children in verse number thirteen, the children of thy lect sister greet thee. So if you take the figurative view, who is this sister then? And who is her children? I think, and also he refers to her house in verse number 10. We read that verse when he talks about receive them not into your house. So I think all of this gives evidence that this is John is writing to a literal person here. Nowhere in the New Testament are believers referred to as children of the church. You're not a child of the church, you're a child of God. Not a child of the church. All right. Again, it's too brief to be a letter to a church. Well, what is John's purpose in writing this letter? This is a short letter, but it's very, very important. It's like a trumpet blast. And I think that there are some scholars that believe that John is writing in response to a letter that she wrote him. She had questions about what she was supposed to do when a tr a traveling preacher or missionary came to her house, knocked on her door her door, If she was not sure if that person was someone who preached the truth about Jesus Christ, what if they were someone who didn't preach the truth like John preached about Jesus Christ? Should she in the name of Christian love Go ahead and allow them to come into her home and then take care of them, give them a meal. W what would she should ch what should she do? when someone like that came to her door. Now keep in mind that in this day, the practice of hospitality was very, very important. It was a widely recognized virtue in their early church. Believers were responsible to take care of other believers that came to their door. For example, write down Hebrews 13, 2. D do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained strangers unaware. The word stranger here is phyllo xenos, philo from love, xenos, stranger, or to love strangers, the love of a stranger. Romans twelve thirteen says we are to practice hospitality to strangers. Peter said this in first Peter four nine, be hospitable to one another without complaint. In other words, when you have to show hospitality to someone, don't do it with complaining. Don't be grudging about it. In 1 Timothy 5, the Apostle Paul wrote that a woman could not be put on the list of widows in the church that could be supported if she were not hospitable to strangers And also, 1 Timothy 3. 2 says, you can't be an elder or a pastor in the church if you don't have hospitality. If you can't be hospitable to others, you don't qualify to be a pastor. So hospitality was something that was very important in the early church. And you add to that that And we learned this in Sunday school this morning at 9. 45. Brother Paul Athel was talking about the Roman roads that were built throughout the Roman Empire back in that day. And uh I've had the privilege of seeing some of those roads on our recent trip over to Greece, and we took a group over there and we went to the city of Philippi. We were able to see a a Roman road that surely Paul walked upon These Roman roads that were built back in that day, some of them are still there and some of them are in good shape. I mean Baltimore City could learn from those Romans on how to build a road. And they they would walk along those roads that went all throughout the empire, that made travel easy. If you notice throughout the book of Acts, churches were planted on in towns and cities that were right alongside those Roman roads because it made uh easy the spread of the gospel And if you were a traveling missionary and preacher and you were traveling down one of those Roman roads and nightfall got close and you needed a place to lodge, you would try to find a Christian in one of those towns alongside the road there. You wouldn't want to stay in the inns or the brothel's because they were so filled with wickedness. Inns were really like brothels, I should say, because they were so filled with wickedness there in that day. So you didn't want to stay in an inn You didn't want to stay in some public place where wickedness took place. You wanted to find the home of a Christian because they were responsible to be hospitable to traveling missionaries. In fact, in the New Testament, there's vocabulary words that speak of this practice. There's the word lumbano to receive, officially receive someone into your house, or decomai, and also propeno to send them out. Uh John might send out a traveling missionary to go to a certain place, might have letters in their hands authenticating that they were a true missionary. But what would happen if a person if you're living in that day and a person came to your house and knocked on your door and said, I'm a traveling missionary and I'm out and I need your hospitality. I need you to help me because I'm on my way to a certain place to share. the word of God. How would you know what would you do? What if you suspected whether they were a genuine preacher or were they some kind of false preacher? In fact, there was a document that was written called the Didache, which means teaching. It was a first century document. It was a written with instructions on living the Christian life. And let me just read to you, it had a section in it about how to deal with this issue of hospitality and those who might abuse Christian hospitality and use it for their own ends. So I kind of gave some instructions here. Listen to what it says. It says, About apostles and prophets, follow the rule of the gospel, which is this, let every apostle who comes to you be welcome as the Lord. But he shall not stay more than one day. And if necessary, the next day also. But if he stays three days, he's a false prophet. And when he leaves, let him take nothing except bread to last until he finds his next lodging. Well listen to this. But if he asks for money, he's a false prophet. That was the rule according to Didicay. So if you're gonna receive a guy in, you know, receive him in, but you know, after the first day say it's time to go. And if they stay longer than two days, yeah you know that they're a false prophet. Especially if they ask for money. Now, the problem John is addressing here in this letter is that this woman, who is a godly Christian woman, we have every reason to believe, and we'll see that She was receiving into her home and giving hospitality to those who were not true preachers of the gospel. They were not preaching the Christ that John preached. So John writes to correct her for her intentions. He understands that she's a loving woman, but he corrects her for her actions. And uh her actions, uh I should say her intentions were good, but her actions were wrong. And so John needs to gently correct her. And that's what he does here in this letter. That's why we can divide 2 John into three sections. There's the greeting. We see this in verses 1 to 4. Then there's the exhortation about love. verses five to six, but then there's the warning that he gives her in verses seven to thirteen. So let's Let's talk about three encouragements or three words to this woman that John will give. First of all, a word a word of commendation. He commends her about walking in the truth. Again, John opens with the greeting, and the greeting many times would contain in seek form the major theme or concern of the letter. And so that's why John commends her for being a woman of truth from the very beginning. Again in verse 1, the elder unto the elect lady and her children whom I love in the truth. And not only I only, but also all they that have known the truth, and for the truth's sake, which dwell in us and shall be in us forever. So, right off, John commends her for being a woman of truth. What are the evidences in this greeting that she walks in the truth? Well, there's the testimony of her character. John himself in Christian love says he loves this woman because of her godliness. He says, whom I love in the truth. He loved the way in which she loved the truth of God's word. So he had a a a pastoral, godly love and affection for this woman who walked in the truth. And by the way, that expression walking in the truth is one of John's favorite If you've been with us in our study in 1 John, you see he uses it over and over again. And here he uses it about this woman. She walks in the truth. She knows the truth. And verse 2, where it says, Dwell, which dwelleth in us. The same truth that was in John was in her. He knew that she was a true godly woman. And this is the basis of the bond that he has with her. So there's the testimony of her character, there's a testimony of the church. John says, not I only, but also all they that have known the truth Uh so in other words, uh these believers that knew this woman, they loved her because they knew that she was a woman who walked in the truth. Again, truth is the unifying factor. You know what causes me to love you is your love of the truth. And my love of the truth. That's what unifies all of us together. That's why you're here this morning. You're here because you want to hear the truth of God, the truth of God's word. That is what we love. This is the benchmark of our Christian faith. And so there's the testimony of the church that loves this woman because but also there's the testimony of her children And verse number four, I rejoice greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth. Here John says, I'm very glad, I'm overjoyed. to know that you have children who walk in the truth. When he says, I have found, that's the Greek word eureka, uh again, an expression of joy. And he happened to meet this woman's children and she saw he saw that she taught them the truth, and so that they were walking in the truth. How did John meet them? Well we don't know. Perhaps uh Maybe through the sisters that he mentioned in verse 13 and her children. But John was rejoicing because here was a woman who taught her children the truth. Now, there's no mention of a man here or of a father that may be because maybe she had an unsaved husband, we don't know. Or maybe she was a widow. Uh that could be it. Or maybe she had uh was abandoned by a husband, maybe she was a divorced woman. Sometimes when a person would embrace Jesus Christ as their Savior, the spouse would divorce them because they wanted nothing to do with Jesus. But all we know is that John just mentions her, no man. But she was committed to Christ, and she was committed to the truth. And so John commends her. But then notice the secondly there's a word of challenge. Here he tells her to walk in love. Look at verse number five. And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning That we love one another. And verse 16, this is love that we walk after his commandments. So John not only commends her for walking the truth, he challenges her to continue to walk in love. I call this the continuation of love in verse number five. It's very obvious that this woman was given the hospitality. She was showing love to many of God's choice servants as they would travel through and knock on her door and she would take care of them and send them forth. She was walking in love, and John doesn't want to do anything to discourage her from continuing to walk in love. So he encourages her to keep it up. And when he talks about that new commandment, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee. That reminds us of 1 John chapter 2, when John talks about a new commandment I give. It's a new commandment and yet it's old. And it's the commandment to love. It goes all the way back into the Old Testament to love others, but it's new in the sense that we have a new emphasis and we have a new empowerment to love because now that we're saved, we have the Holy Spirit living inside of us who it really helps us to love the way God has called us to love. And so John is kind of referring to that same thing here. She is obeying this this love. She has this quality of Christian love about her. And he commends her for that. Keep loving others. Keep showing Christian love. That's what you're to do. But then this is what I call the clarification of love in verse number six. Again, look at it. And this is love that we walk after his commandments. And this is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning, that ye should walk in it. So John here links truth with love. Yes, you are to love. We are to exhibit love, to exemplify love. But that love should never be divorced from truth. Ever. He's saying really you can only really love the way God wants you to love when it's according to the truth. When it's according to the word of God, this is love. You can't love someone while ignoring or shunning what God's word says That's not real biblical love. And so he links these together. Love and truth. Are not opposites. Love and truth should be together. We love according to the truth. You can't say you're acting in love if you're disobeying the commandments of God. A while back a nationally known preacher that that I respect by the way was asked and he uh by a woman on his radio program This was a grandmother and she had a granddaughter who was a lesbian and who was going to go to a was going to get married. It was going to be a gay wedding. And she asked this nationally known preacher, should I go to this wedding? I'm a Christian, I'm a grandmother, I'm praying for her. Should I go to this wedding? And his answer to her sparked controversy because he said, yes, you should go to the wedding and you should bring a gift and give it to them at the wedding. And that caused a backlash from certain people. And uh and people ask me, what do you think about that answer? What what do you think what would you say about something like that? And I would say It's very simply this. First of all, it's not a really a wedding. It's not a wedding. Because the Bible tells us what a wedding is. It's a man and a woman when they're united together in marriage. The state and the government have no right or jurisdiction to tell us what a wedding is when God has already told us what marriage is in the Bible. And you can't go against what God's word says. So it's not really a wedding. And secondly, how uh this is this is a sin. The Bible makes it very clear that it's an abomination in the sight of God. So how could a Christian go and give their blessing to something that God considers to be an abomination? How can a Christian how could I go to a wedding like that and put my blessing on it and say, God bless you, and here's a gift When it's something that is offensive and a sin to Almighty God. Now I I know that some people get offended at that position. I don't mind offending you. I'm just not going to offend God. I'm just not gonna thank God on it. Now and I would also say this, you say that you might think that's that sounds so harsh. That sounds so unloving. But I would say that the most loving thing you can do to a person is to speak to them in love the truth. Speak the truth. You can't love a person by encouraging them in their error. Encourage him in the wrong way. That is not love. You can't divorce uh the truth and love. Let me let me preach, Gary. I'll take care of that. All right. So I I don't think that I don't think it uh I I think the fact that there was a backlash against This this this man who I respect, by the way, this nationally known preacher, I think he gave the wrong answer. And and I think rightfully so that believers said, no, that's not right, because according to what John tells us here When you violate God's word or when you encourage some kind of error, you are not showing love. There are limits. You don't sacrifice truth on the altar of love. And so John is challenging this woman. You don't bring in false teachers into your home and give them a meal and say, God bless you, and send them out and do it in the name of love. You don't do that. Because that is not Love. That's not real biblical love. And so notice the final thing here, a word of caution. A word of caution. So he cautions her, and we see this in verse 7 on down to verse 13. Look what he says in verse 7. For many deceivers are entered into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. And so here John warns beware the deceiver, because they're all over And the New Testament is filled with all kinds of warnings about this. We already saw this in 1 John chapter 4. Don't believe every spirit, but try the spirits. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 21, test everything, hold to what is good. And so he warns her, there's a lot of deceivers that have gone out into the world. They're all over the place. You better be careful. You don't want to do anything that supports them in their error in any way. Why? Well, because there are dangers here. Notice the dangers. There's a danger in losing spiritual progress. Look at verse number eight. Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought. In other words, you can lose spiritual ground. The believer can lose spiritual ground. If you're bringing in people that teach falsely in the name of Christian love, you can be influenced by them. And spiritually, you can lose ground. You can be taught wrong things. if you do that. And so there's a danger in losing your reward. And in verse number eight where he says, But that but but that we receive a full reward. You can't lose your salvation, but you can lose your reward. There are some people unwittingly out there that are giving to organizations, Christian, so-called Christian organizations, that are teaching falsehoods, they're not teaching the truth. Be careful, beloved. They're not teaching the gospel. They're teaching a false gospel. And there are Christians that are giving, thinking that they're doing they're helping the kingdom of God when actually you're not. And you're not getting a reward for that. In fact, you could lose your reward. And this is what he's warning about here. There's a danger of losing the truth. Look at verse number nine. Whosoever transgresses and abides not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God. And he that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son, the word transgressed to go beyond the bounds The established bounds of Scripture. You're going beyond what Scripture teaches. By receiving these people, you receive the enemies of sound doctrine and the enemies of Christ, and you lose the truth. You lose the truth. But then there's also the danger of losing your family. Look at verse number 10. If there come any unto you and bring uh bring and bring not this doctrine Receive them not into your house, neither bid them godspeed. In other words, you place your home under the influence of this false teacher Don't don't receive this person into your house. Don't don't give them a God bless you. What what are what are your other family members going to think about that? What's the other community community members going to think of when you bring in a false teacher And you affirm them and you help them on their way, you're not helping the gospel in any way. You're actually You are uh you're helping uh them to influence others. And it could be even your own family. Now also need to make a clarification. A lot of times uh churches met in houses in this day. They didn't have their own buildings. They met in a house. So he could be referring to a a church that met in a house, but he also could be referring just to the members of that house. But either way. There's a danger in losing those that you love to false doctrine. And there's a danger in losing your testimony. Look at verse number 11. For he that biddeth him God's feet is a partaker of his evil deeds. And so bidding of God's feet is one word in the Greek. It means rejoice. It was a common Christian greeting conveying joy. And what he's done is saying, look, false teachers shouldn't be welcomed. Some might someone might say, well that's unloving. But again, John is saying, look, it's loving the truth. It's loving the truth. What if a false teacher comes to your door? You don't want you not saying be mean to them or shun them in that way. Share the gospel with them. Tell them about the Lord Jesus. I've had Jehovah's Witnesses knock on my door before and uh you know I've had that experience and I've I've told them very clearly of the error of what they're teaching and how dangerous It is to believe that wrong doctrine about Jesus Christ and how they needed to get that right and shared the gospel with them. But in no way would I uh encourage them along their way. Or support them in any way. And this is what he's saying right here. According to the norms of hospitality, when the host would give them food and lodging They were basically guaranteeing to the rest of the community around that this was a person that you can support, that you can receive. And that was so very dangerous in that time. So John says, look, don't even bid on God's feet. Don't don't in any way part partake. Don't in the name of love support them. Because that's not real biblical love. And what's at stake is the purity of the gospel. The purity of the gospel here. And that's the, again, the thing that we want to zero in on. The message of the gospel is so precious. It is so important that we hold to the pure gospel and not in any way do anything that takes away from the gospel or supports anyone that does the same thing. Because the greatest message is the gospel. It is life or death. And by encouraging someone who's preaching a false gospel, souls are at stake. Because friend, when you die, you either go to heaven or hell. And if you don't embrace the true gospel, you're not going to heaven. And the true gospel is that Jesus Christ came as the virgin-born son of God, took all of our sins upon himself when he died on the cross. He paid our sin debt. He died. He was buried. He rose again the third day, showing that God the Father accepted his sacrifice for sin. On the cross the holiness of God was satisfied, the love of God was satisfied because now salvation is a gift to anyone that turns from their sin and puts their full faith in Jesus. The Son of God, the Savior of the world. That's the gospel. And John is basically saying, look, if anyone come to your house and they don't bring this doctrine, You don't in any way encourage them. You don't in any way help them out. Because love and truth go together, and you're not being loving when you ignore the truth. Uh it was the impish Roman god Cupid. That you you know Cupid, right? I mean it's February. Um went around shooting darts at everyone. Uh according to the legend, Cupid was blind. And that's where we get the expression love is blind. But John is saying love is not blind. In fact, it's totally opposite. Love is discerning. Love sees clearly. True biblical love and truth go hand in hand. You don't separate them The world promotes a love without discernment. The world promotes a tolerance that sacrifices conviction on the altar of acceptance. But Christian love is never, ever that gullible. And so this is a word to all of us. It's a word to me as a pastor. It's a word to you as believers. As parents, that you be discerning in the way that you practice true love. Let's bow together for prayer this morning. As you're praying there, just remember folks, truth is the most important thing that we have, the truth of God's Word. It's the thing by which we stand or fall. And we are never prepared to sacrifice the truth. So John is calling us to walk in truth and to walk in love, both of these things. And beware of deceivers at the door With heads bowed and eyes closed, it may be that you're here today and you've never embraced the truth about Jesus Christ. This morning you have an opportunity. It's a divine opportunity, a divine appointment if you're here for the first time. Or maybe you've been coming for a while. It's not an accident. God's placed you here because He wants you to hear the truth. He wants you to hear the truth of the gospel about His Son. Because He wants you to respond, to turn to Christ. If you've never turned from your sin and turned to Christ, you have an opportunity right now. The Bible says now is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation. So my question to you is, would you today turn to Christ? Put your full faith in him and what he did for you on the cross You can do that by simply reaching out in prayer. And I'm inviting you to do that right now, right where you are. Just pray something like this: Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Come into my heart. Forgive me for my sin. Give me eternal life. And you know what the Bible says? Jesus says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. If you want grace, if you want forgiveness for your sin, you'll get it when you come to Him They'll give it. Turn from your sin and turn to him. Do it right where you are. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. In a moment, we're going to stand and have a time of invitation. I'll have ministers here in the front. If you want to know more about this, we will take you aside in a in a private place and show you more how you can be sure that you're a child of God. And if you have a spiritual need, they'll help you out with that. If you just want to come and pray, we can do that. Let's all stand together.