It's good to see you here tonight. Would you take your Bibles to the book of open to the book of James? As you remember, we're doing a study in this epistle of James. And we are now in chapter 4, and tonight we're going to look at verses 13 down to verse 17. Verse 13 down to verse 17 of James chapter 4. And let me just read these verses with you. Go to now ye that say today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away For ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now you rejoice in your boastings, and all such rejoicing is evil. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. No doubt as we come to the close of a summer We're beginning to look to the fall and make our plans. Can you believe that summer's about over? We uh are always planning, it seems like, right? Planning is a part of life. People have their appointment books, they have their calendars filled with plans. Fathers plan on how to take care of their families financially. Students plan on the next stage of their academic life High school students plan what college to go to. College students plan if they want to go to graduate school. We make our vacation plans. We plan family activities. Pastors make plans. We plan for ministry. We plan ideas. There's nothing wrong with planning. In fact, Scripture encourages good planning. Proverbs 27, 12 says, A prudent man foresees the evil and hides himself. The simple pass on and are punished. If you look in the New Testament at the Apostle Paul, he was always planning, he was planning missionary trips in Romans 15, 24, he planned to visit the believers in Rome on his way to Spain. And it's no surprise to us that God plans. The Bible says in Job 42, too, no plan of yours can be thwarted. So planning can be good. Planning can be wise. However, there is a kind of planning that is uh that the Bible condemns. We could call this uh presumptuous planning. This is planning that is uh not according to the will of God, but planning according to our own uh sinful attitude. And this is what James is describing here. In chapter 4, verse 13. These are plans that are being made, but these plans are done in a sinful manner. Uh this this is kind of foolish planning. This is the planning where it doesn't really include God in it. It's the attitude that says, you know, it's my life, I'll do whatever I want, I'll do whatever I please. What I want us to see from this passage tonight are just three mistakes that people typically make when they uh begin to make plans. These are mistakes that we should avoid. If you're taking those right down number one, there's an attitude we should never take. An attitude we should never take. Look again in verse 13. Go to now ye that say today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get game. Now what is the attitude that's being described here? It's an attitude of self-sufficiency. It's an attitude that says, I can get along without God. James is describing a first-century businessman, a man who's making his plans, very astute plans. He knew where he was going. He knew how to get there. At least he thought he did. But he was living and planning as if there was no God. This man has really an arrogant attitude. He feels very self-sufficient. And James introduces his thought by using an expression found only one other place in the whole New Testament. Look again in verse 13 where it says, go to now. We we could say it like this. Now look here. It's kind of a negative connotation. Look here, you, you that think you can make all these plans and get along without God. Listen up here. Those that are planning without really praying, those that are so very self-sufficient. Now listen here, look here, you that say, notice this guy, he plans the period. Notice where it says, ye that say The Greek text literally says the one saying. They were uh really the verte of the Lego really has the idea of logic. They're they're planning this all out, they're reasoning it all out in their mind. And notice what he says, ye that say today or tomorrow. So he plans the period. He's got a certain date that he put down. On this certain day, I'm going to do this. He's got it all scheduled. It's in his calendar And then he plans the place. In verse 13, we will go into such a city. Here's the city I'm going to go to. This is the place where I'm going to live. One commentator wrote, this is an age of founding cities. Often when cities were founded, their founders were looking for citizens to occupy them. He says citizenship was offered freely to the Jews where Jews came, money and trade followed. So here's an age of founding cities. He spread out his map. He looked at the trends of business. He said, here's a growing city. Here's the place I need to make to be. This is a great spot. This is a strategic location. I'm going to go and I'm going to live in this city. And notice he plans the procedure because look what he says in verse thirteen I'll go into such a city and continue there a year And buy and sell and get gain. He knew how long he was going to stay there. He had his plan all together. I'm going to go in this city. I'm going to stay there for about a year. What am I going to do in that city? I'm going to buy and sell. I'm going to get gain. This is what he's interested in. He's interested in a large successful business. And notice, get gain. That's the whole thing. That's the he plans to profit. I mean we see the location, the vocation, the duration of his planning. Now the motivation, he's out to get money. Sometimes I hear people say, make all the money you can. That's bad advice. Now, if God's blessed you with money, that's a wonderful blessing from God. Thank God He blesses industry. He blesses hard work and for those who've worked hard for what they have, nothing wrong with that. That's the blessing of the Lord But there's a difference in the attitude. You know, when you someone says, get all the money you can, that's bad advice because you're setting your eyes on riches. And the Bible says that's not to be our motivation. And so here's this man and he he's out to just make money. Now again, there's really nothing intrinsically wrong in his planning. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with going to a city. Everyone's got to live somewhere. And nothing wrong with good business. God blesses good hard work and good planning and good business, all that is wonderful. The Bible in fact encourages that. Nothing wrong with making a profit. Because if you're a good businessman, you should make a profit. Nobody's going to survive if you don't. But the point about all of this is this: he did all of this without really asking God. Look down at verse 16. But now ye rejoice in your boastings, and all such rejoicing is evil. Here's a man who's planned everything out in a spirit of self-sufficiency and pride. He's boasting about what he's going to do, and he felt sufficient apart from God. You ever hear that poem in Victus, the last lines of it that say, I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul, you know, kind of drifts with arrogance. This is really the kind of attitude that we're seeing here from this man. Do you ever feel like you're the captain of your own soul? I hope that that's not the way you feel. I hope you believe that God is the one who's in charge, not you. But here this man he thinks he is. He's got it all worked out. And really he's kind of living like a like an atheist, as if there is no God. Now he might say he believes in God, but he doesn't acknowledge God. He doesn't look to God. He makes all of his plans on his own As if he is in full control and everything's going to happen just the way he planned it. This is an attitude that we should never take, an attitude of self-sufficiency. But secondly, here's another mistake. Number two, there's an assumption we should never make. Look down at verse fourteen. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life It is either a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. The assumption here is that we're guaranteed tomorrow and that everything will turn out just exactly the way we planned it. Many people, when they make their plans, they just assume that everything's going to turn out exactly the way they think. They assume that the future is certain. In fact, some people have a sense of entitlement when it comes to the future. If things don't happen exactly the way that we planned it. You know what happens to a lot of people? Well, they get bitter. When their dreams or their plans are shattered, when things don't happen the way they think that they should happen, they live perhaps bitter or depressed or maybe angry at God In fact, I have to tell you I meet ministers like this all the time. They're full of bitterness and anger because they they worked hard and they've done all everything right and they feel like they're entitled to certain things and it doesn't work out that way and they get angry They get bitter. Remember the book Jonah? Remember the story of Jonah? Remember how that book ends? It ends on a happy note, right? Wrong. It doesn't end on a happy note. It ends with Jonah sitting on the side of a hill asking God to take his life. He's pouting because the the things that he wanted to see happen didn't happen. The plans that he had were not the plans that God had. In fact, God had totally different plans. And Jodah's angry. He's bitter. He's pouting because things didn't go his way. There are some people that are that way. They just they make their plans and when things don't work out the way they think they should Then they are disappointed and depressed, and even sometimes bitter. But here, this man, what he failed to comprehend are certain things. First of all, he failed to comprehend the complexities of life. Things are never as simple as we think that they are. You know, that fairy tale line they live happily ever after, that only happens in storybooks, you know We live in the nasty now and now, the real world. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that God doesn't bless. He does bless and he does work and we do praise him for the things that he does. But sometimes God in his providence doesn't do things the way we think that he should do them. Sometimes his providences can be delightful in our life, but sometimes those providences can be dark. Things are more complex than we ever understood. Um you know, I I read before where You know, you have these people that are looking into the future, trying to make plans, thinking they know the future. There was a testimony before a Senate subcommittee not too long ago that claimed that people This was back like uh years ago where they said, you know, they looked in the future and they said, you know what, we think that Americans will be working just twenty-two hours a week, twenty-seven weeks a year, and Americans will be retiring by the age of thirty-eight Well that hadn't worked out. Anybody here retired at 38? Please don't raise your hand. We don't like you. And that's just not the really the way it worked out. There's no way to comprehend the complexities of life One commentator writes this, Life is far from simple. It is a complex matrix of forces, events, people, contingencies, and circumstances over which we have little or no control. making it impossible for anyone to ascertain, design, or assure any specific future. End quote. And he's exactly right. Plan and dream, but remember life is complex. It's never as simple as we think. But here's the second mistake. He failed to comprehend the uncertainty of life He didn't comprehend the complexities, but also the uncertainty of life. Look at verse 14, he says, Whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time. You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow The Bible says, both not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You never know what's going to happen tomorrow. Tomorrow can something can happen that can change everything. I uh of course we know of this. Every some sometimes I'll be listening to the radio in the morning and uh I'll hear a report about someone. who got in an accident maybe on I uh 695, uh a person driving to work in the morning and it was a fatal accident and they died on the way to work. You ever hear stories like that? And it always just just breaks my heart because here's a person that got up that morning. Perhaps uh uh you know, he didn't say goodbye to his children before he left. Who knows? Maybe he did, maybe he didn't. Maybe he kissed his wife goodbye. Maybe he didn't. What he didn't realize is that he only had a few minutes to live. And that the day that he thought was going to go the way he thought, it didn't at all. We never know what's going to happen. We never know what a day is going to bring. We can't predict these things. You know, we get hurricanes in in Haiti. There are you know things that are happening, a building falls down in Miami and and people die. We hear about all these things that happen all the time. Totally unpredictable events that take place over which we have no control. And we just don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. And this is what James is saying here You think you know what the future you think the future is certain or guaranteed to you? None of that is guaranteed to you. We don't know what a day is going to bring. And so don't forget that. When you're making your plans, don't forget that there's an uncertainty to life. There's a complexity to life. There's an uncertainty to life, but also there is a brevity to life. Again in verse 14, for he says, For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away And what he's saying is life is so short. It's so fragile. Life is like steam from a tea kettle. Life is like a puff of smoke. It's like frosty uh breath on a frosty morning. And as you sit here and listen to me, there is a heartbeat between you and eternity, and someone has described that heartbeat as a muffled drum beating a funeral march to the grave. Somebody else has said that life is so short that the wood of the cradle rubs tightly against the marble of the tomb. In Psalm 90, Moses was lamenting the brevity of life, and he compares life to the grass of the field. The grass sprouts in the morning. And and by evening it is faded under the hot sun. And Psalm 90, verse 10, he says this, as for the days of our life, they contain seventy years. If Or if due to strength eighty years, yet their pride is but labor and sorrow, for soon it is gone and we fly away Even if you live to be 100, how quickly life flies by. That's why Moses said, teach us to number our days. It's so short. Life is so short. You ever hear people say, well, you know, they talk about a near-death experience and they say, well, that's the closest I've ever come to death. No, the closest you've ever come to death is right now, today, because you're one day closer to the grave than you were yesterday. Every one of us is one day closer, and tomorrow we're going to be even closer. I know this sounds pretty morbid right now, you say You guys are out there saying he's depressing us. You know, I'm not trying to. I'm just trying to be tell you what James is saying. Life is short. You need to be realistic. We don't know what a day is going to bring. When as a child I laughed and wept, time crept. When as a youth I dreamed and talked, time walked. When I became a full-grown man, time ran. When older still I grew, time flew. Soon I shall find in passing on time gone. The Bible says in 1 Chronicles 29, 15, our days on earth are as a shadow. In Job 7, verse 6, he said, My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. He said, Remember, my life is but a breath. In Psalm 102, verse 3, he said, For my days are consumed like smoke. And so We should never make the assumption that tomorrow is guaranteed for any of us. Let me give you the third mistake he makes. There's an attitude we should never take. There's an assumption we should never make, but number three, there is an acknowledgement that we should never forsake. Look in verse number 15 For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or do that. James is teaching here that we are to make plans, but those plans must be made in acknowledgement of and in submission to the absolute sovereignty of God. James is saying, look, don't forget that God is sovereign over all. We might propose something, but God is the one who disposes. We can propose, we can plan. But ultimately, things are in God's control. You heard the story of Napoleon when on the on the morning of Waterloo. He was describing to his commanding officers what was going to happen. He said, we'll put the infantry here. We'll put the cavalry here and we'll do this. He said at the end of the day, he said England will be at the feet of France. And one of his officers stood up and said, Yes, sir, but don't forget, man proposes and God disposes. And Napoleon at that moment, in his pride, said, You don't forget that Napoleon proposes and Napoleon disposes. In his arrogance, he said that. And the novelist Victor Hugo wrote, From that moment Waterloo was lost, for God sent rain and hell, so that the troops of Napoleon could not maneuver as he planned. And on the night of the battle, it was Napoleon who was the prisoner of Wellington, and France was at the feet of England. You never know. You never know. So the problem with this first century businessman was that he was planning without acknowledging or submitting to The sovereignty of God. And the truth of the matter is there are a lot of people out there and they're living like little Napoleons where they say, My will be done, what I propose will happen, and they arrogantly make their plans for all their future future financial security But none of those plans include God. And James says, look, you ought to say, whenever you're making your plans And you're doing all this, you ought to say in verse 15, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or do that. And this is this is an acknowledgement to and submission to the sovereignty of God And by the way, we see this in the New Testament. The Apostle Paul, when he would make a plan, he told the Jews at Ephesus that he would return For renewed ministry among them, if God wills, he said. If God wills, I'll come back and minister among you. He wrote to the Corinthians, he was planning another visit with them, and he said, You know, I'm going to come And I'm going to stay with you for a long time. But then he said this, if the Lord wills, if this is what God wants, I'll do it. In fact he was later criticized by the Corinthians because it didn't he didn't do what he said he was going to do. But they weren't listening. Paul said, I'm only going to do this if God wills it. If God makes it happen. If God opens the door He was always dependent upon the Lord. He was always bowing to the sovereignty of God in his life. And James is telling us that this is the perspective that we always must keep as Christians. We need to be continually aware of our own finiteness and be dependent upon God and seek His sovereign will in everything that we do. In fact, uh this is the way Christians lived years ago. Um if you've read letters that have been passed between Christians hundreds of years ago. You might notice a postscript in their letters. At the bottom, there's D period, V period. Those two letters stand for the Latin words Deo Volente, which means Lord willing. So when a Christian that understood this truth was writing a letter and maybe in that letter they were saying, you know, here's what my plan is, here's what I want to do, when they closed the letter, when they signed their name, they would put under it D period, V period, which was a reminder to the recipient. That I'm only going to do this if the Lord wills. I'm submitting to whatever God wants. A. B. Simpson once said, I'd like to interpose all of my appointments With this phrase, if the Lord wills. So one of the most basic and helpful lessons in life is to learn this. God is God, and I'm not. He's in control. He controls the future. I do not in any way control the future. Now it's nothing wrong with being prepared for contingencies. I mean I I carry a modest life insurance policy to protect my wife should I die and I you know I do all the wise things like you should I encourage all of that But you know what? The bottom line: it's impossible to cover all of the contingencies of life. It's just impossible Our economy may crash. Our country might be overrun by terrorists. My retirement investments may fail. You know the only really security we have is trusting in God. That's the only real security that we have. And the Jewish Christians that James was ready to understood what he meant because they knew the Old Testament scriptures. And they knew what the Bible said about the sovereignty of God. Sovereignty means that God has determined down to the very last detail the actual course of this world. All the events, everything that takes place, all of it is subservient to the will of God. That's why you'll hear me say from time to time, I believe in the exhaustive sovereignty of God. I know every Christian says, Well, I I believe God is sovereign. Everyone believes that. But what do you mean when you say you believe God is sovereign? You know, well God is in control. Yeah, but you know, what do you mean by that? Because I I know some Christians that say, well, God is in control of the big things, but he's not in control of the little things. But you fail to remember that big things are determined by the little things. And little things can overturn big things. If God is if God he's if he's sovereign, that means he's exhaustively sovereign. If he's not sovereign, he's not God. I believe he is God, and I believe he's sovereign. But if he's sovereign That means he has to be exhaustively sovereign. Otherwise, he's not sovereign at all. Because little things, little events, can overturn The will of God. And that's why God has to be controlled, even in the what we call the the minor things. Jesus said it like this: the very hairs of your head are what? That's not hyperbole. That's literal. Jesus said, all that's planned out. The point that he makes is that God does not exercise his sovereignty in a broad way. Leaving the details to chance or luck, God is sovereign over the details of our life. And Scripture affirms this Almost since sometimes in an incidental way. For example, in Isaiah chapter five, Isaiah is predicting the invasion of the Assyrian army that's coming in. And Isaiah in that chapter he's describing the battle-ready conditions of this army. And listen to what he says in chapter 5, verse 27 None shall be weary nor stumble among them. God said when this army comes in, none of them are going to be tired, none of them are going to stumble None shall slumber nor sleep, neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken. God said when this army comes in, not one shoelace on their on their boots is going to be broken when they come in. Not one shoelace will be un tied. That's incredible. We see this is we see in this affirmation of God's sovereignty the thoroughness with which his sovereignty penetrates every deep every detail. Nothing is left to chance, not even a broken shoelace. We we all know the saying, for one of a nail a shoe was lost, for one of a shoe a horse was lost, for one of a horse the rider was lost. For one of a rider, the battle was lost, all for the one of a nail. One little nail Determined the outcome of that battle. And it reminds us that details are important, and God is sovereign over the details of life. Now, there are many things in creation that we think of as kind of we call it natural occurrences, but scripture says God causes them to happen. Listen to what it says. Fire and hail, snow and frost, stormy wind fulfilling what? His command. The psalmist said this. Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and on earth. in the seas and the deeps. In Psalm 135, verse 7, it says this, He it is who makes the clouds rise at the end of the earth. Who makes lightnings for the rain, and bringeth forth the wind from his storehouses? God also causes the grass to grow. Listen to Psalm 104. Verse fourteen, you cause the grass to grow for the cattle and plants for man to cultivate, that he might bring forth food from the earth. God directs the stars in the heavens. He asked Job this. He said, Can you bring forth the consolation in their season? God is asking Job, Job, are you able to do that? Are you able to bring forth the consolations all in their different seasons? God is the one who does all of that. God is in control of All these things, and then in the creation, in control of animals, the Bible said these all look to you to give them their food in their due season. The the things that we call chance events, there's no such thing as a chance event for a Christian. Listen to what the Bible says. The lot is cast into the lap, but the decision is holy from God. God does not allow chance events to control our life. And we can go on There's so much more, the affairs of nations. The Bible says in Psalm 22, verse 28, dominion belongs unto the Lord. He rules over the nations. He also rules rules over people. You know, you might be thinking, well, yeah, you know, God's in control of nature and he's in control of, you know, nations, but you know, God's in control of all these impersonal things. But what about people? Is God sovereign over the actions of men? Listen to Psalm, or excuse me, Proverbs 21-1. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water, he turns it whatever way he wants. He turns it with whithersoever he will. Now the king is an absolute monarch. It's hard for us in America to understand that we live in a democracy, but a king back in that day, he was an absolute monarch and he does whatever he pleases. But the most stubborn monarch God says, I can direct his heart as easily as the farmer directs an irrigation canal on his farm. God can turn the heart of the most stubborn monarch. This is comforting to know because there are times when it's it seems like that our lives are in the future of other people's hands and their decisions. A government can deny a visa. A professor can determine the academic success of a student. A supervisor can block or promote a career. It might look like that we're at the mercy of man, but God sovereignly rules in the heart to do the thing that He wills. God will rule in the heart of people to do the thing that He wants to come to pass. Write down Proverbs 16, 9. A man's heart devises his way, but the Lord directs his steps. A man might in his heart say, I'm going to do this. However, God will direct that person's steps. God rules sovereignly in the heart. of the king to do what he wills. I love this story about George Washington. He wanted to join the British Royal Navy when he was 17 years old. His mother at first gave her consent And George took all of his things down to the dock. He was getting ready to load everything onto the boat. But then word came that his mother had changed her mind and she refused to sign the consent form. So he had to take all his things and go back home. But had his mother signed that consent form, he would have been fighting for the British. instead of fighting with the Americans for their independence. You think that was an accident? I think God controls all of that I think about this, if you don't mind me sharing a personal testimony. The other day my my uh my daughter and her husband uh flew to Arizona. They were went to a wedding. She was in the wedding. Some of you know my daughter Abby, she lives in London. And uh, you know, uh they it really hurt my feelings that they didn't stop here to see me, but that's another story. But anyway, they flew from London to Arizona And uh she kind of messaged us and said, you know, we're stopping to look at the Grand Canyon. And I messaged back and said, Well you should, because the Grand Canyon is what brought you both together. And what I meant by that was that the only reason Abbey lives in London today, it's a it's a story, but I'll I'll kind of shorten it. When I was pastoring down in Tennessee, uh the Ministry Answers in Genesis asked me to go down through the Grand Canyon on a trip uh with thirty different scholars from all over the world just to look at the rock formations in the Grand Canyon to look to look at that, the layers, and to prove that that canyon was cut out not by millions of years, it's Some of the old earth people like to describe, but it was actually cut out because of the flood. And we were going to see some of the proof of that. So they asked me if I would be interested in coming along, seven days going down through the canyon on the Colorado River, on the these rapids that were the fastest moving rapids in North America, and sleeping on the side of the river. on a cot for seven days. That's just not the type of thing that I'm really used to doing. So I just said uh no No thank you. So they called me back a second time. They say, come on, we we really like like you to go on this trip. I said, let me pray about it. No I don't want to go on this trip. So they called me back a third time. And finally the third time they said, we really would like you to take this trip with us. So I said, fine, I'll go. I relented. I went on that trip. While I was on that trip, they put us in this the first day. on this excavation or whatever we were doing, this expedition, I should say. We were we were in this hotel in the desert right before we were going to launch, it was not five star, I promise you that. They put us in the rooms two by two, and my last name is Harmon. They they split us up two by two alphabetically. So they put me in a room with a another guy whose last name was Haslum. Haslum. Haslum and Harmon. And I happened to be reading a book about Westminster Chapel in London. You know, during that. I had the book with me. I was actually reading it. And he noticed in the room I was reading a book about Westminster Chapel in London. He says, Oh, I know that church. And I said, Really? He said, Yeah. I I said, well how? He said, I'm the pastor of it. I said, Really? And I I said, the one in London, the one by Buckingham Yeah, I'm the I'm the pastor of that church. It was really fascinating. So we got to be friends. And later on he asked me to come over and help him do some evangelism right around the Olympic Olympics and I brought Abby with me. And then Abby fell in love with that place and later she applied for an internship. It was only supposed to last six months. So she went over and as an intern and she ended up meeting this British medical student And the rest is history as they say. And now I have grandbabies with a British accent. And when she told me on the phone the other day, she said, we're gonna go see the Grand Canyon, my first thought was, well, you should, because it was the Grand Canyon that actually brought you all together. Had I said no the third time to them and not taken that trip, things would have been different. But why did I say yes? Because I was brilliant enough to see how this was all going to turn out? Absolutely not. Because God is in control of these details of our life. It's His providence that sets these things in motion. And this is what the scripture tells us. You say, what about human responsibility? James is not teaching a doctrine of fatalism. Whatever will be, will be. No, we're still responsible in all of the choices we make. Look at verse 17 Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is what? It is sin. We never fold our hands and say, Well, God's in control, it doesn't matter what I do. That's wrong. Listen to this. Both divine sovereignty and human responsibility, both of those things are taught in Scripture. And we need to hold on to both of those things because they're both true. Every decision we make is a real decision. It is a decision that brings about consequences in our life, so much so that we will be judged for all the decisions that we make. But don't you think that any decision you make can overturn the sovereign will of God? It can't. It can only affirm it Now there's a mystery in that I will assure you I you might be sitting here with saying, well, you know, this doesn't always reason out, but I would just remind you that in theology, theology is not a problem-solving venture, it's a mystery-discerning venture. God is incomprehensible, and He reveals to us only what He wants to know. And the Bible makes it very clear That He is sovereign, He's in control, and you are responsible for all the decisions you make. So you better make the best decisions you can, knowing you're going to have to give an answer for it, but also know that in that God is still in control. He's still in control. Again, Proverbs 21:31. The horse is made ready for the day of battle. You can go ahead and get ready for the battle. You can get your horse ready, you can get your weapons, you can get your armor, you got your plans, it's all ready to go But listen, but victory belongs to the Lord. Go ahead and make all your plans. But remember, the outcome of the battle is determined by God. And so the responsible Christian acknowledges and submits to the sovereign will of God. And it doesn't cause him to be fatalistic or fold his hands in any way. He will do the responsible thing, he'll do the wise thing, and yet ultimately submit to whatever God sovereignly disposes in his life. James is saying that we plan, we prepare, but we always acknowledge. God's sovereignty, if the Lord wills. We will do this and we will do that. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for this reminder that Lord James gives us That in all the plans and decisions that we make in this life, we Would be wise to give due do with due diligence to do all the research and do all the planning, but to never do it in a way where we feel like we're self-sufficient. Where that we're the ones in control and that we can actually dispose as we want. It's wise to plan, but Lord, we do it in submission to your sovereign will, knowing, Lord, that you're the one That is in control of the future. You're the one who is in control of all the details. And any decision or any plan that we make, we submit it to you And we say, like James teaches us to say, if the Lord wills, if God wills, I'm completely submitted to the sovereign will of God. And Lord, help us to realize that that's really the key to peace. To know, Lord, that you're in control and you know best. And while we do make our plans. We do it with a spirit of sweet submission, desiring to please you, desiring to do your will, to affirm your will in all of our life. So help us, Father, to do that. Help us to acknowledge what James teaches us here tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.