Good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take your Bibles now. Open to the book of First Corinthians, chapter Thank you, John. First Corinthians chapter ten. We are in chapter ten tonight as we are in our study here. It's such a privilege to study this great letter. And I pray that the Lord is using that to build you up and to instruct you. Tonight, the title of the sermon is Dining with Demons. Yeah, that's not a very edifying Why would I title a sermon that title? Well, we're going to look into the passage here in First Corinthians, and I think you'll see why. That we're calling it this here. Now, if you remember, as we were studying First Corinthians last week, uh you know that one of the dangers that the Apostle Paul is dealing with with With reference to the Corinthians, is their overconfidence. There was a danger of them being overconfident. I was reading a statistic this week. Did you know that half of all drownings happen to people who are good swimmers. They are very confident in their ability to swim, and yet that's where half of all drownings come from. Overconfidence coupled with neglect can lead to sad con And so Paul is warning the Corinthians about their overconfidence. You see, there were some Corinthians who believed that they could exercise their liberty, and in exercising their Liberty. They actually believed that they could go to a pagan temple and eat meat sacrificed at that temple and go through the pagan rituals that were associated with that temple And even fellowship with some of the people there, the pagans that were at that temple, they felt that they could go through all of that and it not have any effect on their spiritual life You talk about exercising liberty, or actually we could say abusing liberty, they were abusing their liberty to that point. They believe they had the liberty to go to those rituals, those pagan temples. And it was because of their overconfidence, because they had such knowledge and they felt like they were on such good spiritual ground that they could participate in things And so the Apostle Paul is warning them. In fact, look in chapter 10, verse 12. We looked at this verse last week, but it really applies to the same context here. Verse 12 says, Wherefore let head that thinketh he stand take heed lest he what lest he fall you better be careful that those who think you stand you better be careful lest you fall you can't sit down And so Paul continues in the warning that he began to give Last week, he's going to continue in the same idea here. In fact, he gives a very forceful command. Look in verse number 14, where he says, Wherefore, my dearly beloved, Flee from idolatry. Now, just by way of introduction, let me give you a few preliminary thoughts. First of all, look at the word wherefore there. This looks back to everything he has said up until this point Everything he said about Christian liberty, and you remember he started this subject in chapter 8, and he was dealing with this issue of eating meat sacrificed to idols, you remember that this was an issue in the church at Corinth. You remember that the the Greeks in that day were polytheistic. They believed in many gods. They were polydemonistic, and they believed that demons tried to attach themselves to a human being through the food that they ate. So a demon would attach itself to meat, and if you eat that meat, then that demon is inside you, and so they would take the meat to their various uh gods or temples and have the meat cleansed and a third of that meat went to the worshipper and a third of it went to the priest and a third of it was put on the altar and sometimes the priest got so much meat that they would take the meat to the market and they would sell it there. And most of the meat that was sold in the maximum that was called back then, the meat market, was meat that was sacrificed to idols. And the question was, could a Christian come by and buy that meat? Did they have the liberty to take go to the market, buy that meat, take it home from Prepare it and eat it. When there were some in the church of Corinth that felt that they had the liberty to do that, there were others in the Church of Corinth that were offended by this action. And it was against their conscience to buy meat sacrificed to idols, and so therefore they wouldn't do it. And the Apostle Paul is speaking to the great Group of Corinthians who felt like they had the liberty. I I call them the libertarian Christians because they think that they had liberty to do many things And they were fond of quoting slogans, all things are lawful, and they l like to flaunt their liberty, even to the point of abusing their liberty. And the Apostle Paul's message in chapter 8 was what? You need to learn to limit your liberty out of love. Love for your brother. And then in chapter 9, what does Paul do? Paul just to let the Corinthians know that he's not preaching one thing and doing another, that he practices himself what he preaches. uses himself as an example of someone who limits their liberty. In fact, Paul, his whole idea in chapter 9 is, look, I do this all the time. I limit my liberty all the time on the behalf of others. And look at chapter 9, look at verse 22 again. To the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men. that I might by all means save some. Paul says I've literally made myself a slave to all men in order that I might win others. I am limiting my liberties also all the time for the sake of all those around me. And I do it all the time. And then We have in chapter 10, the first part of chapter 10, and what does Paul deal with here? He's really talking about here how using our freedom affects our own lives. Now in chapter 8 and chapter 9, he was speaking about how our liberty affects others. When we use or abuse our liberty, it has an effect on others. But when we abuse our liberty, it has an effect on us. In the first part of chapter 10, he's warning about becoming disqualified. If you're not careful, if you abuse your liberty and you go past the limits. Then you can disqualify yourself. The freedom that you have can be abuse and temptation can get you. You can be ensnared and you better be careful. And who does he Uses an illustration of this very thing, the Israelites in the wilderness, remember them? That was what he uses as an illustration. You remember how they, even though they were recipients of all these divine blessings Yet they were disqualified. Out of that older generation that came out of Egypt, how many actually went into the promised land? Only two. The rest were disqualified in the race. because of the way they live. And so he's continuing this same idea, this same thought here. He's talking to these overconfident Corinthians, and what he's going to say here now, he's going to uh look at the command in verse 14. Wherefore, my beloved, dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. Paul gives the warning, and then now he's giving a command. In fact, look at verse number 13. Therefore there is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man, but God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that you might be able to bear it. So here Paul is telling them, God always gives a way of escape Now in verse 14, you know what he's saying? Take that way of escape. Flee from idolatry. Here's the way of escape for you, Corinthians For you overconfident Corinthians who think you can go into these pagan temples and participate in those services and feel like it's not affecting you, you better take the way of escape Right now, you better flee from idolatry. This is a present indicative, or excuse me, present imperative, it's a command. Keep on continuing to run from these things. Keep on continuing to flee. The Greek word here, fuege, where we get the word fugitive from, it was used in classical Greek to talk about someone who runs from a dangerous plague or one who runs from an attacking enemy, or one who runs from a poisonous snake, and the senses Paul is saying, you better run for your life. You better run from these pagan temples. You better run from idolatry. You can't practice that and it not affect you spiritually. Spiritually. But notice the care that Paul uses. Look in verse 14, where he says, Wherefore my dearly beloved, he's speaking with a compassionate heart. Paul will uh warn them from a heart of love because Paul loved these Corinthians. In spite of their many faults and problems, he loved them. He was their spiritual father. He was their first and former pastor, we could say And so he speaks from a heart of care and love. But notice the consideration in verse 15. I speak as to wise men. He's speaking to them wisely. In other words, he's appealing to their own wisdom. Now remember the Corinthians, they love wisdom. They like to boast in wisdom. And Paul's deadly serious here. He's not sarcastic as he was previously. Here he's deadly serious. He says, I'm speaking to you as to wise men. I want you to take what I'm saying and use your wisdom and receive it Because as believers, we have a wisdom that comes from God, right? Paul established that in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. We have the wisdom. It's not the wisdom of the world It's a wisdom that comes from God. And so Paul says, I'm speaking to you as unto wise. You're saved, you have the Holy Spirit, and you are you have a wisdom that God gives you. So I want you to listen to what I'm saying. I'm speaking as unto wise. And notice where he says in verse 15, judge ye what I say. Now this morning we were talking about discernment and test what a prophet person says and then you know be careful and here Paul is in his sense saying the same thing. Look, you listen to what I'm about to tell you. And you discern for yourself. You judge for yourself if what I'm about to say is not right, is not good And so with all that in mind, and by the way, the you there is emphatic in the Greek, you judge for yourself You judge what I'm about to say. You think through what I'm about to say. So, with all that in mind, Paul gives three reasons to flee from idolatry. And if you're taking notes, here's reason number one, the intimacy of divine fellowship. The intimacy of divine fellowship Now in verses 15 down to verse 18, what's Paul going to do? He's going to ask a string of rhetorical questions designed to get them to think. with him about this issue. There are questions about the Lord's Supper and sacrifices in the Old Testament. And look in verse sixteen, the cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ, the bread where which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ. Now Paul gives one reason why they should flee from idolatry. They should flee from those rituals and those pagan temples there. And he points to the Lord's Supper And he's you say, what's the connection? The connection is this: when we eat the Lord's Supper, we're fellowshipping with the Lord in the most intimate way. Don't you realize that when we come to God's house and we have the Lord's Supper, that there's a wonderful intimacy and communion that takes place When we're all together and we're doing that. Now, there are several views on the Lord's Supper. There's the transubstantiation view, that's the Catholic Catholic view. That's the view that when the priest takes the elements and he prays the priestly blessing over it, that the b the bread is turned into the body of Christ and the wine is turned into the blood of Christ. And so thus the substances are transformed to the body and the blood of Christ. That's why a Catholic priest will hold up the bread as if to say, this is the Lord, worship You know, this this piece of bread, because when he says that blessing, it supposedly had turned into the body of Christ. That's also, by the way, why in Catholic communion they don't serve wine anymore. You just take the bread because they didn't want common people spilling the wine. I mean if it literally became the blood of Christ, you don't want people spilling the blood of Christ So they they literally stop uh serving the wine. You just take a wafer now all of that is of course not true. All of that is is not in the scripture anywhere, but that's one view. And then there's the other view that there's consubstantiation, and this was the Lutheran view that says that the elements don't really become the body and the blood of Christ, but somehow Christ is mystically present in those elements. Christ bright is Mystically present in the bread, and Christ is mystically present in the wine. And so thus you have consubstantiation, which is the idea of the uh the uh the word con meaning width and substantiation Substance Christ is with those substances of bread and wine. Well we don't believe that view either. We don't believe the scripture teaches that in any form. Form or fashion. And then there's a view of the memorial view, which is the view that this is a time of remembrance. And certainly we believe that whenever we come to the Lord's table, we are remembering What our Lord Jesus did for us on the cross. In no way does the bread become the body of Christ, in no way does the wine become the blood of Christ. These are ordinances of remembrance These are signs and symbols to us that are designed to stir our emotion and get us to ponder what happened at Calvary. We go by faith to However, we can say there's something deeper that ha that happens than just remembrance, although we do believe that at the Lord's Supper there's a beautiful remembrance that we have. And it stirs our affection. Isn't that what happens when you take a picture out of your wallet and you look at perhaps a family member? You know, every week we get a picture of our grandson, Theo Abby's faithful to send us those pictures, you know. And now everything's electronic, right? So you look on your phone when she sends a picture, and when we see those pictures, it's It just stirs our heart. It stirs our affections. And it does several things. First of all, we're grateful to the Lord. But also it gives me a longing man. I look forward for the time in the future when I can be with him present in the present, when I can hold him. And that's in a sense what happens at the Lord's Supper when we look at these symbols. It stirs our hearts and affections But also it gives us an anticipation of when we cannot wait until we are in the presence of Christ. When we can see Him face to face. But there's something deeper That happens at the Lord's Supper. And what is that? There is a communion. That's why another word that we call this is we call it communion. Why? Because there is an intimate fellowship that takes You see, we believe that Christ is spiritually present with us at the Lord's Supper. And when we partake of this ordinance We fellowship with Jesus in a very real way, in a very blessed way. And there's a sense in which grace is given to us, not saving grace the way others teach. But a grace that gives us peace and we're strengthened, our spirits are refreshed. We have joy in the Holy Spirit. We have a special wonderful love and passion for Christ that has stirred up. You know, you ever spend a long season in prayer and you get up and you feel strong? Or you ever spend a season in the Word of God and you get up and you say, Man, what a blessing that was. That's the sense when we come to the Lord table and we come with a right heart with a worshipful heart we have fellowship with the Lord and we're strengthened and we're blessed and there's a real very real spiritual exchange That takes place with us there at the Lord's Supper. And this is the point that Paul's making here. Look again in verse number 16. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? We are having real Communion when we take that cup and when he says the cup of blessing, he's referring to that w I I think back in this day they had one cup that they The last cup was the cup that Jesus Jesus blessed and he ordained to be the cup for the Lord's Supper. And Paul says, when we come together and we take that communion cup and we bless it, don't we have communion? And we think about the blood of Christ, there's a sense in which that communion there means sharing. It's the Greek word koinania, to have in common, to have fellowship. Fellowship with, we have a real fellowship with Christ. We commune with Christ at his table. And it's very real. And it's very wonderful. The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? And so these are symbols. We're referring to the cup which speaks to us about the blood of Christ, uh the the fruit of the vine, the grape juice. Is a symbol of the blood of Christ. And that's a one-word expression or one phrase that talks about everything that Jesus did for us on the cross. His whole atonement, his whole propitiation. We think about that. And there's a beautiful exchange that takes place with God and with his children when this happens at the The Lord's supper. It's a wonderful, wonderful fellowship that we enjoy. Look at verse 17. For we being many are one bread and one body. And we are all partakers of that one bread. And here he's focusing on the unity that also takes place with the people of God at the Lord's Supper. They all passed it around and they took a piece off of that same loaf of bread which emphasized the unity. The oneness that the body of Christ shares, but also that oneness that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ, that you're one with Him. And so it's a spiritual experience. It's a very real spiritual experience where our love for Christ is served and in return he blesses us. Again, there's an experience We enjoy his communion, we enjoy his fellowship, we enjoy that intimacy. And by the way, Paul's going to say the same thing about the Old Testament sacrifices. Look in verse number 18. Now first he talked about the Lord's Supper. And when you go to the Lord's Supper, there's a beautiful communion and fellowship, and there's an exchange there, and there's a oneness there. that you have with your Savior in a oneness with others that participate. But now he's going to use the same argument with respect to Old Testament sacrifices. Look at verse eighteen, behold Israel, after the flesh, are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? Now again, Paul's using this illustration about eating the sacrifice in the Jewish temple. And this entails a common participation at the altar. When the Israelites sacrificed to the Lord, some of the offering was put on the altar as a burnt offering, and some of it was eaten by the priests, and some of it was eaten by those who were there to worship. So again, you have three portions: the offering, eaten by the priests, eaten by the people, but everyone was involved with the offering, and with God, and with everyone there. And so anyone who knows anything about Old Testament sacrificial practices knew that those who ate the sacrifices We're all partners at the altar. When the priests and the Levites and other Israelites consumed their allotted portions they entered into a close relationship, a close fellowship at the altar and a fellowship with Almighty God Again, Paul's pointing to the Old Testament sacrifices to say that there was a blessing that took place there when the person brought their sacrifice to the altar. There was a oneness, a closeness, a fellowship, an exchange that took place for the Old Testament sacrifice. And so he talked about the Lord's Supper being a spiritual experience, and the Old Testament sacrifices being a spiritual experience where there was fellowship. He said, now wait a minute, what has this got to do with idolatry? Well notice the second point, not only the intimacy of divine fellowship, but also right down number two, the idolatry of demonic fellowship. Now, Paul establishes his argument. Now he's going to build on it. Notice the implication. Look at verse 19. What say I then? Paul's question is: you know, what am I saying here? What am I implying? What am I implying by talking about the Lord's Supper and the spiritual experience that you have? What am I implying by the Old Testament sacrifices and the spiritual experience that a worshiper has there? Well, first he's going to talk about what he's not implying. He's not implying that the physical idol is anything. He's not saying that the idol is something real or that it re represents a God who is real Look at verse 19. What say then that the idol is anything? Or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything? Again, he wants to make very clear that he's not saying that there are real gods behind the idols, and that the idol was really anything, that it had some kind of a spiritual power or nature He's not saying that the meat is uh that the meat is uh contaminated with some false god and that the worshipper when they eat that they're taking in that god to himself. He's not saying any of that. He's not implying that because we're Remember, he already dealt with this in chapter 8, remember? Look, go back to chapter 8, look in verse number 4. Look at that quickly. Notice he says, as concerning therefore the eating of those things which are offered in sacrifice on the idols, we We know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is nothing other there is none other excuse me God but one. Paul says, look, we know that there's only one God, and all of those who say they are gods, they're not real. There's an idol, but there's no God there. And you remember the illustration I use about Baal and Elijah and then on Mount Carmel, which was supposedly the residence of Baal, that's where he lived on Mount Carmel. So Elijah went on their turf and said, Okay, if Baal's real, let him answer with fire from heaven, and they had the altar there and they had to sacrifice, and what happened? Nothing Why? Because Baal's not real. And of course God answered by fire. There's no real there's no God. There's only one God And Paul is very clear to make uh very uh careful to make that clear in verse five of chapter eight, for though there will be many that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth As there be Gods many and Lord's many, but unto us there is one God. Now to some people they think there's gods, but there's only one God. And he's the only God. Isaiah 45, 5, I am the Lord, and there is none else. There is no God besides me. So Paul is not implying that there's really a God behind the idol. But here's what he is implying. Look at verse 20. But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to what? Devils. And not to God. And I would not that ye should have fellowship with devils. So here's the point. These idols they represent gods that don't exist. However, demons are real, and devils are real, and there are demonic forces That pretend to be gods. There are demons that keep people in bondage. And Paul says when a Gentile sacrifices to a false god, it is not a god that they're sacrificing to, it is a demon that they're sacrificing to In Deuteronomy 32, verse 17, it says they sacrificed to demons that were no gods. When people sacrifice to these idols, they're sacrificing to demons. In Psalm 106, verse 28, it says, then they yoked themselves. to Baal of Peor and ate sacrifices offered to the dead. And it says they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons. To demons. That's the point. There's a real demonic force. There's real demonic activity behind all this idolatry. That's what he's saying. I heard of some missionaries that uh that can Tell you of some incredible experiences they have on the mission field of demons and inanimate objects and how they can use those objects to keep And by the way, this is the reason why, beloved, you should shouldn't look at something like astrology and say, oh, it's innocent, it's there's nothing behind it. You better be careful. There is something behind it. It's demonic. Don't let your children play with a Ouija board. That's ridiculous. Those don't don't let associate with anything that has anything to do with the occult and witchcraft and any of those things, saying, well, it's innocent, there's really nothing to it, there is something to it. There are real demonic forces. that are out there that you should not associate with. You should get out of your home, out of your life. If you have anything like that in your house, you better get rid of it Get it out. Because demons they don't have all power, but they have some power. And they can bring a Christian into bondage if you give the uh the Bible says don't give place to the devil devil. You give a place to the devil, he will wreak havoc in your life. And so what is Paul saying here? He says in verse 20, I would not that you should have fellowship with devils. So what's he saying? Paul's saying that when you go to a pagan temple and you participate in those rituals and you eat the meat sacrificed to idols there, you're having fellowship with demons That's the point. There's a spiritual exchange, just like at the Lord's table, when you are there and and you fellowship with the Lord, and there's a spiritual Spiritual experience and there's an exchange. Don't you realize that when you go to a pagan temple and you eat meat at that temple, that there's a st uh a negative, detrimental spiritual experience? that happens there. There's a fellowship with demons. You're dining with demons when you do that. Now The questionable practice was buying that meat in the market and taking it home and eating it. There was liberty to do that. That was questionable. What was not questionable and what was wrong was to go to these towns. And Paul makes that very clear. This is not a gray area. This is not questionable. This is not exercising your liberty. This is sin. This is abusing your liberty to the point where you've allowed yourself to be pushed over into sin, and you think in your confidence, you Corinthians, that you can do this and it not affect you, and you better watch it Watch out. You better take heed lest you fall. That's the whole argument that it uses here. So let me give you the third point. There is the intimacy of divine fellowship. There is the idolatry of demonic fellowship. But then right down, number three, there's the inconsistency. Of dual fellowship. Because look what Paul says in verse 21. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. You cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and of the table of devils. Paul now makes a contrast between the table of the Lord and the table of demons, and basically saying, How can you as a Christian go to a pagan temple, eat meat, sacrifice to an idol there in the temple, and then come to God's house? And pretend to partake of the Lord's Supper. It is hypocritical. You can't do both. These are mutually exclusive fellowships. You can't partake of the Lord's cup, the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. You can't do it. Remember Jesus Jesus said that you can't serve two masters. Not that you shouldn't, it's that you can't. You've got to choose one or the other. And Paul's kind of throwing down the grunt and saying the same thing. You can't worship the Lord at his house and then go and worship at some pagan temple That's just totally inconsistent. It's hypocritical. You can't fellowship with the Lord and with demons. Don't think you're immune to any negative influences there because you're not. You better be careful. Now how do we apply this to us as believers? And the and the to me the application is very simple, beloved. You better be careful You better be careful who you associate with. You better be careful. When the Lord saves you out of a background like that, don't go back into it Don't associate with any kind of pagan religion or false religion or things like that, thinking all it's innocent, and now that I'm a Christian it can't affect me, it can't affect me Be careful who you associate with, be careful what you associate with, because it can have a negative influence in your life. Life. It's hypocritical, but it's offensive to God. Look at verse 22. Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Paul says. God is a God who is holy, but he has a holy jealousy, and God will not be in competition with other things. Or anything else. This is why God said to Israel that God said, Israel made me jealous. They have provoked me to anger with their idols. And the Lord deals very strongly with idolatry because nothing is more offensive than you. And so he gives a very strong warning. And then he asks this question: Are we stronger than he? Does the one who commits idolatry think they're stronger than God? Do you actually think that God will not allow this kind of thing to go unpunished? God will even punish his children that are a part of such things. And so the question is To these overconfident, overconfident Corinthians who believe they are strong, is this you're strong, but do you think you're stronger than God? Do you think God will not punish you for this? And Paul's saying, don't make the same mistake that Israel made in the wilderness and they were disqualified. And don't in your overconfidence think you can do these things and it not affect you. It can affect you. It does affect you. And you better Better be careful. Now again, I say to Christians, be careful where you go. There are certain places that God's people should never be. You should never associate with things that are of the world, things that do not edify. You say, oh, I'm just exercising my liberty. Yeah, you may be abusing your liberty. And by doing so, you're bringing down God's punishment on your life because you're associating with things and doing things that a Christian ought not to do. And so let me just close with this passage that I think is very appropriate. 2 Corinthians, in fact, why don't you just turn there and close here? Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and look down at verse number 14. Because Paul states this again here in 2 Corinthians 6 verse 14. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? And what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And will be a father unto you. And ye shall be my sons and my daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. You know what God wants? God wants a people that are wholly separated unto him. In fact, let me show you one more verse. Go back to chapter ten, first Corinthians ten. Look at verse thirty one. Really this is the sum of everything he's trying to say. First Corinthians ten thirty one, you know this verse. Whether therefore ye eat Or you drink, or whatsoever you do, do what? All to the glory of God. Everything that you do should be for the glory of God. unto the glory of God. So you should ask yourself this one question before you engage in any questionable practice. You say, well I'm not sure about what you're saying. I'm not sure about this uh this association I have or this place I go, okay, fine, just ask yourself this one question. Can you do that to the glory of God? If you can't, then don't do it. If you can't go to that place unto the glory of God, then don't Don't do it. If you can't associate with that group under the glory of God, then don't do it. That should be the one standard that we cling to. We do what we do unto the glory of God. If I can't glorify God in this, then it has no part in my life. And I won't do it. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we come before you and we thank you again for the clarity of your word. And how, Lord, it addresses some of the questions That we have as we seek to live in this world, and Lord, we're in this world, but we're not of the world. And yet, as Christians, Lord, we don't want to be isolated because we want to reach people for Christ. And yet at the same time, Lord, we don't want to be like the world in order to win the world. We want to be people separated unto you, and yet people that love those that are lost and reach out to them. Them with the gospel. And so, Lord, sometimes it's hard to know how to balance all these things out. But Lord, help us to be people who never abuse the liberty that you've given us. And people, Lord, who operate by that one principle that what I do, I do for the glory of God. And if I can't do it for your glory, Lord, then I'm not going to do it. Lord, let this be our theme verse. Let this be our life verse. Let this be our standard of practice as we live in this world, Lord. Let us do it unto your glory. And so, Lord, use this passage to warn, and Lord, to keep your people holy unto you, that we may be pleasing in your sight. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.