As you know on Sunday night we are we have been or we were I should say studying first Corinthians and then I kind of put it on hold and and did a five week week series on the five solos, but we get back now into First Corinthians and we begin with chapter twelve tonight, uh, right where we left off at the end of chapter. eleven we pick right up here and tonight we're going to talk about discerning spiritual gifts. Now I want to ask you a question. Have you ever received a gift you didn't quite understand? Uh maybe you know you had to figure out You know, what exactly is this and how do I uh use this? And uh this is the case with the Corinthians here. Uh this was a very gifted church. Uh in fact, if you remember in First Corinthians chapter one, the Apostle Paul said of them that there they are lacking in no spiritual gift. And so this was a gifted congregation. They all had spiritual spiritual gifts. Uh but the problem was is that they could not discern uh spiritual things. They couldn't discern their gifts. And so the Apostle Paul is going to clear up some misunderstandings they had with reference to this issue of spiritual gifts. Now as we had already noted, uh this was a church That was filled with problems. And uh Paul learned about these problems. Of course, he knew of some of them, I'm sure, as the man who was used by God to start the church. But those problems seem to multiply even more. Uh and Paul got word of it. And and think about the source of Paul's information. Where did he We get uh the information from that these uh people in the church were so confused over issues. Well there's really three basic sources in First Corinthians one eleven, Paul said that some from the household And In First Corinthians sixteen, seventeen, there were three men who came from the house of Stephanus, the Bible says, and so they supplied Paul with information. And also there was a letter in first First Corinthians chapter seven verse one, Paul says concerning the things which ye wrote unto me. And so Paul learned about all the problems that this church was having from these three Sources of information. And we also know by our study already that this was a church that was plagued with a lot of problems. They just had many severe problems. There was the love for Greek philosophy, human wisdom. There was human personality clicks and carnality and sexual perversion and w and worldliness and lawsuits. Christians were suing one another, there was marital conflict, there was the abuse of liberty, uh, there was idolatry and pride and selfishness, even some demon worship that Paul mentioned in chapter ten. There was the insubordination of women, the ab Abuse of the Lord's Supper. Other than that, they were doing pretty good. But oh there was one other issue, and that's the issue of spiritual gifts. Uh just like they had really misunder understood everything else, now they were really misunderstanding spiritual gifts and they were really perverting this dimension of spirituality in their life. And so what will happen now is that Paul will spend the next three chapters here in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, 13, and 14, and he's going to try to straighten out some of the problems. Problems that the Corinthians had with respect to these things. Gordon Fee wrote this: more than any other issue, the Corinthians and Paul were at odds over the role of the Spirit. And so he's trying to help them understand the things of the Spirit. And so I want you to see then just Just three things from our passage tonight. I want you to understand there are basically three requirements that you have to have to discern spiritual gifts. And so here's the first thing. We must discern, number one, the authenticity of spiritual gifts. This is the first area that Paul will address here: the authenticity of spiritual gifts. Look at verse number one Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren. Now I want you to notice out of my King James Bible, and that you have as well, notice that the word gifts is uh italism Which means really that was something supplied by uh the translators, but the word gifts is not really in the Greek text here. So really the Greek word here is pneuma Tycon, pneuma tikon. And and the word really means spirituals or spiritual things. And so what is happening here is Paul's going to address Now when Paul wanted to talk about the gifts, he would normally use the Greek word charismata, but here he uses this word pneuma tikon. It really has come from two words, spiritual And so really we could say like this. Now uh Concerning to things where you are controlled by the spirituals, or you are are things that are supposedly characterized spiritually It's as if Paul is saying, I want to talk to you now about how to understand spiritual things, the spirituals. You see, the problem that the Corinthians had was that they had not yet learned the ability to discern between what was really spiritually And so I want you to think about the trouble of the spiritual things that they were having. Why they were struggling so over this is because of the what was going on in the Greco Roman world with respect to to the mystery religions. There were mystery religions that were part of that world. Back then, and you have to understand a little bit about these mystery religions to understand some of the struggles that the Corinthians were going through. Where did these religions come from, the origin of them? Uh, you know, many of the Corinthians were saved. out of these mystery religions. And they began to drag some of that into the church. There was not a real clear-cut separation. Now, at this time in the first century, other than Judaism and Christianity, the mystery religions were the most influential religions in the world at that time. And the reason they were called mystery religions is because Because if a person wanted to be a part of one of these cults, they would be initiated into this cult and they would have to learn what they called secret things. They would have secret knowledge, and they were taught that this knowledge is esoteric That you have to have this knowledge and learn these things in order to be able to get in touch with the divine. And each region in the Mediterranean had their own mystery regions. religion we could say there was out of Greece there came the cult from Dionysius and Elysium and then out of Asia Minor there was the cult of civil and we can go on down the list. All throughout that region there were different mystery religions. But all of these religions really they all came out of Babylon, you could really argue that. Uh uh Babylon, the mother the the mystery Babylon, the black. The Bible says the mother of harlots, all that can be traced back to that. But let me talk to you about the operation of these religions. How did they operate? Well again If you wanted to be a part, you had to learn their secret knowledge. You were initiated in. But another part of what they would try to do is to get a person into an emotional ecstasy. In fact, two key words that characterized these religions were the word uh ecstasas in the in the Greek, which is where we get the word ecstasy, and also enthusiasmos. What does that sound like? Enthusiasmos is where we get our word enthusiasm. Now when we say the word enthusiasm, we're talking about someone that is giving their all into something they're really giving their whole Heart, but if you use the word enthusiasm back in the first century in the Greco-Ro Roman world, what it was talking about is that a person got into a state of euphoria where really they were dominated by their emotions or they got into some semi-conscious trance. And to be in that state, it was called really a divine frenzy is the word of the They use for it because to be in that state meant that they were getting in touch with the divine world. And so to get a person into this state, they would do all kind of things. They would use music They would use, of course, uh wine, alcoholic wine. That's why the Apostle Paul would later write, be not drunk with wine, that's excess, but be filled with the Spirit. The real uh uh part of being uh in the spiritual world is being filled with the Holy Spirit, not being drunk with wine and getting involved in those things like that. In fact, there was one historian, a secular historian who talks about these mystery religions and he gives it from a very objective uh standpoint but basically he talks about trying to get people people into this this ecstasy or into this enthusiasm. And and this is what he says, in ecstasy and the freeing of the soul from the hamp Hampering confinement of the body. It is communion with the deity, powers arise within it, of which it knows nothing in the daily life hampered by the body. It now becomes free as spirit to hold communion with the spirits. It is endowed with capacities to behold what only the eyes of the spirit can behold, that which is removed beyond time and space And so they tried to get him into this state, this euphoric state. And to be in that state, all kind of bizarre things would happen in these mystery religions. They would speak with uh a a an unknown tongue. They would s they would do all kinds of dances and whirling around and they would With have dreams and visions and all these other types of manifestations. And they all also their behavior got very chaotic. They lost control. They lost absolute control because basically You're freeing yourself, you're putting down reason and intellect, and you're really uh uh uh putting the pedal to the metal, as it were, with your emotions and freeing yourself and allowing things to happen. And this kind of Some of those who were saved out of those religions had come into the church at Corinth, and they were still manifesting that kind of behavior, but now they were attributing all of that as to the Spirit Again, let me quote you from one New Testament scholar, Wayne House. He says this Corinth was experience oriented and self- Oriented. Mystery religions and other pagan cults were in great abundance, from which cults many of the members of the Corinthian church received their initial religious instruction. After being converted, they had failed to free themselves. From pagan attitudes, and they confuse the true work of the Spirit of God with the former pneumatic and ecstatic experiences of the pagan religions. And so the problem was then now is that the Apostle Paul had to teach them to discern between what was truly of God and what was not And this is really the outcome of the mystery religions. They were having a negative impact on the church. Now the Apostle Paul wanted them to be open to receive what all the Holy Spirit had for them For them. But he also wanted them to be able to discern what was truly of God and what was not of God. And so this is where Paul says, look in verse one. Now concerning spir Spiritual things we could say, the spirituals, brethren, I would not have you to be ignorant. I don't want you to be ignorant about learning what is of God and what is not of God. Isn't that an expression That we see a lot with the Apostle Paul, I would not have you to be ignorant. I don't want you to be ignorant concerning this one thing. Here, Paul says, I don't want you to be ignorant concerning these spiritual issues. I find that in the church today at Church at Corinth, and Paul wants to clear this up. And so we see then here that Paul wants to give them something that will help them. So I want you to see what is we could call the test of spirituality. Things. He gives them a test. Look in verse number two. Ye know that ye were Gentiles carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led. And so Paul says to them, to the Corinthians, You remember when ye were Gentiles? And when he says when ye were Gentiles, he's referring to the fact when when they were lost, really the word Gentile And so Paul's saying, you remember when you were a non-believer when you didn't know the Lord Lord, you remember when you were connected to these pagan religions, when you were unsaved, where he says you were carried away unto these dumb idols. Look at the word carried away there. Very important word. It's a verb that is used to speak of someone uh being shackled, someone that is being dragged away. Paul says you were carried away, you were dragged away, you were enslaved to What? In verse 2, unto these what? Dumb idols? You were enslaved to these idols. You were getting carried away By these mystery religions, worshiping these idols? Now we already saw in the book of First Corinthians where Paul said that of course these idols represent gods that do not exist. That there's only one God. Paul made that very clear in 1 Corinthians 8 and in 1 Corinthians 10. But he did say that these idols are being controlled, or people are being deceived by demonic spirits that are behind them. These idols. Even though they represent gods that don't exist, there are, in fact, however, real demonic spirits behind all of this And so there is a sense in which a person who is involved in a pagan religion can be carried away, so to speak. They can be brought into bondage in prison under this idolatry And be carried away in their conduct. And so Paul's reminding them, this is what you were, this is what it was like before you came to know the Lord. You were carried away by these dumb idols. And the verb there is passive. And so Paul's saying you were victims of demonic deception. That was in your past pagan life. You were being led away by demons to worship false gods. And so that was characteristic of what you were before. You were out of control. But Paul's basically saying here that if a true spiritual person is not someone who's Carried away. Just mark this, dear friend, that when you're under the control of the Holy Spirit, you don't lose control. You're brought under control. And you see anything that where a person absolutely just totally loses control of their faculties and all those kind of things, that's not of the Spirit of God. God doesn't do that to a person. The Spirit of God will work through your mental and emotional capacities to do his work, but you don't lose control and you're not carried away. Paul said That's what it was like before you knew the Lord. So he gives a positive test, uh or excuse me, uh a negative test first is what I want you to see. Verse number uh uh three. Wherefore I give you to understand that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus a curse. So Paul says, if you want to determine if something is of God, here's one surefire way. No man who's controlled by the Spirit of God Of God is ever going to say, Jesus is accursed. That's even hard to even say that if you're a believer. Jesus is blessed. West. Thank God for our Lord Jesus Christ. But no man being led by the Spirit calleth Jesus accursed, Paul said. Now what does he mean by that? How could any Anyone who calls himself a Christian and who names the name of Christ called Jesus a cursed. Now there are several I've read in commentary A person became a Christian and left the Jewish synagogue, if that person ever wanted to come back to the Jewish synagogue, then they would have to say that Jesus of Nazareth is cursed. And then some people say, well, this was referring to Emperor And then other people say, well, this is saying that there are actually Christians who were who were using the name of Jesus to put a curse on somebody else. May Jesus curse so and so. They were kind of using uh what was uh customary back then if you want to The place of curse on someone else, you would curse that person by the name of the God that you worship. And so they're enacting the name of Jesus to curse somebody else. And that's how another person interprets that. But I don't think in any of those things are the right answer to this. So what's happening here? I think that what's happening here, remember the context of it. People are getting carried away. They're getting called away. They're losing control. And I think what he's talking about here is that these are people that are being carried away. This is some of the mystery religions coming in the church and they're supposedly under the control of the divine and they are reaching this point of ecstasy or enthusiasm and being carried away, they actually begin to speak And they say that Jesus is cursed. And and that's what's happening here, I think, in the church. And so and by the way, there may it may be that some of the Corinthian Christians Christians were actually beginning to believe some of those Gnostic thoughts about Jesus that of course were not true. That is, the Christ part came upon the Jesus man uh right before right right at his baptism, the the Spirit, the Christ part descended upon the man Jesus, and right before the crucifixion, the spirit left, and the man Jesus was left, and he was cursed because he went to the cross And maybe there were some that were actually believing that old Gnostic doctrine. Maybe that was what was getting into the church, and some people were calling Jesus cursed there. It could be that. And under the control of supposedly the Holy Spirit, they're actually under control of another spirit. And they're calling Jesus a curse. And Paul says, look, nobody That's controlled by the Holy Spirit is ever in any way going to bring down Jesus. They're not going to deny his full deity. They're certainly not going to say that Jesus is cursed. I remember years ago in my first pastorate, we had in our church a great evangelist who uh his name was J. Harold Smith. Perhaps you've heard that name. And I remember one time at lunch he was telling me the story that how the At one time in his church in a church service where he was preaching, a person just stood up and they began to speak in an unknown language, and supposedly the Spirit of God had come upon them. And in that church church service There was also a missionary that was from the Congo. They had actually were trying to learn the language of a certain area there in the Congo And that missionary stood up and said, Dr. Smith, that person that just spoke spoke in the perfect dialect of the language that I'm trying to learn. And they just stood up and and they just Cursed Jesus. They just called him an illegitimate child. And so you can imagine that being a surprise there in the whole congregation. I think that sometimes And church services, what goes over for real worship is not worship at all. And we have to be careful about the spirit in which something is done. And so I think this was going on in the church. And so Paul gives a negative Negative test. No man by the Spirit is going to call Jesus cursed. But here's the positive test. Look at the other part of verse Verse number three. It says at the end, and that no man can say that Jesus is Lord but by the Holy Spirit. Anybody who stands up and says with all their heart With all their soul that Jesus is Lord, you can rest assured that person is under the control of the Spirit. And this is not just mindlessly uttering words. Anyone can He's talking about here someone who actually means this with all their heart, and they have submitted themselves to the Lordship of Christ in their life, and they confess with all their heart, Jesus Christ is Lord. Amen. That, Paul says, you can rest assured, is from the Holy Spirit of God. And so he gives them this simple test. So there's number one, the authenticity of spiritual gifts. But I want you to see number two the agency of spiritual gifts. Now look what he says in verse 4. Now there are diversities of gifts But the same Spirit. There are diversities of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God, which worketh all in all. Paul is going to teach about real spiritual gifts and the one who gives those gifts. And you will notice that he mentions uh each member of the Trinity in these verses here. He talks about uh the spirit And the Lord, and verse 6, God, which is to say God the Father. And I think the idea here is that the Trinity, each member of the Trinity, is united and involved in giving us a spiritual gift. If you're here and you're saved, you know the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're saved, would you raise your hand? You know the Lord. Guess what you have? You have a spiritual gift. It was given to you by God. Someone says, what's a spiritual gift? This is the God-given capacity through which the Holy Spirit supernaturally ministers to the body of Christ. He gives you a certain capacity, a certain ability, and you're to use that ability to minister to the body of Christ. Now there's a difference between spiritual gifts and human abilities. There are many people that are gifted with human abilities, but what makes the spiritual gifts different is that it is energized by the Spirit. It is the Spirit that uses it to bless the body of Christ. Christ. And you we all have those gifts. Where are they from? From the same Spirit, the same Lord, the same God, the Trinity will give those gifts to all of us. Us. Now the problem in the church at Corinth was many of them were cut coveting or desiring the more showy gifts, you know. In their minds there were certain gifts that were superior to others Others. You know, the speaking gifts, and again all of this I think is the influence of pagan religion when a person was able to get up and utter things that were uh uh i uh i in in tongues and other things like that that was very high profile that was someone who was considered to be very spiritual and so there were many in the church that wanted to have these more showy gifts They relegated some of the other lesser gifts to things that were not so much seen publicly, like the gift of serving and helps and administration and all of that. So I can just imagine happening there in the church as someone say, What's your spiritual Oh, my spiritual gift is health. Oh, that's too bad. Mine is prophecy. And I stand before a group of people and I proclaim the word or the truth of God. And that we're actually saying this is a better gift, but that's not the way the Bible teaches that. In fact, do you know that you don't get to choose what your gift is? You don't get to pick it. You know why? Because it's something that God determines. He gives it. Notice that there's a variation here. Notice the origin, but notice the operation. Again, notice what it says in verse number six. There are diversities of operations, but the same God which worketh all and all. The word diversities here simply means varieties. There are a variety of spiritual gifts. There are men And so there's a there's a big variety there. Um and there's also notice what it says in verse 7, um but the manifestation of spirit is given The Kini, which simply means service. Their purpose is to serve the church. And in other words, each has their own ministry. And so the idea is God gives you the gift. There are a variety of them. You each have your own gift And there are those gifts fit set certain ministries. You are to use that for every ministry God gives you. You know, if you have a certain spiritual gift, there's just a certain area where you can minister. And you find that ministry and you do it. And then there's operations. The word operations is where we get our word energy. And which means it's a manifestation of divine power. And so there are diversities of gifts, diversities of ministries that you use or serve with the Those gifts, and there's diversity of power. And God is the one who gives all of these things. He will give one person a great amount of power in this one area with their spiritual gift. Because he wants their ministry to affect so many people, and he'll give another person a certain gift with a certain amount of power. All of this is determined by Almighty God. It is God who does it. Paul says in Romans 12, three, he'll give us with these gifts the measure of faith, the ability to use this gift for the glory of God. And so that's the act the agency of spiritual gifts. And let me show you the third thing quickly. I want to go ahead and close because we're going to baptize. So give me about three or four more minutes. Is that okay? Okay, so you guys are gonna walk out in three minutes, right? If I go over. Let me talk about the activity of spiritual gifts. And again, look at the purpose, verse seven. But the manifestation of spiritual is given to every man to profit with all. That is so that everyone will profit. This is for the common good. That's really the word there. Some pharaoh. For the common good of all. Here's another thing you can say Consider about spiritual gifts. They're not for my benefit. Whatever spiritual gift I have, it's not for me, it's for you. I you're the one to be blessed by it. Now, we find great fulfillment and satisfaction in extra Exercising our spiritual gift, but it really benefits the church. And so whatever gift you have, it's for the benefit of others. So beloved, if you're not using your spirit spiritual gift, we lose out. Other people lose out. Other people are not blessed because they are being in a sense neglected. We're being neglected because you're not using your gift And by the way, it's the Holy Spirit that puts people in the church and He gives them different gifts and He brings it all together so that we can fulfill those gifts and minister one to another in the church. And that's the way it's supposed to happen. You use your gift, I use mine. And we all work together like teamwork. Notice the uh the Uh a particularity of the gifts um in verse number eight for to one is given this by the spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same spirit to another faith Faith by the same spirit, to another the gift of healing by the same spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another kinds of tongues. to another the interpretation of tongues, but all these work that worketh worketh that one in the selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will Now what you notice here is he's listed several of these. Wisdom is a spirit giv given capacity to really have great wisdom from God, to know things, uh to have insight. Knowledge is just the ability to understand Truth of God. Faith is just the ability to exercise great faith in the midst of overwhelming obstacles. There's the gift of healing, the gift of miraculous power. And by the way, this isn't a complete list because if you look in Romans chapter twelve, there's another list, and they have different things there that are not listed here. And if you go to first Peter chapter 4, there are other gifts that are listed there that are not listed in these other two places. But here's the idea. By the way the word gifted normally it's used singular where Paul said to Timothy, stir up the gift that is in you Whatever God gave you. And so really it's like this. What God does is he doesn't just download one person with just the gift of prophecy and that's it. What he'll basically do is this he'll give certain person a certain measure of prophecy to proclaim the word, maybe knowledge, and with that the gift of mercy and the gift of teaching. And he'll mingle in a little bit more of this, you know And so he'll kind of blend it all together, and that will become one unique gift, and he will give that gift to a certain individual So really we could say it like this. No person uh has the same exact spiritual gift as another. Because the one God just combines all those things together to give each person their unique gift. Look in verse number 11. Look at the word severally, but all these work that one and self-same spirit dividing to every man severally. Look at the word severally there. You know what the Greek word there is? Idios. And it's where we get our word idiot from. And what it's basically saying, the word actually means something that's very original. There's no no one just like you. So when you call a person an idiot, what you're basically saying is there's no one just like exactly like you. And really there's a sense in which that's what God is saying. If you will, I hope I don't offend you, but every one of you are idiots. Because you have a very unique gift, and no one else has it but you. And we could say that you are unique. Unique because you have been given this unique spiritual gift that's all combined and worked together to give you this unique gift. It is the Spirit of God who gave you this gift. And you're To use this gift to glorify God and to bless the body of Christ. And you know what we need to do? We need to find out and discern what our gifts are. I'll close with this. One time a reporter came to a college coach and said, Do you think that college football is helping the health of America? And the college football coach said, Absolutely not. And the reporter was surprised and he said, Why not? He said, Well, the coach said the way I see it, you have twenty men down on the field uh that are uh basically working and desperately need rest. What they're being watched by 60,000 people in the stands who desperately need exercise. And sometimes that is true in the church. You have a handful of people That are working and working and doing all this, and you know what? They desperately need rest. Meanwhile, there are many people that are really just spectators. And they desperately need to get involved and to use whatever gift that God has given them for the glory of God. Said God has given us and use it for his glory. Let's bow for prayer together tonight