It's good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms? On Wednesday night, we'd be looking at some of these psalms And they're so beautiful, and hopefully, as we study these, they minister to your heart and encourage you in your faith. And tonight I want to talk about divine reversals in Psalm 30. is the chapter we're going to be looking at tonight, Psalm thirty, verses one down to verse number twelve. When I was a teenager and first began coming here to grace, uh We be we're meeting several buildings back over there, the original building. I remember the thing that stood out to me when I first started coming to Grace was In the old sanctuary, the old auditorium, there is a banner on the one of the beams that Pastor Johnson had put up. Some of you old timers might remember that banner. How many of you remember that banner if you're here? So okay, so you're the old timers here But the banner basically was a beautiful verse. It said, Behold, I will do a new thing. And it was a verse of scripture from Isaiah that God had impressed upon the heart of Pastor Johnson. And it was at a time really in my life when God was actually doing something new in my life, in the life of my family, but also in the life of the church here at Grace. And through those years, under pastor's powerful preaching and leadership, the church was blessed, and God did do a new thing in many hearts and lives. And that was a wonderful time. You know, we serve a God who delights in doing new things. He delights in delivering us from trouble. He delights in turning circumstances around for us. He's a God of divine reversals, we could say. How many of you have ever prayed a prayer, God, I need you to take this situation, I need you to turn it around for me? You know, we probably all have prayed that prayer. But this is what this psalm is about here, Psalm 30. This is uh a group of psalms that's labeled as Thanksgiving Psalms. And you'll notice in Psalm 30 that it opens up with a note of thanksgiving, I will extol thee, O Lord. And then in verse number 12 it ends by saying, I will give thanks unto thee forever. And so again, it's labeled as a Thanksgiving Psalm because it focuses on praise to the Lord for rescuing David and turning various situations around in his life and doing something new. James Boyce titled this psalm A Litany of Uplifting Contrasts. The major lesson really that we learn from this psalm is when God does turn things around for us, we should publicly uh give praise and thanksgiving to God for doing that. And what we see here in this Psalm, Psalm 30, or really it has four stanzas to it. We can really kind of divide it like this. Verses 1 to 5, that's praise. And then verses 6 and 7, that's David's confession. And verses 8 through 10, it's David's supplication where he makes prayer to God. And then in verse 11 and 12 is David's testimony. And the phrase that we see repeated throughout this psalm is thou hast, or we could say you have. And he is emphasizing what God has done. God, this is what you have done. In verse number one, he says, Thou hast lifted me up. And then in verse two, we see the expression, Thou hast healed me. In verse 3, we see two times where David uses that expression, Thou hast brought up my soul from the grave, thou hast kept me alive. And verse number seven again, Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. Again in verse twelve 11 we see two times, thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. Now in each of these expressions, the psalmist is emphasizing how God turned things around for him. Boyce again writes this. From a literary point of view, the most striking feature of Psalm 30 is its remarkable set of contrasts, which is also probably the most helpful way to approach it. And Montgomery Boyce in his commentary basically says that there are more than a dozen contrasts that he sees here in this psalm, from darkness to light. From weeping to joy, from morning to dancing, from night to morning, from sadness to gladness, from life to death, and so on But in each case, God turns the situation around and God does something new for David. And I I want this psalm to encourage you. I want you to I want you to be blessed by this psalm. It might be that you're here tonight and you have a situation in your life where you're saying, God, I need you to turn this thing around for me. I need a divine reversal from you. And I want to remind you that God delights in doing things like that. He loves doing new things for us. I love what the Scottish preacher George Morrison said about the victorious Christian life. He said the victorious Christian life is simply a series of new beginnings. And I like that. That's so true. So what I want you to see tonight from this psalm are just four divine reversals where God rescued David and he did something new in his life. Here's the first one. Number one, I call this a new healing from death to life. Look at verse number one. I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and has not made my foes to rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. Now in these verses here, David feels as if he's in a life and death struggle. He speaks of the pit here, which is the word Sheol, which is the abode of the dead. Now he doesn't say that he's fallen into the pit, but he's close. He pictures himself as kind of teetering on the edge of the pit. You ever hear the expression, you know, this person has one foot in the grave and the other foot on a banana peel? That's kind of the similar situation that David is describing. David's not in the grave, but he's got one foot in the grave, and the other foot is ready to slip. Now most commentators believe that David is describing some sickness here, an illness that has him on the edge of Sheol. David's foes, they see this, and boy, they're glad. They're ready to rejoice over the news that David is gone. And just when all seems lost. God steps in. Instead of allowing David to go down to the pit, what does God do? God reverses the situation. And David describes three things that God did for him. First of all, he lifted him up in verse number one, I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up. And the imagery behind the words thou has lifted me up is very descriptive. It's a word used to speaking of pulling a bucket up out of a deep well. The well here seems to be a picture of death. And the idea is that David is like that bucket being lowered down deep into that dark well. He's getting closer and closer to death. And it seems like all is lost. This is not the first time that the Bible speaks of death as uh using the imagery of a well and a picture. Uh Ecclesiastes 12. 6 talks about that of death, about the wheel broken at the cistern, same idea of a bucket, you know, uh lowering down into the well and the and the wheel breaks and the whole thing collapses, and that's death. And that's how David is picturing himself. He's he's a bucket. Uh he's uh he's in that bucket uh at the end of a rogue, being lowered down into the well, death is claiming him, he's sinking lower. and lower down into the depths and suddenly the low ring stops and suddenly it's reversed and now he's being lifted up His soul is being lifted up, and David recognizes that it's God who's at the top of the well with a rope, lifting him up out of the grave, out of the pit. And God will not allow David's enemies to rejoice over him. And this is why David is filled with thanksgiving. God lifted him up. But then also healed. Look at verse number two, where he says, O Lord my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. Again, this was perhaps some terrible sickness that David had. And the Bible's not really specific about that sickness, but David cried unto the Lord and God healed him. The word for healed here is the Hebrew word Rapha. It's the same word used in Exodus 15, 26, where God said, I am the Lord that healeth thee. And it's really the word Yahweh Rapha. And God, you kept me alive, verse 3, O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down. To the pit. God, you are the one that kept me alive. God, you are the one that healed me. I love the fact that one of God's names in the Old Testament is Yahweh Rapha. The God of healing. I want to tell you, if you've ever been healed, I assure you that it was God who did it. All healing comes from God. He is Jehovah Rapha. And God has placed within the human body a remarkable healing ability. Medical science has kind of tapped into that incredible healing that God has placed into our bodies. I love this quote here from C. Everett Coop. He's the former Surgeon General of the U. S. Kind of an extended quote, but let me read this to you This is from a doctor's perspective. He says this. I don't know how many operations I actually performed in my surgical career, but I know I performed seventeen thousand of one particular type, seven thousand of another I practiced surgery for thirty-nine years, so perhaps I performed at least fifty thousand operations. I was successful and I had a reputation for success. Patients were coming to me from all over the world. And one of the things that endeared me to the parents of my patients was the way that my incisions healed. Now no one likes a big scar, but they're especially upsetting to mothers when they appear on their children. So I set out early in my career to make my scars small and short and thin as possible. These invisible scars became my trademark. But was I the healer? I was the one who put the edges together, but it was God who coagulated the serum. It was God who sent the fiberblast out across the skin edges. It was God who had the fiber blast make collagen, and there are probably about fifty other complicated processes involved about which you and I will never know. But did God come down and instruct the fiber blast to behave that way? In a sense he did. But he did it through his natural laws. Just the way he makes the grass grow, the rainfall, the earthquake. The question then is not, does God heal? He says, Of course God heals. And then he goes on to say, we're concerned with this question. Granted that God heals, is nor is it normally according to the natural laws or an interruption of those laws, or i. e. a miracle? God will use natural laws. He will use doctors and nurses and great technology today to tap into those natural laws of healing that God has placed into the human body. The ability to create medicines from the plants and substance of the earth. Thank God for that. We live in a scientific age and we talk about the modern Are the miracle of modern medicine. And this may cause us to forget that all healing comes from God. But sometimes a person, in order to be healed, needs more than what medical science can do. And sometimes the doctor has done all that he can do, and the natural laws are not enough to overcome disease or illness or infection. And sometimes God must step in and heal supernaturally. And beloved, I believe that God does that. I believe that God does heal. And I believe that God does answer prayers and does heal people. He doesn't always heal when we ask them. Sometimes God has another plan in mind. We can see that in Scripture, but there's no question in my mind that God is a God of healing David didn't have the benefits of our modern medicine. He simply cried out to God, and God healed him. And I believe that God still heals when we cry out to him today. David experienced a new healing, and so can you, from death to life. But here's the second thing: a new hope from night to morning. Look at verse number four. Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness For his anger endureth but for a moment, and in his favor is life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. Now in verse number four, David turns to God's people and he asks them to do something, and sometimes I feel like doing that sometimes on Sunday morning when we're gathered here together and we're starting to sing a hymn. I want to say Sing unto the Lord, people. There's no reason for anyone out there to have their mouth closed. When it's time to sing praise to God, guess what you should be doing? You should be singing praise to God. You should be giving him thanks through song. And this is what Dave is doing here. He turns to the saints of God and says, Sing unto the Lord! O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. Now David is not asking them to praise God for what God did for David personally, but simply to praise God for who he is. And he's a God who is holy, but he's also a God who is gracious to us every day of our life. You know, we serve a gracious God. That is his default mode. He is so kind and he is so gracious. In another psalm, David said it like this The Lord is merciful. And gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with uh with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards them that fear him. In other words, God treats us a lot better than we deserve. He's so gracious every day of our life. Now, in order for us to understand this, David gives a statement in verse 5 Which is not simply an observation, but a basic principle of God's character. Look at verse 5, for his anger endures but a moment, and in his favor is life. And then he says this: weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes what? In the morning. And David is comparing God's disfavor versus his favor and the experiences of life. And David's conviction is that God's favor always outweighs his disfavor. Again, Boyce writes this God indeed is displeased with sin. And can never be indifferent to it. He judges with holy anger even in Christians. But for his people, God's judgments and anger are short lived. They pass quickly. What remains is his favor, which lasts our lifetime and indeed forever. And that's true. God's disfavor might be for time, but one thing about God's favor it lasts all of our life. All of our life We might go through a nighttime of pain and sorrow, through trials, but God is quick to remove the nighttime of suffering and give joy. And these are delightful providences. We have dark providences in our life, difficult things to bear. But we also have delightful providences. And his delightful providence far outweighs the dark ones. The psalmist said it like this in Psalm 126, verses 5 and 6. They that sow in tears shall what? Reap in joy. He that goes forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. Now I've heard a lot of preachers use that verse to talk about sharing the gospel, the seed of the gospel, and you'll come back with rejoicing. And I think that principle is true with the gospel. Don't get me wrong. But if you look at the strict context of this chapter here, the psalmist, that's not what he was strictly referring to. What he was referring to was when you weep, when there's a dark Providence, there's a difficult time in your life, and what it does is it brings tears. And those tears that fall from your eyes, those are precious seeds that are planted into the ground. And every time you shed a tear and it lands into the soil, that's a seed that is planted, and God has made a promise that for every tear that you plant in the soil, you're going to reap back something from it. And think about the principle of the harvest. When you sow a seed, what do you get back? You get back the same seed? No. And you don't get it, uh you get something different back. Um, you know, but you'll get what the quality of that seed is. For example, if you sow an apple seed, you're gonna get back what? Apples. It's less uh biology 101 or y if you sow a uh an orange seed, you get back oranges. You know, we know that you don't get a seed back, you get back a beautiful piece of fruit or a tree. Rather. Maybe I need to go to school. Anyway. But here God says if you sow a tear into the soil, what you're going to get back is rejoicing. That's a reversal God says, I'm going to cancel the law of the harvest here in this area. If you're my child and you go forth weeping, bearing precious seeds, I'm going to make a promise to you that for every tear that you shed, I'm going to give back to you rejoicing. And we also know according to the harvest That you get back a lot more than you sow. You reap more than you sow. So for every tear that you shed into the ground, you're going to get back a lot more joy. Isn't that a great promise? His favor is a lifetime. He is able to reverse our tears and make them uh sources of joy. And so God is so gracious, is so good, that He gives us back joy for tears. And we need to remember this in the dark times. We need to remember that weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. But here's the third reversal. We see a new healing from death to life, a new hope from night to morning. A new heart, we see from pride to humility. Look at verse number six. And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled. I cried to thee, O Lord, and And unto the Lord I made supplication, what profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth. Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me. Lord, be thou my helper. My king just fell down. So just in case you're wondering what happened there, I I'm ready to get rid of this thing by the way. My new life verse is going to be rise up and throw your crutches away. But anyway, um, but here in verses six through ten, this is when the story really began for David. David's pride made it necessary for God to chastise him. And that's really where this all begins. Look at verse 6 again. He said, In my prosperity I said, or I said in my prosperity, I shall never be moved. You know what that is? That's an arrogant boast. From David. Prosperity means ease or carefree self-assurance. Things were going so well And if we're not careful, we can get that attitude when things are going so well, somehow we take our eyes off the Lord and we can begin to make boasts. And we forget that it's off because of God. That's normally the attitude of an unbeliever who believes they can get along fine without God. They're prospering. They don't need God. In Psalm 10, verse 3, it says, For the wicked boast is of his heart's desire. And then it says in verse 6, For he has said in his heart, I shall not be moved. For I shall never be in adversity. That's the attitude of someone who doesn't know the Lord. Oh, I'll never be moved. Nothing bad's going to happen with me. Everything's great in my life. I'm not going to have adversity That's not the attitude of a child of God. But it is a temptation for a believer. And this is one of the reasons why God permits trials in our life. That we might not get too comfortable. and care free and then stop growing and stop depending on the Lord. Job said this in Job sixteen twelve I was at ease, but he has broken me asunder. He has also taken me by my neck and shaken me to pieces. And set me as his mark. God has to do that sometimes to us. God has to shake us. Because in our prosperity we begin to boast. We think that there's something about us that's the reason all this is happening instead of really because of God and his grace. David's mountain was strong, but it was not because of David, it was because of God. Again, notice what David says in verse number 7. Lord, by thy favor thou hast made my mountain to stand strong. David understood that now that he's confessing, but somewhere along the line he forgot this and he became proud, and God had to humble him. Some scholars believe that the background of this psalm is when David, after David had numbered the people, you remember that? It's recorded in 1 Samuel 24. David one day decides to go out and number uh take a big census from Dan to beersheba, that's the uttermost north to the uttermost south of all Israel. He was numbering all of the men. He wanted to find out how strong his nation was. And at the end of the census, and by the way, Joab tried to say, you know, this is not a good idea. And some people might say, well, what's wrong with the census, you know? Well, if it's done the way God wants it, there's nothing wrong with that. But there's a warning in Exodus about that, that if you do it with the wrong motive, it could bring a plague. And this is what was happening with David. The implication of that whole story is that it was selfishly proud here of David to number the people. What he was doing basically is he wanted to brag. He wanted to really uh ex you know express his strength to others around It was all about David and his boasting. He was rejoicing at how strong he was and how strong the nation of Israel was. In the ancient world, when a king wanted to prove to the world how mighty he was, he would take a census. Like Caesar Augustus did in the time of Jesus. Or we think of Nebuchadnezzar in the Old Testament when he was looking out over the kingdom of Babylon and made that great boast, is not this the Babylon that I have built by my power, my might, for my glory? And what did God do? God struck him with insanity. God humbled him immediately. Here is David, and he and he's filled with pride now. And God's got to humble him. What he did was selfishly proud. It was also surprisingly faithless. One of the reasons David was taking this military census is to see how Israel would fare in war. But now, wait a minute, this is the same David that wrote earlier in Psalm 20, verse 7: some trust in chariots and some trust in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. But it's funny how that we can forget things that we know. And David seemed to forget all that. He was numbering the people to find out how strong his military was instead of just simply trusting and leaning on the Lord. And God had to humble David. Look in verse number 7 where it says, And thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled. Sometimes God hides his face from us. Because of our pride. And God says, okay, you think you've got this? Fine, I'll turn it all over to you. And then we realize how weak we really are, and how desperately we need God. David was troubled. That is, the word here, intense agony, terror filled his heart when God left him to himself. And what he does here is he cries out to God for forgiveness. Verse 8, I cried to thee, O Lord And unto the Lord I made my supplication. And here David is using an argument. It's almost like he feels like God's gonna take his life because of his folly. And he makes an argument. What profit is there in my blood when I shall go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth? Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me, Lord, and be thou my helper. When we cry out to God for forgiveness and mercy for the foolish sins that we may have committed, you know what? We have a God who is so gracious and he forgives. And you know what? He begins to do something new in our life at that time. And so there's a reversal here in David's heart. He goes from pride to humility before the Lord. But then there's a fourth and final one. We see a new healing from death to life, a new hope from night to morning, a new heart from pride to humility, a new happiness from silence to singing. Because look in verse 11, thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever. And so the last contrast here is between being silent and singing to the Lord. Now the circumstances here are the same as in the previous verses. God had disciplined David because of his sin, but once David was humbled, And he confessed his sin before the Lord. God forgave David. And you know what? His joy was restored to the Lord. And once David knew he was forgiven and accepted, he moved from the attitude of a funeral to a feast. He took off a sackcloth of sadness and he put on the garments of gladness. You know, in scripture, a dramatic alteration of one's life is marked by a change of clothing. That's kind of a motif that you see sometimes throughout the Old Testament. A lot of times when you study Old Testament characters, it's not an accident that the writer will put in there what they're wearing. At certain times, because he's emphasizing a certain thing that's going on in their life. When David says, my glory, it means my heart, my soul. David was now singing to the Lord from the depths of his being. With all of his heart, with all of his soul, he was singing praises to God. Every difficult experience of life, and David had a lot of them. Is an opportunity to either have a pity party or to attend a rehearsal for singing in the choirs of heaven. We have a lifetime of grace to prepare us for an eternity of worship. And what I'm saying is that when you need a reversal in your life and you cry out to God And God in His grace turns that thing around for you. You know what? You should be singing praises to God. You should be giving thanks to God constantly for his grace and his goodness. So four reversals we see here: a new healing from death to life, a new hope from night to mourning, a new heart from pride to humility, a new happiness from silence to singing. And God wants to do something new for you. That's just the way he is. He delights in reversing things. He delights in turning things around. Will you ask him to do that? Do you need that? Will you ask him to? Will you trust him to do that? What do you need God to do for you? Just ask him. Will you pray, Lord, do a new thing for me? Do something new in my life. Turn my sorrow to joy. Turn my nighttime to mourning. Turn my silence into singing. Lord, turn this thing around. And by the way, let me just say, I know we're coming into the Christmas season. You know what this reminds me about? Mary's song. Remember when the angel Gabriel came and announced that she would be the mother of the Messiah? And the Bible says in the book of Luke, that what did she do? She broke out in a song. And if you look at that song, it has a lot of great theology to it. But you know the theme of her song? Reversal? Because of the coming of Jesus Christ into the world, the world's going to be turned upside down. And the mighty will be brought down, and the lowly will be exalted. And she was talking there about the gospel and salvation. The whole life of Christ is going to bring a reversal into this world. They that are last shall be first. They that are first shall be last. Jesus is the prince who came to do a reversal in your life. To take you from death to life, to take you from sorrow to joy, to take you from sin to forgiveness and grace. That's what he is all about And so, what do you need him to do for you tonight? Are you willing to just reach out and say, Lord, please just turn this thing around for me? Turn it around. And and I trust you to do that. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let just let me ask you. Just pray right there where you are. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but it might be that you need God to do something for you. Would you be willing just to right now say, God, I need you to turn this situation around for me? My hope is not in man. Father, my hope is in you. Man doesn't have the power to do that. Vain is the help of man. But God, you are my hope. And nothing's too hard for you. Lord, would you please turn this thing around for me? And Lord, if you do, I won't be silent. I'll sing your praise. I'll give thanks to you. With the same passion that David thanked you here in Psalm 30. Lord, I'll give thanks to you for turning my night into morning. And my darkness to light. Father, bless your word to hearts tonight. Thank you, Father, for being so gracious. For being so kind and so mighty. And Father, we confess with all of our heart, you are our hope. You and you alone. And we trust you. And we thank you in advance for what you're going to do. Do that new thing. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.