Take your Bibles, open to the book of James. Look in James chapter 1, the passage we read just a moment ago. On Sunday morning we are doing a series through James. It's such a practical book. I hope it'll be a blessing to you if it hasn't already. And it really tells us how to live out our faith. James is the show me book of the New Testament. James says, don't tell me that you're a Christian. Show me. Don't talk about your faith. Show me your faith. Someone said your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks. And that's what James is telling us here. Now, in the passage that we're looking at today, the question is, how do I receive truth? Now already James has given us several tests to determine if our faith is a genuine faith. We talked about trials. How do I respond to trials? We can judge our Christianity based on how we respond to trials. The second test was how do I resist temptation? And we talked about that. Now this morning the question is, how do I receive truth? Because one of the most reliable evidences of genuine salvation is a hunger for truth, a desire to receive truth, and to live it out. Jesus said, if ye are my disciples He said, basically, you will continue in my word. If ye continue in my word, Jesus said, then are you my disciples indeed? And so how do we receive truth? Let me just ask you a question. Don't raise your hand, but are you ready this morning to receive truth? Sometimes when we come to church, we're not ready to receive the truth. We have to prepare our hearts. We have to get our hearts ready to receive the truth of God's Word. And this is the question that we come to here in James. Chapter 1, verses 19 down to verse 27. Now, this morning I have two points in the sermon. That's the good news. Bad news is I have a lot of subpoints underneath those. Actually, just two points. Number one, I want to talk about how uh how to receive the word. Number one, we're going to talk about a proper reception of the word of God, and then number two, a proper reaction To the Word of God. If you're taking notes, just write down, number one, a proper reception of the Word of God. Look in verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak, slow to wrath. Now look at the word wherefore. That's kind of a transitional word in the Bible. Whenever you see a wherefore, you want to see what it's there for. And it's actually referring back to the verses. It's really referring back to an argument that was already given here. And so really this is the logic of James. Because we're going to go through trials and testing. We saw that And because when the trial comes, there is the possibility that we can get bitter and not grow better, that wherever God tests us, Satan will tempt us. And because we will have to resist temptation. Wherefore? Wherefore? That's the idea there. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. In other words, what James is saying is Because all this is true, you better be ready to receive truth. You better be ready to receive the word of God. And notice where he calls them my beloved brethren. I love that expression because James was a pastor. He had a pastor's heart. He called them beloved. And you are the beloved of God. James loved the people And uh friend, people don't care what you know until they know that you care. And James loved these beloved people, and you are, this morning here at Grace, you are the beloved of God. Now, James says, my beloved brethren, here's the first thing. If you want to be ready to receive truth, first of all, there has to be, write this down, a committed ear. A committed ear. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to what? Swift to hear. This is the idea of readiness and eagerness to listen. Learning how to listen. Now think about this. In James Day, this was very important. Because in James Day Few believers had their own copy of the scripture. We're so blessed here in this day and age in which we live, in our country, we can pick up a copy of the Bible just about anywhere. We have it on our computers, we have it on our iPhones, our iPads, we have several versions of it. But you have to remember back in James' day, people didn't have their own Bible In fact, when James was writing this, the New Testament canon had not yet been completed. There was the Old Testament Jewish scriptures, and not very many people had those. And so all learning was dependent upon what? Hearing. When they heard the word, they had to listen very, very quickly. They couldn't go back to CD recordings. They couldn't go to the internet and listen to the sermon over and over again. They could only hear one time. And so James says, you better be swift to hear. Now I know we have all this stuff today, but I want you to listen to me anyway, all right? God's speaking to you when you come to God's house You know, psychotherapists tell us that listening is probably the most simple and effective technique for just helping troubled people. And my point is this, we just have forgotten how to really listen today. Just to listen. Listening means caring. And when you think about it, poor listening has consequences. It's responsible for a tremendous waste in education. I can't understand young people to go to college, pay all that money and tuition, and don't listen in class. What a waste. Poor listening can cause trouble in marriages. It can cause trouble in families. Sometimes what we call a troubled teenager is simply a frustrated teenager who is not being heard. The parents aren't listening. And it's also the reason that many Christians don't grow spiritually. Because when they come to church they're they're not listening. Their mouth their mind is crowded with all these other things. Some of you are sitting there, you're thinking about the the the uh the chicken in the oven. Or, you know, that someone will put a ding on your car in the parking lot, or you're thinking about what you're going to do this afternoon or this evening, or maybe something that happened last week. And and we have to be committed to listening. That's why we don't grow in faith, because the Bible says faith comes by hearing Write down Hebrews 5. 11, of whom we have many things to say, hard to be uttered, seeing you are dull of hearing. Now the writer of Hebrews is saying, boy, I'd like to share with you some more. I'd like to share with you some deep truth, but I can't do it because you are dull of hearing. That phrase there, the Greek word, is a word that's used to speak of someone slow or sluggish. It was used to speak of someone who is lazy. You're lazy in your hearing. You're dull hearers. Sometimes people leave church and say, boy, that sermon was boring. Dr. Harmon's boring. Well the Bible doesn't say anything about dull preachers, only dull listeners. I'm not boring, you're boring. Write down 2 Timothy 4 3 and 4, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine But they will, after their own lust, he to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they will turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. Having itching ears is literally a desire to hear something pleasant You know, I like to be liked, but I wasn't called to make you feel pleasant. Are you okay with that? I'm just called to preach the truth and make it clear. Now the truth of the matter is sometimes God's truth is going to make you feel wonderful. A lot of times I'll hear a sermon and boy it'll really lift me up, but sometimes I'll hear a sermon and I'll say, oh woe is me Because sometimes the word of God it reproves, doesn't it? It rebukes. It exhorts. But we have to be ready to hear. Are we swift to hear? Are we ready to hear? I remember uh one time I was over in Africa at Cameroon and uh had to preach a lot six times a day. One day I preached. And this is a out in the open with crowds and you don't have a PA system. And so my I was losing my voice. And on this one particular day, I think it was all it was the next to the last day, I preached six times and they said, Would you please just one more time? Just one more time, hour each. And I said, well, let me go lay down, and I'll come back and I'll do it one more time. And I went and laid down and took a nap, got up, went to the chapel, and there was a huge crowd outside the door. And uh my first thought was someone forgot to unlock the chapel door. And then when I got close, I realized that wasn't the case. They were crammed in there. There were people standing around on the outside. Just wanting to hear. Hear the Word of God. Friend, that's not a testimony about me. That's a testimony about the Word of God. And it's a testimony about people who are swift to hear. They want to hear. I think sometimes here in America we take so much for granted. These are people who are desperate to hear the truth of the word of God And I think sometimes we have lost that here in our country. Do you realize what a privilege it is to hear the word of truth Be swift to hear, James says. But here's the second thing. Not only a committed ear, but also write down number two, a controlled tongue. Look at verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak. I think there are two ideas here. First of all, be careful not to be thinking about what you want to say and not listening to someone else. Some people don't listen because they're too anxious to talk. Be slow to speak. I've been guilty of this on occasions. Now, write down a few verses. Proverbs 1019. In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin, but he that refraineth his lips is wise. Proverbs 13. 3, he that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. That's pretty practical, wouldn't it? But he that openeth wise his lips shall have destruction. Proverbs 18, 13. If one gives an answer before he hears, it is a folly and a Shame. Ecclesiastes 5. 2. Be not rash with your mouth. All these verses, and we could give a whole lot more, say, listen, be slow to speak. Be slow to speak. The philosopher Zeno said this, God gave you two ears and one mouth, therefore you ought to listen twice as much as you speak. Makes sense. Be slow to speak. One time a famous orator was approached by a young man and said, Oh, teach me how to speak, teach me how to speak, and the the guy wouldn't be quiet. And the orchard said, I'm going to have to charge you double. He said, why? He said, because first I got to teach you how to be quiet. Then I got to teach you how to speak. Double the price. So I think that's the idea. But then there's another idea about being slow to speak, and that is you gotta be careful how you speak and what you speak. You realize one foolish comment can get you into trouble? It's and you can't retract a lot of times things that you say. So you have to be careful what to speak. That's why James says in James 3, verse 1, my brethren, be not many masters That is, don't be anxious to be a teacher, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. That is to say, that any teacher of the word is going to be judged in a much more severe way Very strict way. You're going to be judged. But friend, when I stand before God, I'm going to have to be judged more severely. Because I'm a teacher of the word and I'm accountable for what I say. That's why I'll be honest with you, there's a reluctance a lot of times to stand and speak. I gotta be honest, I'm reluctant sometimes. Sometimes I just as soon sit and listen because I know there's a huge, huge responsibility. with what I say. So James says, look, have a committed ear. He said, have a controlled tongue. But here's the third thing, a calm spirit. Look again in verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Notice where it says slow to wrath. Be slow to wrath. Now there are two basic Greek words for wrath. Thumos, this has the idea of an explosion of wrath. You ever see somebody they just lose it? That's this word here. There's just an outburst of anger. Then there's another word, and that's orge, which means an inner resentment that kind of sees on the inside. And it just kind of begins to get worse. You get ang more angry. It smolders That's the word that's used here. Kind of a smoldering resentment that just builds and builds and builds. And James is saying, listen, be slow to wrath. Now what's he talking about here? Angry people. Some people are angry, just they're angry over circumstances. Some people are angry over the Word of God They come to church, they hear truth, they might get angry over what they hear. They say, you know, I didn't come to church to be preached at I I I remember one time I was in another church and uh the person who leaves me said, I'm not coming back anymore. I said, Why not? He said, because you don't make me feel good about myself. Literally, you know, you make me sick. Well, you know the word for reprove in the Bible, reprove, rebuke, exhort, preach the word, reprove is a word that literally means to make sick. And it's not me. I look just don't get me wrong, folks. When I come to I want to be a blessing, I want to lift you up. I want to encourage you. I never come to church to preach a sermon and say, boy, I'm going to get brother so-and-so. I never ever do that. I just want to make the Word of God clear, but I want to tell you, once the Word of God, the truth, is given, the truth has an effect. It can reprove, it can rebuke, it can exhort, it'll accomplish the purpose that God has for it. But I'm not here to try to make you angry Or to level my gospel gun at you. It's like the man who was stealing apples out of an orchard. He turned around and he was the Amish farmer. He had his double barrel shotgun leveled at him. Guy said, I thought you Amish are peaceful. And the Amish man said, I would not hurt thee. I will not harm thee. I would not so much as lift up my hand against thee, but thou art standing where I'm about to shoot. I'm not raising my gun at you. I'm just you're standing where I'm shooting. So be slow to wrath. Listen why? Because notice what it says here, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. And what it's saying here is And this righteousness of God is talking about the sanctification in our life. You know when the word of God is preached, God, through his spirit, begins to sanctify you. He's conforming you. He's making you more like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the righteousness that it's talking about there. Jesus said, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth And so when the Word of God is preached, the Holy Spirit takes the word and he does his process of sanctification in your life and in my life. But now here's the deal. If you're inwardly seething about something and there's anger James says the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. You're not cooperating with the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit if you come to church and you're angry. And your seething. James says that does not work righteousness in your life. And so have a calm spirit. Put away that anger from you. If you want to receive God's word, have a committed ear. Have a controlled tongue. Have a calm spirit. But then here's the next thing: a clean heart. A clean heart. Look in verse 21. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness. and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Now look at that phrase there, lay apart. That's an interesting word in the Greek. It means to put off Like you're putting off clothing. Like you're taking off dirty garments. Filthiness is a word here that's used to speak of dirty clothing. So the imagery there literally is taking off dirty clothes. And that's really what happens In the process of sanctification, we could use that analogy. We're taking off the dirty clothes of our past life, and we're putting on the new clothes of righteousness. Remember in John 11 when Jesus said Lazarus come forth, he resurrected Lazarus? And the Bible says they moved the stone, and there he came wrapped in grave clothes. And then Jesus said, lose him. And some men came and they took off those grave clothes. You see, it's you know what happens at salvation? At salvation, God calls your name and he says, Jerry, come forth. And I began to live. And you know what happens after salvation? Now God is taking off these rotten grave clothes of my past life. He's taking off the grave clothes, and then he's putting on the grace clothes He's given me sanctification in my life. Now, here's the deal. Part of my calling as a pastor is to help you loose the grave clothes, take them off. And that's what James is saying here. He's saying, wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, all those things of your past life. And then receive with meekness. And the word receive there in verse 21 is the idea of to welcome, to welcome the word of God. You know how you learn spiritual truth? You learn spiritual truth by making sure that when you come to church, your heart is clean. You lay aside all those things from your past. And then you welcome the Word of God. You come with a clean heart, ready to receive truth. And then God, you know what He does? He will enlighten your mind. And he will help you to understand the truth. You see, oh, I can do, I can try to make it clear, but friend, I can't really impart truth. Only the Spirit of God can do that. And so you come ready and you know what? He opens your mind. He opens your eyes to see truth. You just simply welcome it. And here's the bottom line, if the Holy Spirit doesn't teach you truth, you're not going to get it. That's what that's what makes God's wisdom and the Word of God unique. Of course we use all the empirical ways of learning. We use reason and logic, just like you learn any other subject. But if that's all you have, is all you have is observation and logic and reason. Then you're not going to get the truth. There's another element that's missing. What is it? It's the Spirit of God opening up your mind and showing you and teaching you truth. You see, that's why He's given you the Holy Spirit. He gave you the Holy Spirit so you can learn the things of God. I'll give you illustration. My there's no one in the world that knows me as well as my wife, Carolyn. She knows me better than anyone else. But you know what? There's someone who knows me better than even Carolyn, and that's me. I know me better than she knows me But if it were possible for me to take my spirit out of me and plant it in her, she would know me even deeper. She would know the deep things of Jerry Harmon if I could give her my spirit. Now I can't do that But I tell you what, you know what God did? God gave you his Holy Spirit. And you know why he gave you his spirit? Because the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2, He wants you to know the deep things of God. And it's the Holy Spirit that opens your mind and your heart to receive truth. And so how do we listen? We just come to church, we we we have a clean heart. And we say, Holy Spirit, teach me. And you know what? The Holy Spirit imparts truth to you. He opens your mind to receive the truth. He imparts truth into you. So you just welcome the word. So you should be sitting there saying, I'm ready, Lord. Teach me your truth. And so that's what James is saying then. If we want uh to really learn and listen And grow, there has to be a committed ear, a controlled tongue, a calm spirit, and a clean heart. That's a proper reception of the truth. But now here's point number two We talked about a proper reception of the truth, but now number two, a proper reaction to the word, a proper reaction. To the truth. Look in verse 22. But be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man, beholding his natural face in a glass, for he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was Now, here's the second thing, a proper reaction. Now, here's where James really gets down to brass tacks. Hearing is important. You have to hear and know and learn. But if it ends there, it's not going to do you any good. If all you do is hear, it's not going to help you And really when he says you've deceived your own self, what's he mean? He's really saying you've deceived yourself about your salvation. If you come to church and all you do is just simply hear, you may even open up your notebook, take notes, close it. Nothing else comes of it. You're just a hero. That's it. You don't apply truth. You don't live out the truth. James says that's not doing you any good. So he exhorts them in verse 21, or verse 22 rather, be ye doers, do it In fact, the word hearer here is a uh translated in some text auditor. An auditor. You ever go to school and audit a class, sometimes in seminary? We'd have classes and a guy would come in and he would audit the class. You know what that means? That means all he does is come and listen. He doesn't have to take the tests. He doesn't have to write a research paper. He doesn't have to do any of the work. All he does is he just sits in class and he listens. He doesn't even get a grade. He's just listening, just auditing. Some people come to church that way. You don't want to really be tested on any of the material. You don't really want to grade. You don't really intend to apply it. You're just listening. You're just hearing. And James is saying, listen, that's not the mark of genuine Christianity. If you're just a hearer, Then James says you're deceiving your own selves if you're just a hearer. Now let me show you one illustration. Go back to Matthew chapter 7. Hold your place here in James. We're going to come right back. But look at Matthew chapter 7. Let me just show you one. passage here that kind of supports what James is saying. And look in verse 21. Notice is Jesus speaking. He's drawing to a conclusion that great sermon, the Sermon on the Mount. And notice what he says in verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but what? He that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Look at verse 22, scariest verse in all the Bible. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works And Jesus said in verse twenty-three, Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work what? Iniquity. Jesus said, I didn't know you Many people that think that they're truly, genuinely saved, Jesus says, I never knew you. And then right on the heels of that, what does Jesus do? He gives a parable. to clarify his point. Look at verse twenty-four. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house. And it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And verse 26, and everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, Shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. Now a lot of times I hear preachers preach this and they say this is two different kinds of Christians. No. You forgot the context here Jesus is clarifying those who are true and those who are not. Those who say, I know Jesus, and they really know him, and those who say, I know Jesus, and Jesus says, I never knew you. What does a true believer do? He hears the sayings of Jesus, and then he what? He does them. He applies them. He obeys the word of God. But then who is a false believer? Those who hear the sayings, and Jesus said, doeth them not Both men hear the same sermons, both hear the same teachings, one does them, one does not do them. And Jesus said, when the storm comes, one will stand and the other will fall. By the way, what is the storm? The day of judgment. In the day of judgment, one son some shall stand, some shall fall. Some are true, some are not. And I think this is what James means when he says, don't be just a hearer. If you're just a hearer and not a doer, you're deceiving yourself. I think James was very influenced by the Sermon on the Mount. So you have to be a doer. You have to obey. Notice the illustration. Go back to James 1. Look at the illustration that he gives. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass And he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. So he gives a another illustration. Remember, James is great at illustrating, he's great at using metaphors, and here he uses the illustration of a person looking into a mirror. Now mirrors back in that day were not as crisp and sharp as they are today. However, they were very effective But most of the times mirrors were not on the wall, they were on a table. And you would sit on the table and look down. Kind of almost like the analogy of looking into the Word of God. James is using a mirror to speak about the word. He said, here's a man, and he looks into the mirror, and he sees what manner of man he is, and then he walks away and forgets it. James is comparing that to just a hearer. Now let me tell you something about a mirror. A mirror cannot change your appearance. A mirror can only reveal your appearance. I mean people don't get up, look into a mirror, and say, okay, there we go, all right. Walk away, don't do anything to fix it, right? We don't do that. You don't walk into a mirror and say, well, the mirror is going to change me. Just by looking into the mirror, it has a magical quality, it's going to change me and make me what I want to be. Mirrors don't work that way. A mirror can't change you. A mirror can only reveal who you are. And if you don't do anything about it after you look into the mirror It does you no good. Mirror can't cleanse you, mirror can't help you. It's the same with the Word of God. If all you do is just come and you'd look into the law of liberty, you'd look into the mirror of God's Word. And you see yourself and you see things about you and you just walk away and you forget it. James is saying, you are being a hearer, not a doer. And this isn't going to help you. If you come and just hear And don't do it. It's not going to help you. You know, I know going through seminary, I read a lot of books by a lot of smart men with a lot of letters after their name, and reading some of the books, it just I just got the sense that this person doesn't know the Lord. They had a lot of knowledge. They had a lot of understanding about a lot of things. But they just had no sense of real true faith where they were living it out. And I think sometimes people are like that. They just think that just by hearing, that's enough. It's not enough. Notice what he says in verse number twenty-five. Here's the contrast. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his what? In his deed. He's blessed in the doing of it. When you apply it, here's a man, he's continuing. This is not just a casual glance. The first man would take a casual glance into the mirror, walk away, forget what kind of person he was. The second person doesn't just give a casual glance. He studies it, he looks at it, he thinks about it, he meditates on it, and then he does it. And he's blessed And we could say it like this, the power of God is unleashed in his life as he begins to obey it. That's the point. Ever hear of D. L. Moody? D. L. Moody, a great evangelist. And one day some young seminary students went to hear him. One was named R. A. Tori, and they wanted to know the secret of his power. When after he got done preaching, they say, Will you you share with us the secret of your power? And D. O. Muddy said, come back tomorrow and I'll tell you. And they came back the next day. And he gave them a few verses of scripture and he said, now go do it. And they said, what? I said, go do it. Go live it out. They said, that's it. He said, that's it. The secret of power is obeying, doing it, obedience. Be a doer, but then notice the application. How do we see that? Look in verse twenty-six. If any man among you sees to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but to see with his own heart, this man's religion is Vain. Pure religion and undefiled before the F God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. And so James kind of gives a few ways that we apply truth. Show me your faith is real. By the words that I speak. Are you able to control your tongue? By the widows that I serve? Visiting the wid the the widows and the fatherless and their affliction. By the way, they were the The neediest people in the world that day were widows. There were no insurance programs, and normally if a a a widow was just destitute. Or a child who had no father was destitute. And Jesus is saying, you show your religion by ministering to those who are the most needy. By how you control your tongue, by ministering to those who need it. And then the last thing is in verse 27, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. There's the wickedness that I shun. The words that I speak, the widows that I serve, the wickedness I shun, all of that reveals that I'm not just a hearer, I'm living it out I'm doing it. I don't want to be just a hearer of the word. So there's a proper reception of the word and then a proper reaction. To the word. And James is saying, this shows whether or not your faith is a genuine faith. Now, four scholars were talking about the Bibles they love best. One scholar said, I love the King James Version, I love the majesty, the beautiful English. It's a masterpiece of English literature. I love it for that. Another man said, Oh, I love the uh the American standard, I love the the the formal translation, the the flow of word to word, and another one said, Well I love the The ESV because of the way it informs the reader about certain issues. And then another scholar said, I love my mother's version. And they said, Did your mother translate the Bible? He said, Oh yes, every day. She lived it out. She translated into life every day growing up. I love my mother's version of the Bible. Now whether you realize it or not, every one of you is translating your version of the Bible. What kind of version are you translating before the world to see? Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, help us to be not just hearers of the word. Help us to be doers. Help us, Lord, to be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, knowing that the wrath of man works not the righteousness of God. So Lord help us to be blessed in our doing. Help us, Lord, to hear we must hear. We must listen. But Lord, help us to do more than just that. That reveals genuine faith by what we do. Now with hedge bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, sir, I want to ask you, ma'am, about your faith Is your faith genuine? Do you know that you know Jesus as your Savior? Have you ever truly repented of your sin and turned to Him? I tell you the verse that we read, I hope it's not said of anyone in this room where Jesus says, Depart from me, I never knew you. Friend, make sure of your soul's salvation. Ask yourself, if I turn to Jesus, am I trusting in him and him alone as my salvation? And am I obedient? Am I living out my faith in my life? And friend, if there's any doubt about that, we want to help you. We want you to know that you know Jesus Christ as your Savior. And maybe you're here today. Maybe the Lord has spoken to your heart. Maybe he said to you, you need today to trust me. Maybe today is the day of salvation for you, sir, for you man. Would you be willing to pray this prayer? Just pray it in your heart. Just say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Make me your child. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. Make me a true child of God. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Say yes, pray for me. I want to know Jesus. Would you lift your hand and say yes? Pray for me, preacher I want to know Jesus. God bless you, ma'am. Who else? I want to know Jesus. God bless you. I want to know Jesus as my Savior. Would you be willing to pray? Say these words. Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. Come into my heart. Be my Lord and my Savior and my God. And friend, if you'll pray that, he'll save you right where you are. Anyone else say that's my prayer I want to know Jesus Christ. Now, friend, if you've raised your hand and you've prayed that prayer, I want you to let us know. Come to me or come to Pastor Earl or Pastor John. Or Pastor Aaron, come to one of these pastors after the church and let them know of your decision to trust Christ. We want to rejoice with you. We want to help you.