And we are in a study in Malachi, but look in chapter 3 tonight. Malachi chapter 3, and we're going to be looking at verse 13 down to verse 18. From verse 13 on down to verse 18, and let me read these verses tonight. Verse 13 of Malachi chapter 3. Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? Ye have said it is vain to serve God, and what prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance? And that we walk mournfully before the Lord of hosts. And now we call the proud happy. Yea, yea, they that work wickedness are set up. Yea, they that tempt God are delivered. Then they that fear the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and wrote a book of remembrance that was written before the hem For them that fear the Lord, and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels. And I will spare them as a man spares his own son that serves him. Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. So I want to ask you a question tonight. I want you to think about it. And this is the question. Does it pay to serve the Lord? Amen. I knew you were going to say that. You know, there are some people that complain that it doesn't pay to serve the Lord. In fact, there are some people that come to that conclusion. Surprisingly, they say it's not worth it. And this is really the problem that we're dealing with here in Malachi. Malachi says to these people, your words are stout against me. These people were complaining that it doesn't pay to serve the Lord. I read a statistic not too long ago. I read that recently it says that 1,500 pastors a month in the United States are leaving the ministry. $1,500 a month. Now some leave because of moral failure, but many of them leave because of just spiritual burnout. Or because of discouragement, or because of opposition and contention against them in their congregation. Another survey revealed that 85% of pastors say they are weary with dealing with problem people. Seventy percent said they felt that God called them to the ministry before their ministry began, but three years later, only 50% still felt called the ministry. And they they drop out. In another report on missionaries, it said that while there are many short-term workers, few are accepting the call to be a career missionary. And those who do, really, they only accept one term. So apparently there are some servants out there that are pondering this very question. Does it pay to serve God? Now by the way, that's not just with clergy, that's also with lay people in the church. Because in my experience in ministry and the churches I've been to and have visited, there are many people that used to serve in the local congregation, but by and by they dropped out. And they got burned out. And so they're no longer involved in serving. In some cases, some of these people dropped out of church altogether. They didn't see any value in being in church at all. And they felt like they could serve God better or worship God better, quote unquote, by just avoiding church. And so In some cases they were serving and they got criticized, they got attacked, and they came to the conclusion, you know, it's just not worth it. And there are some people in church today, if you go up to them and you say, hey, would you be would you be willing to serve the Lord and do this? They say No, thank you. I've already done that. I've been there. I've done that already. I got the t-shirt. That part of my life is over. And they don't serve the Lord. Well, for whatever reason, they think it doesn't pay. Well, our tax speaks to all such burned out workers. Answering this one question, does it pay? Now, there are three responses to this question that I want you to see here in chapter 3. First, there's the skeptics' response. We're going to look at that in verses 14 and verse 15. And then there's the response of the godly person, or people, I should say. It's not just one person, it's a group of people. We see that in verse sixteen. And then there's the Lord's response, his answer to this in verse 16 and verse 17. So if you're taking notes right down. Number one, here's the first response. I call this the accusation of the skeptics. And to this question, does it pay to serve God? These this first group, group A, they're the skeptics. Now you remember as we've been studying the book of Malachi, there are people who have grown cold and indifferent in their spiritual life. And they question everything about God. Remember, we've seen this through the book of Malachi. Whenever God would pose a proposition, they would come back with kind of a skeptical question. They were even questioning God's love. Remember that? Go back to chapter 1 and look at verse number 2. I have loved you, says the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein has thou loved us? How have you loved us? They questioned God's love. They were offering their second best. God says, you're not honoring me. They said, how are we not honoring you? They broke their covenants with God. God reminded them about that, and I said, Have we broken these covenants? They were constantly complaining. And last week we learned that they were robbing God of tithes and offerings. God said, Will a man rob God? And I said, How will we rob you, Lord? And God said in tithes and offerings. And now here they're again complaining. And God says, you have uttered stout words against me. And so to the to the this question, does it pay to serve the Lord, this first group would say, no, it doesn't. In fact, notice what they say in verse 14. Ye have said, it is vain to serve God. That's the first response. They said, no, it's vain. And the word vain here just means empty, useless, it doesn't pay, it's unsubstantial, it's valueless. It it it's it's a waste of time. Not only did they say it's vain, but also notice what they say, it doesn't pay. Look again in verse 14. He has said it is vain to serve God. And notice this next phrase, and what prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance? What prophet is it? Now the word prophet here occurs 39 times in the Old Testament. It's a technical term for a weaver's act of cutting away a piece of cloth from the loom. So it's really speaking about a cut. A cut. And so thus, when Malachi uses it, he's using it with a negative connotation. In other words, these people were expecting their cut. God where's our cut? Where's our percentage? Sounds like a racketeer or a gangster wanting his cut for what he has done. Remember Joseph's brothers? They said, let's not kill them. Let's sell them. That way we can each get a cut. In this. And that's the whole attitude of these people here. They say it doesn't profit. They were saying serving God is an unprofitable business. It demands too much, it pays too little. What profit is it? It doesn't pay. It's vain, it doesn't pay. But also it doesn't matter that we mourn. Look again in verse 14. Ye have said it is vain to serve God, and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts. This charge was that their mourning, their mourning before God, their tears yielded no profit. Now these men here had they were clothing themselves in dark clothing as if they were dressed for a funeral. In fact, the phrase walk mournfully comes from a verb that means to be dark Or to dress darkly or to dress dirty, you know, in that day when someone was mourning, they would put on dark clothes, and then they would throw dirt on themselves As an expression of their sorrow. And so here are these men walking around dressed mournfully in dark clothing, perhaps throwing dirt on themselves, and they were supposedly repenting over their sins and mourning over the plight of the nation. But they concluded that all those acts of contrition yielded no results. And so they said, it's useless to mourn before God. It doesn't really give us any results. There's a problem with this, however, you you you can't manipulate God. You know, there's one thing of doing an outward ex uh uh religious expression with no heart Trying to manipulate God. That's one thing. Genuine sorrow is completely different. Genuine repentance. God will not respond to empty, ritualistic acts to try to manipulate Him. Well Kaiser, the Old Testament scholar, said this, it is little wonder that they were useless, for once again the skeptics attributed birth to the acts themselves, though they were devoid of genuine Piety, end quote. And that's true. This is the spirit of legalism. This is the spirit that expects a reward for outward religious rituals. God, we've done this, so now we expect this from you. On all the things we've done for you, here's one of them we've warned. Now what are we going to get for that? That's the whole attitude they had. They were checking their boxes And their service and ministry. They were filling out the blanks under the header, Stuff We've Got We've Done for God. And they were expecting some kind of a reward. But that's the wrong motive. You can do the right thing for the wrong reason. And so they say it doesn't matter that we mourn. And then they said this, look at verse 16. And now we call the proud happy. They say the ungodly are happy. The word proud here has the idea of those who are self-willed, those who are malicious, those who def who defy God. and his precepts. And so they make this statement that is so rebellious. In fact, Kaiser again calls this an atrocious statement. It's really a mocking pronouncement. It's as they were making an official pronouncement. You ever hear an official pronouncement? You go to a wedding. And you hear the minister say, by the powers invested in me, by the state of Maryland and the Lord Jesus as a minister of the gospel, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Official pronouncement. Here they were kind of mockingly giving an official pronouncement. We now pronounce the proud happy. They're going to live happily ever after. And they were using this as another evidence that it doesn't really pay to serve the Lord. The proud we officially pronounce happy. This is an insolent statement. No wonder God said in verse 13, Your words against me have been stout. Because they're very arrogant And notice what he says in verse 15. They say, men, they're set up. And now we call the proud happy. Yea, they that work wickedness are set up. You ever hear someone say, man, that guy's set up? Nice house, nice car, man. He's living on the high life. He's set up. There's a sense in which that's what they're saying here. They are built up. They are prospering. And then he says, Yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. They can talk evil. They can do evil deeds and yet they go free. They can challenge God and escape punishment. Nothing bad happens to them Therefore, in the eyes of these skeptics, to the question, does it pay to serve God, their answer is, no, it doesn't. Doesn't pay. Now thankfully, that's not the only group here in this passage. There's another group. So write down number two, not only the accusations of the skeptics, but write down number two the attitudes of the godly The attitudes of the godly, because here's the other group. Look at verse 16. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened. So here's another group. And these are the true believers. These are the true servants of the Lord. And by the way, they're probably a small remnant. The skeptics were a large group. You ever notice that? The skeptics always seemed to have a large group. Yet God has this faithful remnant, and here's this small remnant of believers of godly people, and they have an altogether different attitude and a different approach. You say, what's the attitude? Well, first of all, notice they feared the Lord in verse sixteen. Then they that feared the Lord This is used twice at the end of verse 16. We see, look down at the bottom of verse 16, it says, before him that feared the Lord, that thought upon his name. Twice Malachi mentions this that they feared the Lord. Now there are several words used for feared in the Old Testament. Some have the idea of dread and terror. One means to be terrified, but here this word fear Yahweh simply means to show respect or to show reverence. Remember, I told you this is the fear of the Lord where it's a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. That's what he's talking about here. A reverence for God, an honor for God. Now, A. W. Tozer said to know God is to fear him and to be stunned by the splendor of his majesty. That's a good definition of fear. Sinclair f St Clair Ferguson wrote this. He said, It is talking about the fear of the Lord, it is that once And at the same time, a consciousness of being in the presence of true greatness and majesty, a thrilling sense of privilege, an overflow of respect and admiration A sense of that it's only his opinion that really, really matters in my life. And that's really the attitude here. These people fear the Lord. And this is this is important. You know why? Because you remember that the other people and and to whom Malachi was writing, they didn't fear God. Not even the leaders. Go back to chapter 1, verse 6. Notice what God was saying to the priests. He said, A son honors his father, and a servant is master. If I then be a father, where is mine honor? If I be a master, where is my fear? Why aren't you fearing me? They had lost their reverence. They had lost their fear. Just like many people today in this society, in this world, in this country. You know what we need in America? We need a baptism of the fear of the Lord. Well, people learn to fear God again. These people, they feared the Lord. Notice another thing about them. They spoke about God. Look again at verse 16. And they that fear the Lord spake often one to another. And so here they were, they were speaking. Notice where it says then, verse 16. Then is in contrast to the ungodly in verse 15. See you have you have the first group. Group A, they were speaking rebellious words, skeptical words. Then you have Group B, and they come along and they counter what Group A was saying. That the evil talk of group A, they had to be bold for God, just like the first group was. And they did it by getting together and by talking. You know what I think they were doing? They were coming together and they were saying, you know what, don't listen to those scoffers. Don't listen to those evil people. Don't give up serving the Lord. It's worth it to serve God. You know why it's good to come to church and fellowship and encourage one another? Because we need the encouragement of one another. to keep us from grabbing a hold of some of those really bad philosophies and ideas that are out there. Fed philosophy. We live in a postmodern world where people don't fear the Lord and there are all these ideas that bombard your mind. That's why it's good to come to church, hear the word of God, and then stick around for fellowship and encourage one another. That's what they were doing here. They were speaking, first of all, to one another. That's why the Bible says, Don't forsake the assembly of yourselves together in Hebrews. It says we're to stimulate one another to love and the good works We're to encourage one another. That's what they were doing here. They were just talking back and forth. They spoke to one another. They spoke reverently. about the Lord. They were speaking with the fear of the Lord. You know, you can tell whether a person fears the Lord or not by how they talk about God. Let me tell you something, he is not the man upstairs. He's not the big guy in the sky, as some people like to say. He is the Lord of hosts, he is the King of Kings, he is the Almighty God. He is the Holy One, the sovereign King. The way some people talk about God is blasphemous. You know, they seem to forget that one day they're going to have to stand before Him. Jesus said every idle word that a man shall utter, he will give account of in the day of judgment. You know what the Bible I believe that science tells us that when a person speaks, you create a sound wave And that sound wave never really stops. It never really just disappears. It just keeps traveling. And so when a person creates a sound wave by speaking, that sound wave just travels through space. Just imagine if we could have a machine that could recapture that sound wave and play it before you. You could hear the very words that you spoke, not a recording of them, but the very words themselves, that very sound wave But I'm going to tell you something, God doesn't need a machine like that. I believe that one day, when God judges people, he can recapture that sound wave and play the very words that you spoke before you. And you will give an account for every idol, and the word idol means careless, thoughtless word. You better be thoughtful and careful in the way that you speak about God. And so they spoke reverently. And then they spoke constantly. Look again in verse 16. They that fear the Lord spake often. Look at the word often there. Often one to another. These Christians, they just kept talking about God. I'm convinced we don't talk often enough about God. Do you ever notice we talk about the things that we love? The things that we're passionate about? Some people they talk about sports all the time. Some people talk about their car all the time. Their house. Some people talk about their children, their grandchildren. You know why? People talk about the things that they love. The things that they're passionate about. And here, these people, they were talking about God. Someone said that the average person speaks enough during the week to fill a 500-page book. It's the average person. Now some of you have a thousand page book that you fill. But the average person, 500 pages And they also estimated that the average lifetime we will fill 3,000 volumes of 500-page books. That amounts to 1,500,000 pages of material. That we will fill just by speaking. And so my question is this: how much of our speaking is about God? These people here, they spoke often about the Lord. They feared the Lord. They spoke about the Lord. But then notice the next thing. They highly valued the Lord. Look again in verse 16. Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another. Now drop down at the end of verse 16 where it says, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord. And notice this last phrase, and that thought upon his name. Just search for that word says it thought upon his name. This is a very interesting word here. It means to esteem very highly. It means to meditate upon, to regard, to set a high value on. This same word is used in Isaiah 13, 17, talking about that army that will invade Babylon, and Isaiah said they will not value silver. In other words, when this army invades They're not going to value silver. They're going to value victory much more than money. And the idea here is it's something that is extremely valuable. You know what this group of godly people did? They valued God. They were Overwhelmed with the name and the greatness of God. Oh again, Old Testament scholar Kaiser wrote this. What these believers were doing was setting their value on or esteeming as their highest prize the name of the Lord. What's the name of the Lord? That's all who God is. His person, his attributes, his majesty, his character. All of that. It's all his moral perfections, all of his holiness, all of that is comprised in the name of God. And so what was going on here is that these believers were prizing, they were valuing God. They were saying He is our prize, our reward, our possession. So if you would have asked these believers that question, does it pay to serve the Lord? You know what they would have said? Absolutely it does. Yes, it does. And if you would have said, well, what are your assets? What is your price? Where's your cut? What's the percentage that you get? Do you have any wealth? Do you have any property? You know what they would do? They would point to the name of God. They would say, that's it. That's our treasure. They would say like the psalmist in Psalm 16, verse 8, I have set the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh shall rest in hope They would say like the psalmist in Psalm 73, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. God is my portion forever. They would say like the psalmist in Psalm 43, verse 4, then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy. God is my exceeding joy. God is my reward. God is my cut. He's my portion. He's my treasure. That's enough. The one who loves and fears God, to him the greatest reward, the greatest asset, the greatest treasure is God Himself. Now, so we see the accusations of the skeptics, and we see the attitudes of the godly, but there's a third response here, and this is the answer of the Lord. Now God's going to speak into this situation. And he's going to give an answer. How does God respond to all this? How does God respond to what his servants have said? Well, first of all, God hears his servants. Look in verse 16. Then they that fear the Lord spake often one to another. And listen to this, and the Lord hearkened and heard it. God heard all this. You realize that you can't have a conversation without God hearing it, right? He heard it. And by the way, the word hearken here is a Hebrew word that means to give attention. It's used to speak of an animal that turns their ears towards something that they hear. You ever have a dog that does that? You know, my dog can't is a copper spaniel. Her ears are are you know floppy. But you know, a German shepherd, you know, that hears something, they turn their ears toward it, they're tuning in. That's the idea of this word here. God tunes in. To his servants. He when they speak. Look at the word herd. The word herd here is another interesting word. It means to bend over so as not to miss a word. The idea of leaning forward. Yesterday a lady was trying to tell me something. I was in a place where there was some noise and I couldn't hear what she was saying and I leaned forward and I said, Would you say that again please? I'm kind of hard of hearing. So if I if if you think I'm ignoring you, I'm really not. All right? If you say something and I just ignore you, it's because you're not important to me. No, I'm just kidding. It's because I can't hear you. I can't I I leaned forward, I said, ma'am, what did you say that again? This is the idea behind this word here. God leans forward. He's listening. What does all this say? God pays special attention to the words of his faithful servants and to the prayers of his faithful servants. You say, does God listen to the prayers of some more than others? That's what the Bible says. God hears them. He leans forward. He's tuned in to their frequency. He listens. You know I was studying this, I was thinking about the old commercial. Remember two men are talking and one man says, Well my broker is E. F. Hutton, and when E. F. Hutton speaks and then everything gets quiet, you know, everyone wants to listen. That's kind of a corny illustration, but But you know what? That's in a sense what happens in heaven when God's God-fearing, faithful servants who treasure him, pray and speak God listens. He tunes into them. He hears them. And then he remembers his servants. Look again in verse 16. Then they that fear the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearken And heard it and listen to this. And a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord. So there's a book of remembrance written, and God writes it down in a book, the deeds of his servants So that he would reward them. This is a book of remembrance. Now, if you study the Bible, you're going to find that the Bible speaks about many books, especially in the judgment. The books will be opened. Daniel 7. 10 says, the judgment was set and the books were opened. There are different kinds of books that are in the Bible, and I'm sure you've heard sermons about that. There's the book of life, and then there's the book of judgment. There's the book that will be opened at the great white throne of judgment that has the works of sinners. But this book here is different from all those books. This is a book of remembrance. This book was not written before the foundation of the world. This book is recorded by God. When his servants do things, God writes it down. When they say things, God writes it down. This is the book of righteous acts and deeds and motives of his faithful servants. God writes it all down. Now this is referring, I think, to an ancient custom of that day. Did you know that there was a custom in that day of Persian kings and other Near Eastern kings? that they would have a recorder in the court who would record and write down all the things that were done by faithful servants. And later on the king would read that so that he would remember to reward them. Remember that story in the book of Esther where Art Exerxes can't sleep one night and he has a man come in and read before him a book? And as he's reading, he hears about Mordecai and how Mordecai stopped an assassination attempt against him, and he says, you know what, I've got to reward this guy. That's what it's referring to here. And I want to tell you something. God records better than any earthly king. He doesn't miss anything. He writes it all down. And one of these days, God's going to reward his faithful servants. So everything that you do It's written down. Every temptation you resist, every little small deed that's done that nobody sees, God sees it. He writes it down. He records it. And one day he's going to reward you for it. Anything that you do for Jesus is not forgotten. It's not forgotten. The psalmist knew of this kind of a book. In Psalm 56, verse 8, the psalmist said, Thou tellest my wanderings, you put my tears into thy bottle, and are they not in thy book? God even records even the sufferings, the tears that you might have to endure for his sake. Those things, God writes it all down. God records and then God rewards. God hears his servants. God remembers his servants. God claims his servants. Look at verse 17. And they shall be mine Saith the Lord. Mine is in the emphatic position here. Those who fear God, God says they're mine. They belong to me. That's my servant there. God claims his servants, and then God treasures his servants. Look again in verse 17. And in that day when I make up my jewels, look at the word jewels there. It means a special treasure, precious stones. This word is used of a box that collects jewels. This same word was used in 1 Chronicles 29, 3. You remember David had 3,000 talents of gold and 7,000 talents of silver, and he put all that in a big large account because he was saving up to to build the house of the Lord. But then beside that, David had a special box Of his personal treasures, his personal jewels, that he added, that's the word that's used here. Personal treasured possessions. Some of you women you know what I'm talking about. Remember you've got that box of jewelry somewhere, right? It's this is your special jewelry. This is what the word is here. That's what God thinks of you. If you're his faithful servant, you fear him, you serve him, you honor him. Your reward is his name, his glory. He is your treasure. Let me tell you something. God treasures those who treasure him. Amen. God says, you're my special treasure. I got you in safe keeping. The God of the universe prizes you highly. He has you in his special box, his special treasury. He treasures his servants. And then here's the last thing, he spares his servants. Look again in verse 17. And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day, when I make up my jewels, I will spare them as a man spares his own son that serves him. And here he's talking about when the day comes to carry out his judgment, you know God is going to judge this skeptical, godless world that does not fear his name. And God says, in that day, when I do, I'll spare my servants. Just like a father spares his son. Who serves him? There's a natural favor that a father has towards a son. And God says, I'm going to have a favor towards my servants. I'm going to spare them. when this time of judgment comes. And so God is assuring his people that he hears, he takes notice, he treasures his people, the people that the world despises, God delights in. The world notices the powerful, the rich, the famous. God notices those who fear Him and those who serve Him. They are his special treasure. So we don't need to be in despair if we see someone who is seemingly prospering in their evil. We don't need to worry about that. Why? Because when God judges the earth, he's going to draw a line between those who fear him and those who don't. Those who are his righteous servants and those who are not. Look in verse 18 as we finish up. Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked Between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. God says there's really only two groups of people. There's the righteous and there's the wicked. There's those who serve him and those who don't. Now this doesn't mean that you are saved and you're called righteous by the deeds that you do, that you store up your own righteous deeds and that which brings salvation. No. That's not it at all. We know that we can do nothing to commend ourselves to God. Our righteousness is the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. It's when we put our faith in what He has done for us, that His righteousness is imputed to our account. That is the gift of salvation, the gift of God's grace. But having been saved and been given the righteousness of Christ, the distinguishing mark of a true servant of God is that he serves the Lord. They just serve the Lord. The wicked don't. Wicked don't serve the Lord. They're not concerned about God. They're only concerned about themselves. So you're in one or two groups tonight. You're in those in the group of those who serve the Lord And are called righteous by God? Or you're in the group that doesn't? And you're called wicked. I hope that you're in the group that fears the Lord. And if you're not, you can get into that group if you put your faith in Christ. And so what's the conclusion to all this? Again, the question, does it pay to serve Jesus? Absolutely it pays. Yes, it does. Just to know that God remembers his servants. He claims them, he treasures them, he spares them. And to have God as our treasure, I think also the words of Peter. One day Peter said to Jesus, He said, Lord, we've forsaken all to follow thee. What shall we therefore have? And Jesus said to him in Matthew 19, Verse twenty one or twenty nine. And everyone that has forsaken houses or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold And shall inherit eternal life. And then he says this, but many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. You know what Jesus was saying? Don't worry about it. You're going to get reciprocated for your service But just remember this, all those in the world today that seem like they're in first place, when the judgment comes and it comes time to give out the real rewards, they're going to be in last place. All those that are in the world today that seem like they're in last place, they're going to be in first place. For the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Things are going to be reversed in the judgment. It's going to be totally reversed. Years ago, an elderly missionary couple had returned from serving in Africa for many years. They were returning to New York C City to retire. They were just broken in body for all this service they had done to the Lord. And they were feeling discouraged and defeated and afraid. They had no retirement. When they got to the deck to board the ship, they discovered that they were boarding on the same ship as President Theodore Roosevelt, who was coming back from a big hunting expedition. And then there was a lot of fans there for him. But no one paid any attention to this missionary couple. And they watched all of the celebration for the president, and a band was playing in the crowd. was worked up. And as they were crossing the Atlantic, the old missionary grew more depressed. And he said to his wife, Something is wrong. Here we are. We've done all this faithful service for the Lord. Nobody knows us. Nobody recognizes us. And here's this man. He comes back from hunting. And there are throngs of people around him. And it just seems like there's something not fair about all of this. And the boat finally docked, and there were people there to welcome the president and all these dignitaries, but no one noticed this couple. They left the ship to go find a rented place to then go try to find a job so that they can live out the rest of their days. And the men's spirit was very down And his wife said to him, Why don't you go and spend some time with the Lord? Why don't you go to your bedroom and pray? And he did that. He went to his room and he began to pray. And after a while he came out and his whole countenance was different And she said, what happened? He said, I went and I told the Lord everything. I told him all about it. Told him about that homecoming. And how we didn't have a homecoming. And he said, the Spirit of God spoke to me and said, You're not home yet. You're not home yet. Because when that day comes, the last shall be first. And the first shall be last. Does it pay to serve Jesus? Let me tell you something. It pays. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Lord, thank you for this encouragement to us. And I just pray for all of your servants tonight. There are many people here who fear you, who love you, who treasure you. And maybe there are some people here tonight that are questioning, does it pay? I pray, Lord, that this will totally answer that question with a resounding yes. It pays to serve the Lord. And Lord, maybe there's some who maybe they with being discouraged have backed off. I pray, Lord, that this will encourage them to be zealous for your sake. And to realize, Lord, what great treasure we have in you. Lord, may we learn to get all of our joy, all of our pleasure, all of our delight in you, in knowing you. Encourage your people tonight, Lord, I pray in Jesus' precious name, amen.