Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open to First Corinthians, and I want you to go to chapter sixteen tonight. As we're really coming to the end of this epistle, I hope That it's been an edifying study as we've gone through this great letter. And we come down to chapter 16. And tonight we're going to deal with verses 5 down to verse number 12. From verse 5 down to verse 12. And uh, you know, this is not a section in 1 Corinthians where we're going to get a lot of deep theology from Paul and doctrine. We've gotten a lot of that in this letter. In fact, we just finished up an incredible gr uh incredible chapter, a great chapter that deals with the resurrection. But now Paul is closing out this letter. I don't know about you, but I I want to be effective at ministry, don't you? I mean I I don't want to spin my wheels. I want all the effort that I have to be something that the Lord is able to use. You know, a lot of times if we're not careful we can uh spend a lot of effort in areas that really don't matter. When we could be spending And so anything that we can learn from Paul about how to do ministry is a blessing and a benefit for us. And I think that this is what we're going to learn as we look here in chapter 16, as Paul begins to talk about some plans, some things that he wants to do. Now it goes without saying that as Christians, we should always be abounding in the work of the Lord, right? Right? I mean that's exactly what Paul said at the end of chapter fifteen when he finished up that great chapter on the resurrection. The last verse in that is verse fifty-eight, where it says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding And I think it's no accident that then in chapter 16, Paul begins to talk about some of the things that he wants to do as he begins to uh make plans to do more of the work of the Lord. And so we should be that way. We should be uh doing God's work. And let me just say that anything that we do for God is worth doing with excellence, it's worth doing with diligence. It's going to take sacrifice. Sacrifice on our part, it's going to take work on our part. Uh God doesn't want half-hearted service. He doesn't want our leftovers. He wants us to uh to as Paul said to be abounding in the work of the Lord and doing it with excellence. Excellence. And so um we want to do it the Lord's way. So I want us to look here in chapter sixteen, and what I want you to see are just six principles that I think will help us to do God's work in God's way. Take these down and think about these things as we go through them. Here's the first principle. We find it in verse number five. Notice what Paul says. He says, Now I will come unto you when I shall pass through Macedonia, for I do pass through Macedonia And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may and that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go Now here's the first thing that I see, first principle I draw, and that is number one, be a visionary planner. Be a visionary planner. Um now the Lord's servants must have some kind of vision for the future something that they want to do for God. The Christians who are motivated by God's love will have something they want to do. They don't want to just sit around. They want to be used by God and they want to have opportunities. And they want to And that's what we see here with the Apostle Paul. Paul is making ministry plans. Now, where is he when he writes this letter? He writes it from the city of Ephesus. But notice what his plans are. Notice what he says about And then in verse six he says, I will abide with you. Uh and so And uh so these are Paul's plans. Paul says, This is what I want to do. I want to come back to you. I want to pass through Macedonia, and when I get there, I want to stay with you. This is the plan that he has here So again, Paul wants to leave Ephesus, his place of ministry at that time, and then he wants to go through mass Macedonia, that's a region that is just north of the city of Corinth. It was in that region that we hear about the churches at Philippi, the church at Thessalonica, the church at Berea. And these were churches that um that he plant planted, and these were also churches that were going to get together and help out in this collection that Paul is making for the poor saints in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And if you were here with us last Sunday night, you know that what Paul was doing was he was going from church to church, and he was taking up a collection from the Gentile churches to give to the poor church And why was the church in Jerusalem so impoverished? Well, because there were so many Jews there that lost their jobs after they got saved. They were kicked out of their jobs. Jews in the city that stayed there after Pentecost. That was the church at that uh in the world at that moment. They didn't want to go back. They wanted to stay there. Miracles were happening there. God was doing great things there and so all of a sudden you have the church of Jerusalem with all these needy people that they had to help take care of that were impoverished and they needed money, they needed support and many of the uh people at the Church, they sold their possessions, they laid the money at the apostles' feet, they began to distribute the money to poor saints, but even that after a while wasn't enough. They began to run out of resources there And so the Apostle Paul thought a good thing to do would be for these Gentile churches to give to the Jerusalem church, and thereby it would show the great unity and love. There's not a Jewish church and the Gentile church, there's only one church of Jesus Christ. And this would be a great demonstration of the love that existed, that the the wall of separation had been torn down between Jews and Gentiles. And so Paul is going to go systematically now from these churches, take up a collection, and give it to the saints. Now, so Paul's saying, look, I'm going to pass through Look at that phrase pass through in verse number five. That has the idea of travel and a systematic ministry. He had it all planned out. He was going to go to these churches But then when he got to the church at Corinth, his plan was to stay there at winter. That would be a convenient time for Paul to stay because in that Me to settle down there at Corranth. I can visit you. I can stay there for the winter, and I can help with some of these problems. Now, as you've been with us in our study in 1 Corinthians Corinthians, we know that the church of Corinth had some issues, didn't they? And they needed some help. And so, Paul, this was an opportunity for Paul to go back and go to the church of Corinth And stay there and minister to the people that were there. And so that was his plan. Paul says, This is what I want to do, this is what I'm going to do, this is my vision, the thing to do that I have for And so we learn from this. Paul was making plans. The Lord's faithful servants will plan ahead. They will strategize. My friend, don't be afraid to have Have a vision and a plan to do things for God. I as I read in church history, I find the people that God used the most were people that had visions and plans of things they wanted to do for Almighty God. I can't help but think about this when I read a passage like this, I think about Pastor Johnson and Grace Bible Baptist Church. You know why we're here today? Because the Lord Many years ago put a vision on Pastor's heart. And you we've heard him tell these stories. I heard him tell these stories when I was a teenager of how uh he walked around this property here and Claim this property for the Lord. And the Lord by uh blessed his faith and the faith of those who began with them. And and this church started that way. It started through the That God gave one person and their faithfulness, and God honored that. And because of that, the ministry is what it is today. And we can learn from that, can't we? I remember hearing that as a teenager. And you know what? At that time I was living uh you know on Wickham Road in Yale Heights. All Yale Heights fans say, Amen, nobody else in here, okay. Right across the uh street from where I live was uh a field with a big building. I didn't know what it was. I later found out that that was a home for uh for children that uh were special children and they and they were there uh and I just remember that was a place w that they would go and I remember just thinking, no what a great opportunity If I could just get in there and share the Word of God with some of those teenagers in there. And so I remember hearing Pastor about how he walked around this property and claimed to forgot. So you know what I did when I was a teenager I walked around the property there at the Rykahome and I began to pray Lord give us an opportunity to get in there and minister the word of God to And I remember after uh several weeks of just praying, I went into the office there. I didn't know who to look for. I just walked into the office and I said, I want someone who's in charge Charge. And uh they took me to the office of a lady named Elaine Gully, and I just said, Look, uh, you know, I'm a Christian, I live not too far from here. I would love the opportunity to share the word of God God with children in here. And you know what happened from that? The Lord opened that door. And you know what? That ministry is still going because John and Brenda Cool have taken up the reins and they are doing that faithfully. You know, just a few months ago they asked me to go to the Riker home with them and speak to teenagers there. And I just remember being blessed and remembering uh that years ago the Lord pledged Now I share all that just to let you know that as a Christian, you can have a vision of how God can use you. In order for us to reach other people, you have to get busy What vision will the Lord put on your heart to reach other people? Don't be afraid to have a vision and to dream of things that you can do for all Almighty God. What does the Bible say in Ecclesiastes eleven one? Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Christian, I would think why would anyone want to put their bread on the waters? I would picture in my mind a loaf of bread on a on a creek water b you know river and then why would I want it after many days Who would want a soggy loaf of bread? But then I began to realize that's not what that verse means. This was Solomon, and when it says, Cast your bread on the waters, he was saying, put your grain on ships Be willing to invest your grain and send them out so that you can have a return and be wise in the way you do it. Put uh you know a little bit on this ship and a little bit on that, you know, divide it up among seven or In other words, be willing to have a vision, be willing to take a risk, and do it by faith. That's the whole message there. And if we're ever really going to be used by God We have to have that kind of a spirit where we're willing to do something, take a risk. Solomon invites us to do that. Will you be willing to take so that God will use you? We have to somewhere along the line get out of our comfort zone and be willing to be used by God. Someone said a turtle cannot make progress unless he He sticks his neck out. And that's true in the spiritual realm as well. And so we see this first principle here: be a visionary planner. But here's number two. Here's the second thing I see. Be willing to adjust your plans. Be willing to adjust. Now look again in chapter 16, look down at verse 6. And it may be That when I I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go. And then he says in verse 7, for I will not see you And notice this next expression in verse number seven if the Lord what permit. Now again it was Paul's desire. He wanted to come and visit in Corinth after going through Macedonia. He wanted to stay there a while. He wanted to spend the winter there with them. That was his Plan A. That's really what he wanted to do. However, remember where Paul said, he said, if the Lord permits, if God will let me, because you know, sometimes we will make a plan And it's not going to go the way we think it should go. We we we might plan one thing, and God might redirect us on that plan. And so we have to be willing to adjust whatever plan that we have, as long as we're yielded to the will of God. Again, this was Paul's plan A. However, there were various circumstances that forced Paul to revise his plan and he didn't revise it just one time. He had to revise it twice. He had to go to a plan B and then because plan A didn't work out He couldn't stay a long time in Corinth, so he thought, well, you know, I'll I'll do something different. His plan B was to visit Corinth, then travel through Macedonia, passing through Corinth Corinth, uh on a second time he would go to Corinth on his way to Judah, uh Judea, I should say. And so rather than having one long visit in Corinth, Paul's, since that didn't work out, Paul said Second plan was, well, I'll just make a quick trip, then I'll go to Macedonia, then I'll come back and take another quick trip at Corinth before I go to Judea with this election and give it to the church at Jerusalem. Well guess what? That didn't work out either. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 1 real quick. Let me give you a little bit more insight. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter one look at verse fifteen uh because notice what it says here second corinthians one fifteen and in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before That ye might have a second benefit, and to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to be brought on my way Towards Judea again, so Paul says he couldn't take one long stay at Corinth, he would take two short stays instead. But look at verse 17. And when I therefore was thus Minded, did I use lightness? Or the things that I purposed? Do I purpose according to the flesh? That with me there should be yea, yea, and nay, nay? Words, what happened? Well, plan B didn't materialize, and so he had to go to plan C. And what was plan C? It turned out to be a quick visit to Corinth And it wasn't what he thought it was going to be. visit and that one visit turned out to be what he would later call a painful visit to Corinth. And why was it painful? Because you have to remember that the Church of Corinth But they weren't very submissive. They were a carnal church. They weren't listening to what Paul said. And he had to confront some people there in that church over several issues. And so this wasn't Very pleasant for Paul. It didn't turn out the way that he wanted it to turn out. Now, so he made a quick visit, a painful visit. Then he returned to Ephesus. And then he went to Troas to wait for Titus because he wanted to hear a word of what took place after his short, painful visit at the church at Corinth By the way, God did use that. He did use that to bring repentance to the hearts of some of the people that were there in the church at Corinth. But second Corinthians chapter one verses fifteen to seventeen, Paul Explaining to them, look, when I told you I wanted to come, I wasn't using lightness. I didn't say this carelessly. I didn't say I was going to do this and have no intention to do it because later on they accused him of not keeping his word Of of vacillating, of being unstable, saying you're going to do one thing and not then not doing it. And Paul just said, Look, when I promised, when I said I was going to come to you I didn't use lightness. When I said I was coming, I meant it. My yay means yay. My nay means nay. And I purposed in my heart to do it, but I was prevented. It was providentially I was prevented. And so what do we learn from this? We learn that we can make our plans under God But those plans don't always turn out the way we think they will. And we have there has to be some flexibility on our part to be willing to adjust to whatever God says. We might have something in our heart that we believe God wants us to do, and we go off with the right motive and total sincerity to go out and do this one thing, and along the way, what we realize Is that those doors don't open the way we thought they were going to open? In fact, there were some closed doors that we met up with. But the intention of our heart was sincere, and we weren't running from the will of God. We were trying to fulfill The will of God, but as we were going, what happened is we get redirected. And so you know what that means? There has to be flexibility on our part. That whenever we make a plan and we strategize We have to submit those plans to a sovereign God and say, okay, God, if this is not what you want, then you direct me and you guide me, because this is what happened with Paul What does the Bible say in Proverbs 16:9? The heart of man plans his way, but what's the rest of it? But the Lord establishes his steps. And so we can plan our way. But God has the right to sovereignly redirect those plans. And so Paul wasn't being fickle. He says to the crow Corinthians. I wasn't uh using lightness. Later he had to defend himself because they thought that he was not being sincere, and so he defends himself in second Corinthians chapter one one. But he learned to yield to whatever God said do. Let me give you another illustration of this. Go to the book of Acts, chapter 16, and let me show you that This passage. You know it very well, but I want you to see it from this perspective here. Look at Acts chapter 16 and look down at verse number six. This is when Paul is trying to uh to Go and minister at certain places. And notice how the Lord redirects him. Look in Acts chapter 16. Look at verse 6. Now, when they had gone throughout Phrygia in the region of Galatia And we're forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Now, think about that. The Holy Spirit ever forbids you to preach the word somewhere? That might How is it that the Holy Spirit could say, Don't preach the word here? But sometimes the Spirit of God might not leave in a certain area. And so Paul says He was determined to go to this place throughout Phrygia, but they were forbidden in verse seven. And they were coming to Mysia and a swayed to go into Bethynia. But the Spirit, what? Suffered them not. So here again, Paul's making a plan to go to a certain place, and the Holy Spirit said, No, that's not what I want. You know what this is I call this the restraint of the Spirit. As Christians, we have to learn the restraint of the Spirit sometimes in our life. You know, whenever I think about this I can't help but think about when I was uh learning how to drive. I went to Driver's Ed. You ever go to Driver's Ed? You know they have these special souped up cars for driver students. Did you know that? They have a the car that I learned in, it was a lady instructor who taught me how to drive. And on her side of the car, you know what she had She had on the passenger side of her car she had a brake down on the floor that she could push the brakes anytime she wanted to. That was for her safety. But I just remember that you know we had a constant battle in that car because I was always hitting the accelerator and she was always hitting the brakes Saying, slow down, slow down. And she had to teach me the brakes. She kept pointing to that brake and saying, you need to slow down. And you need to learn to use the brakes more And I think about that because sometimes that's true in our spiritual life, isn't it? We want to hit the accelerator, and the Spirit of God is hitting the brakes, and he's saying no I don't want this here. And as Christians, we have to learn to be sensitive to the restraint of the Spirit. When he is hitting the brakes, we don't need to hit the accelerator. This was what Paul was doing here. The spirit suffered them not. There's the restraint of the spirit. And you know the rest of the story. Look at verse nine. Uh as it says, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night And there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathered that That the Lord had called us to go and preach the gospel unto them. And now this is what I call the release of the Spirit. There's the restraint of the Spirit where he's where our plan might be to do This and we meet up with the breaks, God says no. But then he redirects us. And that's the release of the spirit. Paul knew that God was leading him to go to Macedonia. And when we obey the release of the Spirit, you know what there's going to be? There's going to be the results of the Spirit. Because what did Paul find when he went to Macedonia? We went to the city of Philippi And guess what? There were already people there whose hearts the Lord had touched. God was already there working. There was Lydia, the seller of purple. There was the the uh demon possessed girl. There was the uh later on the uh Philippian jailer and his family and a church was formed because Paul learned to follow the leading of the Holy Spirit In his life, and he learned that while he had a plan, he had to be flexible with that plan to follow God's leading wherever the Lord led him. Did you know I was interested interested to read that David Livingston, the great missionary to Africa? Did you know that really he wanted to be a missionary to China? And really Early on, he set out to be a missionary to China. But you know what happened? God redirected him. And God said, No, here's where I want you to go. I want you to go here. And so whenever we make a plan, we have to say If the Lord wills. And we have to be ready to be flexible. Now, let me give you a third principle I see here. Not only be a visionary planner, and not only be willing to adjust Your plans, but also here's another thing: accept help from others. Look again in chapter 16, look down at verse number six. He says, And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you And ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go. Notice where it says that you might bring me on my journey wherever I go. Now what did Paul mean when he said that He was actually saying that he needed help to do the work of the Lord. He knew that the work of the Lord could not be done by himself. And so he said, You can help me. You can bring me on my journey. You can help me on. As great a preacher as Paul was, as great an apostle as he was And I don't think there was ever a theological mind in a church like Paul's. I'm astounded sometimes when I study the his writings under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, of course, but God used For God, but as great as Paul was, he needed help. He couldn't do God's work alone. He needed the help of others. And this is what he's saying here to the church at Corinth. So that you might help me on my journey. And I you say, what did he mean by that? I think what he was talking about here, first of all, was financial aid. He needed their help To finance his travels. Where was he going to get the money? To to do the traveling that he needed to do. And by the way, the word help here is the Greek word uh propempo, which is a technical term Which is used to talk about giving aid to traveling missionaries and preachers. You know that there are certain technical Greek words that are used to apply to helping missionaries on their way because you know and that day they didn't stay in inns and hotels. They stayed at the homes of believers. They were dependent upon the hospitality of believers. They carried with them letters of recommendation to show that they were authentic uh preachers of the gospel. And so there were certain technical terms in the Greek language that was used to talk about giving financial help to God's ministers. And this is the word that's used here Paul was saying that he needed help. This would include food and clothing and money. This would even be traveling companions. If you were back in that day when you traveled, you didn't want to travel By yourself. You wanted to have somebody with you. And the more, the merrier in that context, it was helpful. And so Paul here is not ashamed to admit That he needed help from God's people. He needed help from the Corinthians. And guess what? You know what? I need your help. You need The help of others. We need each other's help. We can't do this by ourselves. We need the help of all the body of Christ. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, I'm not trying to make you feel bad But if you're not doing anything to help out the cause of the gospel, you need to get busy. Because we need your help. We cannot do this on our own. And here Paul is saying that to the Corinthians. God's work needs to go forward by the support and help of other people, and here he's asking for that help. And I think this included financial I think he had in mind going there to the church at Corinth and and being encouraged by what God was doing There. I think he was looking forward to that fellowship, to that encouragement with those believers. You know why? Because God's servants need that as well It's not easy. And we need to encourage one another. That's why it's blessed to come to a church where people love each other and encourage each other. It helps us But friend, if you go to a church where there's division and there's strife and there's contention, it has the opposite effect. Unfortunately, that's the way it was with the church at Corinth. And so Paul was hoping that when he went To that church, that not only would he get financial aid, but he would get great fellowship, he would get great encouragement. Let me tell you something, dear friends. If you want to encourage the work of God, you just be at peace with others, you be an encouragement to others, you uplift others. That's helping the work of God right there. But as it turned out, as I told you This was a painful visit for Paul. And uh because they were criticizing him for many things. They were beginning to adapt his apostleship. They were making fun of his apostles And so this wasn't a good thing. And again, I tell you, dear beloved, if you want to be a help to the ministry of God, you be an encourager. That is not critical but encouraging and promote peace in the body of Christ. So that's the third principle. Now let me give you the fourth one. Be a visionary planner, be willing to adjust your plans Accept help from others. But here's principle number four I learned from this. Be thorough in your service. Be thorough. You see, again in verse 7, Paul says, But I trust to This again was Paul's original plan. When he went there, he wanted to stay a long while. Why? Because he knew he needed to. He wanted to stay a long time. Because he knew That in order to deal with all the problems that needed to be dealt with, this would require, on his part, a longer stay. And why did he want to do that? He wanted to be thorough And I think that's what mindset we should have when we are working in the work of God. We need to be thorough in the work that we do. We need to be thorough in our evangelism. We need to be thorough in our edification in the church. You know, the that's what the Great Commission says. We were just talking about this in systematic theology. Systematic theology really is a result of the Great Commission where the Bible says We are to go and make disciples, teaching them what? All things that I've commanded you. So you don't really Make a disciple when you just win a person to the Lord and then walk away and leave them on their own. That's not being thorough. Or just teach a few things to them and then leave them on their own. No, to make disciples It takes a thoroughness on our part. We have to teach them all of the Word of God, the whole counsel of God. We have to be thorough and Paul took advantage of every opportunity he had to teach someone the word of God. And again, as preachers I I need I'm gonna be accountable to God because I need to teach the whole council of God. And by the way, that's one of the reasons why I like the expository preaching approaches because I think it's It also holds me accountable because when I'm going through a book of the Bible like I've been going through here in 1 Corinthians, if I skip over some hard verses You know what's going to happen? Some of you are going to come to me after the service and say, Why'd you skip over that? And you're going to keep me accountable. In fact, I've had a few say, How come you didn't stay a little longer on this one place right here And if you come up and you say that to me, I'm going to give you spiritual homework that you can do so that you can study that passage. But I like being thorough because God It's in the scripture because God wants his people, you, to know that. And I and we want to give the word of God and so thoroughness. Jesus could say at the end of three and a half years that um I have finished the work, Father, that you gave me to do. You know why he was so thorough And the way that he approached everything that he did in his life. Be a visionary planner, be willing to adjust your plans, accept how From others, be thorough in your service. But here's number five. Don't be surprised by opposition. Don't be surprised by opposition. Look at verse 8. But I was carried Ephesus until Pentecost, verse 9 For a great door and effectual is open unto me, and there are many adversaries. Now Paul is saying, you know what, when I'm done all of this, I'm gonna go back to Ephesus and I'm I'm going to stay there and I'm going to tarry there. And the reason is it's because God has opened up a great door of ministry there. How do you know that, Paul? Because there's a lot of adversaries. That's how I know Now we don't think that way. I don't at least I don't. You know, normally I think the opposite. If I have a lot of opposition and adversaries, you know what my first thought is? I must not be in the right spot There's something I'm doing wrong. I must be out of God's will. And I have to confess to you my own ignorance here, to my own shame, that there were times in certain certain times of my life where Where in a ministry I would get great opposition from uh whatever, wherever place. We all we all know where it ultimately comes from, right? It comes from the devil. And I would think that I'm a I must be out of God's will. I must not be in the right place. After all, how can anyone oppose me? I'm such a nice guy. How could anyone be opposed to me? And you know what I learned in time is that if you're doing anything worthwhile for the Lord, you know what you're going to get opposed In fact, T. Campbell Morgan said this if you have no opposition in the place you serve, you're serving in the wrong place. Paul, how do you know God's giving You a great effectual door because there are many adversaries. And wherever God opens up a door of ministry, Satan will make sure to forgive you. Adversaries. And so this is what Paul is saying. And by the way, if you read the account in the book of Acts of when Paul went to the city of Ephesus, you're going to find out he had incredible opposition there in that City. Uh to the point where it almost cost him his life. And yet Paul didn't look at that as saying, I must be out of God's will. He was saying, No, what a great opportunity I have here in this place. There are many adversaries here. And so we have to be willing to accept opposition when we serve the Lord. And not quit when that opposition comes, but realize that the Lord is sovereign over that. He's in control of that. And we need to move on for the glory of God. Now let me give you the last principle Here's principle number six, and that is have a team spirit. Just have a team spirit. This is what we see in Paul. Look at verse number 10 where it says Now if Timotheus Come, see that he may be with you without fear, for he worketh the work of the Lord as I also do. I like that what Paul says. Now look, I'm sending Timothy when he comes to you And I think Paul's concern was he knew how hard the church of Corinth was to deal with. And Timothy, here he is a young minister of Timothy's personality that he was being a younger man, sometimes uh he could have the spirit of fear. Paul would later talk to him about don't have the spirit of fear. And so he knew that maybe Maybe Timothy wasn't as battle-hardened, perhaps, as he was. And so he says to the Corinthians, I want him to be with you without fear. In other words, I want you to honor him as a Servant of the Lord, I want you to treat him with respect as a servant of God. Why? Because he says, For he worketh the work of the Lord as I am I also do. And what Paul is saying here is he's part of my team. He's a servant of the Lord just like I am. Paul looked at him as an equal as far as being a servant of God. Now, Paul was a leader, we know that. He was a leader of that missionary team. He was an apostle of God. He had a unique call. Everyone knew that Paul was a leader, and yet Paul treated Timothy as an equal. He says he does the work of the Lord just like I do. He's part of my team. And uh and so Paul commends Timothy to them, but he wants them not to despise him, but to treat him well. Look at verse eleven. Let no man therefore despise him, but Conduct him forth in peace that he might come unto me, for I look for him with the brethren. And then in verse twelve he mentions Apollos, and as touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desire But his will was not at all to come at this time, but he will come when he shall have a convenient time. So Paul saw an opportunity for Apollos also to come to Corinth. Paul saw Apollos as kind of being another team member that could really help Timothy at that church at that time. Paul writes Apollos and says, look, I need you down at Corinth, I need you to be there. But Apollos, he wasn't ready to go at that point. So you have to admire this about Paul. Paul didn't pull rank on him and say, now wait a minute, I'm gonna Apostle. I saw Jesus has revealed himself to me in a vision six times. How many times has he revealed himself to you, Apollos? Oh, zero? Well, don't you Think you should listen to me? I'm telling you to get down the car and Paul didn't do that. He didn't pull rank. He just said, you know what? He respected him as a servant of the Lord. And he said, You know what? When the time is right and convenient, you know what? The Lord will lead Apollos there too. And he will also do the work of God there. And so what is he talking about here? He's talking Talking about teamwork, a team spirit. And that's what we need to have. Brethren, we need each other. We need to realize we're all on the team, the victoria Team of the Lord Jesus Christ. We all have our unique giftings and callings. We're all different, and yet we all need each other. We all form this team. We all need to look upon each other. Equals. We don't need to look down on any other brother because we know that all of us are important in the work of God. God has different positions, different callings, different roles Some occupy more of a leadership role, some are more of a servant role, but all those roles are important, and we're all equal in the eyes of God. And we need to come together as a team to serve And so these are just some principles that we can learn from Paul about Doing God's work, God's way, be a visionary planner, be willing to adjust those plans, accept help from others, be thorough in your service, don't be surprised By opposition and have a team spirit. May God help us to apply these things to our own life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for the example that we see in the life of Paul. And I pray, Lord, that you will give us in our heart a passion to do the work of God. To be steadfast, unmovable, abounding in your work. Because we know, Lord, that our labor is not in vain. And may we apply these things. And I pray you'll speak to hearts tonight. I pray that you'll put on On someone's heart here, some kind of a vision of something they can do to reach others for Christ. And I pray, Lord, that we will all work together to help one another to be Thorough in the way that we share the Word of God and disciple others. And we know, Lord, there's going to be opposition whenever we seek to do something worthwhile for your kingdom. Kingdom. We expect that. But help us not to quit. Help us, Lord, to be faithful. And may we see great things, not for any man's glory. Lord, but for your glory. We depend upon you, Lord, to build your church and bless your ministry. And we pray all this in your precious name. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many seconds Say, I want to be used by God. I want to be used by God in His work. And I'm going to ask God, Lord, what can I do? God bless you, friends. What vision can you put on my heart. Father, bless these who have a desire to serve and be used. Lord, I pray that you would sovereignly direct them and help them, Lord, to see what they can do to further your kingdom. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.