Well, I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Genesis. Go to Genesis chapter 31. Now we have been looking at the life of Jacob, and we've been getting life lessons from this. the story here of Jacob in the in the book of Genesis. Now remember the Apostle Paul reminds us in the New Testament that these things that are written in the Old Testament, they're not there just to take up space in the Bible. But these stories are there to help us. The Bible says they're examples unto us that we through patience and comfort of the scripture might have hope. So as we look at the lives of these Old Testament saints and we see some of their successes We see some of their failures. We can learn from all of these things how we are to live the Christian life. And tonight I want to talk about doing the will of God. I want to talk about first of all discovering the will of God and then doing the will of God. Did you know I think this is one of the areas of the Christian life that I think is a is a challenge to every believer, no matter what stage of spiritual maturity you may have attained, it's still to me sometimes difficult to discover and know the will of God. And so I want us to look at this story here in Genesis chapter 31, and I want us to look at the life of Jacob and learn some things about doing the will of God. Well, first of all, discovering the will of God and then doing the will of God. Look at chapter 31, look at verse 1. Read you a few verses. And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our fathers. And of that which is our fathers hath he gotten all this glory. And Laban beheld or excuse me, and Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban. And behold, it was not towards him as before. We'll pick up reading some of these other verses later on in this narrative. But let me just end initially there. Now, I'm a Baltimore kid, grew up here in Baltimore, a sports fan. I remember when I was little, my grandfather taking me to Baltimore, I'm going to say this word and don't get mad at me, all right? Baltimore Colts Football games. Some of us remember that. Going he taking me down to Memorial Stadium, watching the Colts play football. And some of you remember some of those old players, Johnny Unitis and Raymond Barry and Lenny Moore and and so on, and then the next generation, Burt Jones and Roger Carr, and I can start naming off all those names that I want But I remember going and watching him and playing him, the city of Baltimore had a love affair with their colts. However, all of that changed one night. And you know where I'm going with this, don't you? March 28, 1984. Under the cover of darkness, the Colts snuck out of town. Now we know that the the owner Robert Ursay had been discontent for a long time because the city had not built him a new stadium. And so one night he made a phone call to the mayor of Indianapolis and the mayor guaranteed him twelve million in a loan plus a $4 million facility for the Colts to practice on, and that was enough for the owner of the Colts. He got his men together And they actually move, and you know the story, you don't need me to tell you, they brought in Mayflower trucks, and at 2 a. m. in the morning, they began to load those Mayflower trucks, and by the next morning, they were all gone All of them were gone. And that left the city crushed and hurt, so much so now that we do not want the Colts to win any more games. Right? Now, you say well why that story? And by the way, some of you may remember that right after that there was a commercial on TV advertising an ATM machine. You remember this And the commercial was kind of making fun of the way the Colts left town. And in that TV commercial, a big Mayflower truck pulls up to the front of a bank and the back door of the truck opens up And colts in their uniforms, fully padded with their blue and white uniforms, get out of the truck, line up behind the ATM machine, saying, shh, shh, and then pulling out the money And jumping back into the truck and leaving. That's how we felt about that. Sneaking away at night. And you say, what's the connection? Well, as I read the story here in Genesis 31, this is the story of Jacob leaving Haran. And he's going back now to the land of Canaan. I believe that Jacob in doing that was following the will of God. He was doing exactly what the Lord wanted him to do. In fact, when Jacob came to his uncles in Haran, it was not meant for him to stay there forever It was only for a certain time until the Lord was ready to bring him back into the land of Canaan. And so we see in this story, Jacob is returning home. But the manner in which he left was wrong. You might say he was doing God's will, but the way in which he was doing it was not right. In this story, the schemer, Jacob, resurfaces. Now, if you were with us in the last time we looked at the life of Jacob, the last narrative, we left admiring Jacob because of his faith. He was exercising great faith in the Lord. Because you remember in that story he learned to trust God to give him prosperity. But now in this story what we find out is uh Jacob has still got a lot of the old Jacob left in him And the schemer, the deceiver, kind of resurfaces a little bit in this story. But what we learn from this are some lessons as Christians about, first of all, discovering the will of God And then doing the will of God. And let me just say this as a preliminary thought. From time to time, God will ask his servants to go places and do things. He might ask people to get up and move. To go. That's how missionaries are called. Thank God for missionaries that are willing to leave their homeland and to go into another country and to serve the Lord. Thank God for that And there may be some people here at some point God might call you somewhere to do something. We all have to be open and submitted to the will of God. One pastor said that servants of the Lord must be ready to spend the rest of their life in one place, but they also have to, on the other hand, be ready to move in the next fifteen minutes, if God so chooses. The key is being submitted to the will of God. But now here's the question, how do we know God's will? And what I want you to see in our narrative tonight are just really two basic principles And I want you to write these down. I'm going to show you two principles about the will of God. First of all, here's the first principle. We have to analyze the means when discovering God's will. Analyze the means when discovering God's will. And that is to say that we have to learn how God communicates his will to us. How do we discern God's will? How does he work? How does he lead in our life? And so basically we want to look at these principles here in the life of Jacob. And really there are just three basic things. I think there's the inward witness of the heart, and then there is the outward witness of circumstance, and then there's the word that God gives us, a word from him, the word of God. But I want you to look at these principles tonight. And here's the first one. Just write down compulsion. Compulsion. And next to that write, God works through desires. When God wants to reveal his will and work in our life, he works through our desires. Now go back to Genesis 30 and look at verse 25. Remember Jacob's desire. And it came to pass when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away that I may go unto my own place, to my country. Now, this was six years earlier. Jacob had already wanted to go home. He had already had this desire in his heart. In fact, I think God had placed that desire in his heart. We could even say that that desire never really left his heart. When he left his homeland. He knew that someday he was going to come back. But now something happened after the birth of Joseph where he felt like this desire is now a burden and it's, I need to go back And so that was the desire that he had in his heart. And here's the point. When God works in us, a lot of times he'll work through our desires. Write down Philippians chapter 2 verse 13. For it is God that works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now, we also have to be careful here because we have to recognize that not every desire that we have, of course, is from God Worstby said this in relation to human desires, we must carefully exercise discernment. That is, we can't be led around by our emotions. We can't put emotion in the driver's seat of our life, right? Because that would cause us to be very unstable. And so we have to be careful about these desires that we have. We have to be careful that we're not allowing our emotions to master us, but rather we're bringing our desires and our emotions under the lordship of Christ. We're bringing it under the captivity of Christ. Okay? However, having said that, God does work through desires. And when you have a desire to do something, you have to discern is that desire a selfish desire? Is it of me? Or is this desire something that God has placed in my heart? Or is this desire actually something that Satan How many of you know that Satan can sometimes put a desire or he can use a desire and to get you out of God's will And so we have to discern that when that happens in our life. Even the Apostle Paul struggled with this in his life of discerning the various desires and affections that he had with reference to doing the will of God and knowing whether that desire was of the Lord. Gary Gilly, a a wonderful uh writer, wrote this. He said the desires of a committed Christian may be in good uh may be a good starting point in our decision-making process, but we're they are not infallible guides. And that's so very true. So here's some things I would like you to know. If you're thinking about, you know, is this desire of the Lord? First of all, make sure that you know the Lord. Make sure that you're saved, first of all. Secondly, be absolutely committed to doing the will of God. Can you say tonight that I am committed to doing the will of God, whatever it may be? Lord, whatever your will is, you just show me And I'll do it. And then we have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Make sure that we're yielded to the Holy Spirit. And then also make sure that we have no unconfessed sin in our life that, as far as we know, we're on And then also that we are completely submitted to His Word. And if you can go down that checklist and say all those things I am saved. I know that I'm saved. I'm absolutely committed to doing the will of God. I am walking in the Spirit. I'm yielded to the Spirit as far as I know. I have no sin in my life. And also, I am completely submitted to God's word. If you could say all those things, then I believe that God works through the desires that are in your heart. at that point. And so that's one factor. Compulsion. God works through desires. But then write down number two, cooperation. God works through timing. He works through timing. Now again, Jacob said, I want to go back to my homeland. He went to Laban and said, let me have my wives and my my sons and my children. It's time for me to go. But you know what? It wasn't God's time for me to go. In fact, from that point there in Genesis 30, verse 25, until he actually left, six years had passed in between. And so basically at that point, Jacob was six years ahead of God. And part of doing the will of God is getting in cooperation with the timing of God. And what happens is God says, well, not just yet. And he keeps Jacob there and Hey Rand six more years. Why? Because God wanted to do more with Jacob. And you remember the story from last time That during those six years, what happened to Jacob? He went from having nothing to God prospering him. Remember the small wages? He said, you know, my wages will be the spotted cows and the speckled and the and and the striped Those will be my wages, and you remember how God prospered him, and he began to increase in herds and flocks Until finally he was so very prosperous. You see, the Lord was not ready at that time. The Lord still had more that he wanted to do there for Jacob. The Lord wanted to bless Jacob and prosper Jacob where he was But part of this will of God thing is the timing of God. And how many times do we see reading about the life of Jesus where Jesus said, It is not yet my time? That tells us that Jesus was working on a divine timetable. Remember, Jonah, God said to Jonah, go to Nineveh. Jonah didn't want to go. You know why? Because he had an inkling that God was going to bring revival to Nineveh, and Jonah didn't want to see revival come to Nineveh. What did Jonah want to come to Nineveh? Judgment But you know what? It wasn't God's time for judgment in that city. That would come a hundred years later under the prophet of Nahum. Judgment did come then, but it wasn't the right time. And so Jonah was pouting because he was out of the will of God. He was where he was supposed to be, but his heart wasn't in tune to what God was doing. because it wasn't yet God's time. And so it's timing. Timing. He makes everything beautiful in his time, the Bible says. Now write down a third thing. So we see compulsion, God works through desires, we see cooperation, God works through timing, but then also write down circumstances, God works through providences He works through circumstances. And look at the verses again that we read just a moment ago. And he heard the words of Laban's son saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our fathers. And of that which was our fathers hath he gotten all this glory. And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and behold, it was not towards him as before. And so Jacob began to notice things were changing around him. He noticed that his in-laws were not as friendly towards him as they used to be. Notice in verse 1, Jacob heard, he overheard the sons talking about him, and then he saw, he beheld That his fat his father-in-law Laban's countenance was not towards him as before. They were accusing Jacob of stealing Laban's wealth. Look at the word taken there in verse number one. What's interesting is this is the same word that Esau used to speak of Jacob stealing his birthright. Same exact word. In a sense, these sons are saying, Jacob is stealing our birthright, our inheritance, by taking these riches, by taking this wealth They were accusing Jacob of doing the same thing to them. And Laban was did not favor him, verse two. His face was not turned towards him as it was before. And so what was happening? Circumstances around them were changing. And I think that God and His providence will allow that to happen at times in our life when he is preparing a person to move them or to to get their attention to do his will, maybe right where they are, but God is doing something to get that person's attention, to get them to do the thing that God wants them to do. God uses providential circumstances. He stirs up the nest, as it were. We can also use the analogy of God as a master chess player. who makes all the right moves in our life to where we are only left with an an o one option in which to move. Or maybe a few options. Things that God wants us to do. This is simply the providence of God where God will open one door and God will close another door. And it looked like to Jacob that the door was closing. So compulsion, God works through desires. Cooperation, God works through timing. Circumstances, God works through providences, but then write down counsel. God works through people. Look at verse 4. And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock. And he said unto them, I see your father's countenance that it is not towards me as before, but the God of my father has been with me. And you know that with all my power I have served your father. And your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten times, but God suffered him not to hurt me. And then he goes on to rehearse how God prospered him. But drop down to verse number 13. Just above it it says, for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. Verse 13 This is God now speaking to Jacob, for I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointest the pillar, where thou avowest avow unto me, now arise and get thee out from this land and return unto the land of thy kindred. And verse 14, and Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? Are we not counted of him strangers? For he has sold us and has uh uh has quite devoured also our money For all the riches which God hath taken from our Father, that is ours and our children's. Now then whatsoever God has said unto the So what's going on here? Well, Jacob calls Rachel and Leah, and he has a little meeting with his wives. And he says, I want you to think about what's going on here. Your father's countenance is not towards me like it was before. And you remember how God has prospered me in all these things. And remember how God has spoken to me. And the wise began to come to think about this and they came to an agreement on this. And here's the principle. When you're trying to discern the will of God sometimes, sometimes it's a good idea To get people around you that know you, that are wise people. Now someone might say, Now you are you mean Rachel and Leah, they were wise? Well they knew the situation, and they knew their father, and they knew Jacob And they had discernment to see what was happening around them. And so Jacob was wise enough to call them and say, hey, you see this? What do you think? And you know what they here's the amazing thing. Rachel and Leah actually agreed This is the only time in this in the whole narrative, in all the Bible, where Rachel and Leah, who have been warring, who have been in a rivalry against each other Here, they're in total harmony and agreement, and they say whatever the Lord says, that we think you're right. think this is what you should do. And the principle I draw from that is that it's wise at times to get counsel from wise people who know you, who are spiritually mature. The Bible says this in Proverbs 12, 5. He that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. Proverbs 15, 22, without counsel, purposes are disappointed. And so we want to get w wisdom from the Christians, the people that God puts around us. Write down Romans 15, 14. Paul is counseling the believers in Romans. Listen to what he says. And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness. Full of all knowledge, able also, listen, to admonish one another. Paul said, you know, I have a lot of confidence in you believers there at Rome. I believe that you're filled with God's word, you know his wisdom, and you're able to counsel one another. You're able to admonish one another. And so this is just a resource that God has for us, is the wisdom of saints that God places around us us to use their counsel. Let me give you another principle. Compulsion, God works through desires. Cooperation, God works through timing Circumstances, God works through providences. Counsel, God works through people. But then here's another one, communication. God works through his revealed word. And this is the dominant principle. And this is the major principle. In fact, the key instrument that God uses to reveal his will to his people is his word. And I would say this, you can have all these other things line up, but if you don't have the word from God, you better not do anything. If you don't have the word of the Lord directing you Then all these other things really don't matter. But if you have the Word of God as a source and a resource and an instrument that's guiding you, and all these other things are lining up with it That's an indication of how God is moving. Now Jacob has this. Go back to chapter 31. Look at verse number 3. And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy father's sand. and to thy kindred, and I will be with thee. This is the revelation of God to Jacob. Now Jacob didn't have the written word of God And so God speaks to him by way of a revelation, of a prophecy. And God says to Jacob very clearly, Jacob, I want you now to go back home. Now some of you may be sitting there thinking, well, yeah, Jacob had that. I wish God sometimes would speak to me that way. I mean, I wish sometimes God would write it with boxcar letters in the sky, what he wants me to do But I want to tell you something, dear friend. You have a revelation from God. You have the revelation of God. You know what you have? You have the revealed word of God. And the Bible says this is a more sure word of prophecy. And when it comes to the will of God, you know what? 90, I would say 98% of God's will is right here in the Word of God. There are things that God makes clear in His Word. You don't have to pray about what God has already commanded or what God has already forbidden. And if the decision that you make lines up with the principles of God's word then you have the support of the Word of God. These words came from the very mouth of God. Again, I want to quote Gary Dilley who said, a plethora of problems, mistakes, errors and false living could be avoided if we just begin with Scripture. And then he goes on to say this. When you begin with Scripture in the realm of decision making, you will be able to make your decisions on the basis of solid biblical precepts, commands, and principles. He goes on to say the Bible will not tell you what house you are to buy, but it will frame that decision. Listen to this, it will frame that decision With financial, ministerial, and family guidelines. End quote. And that's wise. We take the principles of Scripture, of what God has already revealed, and that becomes the framework. by which we make our decisions. And so God speaks to us through his word. And that means that when it comes to discerning the will of God sometimes in your life, it's not always going to be easy. And what it demands is that you get into the Word of God, that you read, that you That you study, that you soak your mind with Scripture, that you pray, that you examine all of the outward evidences as well as the inward evidences in your own heart. Again, I'm quoting from A. W. Paint who said this. It is not always that God gives us a manifestation of these principles, but whenever they do combine. And are evident we may be sure of his will in any given circumstance. And what Pink was talking about there were circumstances, waiting on God, and then getting a specific word from God. And Jacob had all this. And so it was time for him to go. And so all that is the first general idea here. And that is, again, that we analyze all of the means around us when discovering God's will. But now here's the second part of the story. Write down number two. Avoid the mistakes when doing God's will. Avoid the mistakes when doing God's will. Now the first part of this chapter, Jacob is discovering the will of God. But now here in the second part of the last part of this chapter, what is he doing? Now he is doing the will of God. He's actually going to do it. And we admire Jacob for wanting to do God's will, but what we see here is that he did it in the wrong way. He left in the wrong way. And Jacob's life teaches us that you can do the will of God, but you can do it the wrong way. And you never want to do that. You never want to do God's will in a way that it's not the right way. So what happens? He makes some mistakes. And let's look at some of the mistakes that he makes. First of all, he failed to trust God. After he makes his decision. Okay, it's time to leave. So now he's going to leave. But look at the manner in which he leaves. Look at verse 17. Then Jacob rose up. and set his sons and his wives upon camels, and he carried away all his cattle and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting Which he had gotten in Padam Aram, for to go to Isaac, his father, in the land of Canaan. And Laban went to shear his sheep. So what happens? Well, Jacob, he waits until Laban is gone. Laban, what's he doing? He's out shearing the sheep. What is that? That was a time when it was going to keep him very, very busy. According to the customs of that day, she cheering came at the spring. I was reading one account where one man who was wealthy required 300 to 400 men working for days after days to shear all the sheep. This was a very busy time. Laban was away, he was very preoccupied, and you know what Jacob saw? Jacob said, This is my chance It's time for me to get out of Dodge. He's gone. And so he doesn't tell Laban that he's leaving. He doesn't come to him face to face. What does Jacob do? He packs up everything, and very deceptively, he leaves town. Well, Laban is gone. That was the wrong thing to do. And let me tell you something, beloved, when you're doing the will of God and you know it's the will of God, you don't need to sneak around. And you don't need to be deceptive. This gives the wrong impression. Again, you can do the right thing in the wrong way. And this is what Jacob is doing here. You say, what made him run and haste like this? It was just fear. He was afraid of Laban. He didn't want to face Laban. And so because of that, he did what he did. He snuck out. He got his Mayflower truck and he pulled it up And he loaded everything in the truck and he stopped by the ATM machine and he pulled out all his money and he left town. He was gone. Why? Because he feared later. The Bible says in Proverbs 29, 25, the fear of man bringeth a snare. And that's what happened here with Jacob. The Bible says, whatever we do, if we do it without faith, whatsoever is not of faith is what? Sin. He was not operating in faith at that moment. He was operating in fear. And so that's the first mistake. But here's another mistake he makes. He wronged those he left behind. Look at verse number 19. And Laban went to shear his sheep, and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's. Now here's another bad thing that happens. She steals the family idol or the family terraphum. You say, what is a teraphim? What is that idol? It's just a little figure, a small carved figures, sometimes they were carved out of stone, sometimes they were carved out of wood. And people back then would carry these things around. And they would and Laban didn't worship Jacob's God. He had his own God that he worshipped, and it was there displayed in this little family idol and this little terra. And what does Rachel do? She steals it. She takes it when she leaves. Now why did she steal that? Now some people, I've read some commentators, they say, oh well, you know, evidently Rachel believed in luck. And she believed in this idol, and so she's stealing this for love? No, that's not what's happening here. Let me tell you what's happening here. Did you know Let me let me back up for a minute. This is how archaeology sometimes helps us understand the Bible because did you know that archaeologists excavated a city called Nuzi and they found four thousand clay tablets that talk about the customs that happened in this very time frame? And guess what they discovered on one tablet? They discovered an account that demonstrated a case where a man was able to claim the estate of his father-in-law because he possessed the family terraform. Because he possessed a family idol. And so this clues us in in the culture of that day. Because in that day If you had possession of the family teraphim, that gave you legal right to all of the father's inheritance. It gave you legal right. Now normally this teraphim was passed down to the elder son, to the firstborn son. But what does Rachel do? She steals it. So you see, again, we see a birthright or being stolen here, right? Because Rachel steals the family idol, because having this then gives her legal custody of all of the father's wealth. She gets the lion's share of the inheritance. This was a financial decision. What she did here. By taking that family terraform, she was stealing the birthright. And she had learned from the best, she learned from Jacob, perhaps. Maybe she heard stories of how Jacob stole the birthright and now here she is. She's doing the exact same thing. And so she s she does wrong. She steals from her father. But then also Jacob tricks Slavin. Look at verse twenty. And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban, the Syrian, and that he told him not that he He stole away, literally this read, stole the heart of Laban, while Rachel steals the family God. Jacob steals the heart. This is a Hebrew expression which means to deceive or to outwit. And perhaps Jacob thought, well, he doesn't deserve this because of the way that he has been treating me. But friend, it is never right to do wrong. in this manner. Whether a person deserves it or not, we have to always act with a way that honors the Lord and glorifies the Lord. And so he wrongs Latin in the way he does it. This, both Rachel and Jacob wrong him. And then here's another thing. He made it difficult on his family when he left. Look at verse 22. And it was told Laban that on the third day that Jacob was fled. And he took his brethren with him and pursued after him seven days' journey, and they overtook him in the Mount Gilead. What happens? Laban hears that Jacob what he did, that Jacob took off, and Laban pursues after him. And you know how long it takes him to catch Jacob? It takes him seven days to catch Jacob. He finally catches him, the Bible says, in a place called Gilead. Now here's a little math. From Haran to Gilead is 350 miles. as to pro flies. This means Jacob was m making tracks. Means he was booking. He was running. You say, how do you know that? The average distance for someone to travel in one day with a large caravan like this, the average was six miles a day. But according to these numbers, you know what Jacob was making? He was traveling 20 miles a day That's running. He didn't just leave and then, you know, gently walk out of town. He had those camels in a full gallop He was saying, come on kids, let's go. We're out of here. Zoom. To put it in our day, he put the pedal to the metal to get out of there. And you know what? In doing that, he made it very, very difficult on everyone around him. And again, I say you can do the will of God in a way that is not a good way, that rather than being a blessing to others, it hurts others around you. And others pay a price around you in the way in which you do it. And also he put his family in danger because the verbs that we see in verses 22 to verse 25. Fled, pursued, overtook, pitched tents, according to one Hebrew scholar, these were militaristic terms. We could say like this, Laban was on the war path When he finally called up to Jacob, and there probably would have been a war except for one thing. What happened? God intervened. That's what happened. Because look what happens in verse number 26. And Laban said to Jacob, Why hast thou done that thou hast stolen away unawares to me? and carried away my daughters as captives, taken with the sword. When he finally catches up to Jacob, he says, How come you're doing this? How come you're running? And and like you're fleeing away, like you've stolen away captives in this manner. Why are you doing this? This was a very good question. Notice what else Laban says. Verse 27, Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly and steal away from me? And didst not tell me that I might have sent thee away with mirth and with songs. and with tablet and with heart, and has not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters. Thou hast now done foolishly in doing so So. And then he says in verse 29, it is in the power of my hand to do you hurt. But the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed. That thou speak not unto Jacob, either good or bad. And so when Laban catches him, he says, you know, why are you doing this? I mean, we could have had a nice going-away party for you. I could have sent you away with song now. He's probably being hypocritical here. He's playing the part of wounded father here. Oh I I I need to get to kiss my children or my grandchildren I mean, what are you doing here? Now, later on we're going to notice that Laban doesn't, when he finally catches up, he doesn't kiss his children and grandchildren. What does he do? He begins to search all of their items. He wasn't really concerned about that. that. He was still just concerned about himself. But what happened here is that basically God intervenes. But here's the next mistake. Jacob lost his integrity. And the way that he lasts. And lay in searching things. Look down at verse number 30. Verse 30 30 it says, And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, Because thou soar longest after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods? Now Laban knew that someone took his family care of them. Because he says, Wherefore has you stolen my gods? Let me just tell you something. If your gods can be kidnapped, you probably need to change gods. I mean if your gods are like that, you're not serving a big enough god Reminds me of the small boy who was writing a letter to God. You probably heard about this for he wanted something for Christmas and he said, God I've been good for six months. And then he scratched that out. That's not going to work. God I've been good for three months. And then he thought and he said, No, that's not going to work. God, I've been good for two weeks. And he thought and he said, No, that's not going to work. So finally he goes into the nativity scene, he takes the little little figurine of Mary, wraps her up in a little cloth, puts it in his drawer, and then he begins the letter. God, if you ever want to see it. see your mother again. Laban is upset because someone stole his gods. And again, you might think, well, this is wrong for Laban to act this way, but Jacob gave him that impression. By running and fleeing the way he did. What is the impression that he gives to Laban that he did something wrong? The wicked flee when no man pursues, but the righteous are as bold as lying, and so he gives all the wrong impression And Jacob and Laban begins searching through the things, and finally Jacob explodes and gives him a tongue latching, verses 36 down to verse 42. He talks about his integrity, and I serve you all these years. And done all these things. But what's the lesson? The lesson is this. All these years, and Jacob, by the way, he did serve him well, and he did work hard, and he did take the losses to himself, and he was a good servant But one wrong thing, one foolish act can undo years of wisdom and goodness. And that's what happens here in this story. All the years of good, faithful, hard, diligent work that Jacob was noted for, and now this one foolish act kind of is the fly in the ointment. That undoes all of the good things that Jacob had done. And now how is Laban going to remember Jacob not as that good, faithful, hardworking son-in-law? He's going to remember him as the guy who ran off and fled And did it in a way that was not good. You say, how does the story end? We don't have time to get into all the details of it, but look at verse 43, and we'll close here. Look at verse 43. And so basically, and Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and this cat these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine. What can I do this day unto these my daughters and unto their children which they have borne? Now therefore, come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou, and let it be for a witness between me and thee. And Jacob took a stone and set it up for a pillar. And Jacob said unto his brethren, gather stones, and they took stones, and they made a heap, and they did eat there upon the heap. And Laban called the heap uh Jagar Seha Dirt Dutha, but Jacob called it uh uh Galid. And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galad and Mizpah, for he said, The Lord watch between me and thee when we are out of the Absent from one another. There are two witnesses. The treaty is and a stone monument. There are uh there's the there's uh uh two names for the monuments that are given there, each of these names meaning a heap or a witness. And there are provisions, there's meals, two meals, one before and then one after at the end. In verse number 54, we see that. Because this was common when two people were going to make a covenant together or a treaty together. And so you're thinking, oh how nice. It ends with a peace treaty. That's not what's really happening here What's happening here is that this is not based on trust. This is based on mistrust. That's why in verse number 49 it's called mispah, which means watchtower, which means may the Lord keep a watch. In other words, here's the idea, Jacob, God's going to be watching you. And the idea is this, and he goes on to say. down here. Make sure that you don't uh punish my daughters. Look down in verse number fifty. If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters, no man is with us. C, God is witness between me and the. And Laban said to Jacob, behold this heap, behold this pillar which I have cast between He's basically saying this pillar is a demonstration that God's going to be watching you. Laban now, he doesn't trust Jacob. God's going to be watching over you to make sure that you do the right thing. And also it's a boundary land, a boundary to my land, so that you don't come back. Look in verse fifty-two. This heat be witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this heat to thee. And thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me for harm. In a sense what he's saying is, don't come back. This is a boundary. This is a line. I'm not going to pass over, and I don't want you to come back. This is it We're done. And God's going to watch you. He's going to watch the way you behave to make sure that you don't do wrong to all these things that you have. And so that's the way that all of this ends. And so really there's a sense in which this departure is a sad departure. It ends on a bad note. And again, what do we learn from Jacob? We admire him for wanting to do the will of God. That should be the overwhelming desire of the heart of the Christian. Sometimes people come to me and they say, What's the telltale sign of someone who's truly a Christian? How can I know for sure that I'm really a child of God? And I always answer very simply, it's just this: Do you want to obey God? Do you want to do the will of God? That is the one telltale objective sign. If I had to boil it down to one thing that is a distinguishing mark of a true believer, it's this. Do you want to do the will of God? And Jacob, we have to admire him for this. He wants to do it. But the way in which he does it is not wise. And so we learn from this. That we want to be submissive to God in every way. One Puritan prayed like this. He said, Lord, what thou willest? Lord, when thou willest. Lord, where thou willest. And then Lord, how will Thou willest. All these things. What you want, Lord, when you want it, where you want this done, and how, how. All of these things are inclusive. in the will of God. May we have that kind of submissive surrender to the Lord in our life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, again, we're admonished by your word. We're taught from this story, the attitude of our heart and what it should be. That, Lord, it's not enough just to discover your will or to know your will. But Lord, it matters eminently how we do it. The manner in which we do it. So Lord, help us to pray, just as this man prayed, Lord, not only what you want, and when you want it, and where, but Lord, also how. Teach me how to walk in wisdom, to do your will, always to do it in a way that honors you, that pleases you. And Father, we pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ, Amen