It's good to see you here tonight. I'm glad that you're not sick. There's a lot of it going around, you know, and so far you say, well, so far, right? But uh thank the Lord. We do want to pray for those who are, and I'll pray that the Lord will raise them up quickly. I want you to take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter 42. And uh we've been we've been studying through this letter of this uh Old Testament prophetic book. And uh tonight I want to deal with chapter 42, and I want you to look in verse chapter 42 down in verse number 19. Tonight I want to talk the title of my sermon is Don't Go to Egypt. Okay, you say alright I won't Look in verse nineteen. The Lord has said concerning you, O remnant of Judah, go ye not into Egypt. Know certainly that I have Admonished you this day. Now God wants his people to learn to depend upon him completely, totally. Um in fact, we would say that physical growth is when a child goes from being totally dependent on his parents, his or her parents, to being totally independent of his or her parents But spiritual growth would be the exact opposite. Spiritual growth is going from being totally independent of God to learning to be totally dependent upon God. And that's what God wants from all of us. He wants us to learn to trust in Him with all of our heart. Jesus said to His disciples, Without me ye can do nothing. And there he was talking about the vine and the branches. He said, I'm the vine, you're the branches. And you know what can a branch do if it's not connected to the life-giving source of the And so the Bible tells us that we are to learn to depend upon God. This is an idol. Now in the Bible, uh it just seems like in the Old Testament that whenever God's people got into trouble, they Abraham got into the land of of Palestine. No sooner did he get there, but a famine came. Now in that region often rainfalls would fluctuate, making the land of Canaan susceptible to famine, and sure enough a famine hit. And what did you do? What did Abraham do? Well the Bible tells us that he decided to go down to Egypt because that's really what everybody did there. The uh the the plains of Egypt by the Nile was a place Where the the the land was fertile and there was a stable and reliable source of food, especially in a time of famine. And so that's what people would do back in that day. They would always go down to Egypt And some people might say, well what's wrong with that? That just seems like the rational thing to do. Well God's children aren't always to do the the natural thing that everybody else does. God sometimes wants us to do things that he would like for us to do. We're not to walk by sight, we're to walk by faith in him. And that's why the Bible says, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. So throughout the history of Israel, it just seemed like they kept going down to Egypt, and many times when that happened, God would get angry. For example, write down Isaiah thirty-one, verse one Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help Help. God said this to his people. Woe to those who first, when they get in trouble, they look to Egypt and they go down to Egypt for help. And again, again, and I Isaiah thirty six verse six Behold you are trusting in Egypt that broken reed of a staff which would pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. And what's going on There is God says, you know, if you're leaning on Egypt, it's like a man leaning on a on a reed that's kind of split, that's broken. What happens if you lean on a uh a broken reed like that? Well it'll pierce your hands. find two pierce marks in your hands and I I think there's a play on words there because w the Pharaoh of Egypt would often wear a headdress that had a snake on the front of it. And so it's the idea you'll get Snake bit if you go and trust in uh Pharaoh in in Egypt. Well Jeremiah had the same warning. In Jeremiah chapter two, uh and verse eighteen it says, And now what Why are you always talking about going to Egypt? Why are you always depending upon Egypt as if Egypt is going to help you and you have to remember that part of the problem? Was that Babylon was coming against them? God was going to use Babylon to judge his people. But the people's response was, oh, we'll just call upon Egypt. We'll get our military help from Egypt And even after the city was destroyed, basically by Nebuchadnezzar, the remnant that was left there, they decided that the best thing for them to do was to go down Now, despite all the warnings, that's what they wanted to do. It seemed again like the logical thing for them to do. But now just keep in mind what's going on here. Now the remnant is left In Jerusalem. Other exiles have been carried away. The remnant is pretty small. And they're talking about going down to Egypt now. And what God wanted this remnant to do is to stay there in the land and learn to try Trust in him, and God was actually giving him a second chance. This whole this little group. God says, I want you to stay here. I want to give you a second chance. Uh, rather than accept God's The same error. It's just because he was called to the people of God and he wanted to stay with them to minister to them to give them the word of God. So Jeremiah takes this trip down I remember when my son Jeremiah was uh was in the first grade, we were making a move down south so that I can enroll in seminary And I remember that when we made that move, Jeremiah didn't like that move. He liked the house that we lived in. There was a tree in the front yard that he loved to climb in. That was his tree. And so when we drove down south I was driving the moving truck and next to me was my son Jeremiah and the whole trip down he was saying Dad we shouldn't be going down south. The whole trip, Dad, this is not a good move. We shouldn't be doing this. I had to hear that the whole way down south. Jeremiah the little prophet was was telling me don't go down south. Well there's a sense of what's going on here in this text is Jeremiah is accompanying this remnant of people as they're taking this trip down to Egypt and the whole way he's saying don't go to Egypt Egypt. Don't go to Egypt. This is not the thing for you to do. And so but they went they had made up their minds. They were Egypt bound believers, I would call them Now, rather than trusting in God, they said this is the logical, right thing to do. Perhaps there are some believers, and I think there are, that are like this today They determined rather than to wait upon the Lord and trust in God for help that they're going to go to their Egypt. Now Egypt in the Bible may Many times represented the world, uh, but it could represent really anything that you decide to trust in more than God. The thing that you decide to lean upon instead of God The thing that you depend upon rather than God, whether it be a person, a place, something, whatever that is, that is your Egypt that you run to when you go in in times of difficulty. I call people like that Egypt bound believers. They run the Egypt. Now let me just give you in our passage six characteristics of these kind of believers and things that we should beware of lest we become like that. We don't want to be like that. Well here's the first one. Number one, they let fear dominate them. They that they that let fear dominate them. Look in chapter forty one and look at verse number sixteen. And it kind of gives you the story uh of w uh why they went down. Then took Johannan, the son of uh Korea And all the captains of the forces that were with him, and all the remnant of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael, the son of Nathaniah of Mizpah, after that they had slain Getaliah the son of Ahikam, even the mighty man of war. Look at verse 17. They departed and dwelt in a habitation of Timham, which is by Bethlehem, to go and to enter into E King of Babylon had made governor in the land. So what's going on here? Well when Nebuchadnezzar basically carried away captives and left Jerusalem in ashes, he set up a government Governor over Judah. And this man was appointed by Nebuchadnezzar. But some of the people that were there didn't like this guy. So there was one man in particular named Ishmael who assassinated him. Now, why did he do that? Well, perhaps because Ishmael was from the line of David. Maybe he felt like he should be in charge. We can't be sure. But anyway, the people that were there were afraid. They They were afraid that the Nebuchadnezzar was gonna uh come back, and he was gonna be angry, and he was gonna take his anger out on the remnant that was there because of this act of rebellion to kill this governor. And so it was fear. The Bible says in verse 18, they were afraid. So they all pack up all of their things and decide it's time to move And really, what they're doing then is they're making a decision based on fear. They're governed by fear. Let me tell you something. We should never make will of God decisions based on On something that might have have happened or afraid of something that could happen. That's not a good way to make a decision. But that's what they're doing right here. Now not all fear is bad. There's There's a holy fear, a fear of the Lord, and that's a good fear. The Bible tells us to fear the Lord. Right? It can keep you out of danger when you have a healthy fear. But then there's a harmful fear where we're afraid of things that haven't yet happened. Maybe they're things that we're thinking up in our mind There's no guarantee that the king of Babylon is going to come back and hurt any of the remnant. But they're dreaming things up in their mind. And so they're afraid And so they're running in fear. And some people do that. Their decisions, their choices, are based on fears that they make up Future things that could happen. And that's what's happening here. And so Egypt bound believers, they let fear dominate them. But here's the second thing about them. They make their decision first First, then they ask for direction. Look what happens here in verse chapter 42. Then all the captains of the forces of Jehanan, the son of Kariah Look at verse 2. They come to Jeremiah and they said unto Jeremiah the prophet, Let we beseech thee, our supplications be acceptable before thee, and pray for us unto the Lord. Thy God, even for all this remnant, for we are left but a few of many, as thine eyes do behold us, that the Lord thy God might show us the way wherein we may walk, and the thing that This is very interesting. They they've already packed up all their things on the wagon and they're already on their way to Egypt, all of them together this remnant. But as they're kind of passing through around the region of Bethlehem, they say, you know what, let's let's go talk to Jeremiah, see what he thinks. So they go to Jeremiah the prophet and they say, Hey, would you pray for me Us. We're praying about whether or not we should leave Judah or not. Now think about that. What if a person came to my office asking for counsel about whether or not they were should move and I give them counsel and pray with them and I walk them out and I see in the parking lot that they have their rider truck. It's already loaded. I would think well now wait a minute, I thought you were praying about moving. Yeah. Yeah, but we thought we would go ahead and load our things up first and then pray whether or not we should move. In fact, we're on our way out of town. We thought we'd stop by your office and pray. This is exactly what's going on Except we're already on the trip here, but we thought we would come by and ask you to see what you think. You know, there are many people that are like that. They just want really you to confirm their plans that they've already made They want a divine approval for you. Now there's nothing wrong with asking God for directions. In fact, that's the right thing to do. We should ask God for direction. Where does God want me to go? What does he want me to do with my life? Where does he want me to study? Should I get married? To whom should I get married? These are all important questions. The trouble is too many people don't start asking those questions until they're already halfway on the on the way to Egypt. They've already made their decisions. Already made up their mind. All they really want is God to rubber stamp their own plan. And that's the problem with Egypt-bound believers. So, number one, they let fear dominate them. Number two, they make their decision. First, then ask for direction. Number three, they're not on praying ground. So look at Jeremiah's response. Look in verse 4 of chapter 42. Then Jeremiah the prophet said Now Jeremiah, I think, emphasizes there your God, because if you look at verse 3, they said That the Lord thy God might show us. In other words, Jeremiah, won't you pray to the Lord your God? And notice this, I think the second person pronoun there is very important. Your God Would you pray to your God? And Jeremiah kind of corrects him and says, Yeah, I'll pray to your God. He's not just my God, he's your God too. In other words, the whole implication of this is These people felt like they really weren't close to God. They weren't even close enough to call 'em my God. Now later on they will do that, but here they don't feel they have a close enough Personal relationship to call him our God, and they didn't feel confidence in their own prayers, which is why they went to Jeremiah. They believed that he was somewhere out there, but they were not close enough to God to engage in prayer. You know, prayer is one of the best tests of your relationship. With God to see whether you are really close to the Lord. Are you praying? Do you have a prayer life? Uh, it may be that the reason that you're not praying consistently is because God is not really and truly your God, that you don't know him in a very personal way. One of the most convicting sermons I ever read was by Jonathan Edwards Listen to the title of the sermon, Hypocrites Negligent in the Duty of Prayer. Does that bless you? Hypocrites Negligent in the Duty of Prayer. And the theme of the sermon was really very simple. If you don't If you pray, you're not saved. That was it. He was basically saying if you don't pray consistently, you may as well throw off any hope of salvation. Fact the first point of the prayer was he says hypocrites often continue for a season to call upon God. That is, you know, they'll a hypocrite will normally pray for a season, but eventually they're gonna quit The point too is how is the it is their manner after a while in a great measure to leave off the practice of this duty, he says. This is what he says. They can omit this duty and their omission of it And then he says, I would exhort those who have entertained a hope of their being true converts, and yet since their supposed converts are not a good thing. Wow, that's pretty strong. He says this if you have left Off calling upon God, it is time for you to leave off hoping and flattering yourself with an imagination that you are the child of God. That's pretty convicting He's basically saying if you're not praying consistently, then you're not a child of God. That's how strong he was in this. Now, friend, uh I think as believers, it's dangerous for us us to get into a place spiritually where we're not praying regularly and where we can't really trust our own prayers. Now let me just clarify there's nothing wrong with Going to other believers and saying, please pray for me. We should be doing that all the time. But asking others to pray for you is not a substitute for your own prayers. And this is what's going on On here. They're not praying. They're not seeking the Lord. And so they're not on praying ground. But here's the fourth thing about them. I said they let Fear dominate them. They make their decision first and ask for direction. They're not on praying ground, but here's number four. They pretend to want to do God's will. Look at verse 4. Then Jeremiah the prophet said I have heard you, behold, I will pray unto the Lord your God according to the your words. And it shall come to pass that whatsoever thing the Lord shall answer you, I will declare it unto you to all the things which the Lord thy God shall send thee to us. Whether it be good or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice of the Lord our God to whom we will send thee. And it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the Lord our God. So notice in this conversation, Jeremiah says, Yeah, I'll pray for you, but I'm going to tell you exactly what God tells me And notice their assurance. They, with a pious display of sincerity, they say to Jeremiah, listen, we will do whatever the Lord tells us to do. Whatever it is, we'll do it. And I think they're saying this because they're very confident that God's going to approve their plans. And so they're saying, oh yes, we'll do what God says But in the back of their mind saying, oh sure, God's going to tell us to go to Egypt. You know, it's easy to do what your the authority tells you to do when you agree with that decision. But it's when you Disagree is when your submission and loyalty is tested. But here they're saying, Oh, yes, we'll do whatever God says, whether it's good or bad. We'll submit and we'll obey whatever the Lord says Notice God's answer in verse 7. And it came to pass after ten days that the Word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah. Then he called Johannon, the son of Korea, and all the captains of the forces which were with them, and all the people from the least unto the greatest. And said unto them, Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel, unto whom ye send me to present your supplication before him. If ye will still abide in this land, then I will build you And not pull you down. I will plant you and not puff you up you up. For repent me of the evil that I have done unto you. And be ye not afraid of the king of Babylon. So what's God's answer? God gives them a very clear, a thorough answer. They're looking for God's will, and God gives it to them. You know, I'm convinced it's not, I think, a lot of times Believers say, I'm looking for the will of God. God's not going to hide it. If you want it, He'll show it to you. The question is, will you do it when God shows it to you? So God tells them very clearly And in essence he's saying don't go to Egypt. Do not pass go, do not collect two hundred dollars. Do not go down. Uh then You stay right here. I remember one time when I was trying to make a decision, uh a seminary professor of mine who I respect said, Here's what I here here's what you should do Do take out a legal pad and on one time on one side right at the top of it stay and then on the other side right go and then list all the advantages of staying and then what's going on here. In a sense, Jeremiah is going to tell him here's all the advantages on one side if you stay. And look again in verse 10, I will still abide it if you will still abide in this land, then I will build you up and not pluck you down. That's one. I will plant you and not pluck you up. Verse 11, you don't have to be afraid And then look at verse twelve. I will show mercies unto you that you may have mercy. God says, I will build you, I will plant you, I will protect you, I will have mercy on you. You don't have to be afraid. I'll be around, I will deliver you Philip Riken wrote this. These verses echo the call of Jeremiah when God appointed him over the nations. Over kingdoms, not only to pluck up and break down, but also to build and to plant. Though Jerusalem had been torn down, the Jews had nothing to be afraid of. God would plant his people back. This was the promise that God was making to them. That was so on one side, if they stay, here are all the things God's gonna do, but if they go, notice the Look at verse 13. But if ye say, We will not dwell in this land, neither obey the voice of the Lord your God, saying, No, but we will go into the land of Ish Egypt, where we shall see no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread, and there we will dwell. And now therefore hear the word of the Lord, ye remnant of Judah Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, if you wholly set your faces to enter into Egypt and go to sojourn there, then it shall come to pass that the sword which you feared shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt Egypt and the famine whereof you were afraid shall follow close after you there in Egypt, and there you shall die. And verse 17 he says they'll die by the sword, famine, and Pestilence. Look at verse 18. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, as mine anger and my fury hath been poured out upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so shall my fury be poured out upon you When ye enter into Egypt. Wow. Will overtake you. Famine will follow you there. You'll die by the sword, by famine, by pestilence. My anger will be there. says you shall be an execration. What is that? That's an object of cursing. One person translates that verse like this. You will be a thing people curse, something that they use in cursing. You will be a horrifying And the people will make fun of you. So you have stay on one side and you get all these blessings. You have go on the other and you have all these things. Well, this is a hard decision Didn't you think? I mean, you know, they have to take time to pray about this. So, right on the heels of this, Jeremiah gives his advice. Now Jeremiah had just given them the word of the Lord Lord. Now Jeremiah's going to kick in. He's going to say something to him. Look at verse 19. The Lord has said concerning you, O ye remnant of Judah, go ye not into Egypt Know certain certainly that I have admonished you this day. Look at verse twenty for ye have dissembled in your hearts when ye sent me unto the Lord your God, saying, Pray for us. So right on the heels of God's word, Jeremiah gives him advice and he says look guys don't go don't go down and verse 20 where he says uh for you have dissembled the word there means you've erred you've gone astray More literally, you have deceived your souls. One person renders it like this: you are making a fatal mistake. In other words, this idea, when you ask me to pray for you And you said you'll do whatever God wants you to do, you really didn't mean it and you made a mistake when you did that. That's what's going on here. Life. The problem was not that they didn't know God's will, the problem was they didn't want to do it. They just didn't want to do that. They wanted to do what they wanted to do. And Jeremiah could see by the look on their faces that they weren't going to do this. And he knew already, he could tell that this was pious, it wasn't sincere When they said they would do whatever the Lord wanted. Look at verse 21. And now I have this day declared it to you, but ye have not obeyed the voice of the Lord your God, nor anything for which he has sent me unto you Now therefore know certainly that ye shall die by the sword, by the famine, by the pestilence in the place where ye desire to go and to sojourn. And so again, the issue Is they pretend to want to do God's will. And they didn't really want to do it. So they are dominated by their fear They make their decision first, then ask for direction. They are not on praying ground. They pretend to want to do God's will, but they really don't. They want to do their own will. But here's Here's the fifth thing. They look for excuses to do what they want to do. Now look at the response. Look in chapter 43, look in verse 1. So Jeremiah has said what he had to say to this Group. And notice how they respond. And it came to pass that when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking unto all the people all the words of the Lord their God, which the Lord their God had sent to him unto them Even all these words. Then spake Azariah, the son of Hoshiah, the son of Johanan, the son of Kariah, and all the proud men, saying unto Jeremiah, Thou speakest falsely. The Lord our God has not sent thee to say, go not into Egypt to sojourn there. But that's Jeremiah, you're a liar You speak falsely. Think about this, you know, Jeremiah, he wasn't respected, but after the exile came and everything happened as he said, they respect him enough to go to him. And now when he gives him advice, he's back to being a zero. He went from zero to hero, back to zero. Jeremiah, you are not giving us God's word You're not telling us the truth. And so um they just, you know, they remind me of the people, you know, sometimes friends will come to you and say, look, I really If you'll just give me your honest opinion and look, man, don't you know, just just be honest. Be brutally honest with me. And then you know what? You're brutally honest with them and what happens they're not your friend no more that's what this reminds me of Jeremiah we want to know what God okay here's what God wants oh you're a liar You're lying. Most people don't really want to know what you think. Do you realize that? They just want approval. And so this is what happens here Uh Eugene Peterson writes this Johannan and the people respected Jeremiah enough to ask for his prayers, but they didn't trust God enough to follow his counsel. And so they went off to Egypt singing, have my own way, Lord, have my own way. I am the potter, you are the clay. And so then Notice the excuses they they came up with. First of all, they said, You're not speaking God's word. This isn't the word of the Lord. You're you're this is false. This isn't God's word. And some people will say that, oh, that's not what What the Bible says. That's not what God's word says. They don't believe the word of God when it's given to them. And notice the next excuse. Look at verse 3. But Barak, the son of Nariah, Set it thee on against us for to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans. Oh Jeremiah, you know what your problem is? You're listening to your scribe Barak too much, and he doesn't like us, and he set you against us Against us. That's the problem. Jeremiah, you've been listening to too much gossip and you have a negative view of us. And so the bottom line is they're just coming up with excuses. You ever notice that people who don't want to do the will of God, they want to do their own will, will always find excuses why they should do what they want to do. You know, it it's painful to say, but we're all good. It comes Coming up with excuses. Do you know that? I was reading this week. Did you know that there's a new app out that you can download on your phone that helps you come up with excuses? True. Let me let me read you a little excerpt of what I read. Listen to this. Your friend is moving Saturday. Are you free to help? The real answer is yes, but the honest answer is no. Because You're a human being, not a forklift. And also because you guys aren't really that close. If you only had something else planned, so it would be easier to say no. Introducing got this thing The web app uses your phone's location to populate your Google Calendar with local stuff that's happening pulled from public event information. Click on the Get busy button and in an instant your blank schedule turns into a confetti of things to do. The creator of the app said, quote, is for people who want to avoid doing things. End quote. So now we have an app that can help us come up with excuses. Oh I'm sorry, let me check my phone. I'm sorry I can't do this So the they went on to Egypt. Look in chapter forty three. Look down at verse number seven. So they came into the land of Egypt. They obeyed not the voice of the Lord, and thus they came even to Topanis, uh a place there in Egypt, a city called Topanas. And verse eight, then came the word of the Lord Now Jeremiah is going to give them another word, but let me give you the last point here. Number one, I said they let fear dominate them. They make their decision and then they ask for direction. They're not on praying ground. They pretend to want to do God's will. They're looking for excuses to do their own will. But then here's number six. They cannot escape the consequences of their You know, you're free to choose to do the will of God, and you're free to choose against it, but you're not free to escape the consequences of your choice. So what is what happens? They go down to Egypt, and then God tells Jeremiah to do something. In verse 8, then came the word of the Lord under Jeremiah in Topanus. saying, Take great stones in thy hand, and hide them in the clay in the brick in the brick climb, which is at the Pharaoh's house in Topanus in the sight of the men of Judah. And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and will set his throne upon Upon these stones that I have hid, and he shall spread his royal pavilion over them. So what's going on here? God's going to give them an object lesson And so God comes to Jeremiah and he says, Jeremiah, here's what I want you to do. I want you to take some big stones. I want you to set them in mortar right in front of Pharaoh's house. Now, this wasn't the capital of Israel Egypt. So this was probably a governmental house where he would go and stay whenever he came to this area. And God says take these stones and set them in the pavement. I think he means really to put them in mortar and clay. So that they're solid there, these stones. And I want these stones to be an object lesson because what's going to happen one day is Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, is going to come And they're going to put a platform over those stones, and they're going to set his throne on top. And they're going to build a pavilion over top of it. And from there, sitting on that throne He is going to make judgments against Egypt and against you people. All the things that I said that were going to happen are going to come out of By the way, when I was over in Israel, I saw something like this. I was visiting a ancient city and and you came into the city gate and there was the Stones and there wasn't anything on top of it. However, and I was instructed that this is where kings or judges would actually have a platform on top of the stones. And from there that was the seat of judgment. That was where they would give their decrees or make judgments. And so this is what God is saying. Saying Jeremiah, take these stones, plant them there, because every time these people come by and see these stones, I want them to be reminded that what I said Is going to come to pass. And that's exactly what happened. Nebuchadnezzar did come in 5806. He did place his throne right there on top of those stones. And he did render judgment. But look what the look what the prophecy says. Look in verse number eleven. And when he comes, he shall smite the land of Egypt and deliver such as are for death to death, and such as for captivity to captivity, and such as for the sword to the sword. And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt And he shall burn them and carry them away captives. And he shall array himself in the land of Egypt. In other words, what's going to happen there in that city? The exact same thing that happened to Jerusalem It's gonna happen right there. Here these people are running from Jerusalem to get away from all the war and pestilence and famine and they disobey God and go on down to Egypt. Thinking it's going to be peaceful there, and they'll have all the food they want. But what's going to happen is the same thing there. You see, they made their decision. They went to Egypt But they couldn't escape the consequences of their decision. God said this is what's gonna happen and again that's exactly what happened there. And so the really this is a sad story. It's a story about people who are willfully disobedient, who will not do the revealed will of God, and it reminds us of the verse in Proverbs 14 twelve there is a way that seems right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Now let me just give you this one word and we'll be done tonight. Stones were not enough of an object lesson to these people to do the will of God. There was another, I think, lesson standing right in front of them, and that was Was the prophet Jeremiah himself? Think about this. Jeremiah, he stayed with them the whole way. He went with them this whole trip. And really, that's a remarkable statement of loyalty to God. Jeremiah didn't have to go to Egypt. In fact, if you read in Jer in the book of Jeremiah, chapter 40, he was offered what we could call really a golden parable Parachute and all expenses trip paid to Babylon, where one of the s one of the high-ranking soldiers said in chapter 40, verse 4, If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon Come and I will look after you well. Jeremiah, you just come with us to Babylon. We'll take care of you. The Babylonian soldiers actually liked him. And the king of Babylon actually liked him. And they said, You just come Come to Babylon with us and we'll take care of you. But Jeremiah refused to do that because he saw his duty as being with God's people. It would be better for him, he thought, to be with this little remnant. And even though they're disobeying God, to go and minister and help them than to go to Babylon. And so really Jeremiah, I think, is a picture of Jesus here Because Jesus came to identify with sinners. He came to identify with disobedient people. And really, he's a good example of loyalty. I think this little remnant was probably a hard group to deal with. They already made up their mind. They were stubborn. They wanted to do their own thing. I continue to love them and he is really an an example of loyalty that we should have in the in the local church. You know, this might shock you, but not everyone in the church is easy But that doesn't change the fact that we should love one another just the same. And uh you know, uh I I've just noticed lately, it seems like in latter days, not in this church, because I think we have such wonderful loyal people here. But you know, when I pastored down south, I noticed that people were constantly jumping ship. They were constantly moving from church to church Like migrating birds. You know, it was almost like they would come for a season and then they would go to another place. Why? Because they were wanting to know what can the church do for me? Uh you know, this church isn't meeting my need This church uh I I don't really don't like the pastor here. He he doesn't really make me feel good when he preaches. Or the music doesn't really minister to me. There's nothing For my children, blah blah blah. There's all kinds of excuses where people are just jumping around all over the place and there's no loyalty. There's something to be said for being loyal To God's people, being loyal to the church, knowing there's no perfect church out there. There's no perfect people. But this is where God planted you. This is where you're supposed to be Let me just give this illustration. The German pastor and theologian Bonoffer, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, perhaps you've heard that name before, one time he made the same kind of a decision That Jeremiah made. He was uh he lived in Germany during the time when the Nazis were becoming powerful during World War II, but he was a big critic While all that was going on, Bonhoffer was offered a position in America to teach at a seminary there, a good salary, and it seemed like such a perfect opportunity That he decided to go to America. However, after being in America for just one month, he turned around and he came back to Nazi Germany. And people were Wondering, why did you do that? Why did you come back? And he and this is the explanation that he gave. Listen to what he wrote. He said, I've had time to think and to pray about my situation and that of my nation And to have God's will clarified for me. I've come to the conclusion that I've made a mistake in coming to America. I should have no right to participate in the reconstruction of the Christian life in Germany after the war, if I did not share in the trials of this time with my people. Christians in Germany faced a terrible alternative Alternatives I must choose, but I cannot make that choice in security. So he went back to Nazi Germany, and just a few years later he was hung in a concentration camp because he was ordered that was ordered by Hitler. And some people say, well is that the right decision? Well in the light of eternity it was because it's always right to do the will of God And now he's remembered for his faithfulness to God's word and to God's people. You know, there are a lot of things that seem risky here on earth, but it In heaven, when you get there you realize it wasn't risky at all. It was just being faithful. There's a lot of people who make safe decisions here on earth, but they're gonna find out when they get to hell it wasn't really A safe decision at all. It is always the safe thing to do, to do the revealed will of God. So the question is, are Are you committed, absolutely committed, to doing God's will for your life? Let's bow for prayer. And so Lord, help us to learn from this passage Scripture. Lord, may we not make the same mistakes that these made. May we never make a decision governed by fear of what might be And may we always, Lord, seek your face first before we decide. And Lord, help us always to be on praying ground. May we examine our own heart and our own prayer life to see, Lord, how close are we to you? What is our relationship to you And Lord, may we be absolutely committed to doing what you want us to do, to obey you in all things, so that we might be blessed. So, Lord, help us Help us to follow your will always to have a surrendered heart, and we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen