Take your Bibles open, please, to the book of Hebrews, chapter 7. And we want to pick up our study where we left off as we're going through this letter of Hebrews. And hopefully we're learning things here that's going to encourage us in our Christian life. And right now in chapter seven, the the uh Writer of Hebrews is focusing on our understanding the priesthood of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now the title of the sermon tonight is Drawing Near to God In 1903, someone noticed a Russian sentry standing at guard at a post for no apparent reason. There was nothing particular there at that spot where he was guarding. And so when asked about why he was standing in that particular space, he simply replied, I'm just following orders. The question was asked of the captain of the guard. Why is this sentry standing in this particular spot? And the captain of the guard didn't have an answer. He said, well, that's just because There's always been a sentry posted there at that particular spot. Well they continued to inquire about this and went up the chain of the command to the Tsar, and he didn't even know And finally, they began to track down the answer, and it was discovered that in 1776, Catherine the Great had planted a rose bush there and posted a sentry to guard it. Now the rosebush had been dead for eighty years, but the century was still standing guard right at that very spot. You know, traditions are hard to change. But that's even more true, I think, for religious traditions. They are especially hard to change because people insist that God ordained them. If you do something long enough that tradition becomes so instilled in people that somehow people believe that there's something about that that was ordained of God. So for centuries the Jewish people have been accustomed to having a priest represent them before God. That's what God taught them, after all, in the Old Testament. That's the way God had it set up. However, now, because of the Lord Jesus and his death at Calvary, the writer of Hebrews is basically teaching and saying, that system is over. That whole system is no longer relevant. God has opened up a new and a living way. The old priesthood has passed away. In Jesus Christ, God had set up a new priesthood. And it is a priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, not after the order of Aaron. And if you've been with us in our study the last time you learned who Melchizedek was. He was in the Old Testament kind of a mysterious figure that appeared on the page of Scripture and then disappeared very quickly. But he was not only a priest, but he was a king. And because he fulfilled those two offices at the same time, there's a sense in which he was a foreshadowing or a type of the Lord Jesus Christ who was to come, who will be priest and king. Now, the fact that the priesthood of Aaron was no longer relevant and done away with was very hard for the Jewish people to ex uh understand and to accept. And so they began in their mind a series of objections or questions, and you can imagine them having questions. For example, they would ask, how could Jesus be a priest? He was born out of the tribe of Levi, not out of the tribe of Levi, I should say, but he was born out of the tribe of Judah. And what makes the priesthood of Christ so superior to the Old Testament priesthood And so the writer of Hebrews is going to answer these questions. Now he has a very formidable task in trying to convince these Jewish Christians that the law and the Levitical priesthood was inseparably linked And now because the priesthood was no longer valid, that Old Testament priesthood, that part of the law was also changed and no longer valid. And so in this, he's going to make some really radical statements. But the one thing I want you to zero in on tonight is look down in verse number 19. Notice what it says in chapter seven, verse nineteen. For the law made nothing perfect. Get that expression there. For the law made nothing perfect. But the bringing in of a better hope did by the which we draw nigh unto God. Notice what he says here. Really this is the sum of his whole argument in this section. This is the sum of what he's trying to say. The law didn't really make anything perfect, but This new priesthood is that which allows us to draw near to God. And that's the key thing. You understand? That's the goal of the Christian life The goal in the Christian life is that we might come near to God, that we might come into his presence. Now you understand that man was created to enjoy the presence of God, right? And sin got in the way. Well, salvation and Christianity is all about removing all of those barriers so that a person, a man, a woman may draw near to God. This is the goal of Christianity. This is the whole point. This is the essence of Christianity. This is the highest experience of salvation and Christianity. It's the whole design. Access into his presence. Some people think that, you know, the reason to get saved is because I'll be happy. And certainly that may be true. Happiness might come with salvation. How many of you are happy tonight? Amen, I'm glad to hear that. It's better than the other. But the truth of the matter is that's not really the highest experience of salvation Some people say, well, I get saved because, you know, um this this might give me mil real security about death. And certainly salvation does that. How many of you are glad tonight that you're going to heaven? And we're secure about that. We understand that. We know that. That's a wonderful benefit of salvation. But again, friend, that's not the highest experience of Christianity. The highest experience of Christianity is having access and drawing near to God and enjoying God and enjoying his fellowship. That's why Jesus came. He came to restore that fellowship that we had with the Father that was lost, that we might be filled with all the fullness of God. The Bible says that in Ephesians 3, 17. This is Christianity, that we might be filled with the fullness of God. And then you go to 1 John 1, verse 4, which says, These things write we unto you, that your joy may be full, that you might have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with who? With the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. Again, this is the whole essence. This is what it's all about. Now, Judaism never brought a man into the presence of God. And this is what the writer of Hebrews is trying to tell these readers. Judaism never brought a person into the presence of God. Never in the purest and fullest sense. That's only possible because of the blood of Jesus Christ. That's only possible because he is interceding for us. He's our high priest on the right hand of God the Father. And you know what? He is praying for us. Only by his perfect sacrifice. Do we have this wonderful access to God? And this is what the writer is saying. This new priesthood allows us to do something that Judaism could never do. And that is to draw near to God. Now that was a radical statement there, because you have to put yourself in the mind of the Hebrew uh uh readers and and Hebrew Christians, you see the Levitical system was designed to keep worshipers what? At a distance If you were living in the Old Testament, do you think that at any time you could just stroll into the Holy of Holies and have a chat with God there in the Holy of Holies? Of course not. Only one person could go into the Holy of Holies. That was once a year on the Day of Atonement. And that person, the high priest, had to be ready In fact, they would stay up all night according to the Tractate Yoma one Hebrew writing and they would stay up all night and pray and confess sin And made sure that they were right, and very fearfully they would walk into that Holy of Holies. But that happened one day a year. So for the author to emphasize that we are to draw near to God through Jesus Christ, this was a staggering concept. For the Jews to understand. But this is part of the theme of what he writes. Look in chapter 4, real quick. Go back to chapter 4 and look at verse number 14. Chapter 4, verse 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. Look at verse 15. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we, yet without sin. Let us therefore come what? Boldly to the throne of grace. We can now have access to come to the throne of God. Look in Hebrews chapter 10. Look at verse number 19. The same idea here that he he is emphasizing. Look in chapter 10 verse 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus by a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. So Christ made this access possible Now, so the whole point that the writer's emphasizing is that this old priesthood couldn't do that. This new priesthood could cause us to draw near. In fact, this new priesthood in Christ is so much superior than the old priesthood And I want you to give you four reasons for that. If you're taking notes, we're going to look at four reasons that the priesthood of Jesus, which is after the order of Melchizedek, is so much superior to the priesthood of the old covenant. So here's number one. It's superior in its purpose. Now go back to chapter seven and look at verse number eleven. He says this: if therefore perfection were by the Levitical Priesthood For under it the people received the law. What further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron Now the argument is really simple here. What he's saying is the law and the Levitical priesthood were inferior because they couldn't make anybody perfect. Now look at the word perfect there. The word perfect here, this concept of perfection or being made perfect, it doesn't mean being without flaw or defect. Alright? Rather, it means the condition by which men are acceptable to God. It means putting mankind in a position to where He can come or stand before God. That's the perfection that he's talking about there. That's the idea. And in some places it it's the same word, but it means maturity. But what's part of that maturity of the Christian life is part of salvation is that we're able to enter into God's presence. This is the concept right here The old system, the old priesthood, could not make you perfect. It couldn't make you presentable in the presence of God. Therefore, it was inferior. But under the new priesthood of Christ, it is able to make you Perfect in the sense that you can stand before God Almighty. It makes you, it gives you that access. And so his whole argument is this. If the Levitical priesthood could do all that, there was no need to do away with that priesthood. Why would we do away with it? If it had the power to do that, it doesn't have the power to do that So therefore, the new priesthood is superior. Now it gives three reasons for it. I call this number one the prediction. Look again at verse 11. He says, if therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the law, what further need was there that another priest should arise? after the order of Melchizedek. In other words, again, God would not have predicted a new order according to the order of Melchizedek if the Levitical priesthood could accomplish that And God prophesied this, and notice in verse 11, he's quoting again, referencing Psalm 110, verse 4, where it says, forever thou art a priest after the order of Melchizedek. That's messianic. And that refers to Christ. So in the Old Testament, God pointed to that prophecy and said, This is going to happen. And the writer of Hebrews says this was something planned by God. The Levitical priesthood was never to be permanent. God was going to do away with it. He was going to provide another priesthood because of the weakness of the old one, you see. And so the the prediction itself Argues that that priesthood was not sufficient. And then there's the change. Look at verse number 12. For the priesthood being changed. There is made of necessity a change also of the law. And so b because of God's prediction that there would there would be a change That the Levitical priesthood would come to naught, and there would be another priesthood after the order of Melchizedek. Then came the change. God made a change. And look at that word there. It is meta tithami, which simply means To put one thing in the place of another. You see, you don't add Christianity to Judaism, he's saying. You take away Judaism and you put Christianity in. You replace it. That's very important. The priesthood of Melchizedek was not added to Aaron's. It simply replaced it. You see? That's what he's saying there. For the priesthood being changed or replacing one it replaces the other. Aaron's is defunct. And it says then that since that happened, there is made of necessity a change also of the law. So listen to the argument here. The priesthood and the law were inseparably linked. So if the priesthood changes, then the law has to change. Now, this is where some interpreters really kind of they kind of go crazy here. And they say, Oh, are you saying that God changed the law or God says the law is no longer valid? No. Whenever you see the word law in any kind of context, you have to make sure you understand what part of the law that it's referring to. It can mean the whole Old Testament. When you see the word law, it can mean the whole Old Testament When you see the word law, it can mean just the moral law, the Ten Commandments. It can mean the civil law, the laws that refer just to Israel It can mean the ceremonial rituals, the ceremonial law. And so I I'm persuaded that this is what he's talking about here He's not changing the moral law. He's not saying that since Christ's priesthood came along, we don't have to obey the Ten Commandments anymore, right? That wouldn't make any sense. That part of the law is certainly not changed Paul said the law is holy and just and good in Romans 7, if you've been with our study on Sunday night. But the ceremonial law is the system of sacrifices. That's what's being changed. That's what's being set aside. So he's saying to these Jews that not only is there a new priest, but when this new priest comes, that whole old system of sacrifices That part of the law, that ceremonial part of the law, is also going to be done away with. It's no longer valid. It's no longer any good. So you know what he's saying to the Jewish Christians, he's saying, look, you know you don't have to go back up to the temple on those festivals and feast days. You don't have to make that trek up to the temple. And continuing doing those sacrifices and going through all of those rituals there, because when the new priesthood comes, all of that is done away with. We're not adding on The priesthood of Melchizedek to the priesthood of Aaron. We're not merging them together. One is replacing the other. So therefore, that part of the law is no longer valid. Now, that's why the Apostle Paul in the book of Galatians got angry when the Judaizers came along after him and they were teaching those new converts what? That the cross wasn't enough. Salvation was enough. You had to add the Mosaic law. You had to mingle them together. Remember that? That's why Paul got angry. And Paul said, you can't add the old system to the new That's why he said in Galatians 4. 9, but now after you have known God, why are you turning to the weak and beggarly elements unto which you desire again to be in? Bondage. He's saying, look, you already have access to God. Why do you want to go back out of the Holy of Holies and through the ritual in the front of the veil again? Why do why do you want to do that? Why do you want to uh Go backwards. You observe days and months and times and years. You're back into those old ceremonies. That's why I said, look, stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ has made you free. He's saying basically that's all over with. And now you have a new system. You have a new priesthood. There's an illustration of this. You remember the Mount of Transfiguration? Y'all remember that story? It's recorded in the Gospels. Here's Jesus and he's up on the Mount of Transfiguration. He shines with the glory of God. And there appears who? Elijah and Moses with them. And Peter, who can't seem to be quiet ever. Comes up to Jesus and what does he say, Master it's good for us to be here. Let's build three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah. And you know, the Bible says he was kind of afraid and you know he was just talking. And the Bible says that there came a cloud, and what did the cloud say? This is my beloved son. Hear him And then it says this, and when suddenly when they looked around, about, they saw no man save Jesus only. And you get the message there, God is saying, Look, look, don't listen to Moses and Elijah. This is my son. You listen to him. You're not listening to the old system anymore. That old system is defunct. Now you listen to my son. You listen to Jesus uh the from the new system. And so we see the we see then the prediction, we see the uh the change. But then here's another subpoint, the new order. Look at verses 13 and 14. Notice what it says there. Verse 13 and 14 of chapter 7. For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe. Of which no man gave attendance at the altar, for it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah Of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood. That is, he's saying Jesus didn't come from Levi. He wasn't in line there. And where he's notice that phrase that he says in verse 13, of which no man gave attendance to the altar, what does he mean by that? He simply means if you weren't from Levi, the tribe of Levi, you didn't fool around the altar. You had no right to do anything at the altar if you weren't from the tribe of Levi. But what tribe was Jesus from? Verse 14? It says it's evident that our Lord sprang where? Out of Judah Of which tribe Moses spoke nothing. And so what's he saying? He's saying Jesus must be out of a different order, because he is a priest, not out of Levi, but out of Judah. And and the cardinal rule for the priesthood in the Old Testament was you had to be out of the tribe of Levi. You had to be from the right tribe. But our Lord, by being from Judah, fulfills the prophecy. And shows that the old system was done away with. That's the logic that he's using here. Since Jesus came from a new tribe, that affirms that the old system is no longer valid. It's no longer used. And the Bible says this statement in verse 13, of he of whom these things are spoken. What is that? That refers to the Messiah. What things are spoken? The prophecy in Psalm 110, which says the Messiah shall come after the order of Melchizedek. So all of that to say that this priesthood is superior in its purpose. Alright? Here's point number two. The priesthood of Christ is superior in its plan Superior in its plan. Look at verse 15. And it is yet far more evident, for that after the similitude of Melchizedek there arise another priest. Who is made not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. Now here the writer emphasizes again the superiority of God's plan the new priesthood. And again, he bases it on several or arguments. A better order, he says. Jesus came out of a better order. What he says it is far more evident, he's basically saying is the uh the evidence, the logic is overwhelming. That the priesthood of Leviticus is obsolete And the new priesthood of Melchizedek is a better order. The evidence he says to that one point is overwhelming. But notice the word another. This is what I want you to focus in on in this verse. Where it says in verse 15, there ariseth another priest. Now there's two Greek words for another. One is alos, and that means of a same sort. And then the other one is heterose. That is another of a different sort. Alos is used in reference to quantity. But heterose, whenever that's used, it's used in reference to quality. So What he's basically saying here, there is another priest, and the word here is heterose, not alos, not of the same sort. But of a better quality. Heterous, a different sort. That's a better quality. That's the idea there. Give you illustration. Let's just say I wanted to trade in my Jeep. All right, now by the way, I'm happy with my Jeep, but let's just say I wanted to trade it in. I go to the car dealer and I say I want a Jeep, but I want a newer Jeep. I want the same sort. And so basically he gives me just another Jeep. It's a little better, but basically it's of the same sort. What word would be used there? Aloes. But let's just say I wanted to trade in my Jeep and I wanted to get something better than a Jeep. What would be better than a Jeep? None of you are right. Uh a Rolls-Royce. I want to trade in my chief and I want to get a Rolls-Royce. You know what? And I do that. That is, I mean it's an illustration. I may as well go for the top, right? It's not really going to happen. I understand that. That word that would be used there is the word heteros because it's another vehicle, but it's the quality of it is so much better. They tell me I would never know. I never rode in a Rolls-Royce. But the quality is so much better. And here's this is what the writer is saying here. You have another priest here. And the quality of this priest Is it's so much better. That's the whole point here. And notice also another word in verse number 15 that's very interesting, where it says, There ariseth another. Look at the word arise there. Anesthesi, and it's a prison a present middle indicative, and which simply means this, a middle voice is reflexive. That means to arise by itself or by myself. Anything in the middle voice means to arise by myself. Now here's the point. No ironic priest could ever use the middle voice Because there he didn't rise to the level of being a priest by himself. If he arose to that level of being a priest, it was not because of himself. What was it due to? It was due to the fact that His family heritage. He was born to be a priest because he was born out of that tribe by virtue of his mouth and father, not of himself. In other words, a priest from the line of Aaron would have to say, I'm a priest, not by myself, but because I've inherited that right. But Jesus can say, I became a priest, not because of any of that, but of myself Because of myself, not because of my tribal heritage, not because of my mother and my father, but because of who I am And here it emphasizes the character of Jesus, the high priest. You see, he is accepted Because of who he is. He has a right to the priestly office that comes from just his being, just because of who he is. And by the way, this word arise, something interesting about this It's you the only other place it's really used is in Acts 2. 32 in reference to what? The resurrection of Jesus I think that that's purposeful here. I think he may be making a reference to the fact that the fact that Jesus came out of that grave means that he had the quality and the character and the power to be a priest, not because anyone else made him a priest, but because in and of himself And so we see a better order, but then I want you to also write down a better ordination. Look at verse 16. Who is made not after the law of a carnal command meant But after the power of an endless life. Or we could say an indestructible life. And so what's the point here? Did you know how Aaron's priests got to be what they were? Here the writer says, by a carnal commandment. Or we could say it like this, fleshly regulations. That's really what it means. You see, the standard prescribed for a high priest in the Old Testament had to do with the with him physically, his physical body. It didn't matter where they were spiritually, that had nothing to do with it To be a priest, you had to be a pure descendant of Aaron. And there were at least, according to the Jewish law, at least 142 physical blemishes that could disqualify you from being a priest. Those were the only disqualifications. Now, if you made it through as kind of a physical specimen, then it didn't matter what you were spiritually you were in. In fact you can read this in Leviticus 21 and you'll find some of those qualifications. The ordination ceremony for a priest That's recorded in Leviticus 8. And it kind of goes like this. First, you know, you had to be cleansed, you had to be bathed, you had to be ceremonially ceremonially clean. That's all external, that's all physical there. You had to be clothed with there was the linen knee breeches, the long girdle, there was the um the long garment, there was the turban, there was the anointing oil, there was the putting of blood on the right uh thumb, on the right uh ear lobe on the right big toe. Every single item in the whole deal had to do with the physical body. And so what he's saying is is that if you look at all of those rules in the Old Testament about being a priest All that had to do with the outward physical body, none of it was spiritual. A person could meet all of those outward physical commandments, and yet in his heart, not even want to be a priest. That doesn't really matter. The spiritual condition of his heart didn't matter. It was all fleshly, and that's what the writer here is pointing out. The new priest, Jesus, was not after the law of all these physical commandments that he had to meet up to. But look at the end of verse 16: but after the power of an endless life. You see, it wasn't outward fleshly things that made Jesus the great high priest. It was the fact that he had an indestructible life And I believe that what he's referring to here, again, is the fact that Jesus came out of that grave and he had real spiritual power. It was an inward spiritual thing with Jesus. That's what made his priesthood a better ordination than the priests of the Old Testament. And look down at verse 17, for he testified, thou art a priest, forever after the order of Melchizedek. And again, you see, Melchizedek wasn't a priest by any physical standard. He was a priest because of his character. And he could do what no Levitical priest could do, and that is again, he could bring you into the very presence of God And so we see then here a better order, a better ordination, but also write down a better outcome. Look at verse 18 and 19, for there is verily a uh disannuling of the commandment, going before the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. For the law made nothing perfect But the bringing in of a better hope by the which we draw near unto God. And really, this is the climax of his argument here again. Aaron is replaced by Christ But let me just read to you this way I think it would be a little more clear. It says, For there is verily an annuling of the commandment going before the weakness and unprofitableness of the law, that is, God set aside the old standard. Now watch this But put a parenthesis and put a parentheses at the beginning of verse 19. For the law made nothing perfect, and then close the parentheses there, but the bringing in of a better hope by which we draw near to God. And so again, let me read it. For there is verily an annulling of the commandment, going before the weakness and unprofitableness of it. And the bringing of a better hope, by the which we draw near unto God. You see what he's saying there? Again, God is saying, I'm setting aside the old one, I'm bringing in a new one, and in the new covenant you have what now? You have access to God. You have a new access. So I'm wiping out the old. I'm bringing in the new, and by the way, got God when he wiped it out, you remember he did it for good. Historically in 70 AD, uh the temple was destroyed, and so the Jews could no longer do that system God completely wiped it out. The old system was completely gone. And God says, I have a better order now, a better system. And again, look down at verse number 19 where it says, by the which we draw nigh unto God. And I've already made that point, so I don't want to belabor it. This is the under this new priesthood we can draw near to the Lord. So we have then again a better outcome, but then a better oath. Look down at verse 20. And inasmuch as not without an oath He was made priest. For those priests were made without an oath, but this with an oath, by him that said unto him, The Lord swear and will not repent, thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek. What's he saying here? All the Old Testament priests, when they took the priesthood, they didn't have to give an oath They didn't have to swear. They didn't have to sign any document. They were just appointed, and that was it. There was no oath that accompanied them But when he ordained Christ to be a priest, what does the Bible say? He confirmed it with an unchanging oath. You see, God would not seal the Old Testament priest's order after an oath. You know why? Because he knew that that priesthood one day would come to an end. So God didn't seal that with an oath. But with the priesthood of Christ, he did seal it with an oath, because it would be an eternal priesthood. And then again, he quotes from Psalm 110, God swore And he would not change his mind. He would make Christ a priest after this order, and he would be forever a priest after this order. And it was confirmed, or we could say it was made sure. Look at verse 22. By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. It means make it means guarantee. This appears nowhere else in the New Testament. It was guaranteed that Jesus would provide a better, more secure covenant, and so God sealed it with an oath. So the priesthood of Jesus is superior in its purpose, superior in its plan. Let me give you the third thing, superior in its permanence. Look at verse 23. And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death. That is, Aaron died, all of his sons died, the priesthood was as good as the man, the man didn't last forever They would all die off, but Christ does not die. Look in verse 24. But this man, that is Jesus, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Well, the Old Testament priest they died off. Jesus does not. He's forever. Look at verse 25. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost. That come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. He continues forever, and you know what? He continues to pray for us. That's what he's doing in heaven right now. That's what it means when he says he saves us to the uttermost. Now a lot of times people apply this to people being uh who are sinners, you know, they're they're saved from the worst position unto the best. You know, you ever heard the expression, from the guttermost to the uttermost? And they normally apply that to salvation. But really what he's saying here is that we who are saved, he's going to save us to the ultimate. That is, we're totally secure. You're going to be saved throughout eternity. That's the idea. This is another promise of eternal security. I'm not going to fall away because Jesus saves me completely, utterly. He doesn't save me for a little while and say, you know what, Jerry, you're too much of a problem. I'm just going to let you go. That's not being saved of the uttermost. No, he saves me completely. I'm eternally secure because of him who is. You know why? You know why I'm not going to lose my salvation? Because what's Jesus doing right now in heaven? He's praying. He's praying for me. I got an email today by someone I never met. And that happens, by the way, every day recently. I get many. And this person basically said in the email, it said, I know that there are thousands of Christians praying for you all over the country. And I gotta tell you, I was a little encouraged by that. I was encouraged by that. I thought, man, that kind of blows me away. But then I had this thought. I got something better than that. I know that Jesus is in heaven praying for me. He's constantly praying for me. And I don't know about you, but that makes me feel really secure. That makes me feel really good. And you know what? He's praying for you too He is praying completely. And that's what he's saying here. We have a priest, a high priest who is in heaven. And he he is constantly offering up intercessions for us. He ever lives to make intercession, verse 25. Now let me give you the last point and we'll be done. The priesthood of Christ is superior in its purpose. Superior in its plan, superior in its permanence. He's forever there, forever praying for us. But here's the last thing. Superior in his person. Look at verse 26. For such a high priest became us. Now I love what that phrase, but what it means is this, such a high priest was fitting for us. That is, he suits us. He matches us. He's exactly what we need. Do you know that your high priest Jesus is exactly what you need? It becomes us, it says Why? He's holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. No descendant of Aaron could fit that description of Christ given right here. Those men in the Old Testament, they were not holy, harmless, and undefiled. We know that their failures. Remember, Aaron made a golden calf. He messed up. You remember that story? Moses went up on the mountain to pray. Aaron, you know, takes the gold of the people, throws it in the fire. Moses came down and says, What in the world are you doing? Aaron says, well, we just put this gold in, and this calf popped out. That was his excuse. He sinned greatly against the Lord. If you look throughout the Old Testament, you'll see many priests sinning against God. You'll see Eli and his family not being faithful. You couldn't say these things about Old Testament priests You can only say these things about Jesus. These things were true of him. He was holy. He was harmless. He was undefiled. He was separate from sinners. And notice in verse twenty-seven, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, then for this people's, for this he did once when he offered up himself. That is, there's another thing about Jesus. Aaron and his sons, they had to offer daily sacrifices for themselves first, and then for the people. Christ is sinless, he needs no sacrifice. And the one sacrifice that he offered settled the problem of sin for eternity. And furthermore, he offered himself as the sacrifice, not the blood of bulls and goats as the sacrifice. And so look at verse 28. For the law maketh men high priests, which have infirmity, but the word of the oath which was since the law make the Son who is consecrated forever. Christ is forever a high priest, not because of any weakness. The Old Testament priests were weak. But Christ was not. He was exactly what God wanted us to be. He was a perfect high priest. He is the perfect high priest just for us. And because of that, because he made the perfect sacrifice and he's now in heaven praying for us, guess what you and I can do? We can draw near. That's the concept again. Major idea. We can draw near to the very presence of God. So I would just say this in closing. Make sure that you are enjoying this great privilege Of drawing near to God. Have you done that? What problems are you facing right now? What difficulties are there in your life You know what? You can draw near. You can draw near to God because of the blood of Jesus Christ. You can draw near. Are you doing that? Are you taking advantage of that? As a Christian. When Donald Gray Barnhouse was a student in France, he pastored a small church in the French Alps. Each week as he went to the neighboring village, he would pass the local priest going in the opposite direction. Sometimes they would stop and they would chat. And they became friends. On one occasion, the priest asked Barnhouse, why Protestants, why do you Protestants not pray to the saints? And then Barnhouse, he responded by saying, why should we? Well then the priest launched into an illustration of how one might get an interview with the French president. He could go through one of the cabinet members who might open up a door to the president's office so that you could go before the very president himself And the priest, after his argument, smiled at Barnhouse. He thought he made his point very, very clear that, you know, you can go to God through some of the saints. And Barnhouse, he said to this friend, he said, but suppose I were the son of the president, and suppose I'm living in the palace with him. And I get up from the breakfast table and kiss him goodbye as he goes to his office. And then I go down to the Minister of Interior and go through all these guys to get an appointment with a guy that I just had breakfast with. He said, what sense would that make? And of course he made his point. The priest was kind of taken back. We have immediate access to our Father. We don't have to go through anybody. We don't have to go through the saints. We don't have to do any of that. We have access because of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is the great privilege. He is our high priest forever, and I hope that we are taking advantage of that as believers. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we are thankful for our salvation. We're thankful, Lord, that we do have this wonderful access. Where that we can, Lord, come near to you. And Lord, I know that sometimes in my own life I haven't taken full advantage of that. So Lord, help us to really understand how monumental this is, how wonderful it is that we have you, and we have a great high priest that is constantly praying for us. And so, Lord, tonight we just thank you for this. And pray, Lord, that we would apply this to our own spiritual walk. Because, Lord, we know that the greatest experience that we have in our Christian life is to have fellowship with you To enjoy being near you and being in your presence. Lord, may that be so in our life tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.