Take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of First Kings, chapter four. You know, we're studying uh through these t two books in the Old Testament, first and second Kings, which in the Hebrew Bible is actually just one book. But in our English Bible it's divided into two, first and second Kings, and tonight we're going to look at chapter four and chapter five. I know it sounds like you're going to be here a long time, but we'll try to get it done in a half hour. We're going to kinda kinda look at a survey of the these two chapters. We're not going to touch on every verse, but just refer to some of the things, the important things that are in there. And t the study tonight is titled Dwelling Under the Vine and the Fig Tree. What does that mean? We're going to look at that tonight. You ever, you know, back in the um the 1920s, there was a a slogan that was used by uh a man who was running for president, Herbert Hoover, and the slogan was, uh, a chicken in every pot. Maybe you've heard that in history. That slogan actually originated farther back. It originated in seventeenth century France. King Henry IV uh wished that each of his peasants would enjoy, quote, a chicken in his pot every Sunday And that of course meant simply that they would prosper. And Herbert Hoover, basically in the Republican Party back in the twenties, used this as a slogan. when he was running for president and the slogan went a chicken in every pot and a car in every backyard to boot. And what they were promising basically was that this would be a time of unprecedented peace and prosperity in American history if they would simply vote for this president, this man, Herbert Hoover. Well we know that history teaches us that it didn't quite turn out that way, right? Because if you know your American history, you realize that under Herbert Hoover came one of the worst times in American history with reference to economics. That was the time when the Great Depression hit the nation. It was anything but peace and prosperity. Sometimes human governments and leaders will often promise things that they're unable to fulfill. But when God promises something, you can bank on it. You can rest assured that when God says something is going to take place, it will take place. I want you to direct your attention to a similar proverbial slogan type expression that we find in our text tonight. If you look in chapter 4 and look down at verse number 25 Notice where it says, And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon. This is actually a proverbial type expression that was used, and actually this is used in this context here to talk about the fact that God kept a promise. And at that very moment the the writer was recognizing there was a time in Israel's history when every man dwelt under the vine and under the fig tree, which again is a an expression that Talks about prosperity. It talks about peace. Uh economic prosperity Uh every man in Israel and every man in Judah. That means there was no unemployment. Every man you could just picture it in it in your mind in the back of his yard, a big old fig tree with big old fat leaves that provided shade and fruit, a fig tree and a vine, and he would dwell under that vine and that fig tree, living in prosperity, being satisfied. And notice it says from Dan to Beersheba, this would be like saying from New York to California. Or from North Dakota all the way down to Texas Uh it just the whole land in Israel, the uttermost north of the land of Israel was the was Dan, where the headwaters of the Jordan began, and then the uttermost south of Israel was Beersheba And the southern part of the desert there. And so it's basically saying this is a classical biblical statement, saying that all over the land People were dwelling in peace. They were dwelling in prosperity. And by the way, we see this expression in other places in the Old Testament. For example, in Micah 4. 4 But listen to this, but they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree. And then again in Zechariah 3. 10, in that day saith the Lord of hosts. Shall you call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree? So this expression really denotes the blessings of God. on a people, on a nation. And the reason for the blessing here in this passage is because Solomon's wisdom And governing the people led and ushered in this time of great peace and prosperity. This all points back to Solomon's experience at Gibeon. Because you remember that when Solomon was first inaugurated or co uh coronated as the king, uh he realized he didn't have what it took to rent to be the leader. to reign over Israel that was a nation that was growing. They were experiencing a sort of a baby boom at that time. And uh with the expansion of the nation, he understood that he didn't have the wisdom that he needed. And so he went to Gibeon because at Gibeon there was an altar there. It was the original brazen altar that was made by Moses all the way back in the book of Exodus that was still being used. It was used there in Gibeon. This will be a very spiritual experience for Solomon. So he went and he offered a thousand burnt offerings. Imagine that And then he slept there before the altar. And God appeared to Solomon. And you remember if you've been with us, God gave him that blank check offer. What do you want? Anything you want? And Solomon said, Lord, I'm just a child. I don't know how to go out and come in. I don't know how to lead. These are your people. Give to your servant a lev Shema or a a hearing heart, which is another way of saying, make me wise, give me wisdom. And God promised to give Solomon wisdom, and then Solomon woke up from that dream. And so in the text then, in the narrative, the reader is left with this question, was that just a dream or was it real? Well, all of the rest of chapter 3 and chapter 4 In fact, we could go all the way to chapter ten in 1 Kings answers that question. And it sh demonstrates very clearly that it was not just a dream. God indeed did give Solomon wisdom. In fact, it was unprecedented wisdom, more wisdom than anyone had ever received. Solomon had received that kind of wisdom from God. And so we see the rest of chapter three a demonstration of judicial wisdom. We see in chapter four. uh administrative wisdom. He's now gonna uh sh uh set up a new uh uh government administration sufficient to meet the needs of this expanding nation. And then in chapter 5 to 7, this is wisdom for construction. He's getting ready to build the temple, the house of the Lord. In 1 Kings 8, it's wisdom for worship. And then wisdom for commerce and trade in chapters 9 and 10. So all of the rest of these narratives all demonstrate that God indeed gives Solomon uh that wisdom. Now remember what we said wisdom was the meaning of it is uh the Hebrew word chakam which is really just means skillful or to act wise and we could say it like this, skill in living. Skill in living. Remember we said that wisdom is not theoretical. It's not really a matter of your IQ or how much you know, although that's part of it It's really very practical. It's not measured by academic degrees. It's measured by your deeds. It's not a matter of acquiring truth. It is a matter of applying truth. So it's not abstract, it's concrete. It's the choices that you make. It's literally what you do, the choices that you make. Remember that we said that all of our life is made up of the choices, the decisions that we have made. You are what you are today because of the choices that you have made leading up to this point in your life. Wisdom is the skill in life to make the right choices. And remember we told you that back in the ancient Near East, wisdom there was a premium that was put on wisdom Israel wasn't the only nation that touted the blessings of wisdom. There were other nations that also touted wisdom. In fact, they all had a special class of people called wise men. Those that were known for giving out wisdom, other nations, the Mesopotamian nations and Egypt, and so on. In fact, look in chapter 4, look down at verse 29. Where it says, And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the seashore. Verse thirty, and Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the East Country. and all the wisdom of Egypt, and he was wiser than all the men of Ethan, the Ezrahite, and Haman, and Chalcol, and Dardah, and the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all nations round about. And that is to say that simply of all the wise men that were known back in that day, remember there was a special classification for wise men, just like there was a classification for prophets and a classification for priests and a classification for kings, there was a classification for wise men, men who were known for their excellence and wisdom But of all the men in that day, Solomon excelled them all. None of them were on Solomon's level. And remember, we also said that Solomon's wisdom was a godly wisdom. It was different from the wisdom of the ancient Near East and that it added something to it. You see, wisdom for the for the The child of God for the one that follows Yahweh or for us as Christians is not just making the right decision. The special twist that Israel put on The teaching of wisdom is this that it is making day a righteous decision, not just a right decision, but a righteous decision And Solomon said that where does wisdom begin? It begins with the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It begins when you fear the Lord, when you have a reverence for God. And so we could say it like this, the fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude. That leads to right actions. A reverential attitude that leads to right actions, making the right decisions. And so the wisdom of Solomon excelled. beyond all. And because of this wisdom, others around him were exceedingly blessed. In fact, because of his wisdom, it ushered into Israel a time of unprecedented peace and prosperity. This was the golden age, we could say, for the nation of Israel. And what I want you to see, the big idea in this whole study, is this When a leader displays God given wisdom, it results in great blessing for the people. And the key theme of this narrative then is that God fulfilled his promise by giving Solomon this great wisdom. In fact, a key expression throughout these two chapters that we're going to look at. is this expression, and God gave. And God gave. But now let me just give you some of the blessings of God-given wisdom. And there's seven of them. I'm going to go through them rather quickly here, and then I want to make an application to that. And that will be our study tonight. So here's the first one. Number one, God-given wisdom results in all-inspiring judgment. And we already looked at this brief last week, so we'll look at it briefly tonight. You remember from verses uh chapter three, verses sixteen to twenty-eight. There was a judicial matter, a difficult case presented before Solomon, and you remember that there were two women, both harlots, they each had a son, one mother uh accidentally killed her son by smothering him, by sleeping on him, and in the middle of the night she got up and switched babies. And so each mother claimed that the living child was her. That these mothers came in before Solomon And they Solomon heard the case, and you remember what he said, verse 24, bring me a sword, and you can imagine everyone in the courtroom got a little surprised by that. But his his idea was not to really divide the child, but he did say divide the child in half, give one half to one and one half the other. And what he was doing was setting up a test to fish out the real mother And the mother that had the that had the maternal instincts immediately cried out and said, Oh, don't do that. Give the child to this woman here. And of course the other woman said, Oh yeah, divide them in half and let's each take a half That's not the real Muhammad, obviously. And because of that decision, basically we we come to the end of chapter 3 and verse 28, where it says, And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged And they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was with him to do judgment. Solomon demonstrated incredible judicial wisdom and perfect justice was carried out in that situation. So, but number two God-given wisdom results in administrative skill. This is where we get to chapter 4. And verses 1 to 6 we see some special special officers that are set up by Solomon. Another mark of wisdom is the ability to delegate and administrative One needs to select faithful servants. And you know, this can be very difficult if you're a person in a leadership position. You've got to have the right people around you. And what we see in verses 1 to 6 is that Solomon used wisdom in giving positions to these special officers. Uh he retained some experienced servants from his father, those that were experienced, those that were loyal he used in his government. Positions of trust were fulfilled by People of piety like priests and prophets. In verse 2, Azariah was a prime minister. The scribes in verse Three, uh Eliha Elihareth and Ahiah, they wrote letters and proclamations. In verse 6, Jehoshaphat He was a carryover from David's court. Verse 4, Benaiah commanded the host. That is, he was in charge of the armies and the police force, we could say. And then in verse 5, Azarai was a son of Nathan, Nathan the prophet who was loyal to David, and he was set up as a ruler over the twelve districts of governors. And so Solomon uses great wisdom to put the right people in right places. And then number three, God-given wisdom results in effective delegation. In verses 7 on down to verse 21, what we see here is the twelve districts that Solomon divides the nation into. nine on the west side of the Jordan, three on the east side of the river. These are twelve districts, so he can really tax these districts. We could say that he's credited with originating the first scientific system of taxation. And each of these 12 districts, what does he do? He sets up one governor over each of these districts, and then he sets up one man that's over these 12 governors. So we see his administrative ability here Look at verse 7. And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, which provided victuals for the king and his household. Each man his month and a year made provision. And so basically Each of these governors was responsible for one month of the year to supply the produce and the meat necessary to sustain the king's government, we could say the king's household. Now we're not going to go through the list, but from verses 8 on down to verse 19, all these governors are listed, and they're listed in the order which in which they were responsible for the royal provision. by month of the twelve months they were given these responsibilities. And so we see in verse 20 Look at verse 20. And Judah and Israel were many as the sand which is by the sea, and the multitude eating and drinking and making merry. Look at verse 21. And Solomon reigned over all the kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines. Under the border of Egypt. They brought presents and served Solomon all the days of his life. And so verse 20 and 21 is really to indicate the success of this new structure. This new administration. The old government under David was not sufficient to meet the growing needs of Israel. It was growing by land mass. We see this in verse 21. It was growing by population. The empire was vast. It stretched from the river, which is speaking of the river Euphrates in the north to the land of the Philistines in the west to Egypt in the south. So it was spreading all over. Basically Um, it was God fulfilling the promise that he gave to Abraham to give Israel all of that land now Solomon is in charge of all of this. The land that Moses desired, the land that Joshua conquered, the land that David subdued, the land that God promised to Abraham is now ruled over by Solomon And again, he's using unsurpassed wisdom. Now let me just say this. To the modern reader, when you read a list like this, if you're doing this in devotion, you're probably scratching your head saying, okay, what can I get out of this? Well, let me just say that the list is intended to cause you to marvel at this at what God is doing and how God is blessing Israel. At this new sophisticated system that Solomon put in place with his great wisdom. This was very real. This was a utopia. This was a golden age. And when you read something like this, you you you think, man, can a a kingdom like this exist? It is wonderful. A place of peace and prosperity. And the answer is yes, it can really exist. Look at number four would be this. God-given wisdom results in economic prosperity And look at verse 22. And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour and three score measures of meal. Now let me just say this. To impress the reader even more, the writer goes on to give the daily court provisions necessary to keep Solomon's household running. Be like this. Do you know how much groceries it takes for your family each week? Every mom here knows the answer to that question You know exactly how much it your grocery bill is going to be. And when you have guests in and family in, you know pretty much well what we see here in verses twenty-two and twenty-three is an ancient Sans Club shopping list. All right. It's going to tell how much Solomon needed for one day in his in his household, in his government, we could say. And verse 23, ten fat oxen and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep besides hearts, and robots, and fallow deer, and fatted fall And uh basically each day in the royal household they consumed approximately 340 bushels of fine flour, 155 bushels of meal. Thirty head of beef, a hundred sheep, as well as wild game that we saw listed here. And that was all required for the table in the palace, or for Solomon's court Such a quantity of bread and meat would feed, according to one commentator, at least 14,000 people a day. That's a lot. You guys don't look very impressed. That's a lot. And that is a kind of a sample of how big the kingdom was. And all these governors were over these twelve districts that were all charged to give to collect taxes, to provide all these needs for the government. And so it's made to show you, wow, this is a big kingdom. This is a prosperous kingdom. And again, we see in verse 25 And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, and every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon. It was a time of unprecedented prosperity and peace in Israel. In verses 26 to 28, peace was maintained by a huge Calvary. Up unto this time the army of Israel were just infantrymen, but now Solomon is adding horses, 4,000 stalls for chariots of uh uh for chariot horses. Um in addition, the king kept 12,000 cavalry horses. So he's adding to the army. I've actually been to Israel and went to Megiddo, where a place, a city built by Solomon, that where he had a lot of these stables there. You can see the the ruins of some of these stables there in Israel in that place called Megiddo. Here's number five. God-given wisdom results in an insightful teaching It results in insightful teaching. Look down at verse 29, and God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding, exceeding much, and largeness of heart. even as the sand is on the seashore. Again, this emphasizing the magnitude of his wisdom, like the sand on the seashore. It exceeded the children of the East, we saw in verse number 30. And it exceeded that of Egypt and the wisest men that were out there. In addition, there was the written wisdom. Look in verse 32, and he spake 3,000 proverbs, and his songs were a thousand and five. And he spake of trees from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon, even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall. He spake also of beasts and of fowl and of creeping things and of fishes. And so in every area, he just seemed to be an expert. Now, of these Proverbs, he spoke 3,000. A third of those are preserved in the book of Proverbs. We have read that. Of his 1,05 songs, only three have survived. The Book of Song of Solomon and Psalm 72 and Psalm 127, both songs written by Solomon. And so all of this wisdom was written down. We have some of it that was inspired by God, but it was for the purpose of helping others to get wise. We'll talk about that in a minute. And his wisdom attracted people from all over. Look at verse 34. And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon from all kings of the earth which had heard of his People came from all over the world. They came to Jerusalem, to the throne room of Solomon to hear the wisdom that he would give not only just common people, but kings, uh people that were supposed to be wise themselves. Realize how Solomon was so much wiser and they would come and they would listen. And so it just was just a wonderful display of God's given wisdom, God's given wisdom to Solomon. Here's number six. God giving wisdom results in peaceful habitation. Because here we get to chapter five. And here we're going to see the key words are rest. We find that in verse 4. Look at chapter 5, verse 4. Now the Lord God had given me rest. on every side. And then also peace in verse number 12. Look at verse 12. And the Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two made a league together. So what we see here is that King Hiram of Tyre, he hears of Solomon's wisdom. He sends ambassadors to congratulate Solomon. And Solomon responds with a letter. And uh in look at verse 2, and Solomon sent to Hiram, saying, Thou knowest how that David, my father, could not build a house in the name of the Lord his God for the wars. Which were about him on every side, until the Lord put them under under the soles of his feet. But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. And so basically what Solomon is telling us, look in verse five. And behold, I purpose to build a house So he basically tells Hiram, look, I'm going to build a house for the Lord, and I want you to help me. I want you to help me with the timber. And the craftsmen that you have. And so what he does here in his wisdom is he makes this alliance, this peaceful alliance with King Hiram, who's going to supply timber, he's going to supply skilled laborers so that Solomon can build the temple. And what the writer is pointing out to us again is It was wisdom that caused Solomon to negotiate this alliance where he can get all the material he needed and all the skilled labor he needed so that he could build a house. for the glory of God. Hiram agrees, and again the key verse we saw in verse number 12, that they two made a league together But let me give you the last thing. Number seven, God-giving wisdom results in godly preparation. What we see from verses 13 down to verse 18 is that Solomon is he's preparing. He is getting workers together. He is basically drafting out of Israel a labor force and putting them up on shifts. And he has them working with some of the Sidonians. And they begin to hew out stones for the temple. When I was in Israel uh two summers ago, there's a place actually you can go under the old city. It's a cave. It's called Zedekiah's cave because they thought at one time Zedekiah had hidden there. But as you go under, you see that it is a place where stones had been cut out And this cavern just keeps going down and down, and it's just huge. And many scholars believe that that was the actual quarry where Solomon began cutting stones. to lay the foundation and stones that would build the temple. This is what we see here. Solomon begins to lay the foundation of the house of the Lord. He has enough wisdom to begin this whole project. to get the labor force together. And so this was just an incredible time. And again, what's the point of all this? The writer again is showing us That the promise that God gave to Solomon of wisdom was more than fulfilled. Unprecedented wisdom, incredible wisdom to do all of these things. And again, these were the glory days of Israel under the leadership of Solomon. It was awesome. You know what I think about when I read a passage like that? That leaders that had the fear of the Lord That not only made just a right decision, but they made the righteous decision. Not just the politically correct decision, but a righteous decision, but a godly decision. And I believe that if we had leaders like that, God would honor us, and we would have peace and prosperity in our land as well. Let me give you two points of application tonight. Then we'll be done. Here's the first way that we can apply all this. Number one, the blessings of godly wisdom should inspire us to seek godly wisdom for our own life. I don't know about you, but that's what it does for me. When I read about all this and I see his incredible wisdom, it just makes me want to make sure that I have God's wisdom on my life. The Bible puts a premium on wisdom. The Bible tells us we should seek it. In Proverbs, let me just read you this in Proverbs chapter 2, verse 4. If thou seekest her as silver, And searchest for her as hid treasure. Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom. God delights in giving wisdom. So ask yourself, am I a wise person? Do I demonstrate skill in living? Do I fear the Lord Does my godly reverence lead to righteous actions? Do I make righteous choices? Well here's our question. How do I become wise? I want the wisdom of God. How do I become wise? Well, the Bible gives us four ways. They're not really hard. Number one is prayer. We already saw this. This is how Solomon got wisdom. He just asked God And James tells us, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. So ask God. Number two, repruse of life Listen to Proverbs 1531. The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise. What's the reproof of life? It's a calamity that takes place, a calamity or a consequence that takes place in your life as a result of a bad decision We could say it like this, um, learning from your what? Mistakes. You make a bad decision, you pay for it. And you know what? If you're listening, the reproof that you suffer from that bad decision will make you wise. We can say it like this, life becomes your teacher. And life can be a cruel teacher. I often say to people, you know, you don't have to listen to me. Let life be your teacher. But life but life is very cruel sometimes in making its point. You know, sometimes our teenagers they don't think that their parents are smart. You know, they don't listen to their mom and dad. We say, okay, we'll turn you over to another teacher, the teacher of life, and life will reprove you when you make bad choices. And if you listen Then you'll get wise. The reproofs of life. You heard about the uh the young man who was just given a high position in a bank and he went to the chairman of the board and said, look, uh, you know, uh what's important for me? What do I need to learn? What's the advice that you would give me? He said, well, he said, make right decisions. And then the young man said, Well well, how do I make right dis decisions? And the old man said, Well experience And the young man said, well, how do I get experience? And the old man said, wrong decisions. And there's a sense in which that's true. You get a lot of experience from the roof of life. But then here's the third way, wise people. Write down Proverbs 1320. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise But a companion of fool shall be destroyed. Again, this goes back to the ancient Near East where the the wise men, the teachers, would write down, they would put in literature their wisdom. Why? Because they wanted the next generation to read and to get wise. That's what the whole book of Proverbs is about. That's what Ecclesiastes is about. That's what the book of Song of Solomon is about. It is written wisdom from wise men so that we can get wise. And of course we have other teachers, thank God for good Bible teachers that know the wisdom of God that can teach us. And then along with that, the fourth thing would simply be the Word of God. When we study God's Word, the Word of God makes us wise. Psalm 19, verse 7: The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul, the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. And the word simple comes from an expression that really literally means an open door, and it has the idea of someone who's naive. Not that they're not intelligent, they are. And they are not very discerning and they need to learn wisdom. And God's word is that tool that can take a simple person and make them wise. Now let me give you the second application. When we read this, it should make us long for being wise ourselves. But here's number two. The glory of Solomon's kingdom should make us long for Christ and his kingdom. Because what we see here is really a preview of the millennial reign of Christ. You might say, man, when I read this, I wish I could live in a kingdom of prosperity and peace, with every man living under his vine or his fig tree. Well, actually, we will Did you know that all of this speaks of a future day when we will dwell in a kingdom, the kingdom of Jesus Christ, where he reigns on the throne of David? In fact, go to the book of Micah, and we'll end up here. Look in Micah with me. Go to Micah chapter 4 and look at this because I want to end up with this, because I want you to see again. This expression used in the book of Micah. Micah chapter 4, and we'll start at verse number 1. Notice what it says in verse 1. But in the last days. It shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills, and people shall flow into it. Now what is Micah talking about here? He's talking about the time during the millennium. This will be a day when we will live in a kingdom better than that of Solomon, because a greater than Solomon will be reigning on the throne of David, and that will be the Lord Jesus. So imagine a time of no more poverty. Every person will have what their heart desires. No prisons, no hospitals, no mental institutions, no army bases, no gambling casinos, no bars No COVID 19. The bloom of youth will be on everyone's cheek. The Bible says the wolf will lie down with the lamb. Israel will be restored. Jerusalem will be the capital of the world. The Bible says in Isaiah 35. 1, the wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them. The desert shall rejoice and blossom as The rose. All of the redemptive purposes of God since the fall of man will culminate in the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. This will be a wonderful paradise. And guess what? Are you saved? You're going to be a part of that. We got a lot of living to do after we leave this life. God's got a lot in store for us. And part of that is going to be this millennial reign of Christ. And this will be a thousand-year reign. So the chronology is simply the rapture of the church is next. And then after that we know the tribulation period. And at the end of the tribulation period, we know that the Lord will judge all the ungodly. There will be the big battle at Armageddon, a continuum of all the armies of the world will gather together, and Christ will defeat them, and then he will set up his throne. In Jerusalem, the throne of David. And this will usher in that time of the millennium. Jesus will sit on that throne. And you know what? And this is where we come to micah uh or Micah where it says in verse 1 That in the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountain. That is, the temple of the Lord will be there in its rightful place there in that mount and Mount Zion. And people will flow into it. And verse 2, and many nations shall come and say, Come and let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God of Jacob, and he will teach us his ways. And we'll walk in his path, and the law shall go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. All the people want to come together. They'll want to march up to the throne of David and hear wisdom. Not from Solomon, but a greater than Solomon. They'll hear the wisdom of Jesus Christ. How many of you would love to hear Jesus preach a sermon? That would be wonderful, right? We're going to hear wisdom come from the mouth of the Lord. And verse 3, uh, he will judge the many people. There will be no war. But look at verse 4. And here's the verse that we know. But they shall sit every man under his vine. And under his fig tree, and none shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken it. We will live And total peace and prosperity, every man under his vine and under his fig tree. This will be a beautiful time. This will be a wonderful time for the people of God. And this is something that we can look forward to as God's people. Isaac Watts, the great hymn writer, wrote it like this: Jesus shall reign where eer the sun does excessive journeys run. His kingdom stretches from shore to shore, Till moon shall wax and wane no more. Blessings abound where eer he reigns, The prisoners leap to loose their chains The weary find eternal rest, and all who suffer want are blessed. Let every creature rise and bring the highest honors To our King. Angels descend with songs again, and the earth repeats the loud. Amen. That's going to be a wonderful time. Now the wisest thing you can do is to make sure that you know Jesus as your Savior. To make sure that you're going to be part of that kingdom. That time when you'll every person will dwell under the vine and under the fig tree. Let's let's bow together for prayer tonight. As we're out of time. So let me just ask you right off, friend, are you absolutely certain about your own salvation? I would hate for you to miss out on these blessings to come. That God has in store for his people. Do you know Jesus? You're absolutely certain of that. If not, would you pray right where you are? Wherever you are, those who may be listening to the live stream, make certain of your salvation. Pray the prayer in Luke: God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. And the Lord will hear that. And the Bible says, Him that cometh unto me I will no wise cast out. And then if you're hearing you you are a child of God, can I ask you, are you Praying for God's wisdom in your life? Are you walking in wisdom? We need God's wisdom every day. Our life is the sum total of the decisions that we make. So pray and ask God. Maybe you're facing some decision in your life and you need God's wisdom. Ask Him for it. He'll give it to you. He'll pour out wisdom on you if you ask Him. Father, again, thank you for this encouragement from your word. Thank you for all the blessings we have to look forward to in Christ. I pray that your people will indeed be encouraged by this to know, Lord, what you have for us. To know that one day we will Be there in that millennial kingdom, filled with blessings, dwelling under the fig tree, under the vine Praising you for who you are, hearing you and the wisdom that you have. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.