Would you open your Bibles tonight to Second Kings? We uh have been studying uh first and second Kings and we Did 1 Kings last year and we're into 2 Kings tonight, this Old Testament book that we learn from these stories that are here in it. And we're in 2 Kings chapter 2 tonight. We're going to look at verses 23 to verse 25. Just uh three verses here that give us a story. Verse 23 It says And he went up from thence unto Bethel And it was going up by the way, and there came forth little children out of the city, and mocked him, and said unto him, Go up, thou bald head, go up, thou ball head. And he turned back and looked on them and cursed them in the name of the Lord, and there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tear forty and two children of them. And he went from thence to Mount Carmel, and from thence he returned to Samaria. We all know the story of the of Goldilocks and the Three Bears. Goldilocks uh comes one comes upon a house while walking in the woods. No one is home, so she goes in and she steals some porridge. She makes herself at home in the living room, finds a comfortable chair a chair. She decides to rummage through uh the beds until she finds one that she likes. And then she's awakened by Papa Bear, Mama Bear, and Baby Bear, and she screams and she runs out. The bears are made out to be victims in this, or villains, I should say, in this story, and Goldilocks is the victim. But when you think about this story, it's really not a good children's story, if you ask me. This is a smash and grab story. I mean she breaks in the house. She smashes some furniture while she's trying to find a place to sit. She steals some food. You know, she kind of has a sense of entitlement, commits a crime, breaking and entering. She just assumes that she can take ownership of the rooms And the houses or the house uh the bear didn't do anything wrong, the bears. I mean breaking and entering is a crime, right? It's a felony. She should have been arrested and taken away in handcuffs Stop blaming the bears in this story. No wonder we have people doing smash and grab today. They've been, you know, raised on Goldilocks. This story that we're going to talk about here tonight is not Goldilocks and the Three Bears. It's Elisha and the She Bears. The story of Golix is not real. This story tonight is a real is a real story. It's one of the most frightening stories in the Old Testament. A lot of commentators have struggled on how to deal with this story here. One commentator writes this, the point of narrating this anecdote is not clear. It cannot have a serious point, and it does no credit to the prophet. Okay, whatever. Thank you for that. They don't know what to do with this story. They kind of throw up their hands. What do you do with this? Uh J. A. Montgomery calls it a a a bubenmarken, that is German term for a scary children's story. You know, be nice to your pastor or a bear will eat you. It's it's a really a sobering story because uh it causes us to ask a lot of questions. I mean this is a story about when when you read it here on the surface it's children to get mauled by bears Um, you know, why is this story here in 2 Kings? Or what are we to think about this? What are we to think about Elisha who turns and he utters a curse to these 42 boys I mean, how could he be a man of God and curse these children for what seemed to be a minor offense? Well, let's kind of look at this story closely and we'll try to answer some of those questions. as we go through it. But just I want you to see three parts to the story tonight. First of all, the first part of this is the mocking of the man of God. Look again in verse number 23. And he went up from thence unto Bethel. Who is the he there? It's uh Elisha. We just sang a song. These are the days of Elijah. Actually, it's the days of Elisha here in our study. This is Elisha, and he goes from Jericho up to Bethel And when he gets close to Bethel, several dozen y young men come out from the city and they confront him. Now really to understand this, what's going on here, you have to get a little bit of background about this. So let me just give you some elements here. First of all, there's what I call the apostasy of the city. Where did they come from in verse number 23? It says they he went up from thence unto where? Bethel. Bethel is the city. What do we know about Bethel? Well, Bethel means house of God. It's a place of God. It was a place that had a special meaning for Israel because this was a place when Abraham first went into the promised land where he stopped and he built an altar to the Lord. Later, Jacob uh arrives at this same place. Uh you remember the story he falls asleep at night, he has a dream, there's a dream of a ladder that goes all the way to the throne of God, and then down to where he was, and he wakes up After he sees angels ascending and descending on the ladder, which is really a staircase. And he calls the name of the place Bethel, or Again, Beth is the Hebrew word for house. L is the Hebrew word for God. This is the house of God, he said. Later on, a school of the prophets was established there in Bethel. But in spite of all of these things, the city became an idolatrous place of false worship And the reason for that is because of the King Jeroboam. If you were in our study in 1 Kings, you know that he went and set up a golden calf, a false altar and a golden calf there at Bethel. Remember, the kingdom split after Rehoboam was so foolish. Jeroboam takes ten tribes to the north and uh Rahboam takes two tribes to the south. And he didn't want the people going back to Jerusalem to worship God. He thought maybe he would lose their loyalty. So he set up his own false religious system. He put a golden calf in Dan and he put one at Bethel And Bethel then became synonymous with false worship and even the worship of Baal. Of course, everything that Jeroboam did was an abomination to God. And Bethel then became an idolatrous community. They became uh what Hosea the prophet later called them Beth Avon Bethel, house of God, Beth again is house. Aven is wickedness or idolatry. Bethel became Beth-Avan, said the prophet. Hosea. It it went from being a house of God to a house of idolatry, a house of wickedness. And so this whole city of Bethel has set itself against the worship of the true and the living God. The whole atmosphere there was wicked and ungodly. And so here are these children that come out from Bethel. Now no doubt Elijah Elisha is going to the city because they need the word of God. I mean he had just been in Jericho, and what did he do in Jericho? He took a city that was under a curse and he reversed the curse and he gave it a blessing. He healed the waters, and the city was blessed. And now I think he wants to do the same thing here in Bethel. Perhaps he wants to reverse the curse that was on this city as well. And so he wants to bring blessing. And notice that he's approached by these young men, and look at verse 23. It says, as he was going up by the way. This calls our attention to the time of the attack. It occurred simply in the normal process process as his as he travels to the city. And there's a lesson here for us, you know, we never know when Satan or others under his control are going to attack us, right? We always have to be ready at our average moment to meet what he will throw at us at his select moment The Bible says, take heed lest we fall. It says we need to look to ourselves lest we're tempted and we need to be careful because Satan is on the prowl, right? Like a roaring what? He's looking to see who he may devour. So we see the apostasy of the city, but then I want you to think about also this, the age of the children, because in verse 23, it describes them as being Here in the authorized version here, there there came forth little children. The way the King James translates it, little children. Now the Hebrew word here for children is na'er, which is used to speak of youth, but it's a term that can often be used to speak of mature young men. In fact, it can refer to people from the age of twelve to thirty years old. For example, in Ruth chapter 2, verse 5, it was used to speak of Boaz's servant. It was used to refer to Isaac when he was 28 years old. It was used in the Old Testament to refer to soldiers. It was used in Genesis fourteen twenty-four to describe men old enough to go with Abram on that military expedition uh there in Genesis. It was used in Genesis 34, 19 for a man old enough to seek marriage with Jacob's daughter. And the word is even used of the spies who went to uh to Jericho and stayed with Rahab there in Jericho. So it has a it has a broad range of n of uh meaning here as far as the age of the youth. I think the youth here I think they were past um teenage years. I think they were late teens, perhaps early twenties. We know that they were past the age of accountability because God judges them. They were accountable for what they did. So these are not, I don't think, l uh small children. You say, what about it says little children? What about the word little? The word little is the Hebrew word katan, which can mean young But the word can also mean insignificant. It was used of Joseph when he was seventeen years old, again, speaking about him as being young. It was used of Absalom. And in each of those passages, he was in his early twenties, and perhaps there it was talking about little, and it was kind of a diminutive term, a term of content. A term that spoke not about the age of the person, but about their character. When it says they were little. We could we could probably say it like this, they were contemptible. They were of little importance. They were um uh from the lower side of society. They were of little character, we could say. So I don't I don't think that this is a story of little children playing a silly game. These are not little children dancing around saying ring around the rosie or ring around the prophet, you know. These were older young men in a gang, I think it was a gang of malicious thugs who had no fear of God. They uh the Bible says in Psalm 36:1, transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And so I agree with Norman Geisler, who wrote this. He said, quote, these were not small innocent children. They were wicked young men comparable to a modern street gang. And hence the life of the prophet was in danger by their number. You have 42 of these guys. And we can even take it a step further, I think. They were perhaps disciples of the false prophets promoting a false religion that was there in Bethel. They were perhaps even worshippers of Baal. In this whole idolatrous system. And if these youth are indeed associated with idolatrous worship, there's kind of an echo Here of Elijah confronting false prophets just like Elijah did in his ministry. Remember, Elijah confronted the prophets of Baal And now here we have Elisha doing the same thing. He is confronting these young men who are perhaps disciples of the prophets of Baal. of Baal or these false gods as opposed to the power of the true and the living God. But then I want you to think about another thing. Not only the uh the city, the uh and the the age of the children here. But I also want you to think about the abomination of the crime. We see the apostasy of the city, we see the age of the children. Now we see the abomination of the crime. And they begin to mock this prophet. Now God hates mocking. And the scripture depicts mocking as the action of the ungodly. And they're not just mocking a prophet, they're they're mocking God. And and really uh I think this whole idea of mocking ties in this story with the previous story, because where did Elijah just come from? He came from Jericho. And now he's going to Bethel. What you have here is a contrast between two cities. And this is a purposeful contrast, I think, here in the narrative. Some commentators they see no link between what happened in Jericho and what happens here in Bethel. But I think that there is a link, and I think the link here is the mocking of God You say, how so? Well you remember the city of Jericho had a curse on it. Well why? Well, because uh of their sin, and you remember after Joshua conquered it, he put a curse on the city. And we read it previously when we studied this that this the city was beautiful, but the water was uh naught, it says, and the ground barren. And so the ground couldn't grow crops because of this curse that Joshua put on the city back all the way back in Joshua 626. And then he said this, he said Cursed be the man before the Lord that rises up and builds this city, Jericho, he shall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it. Here is this beautiful city, and it's cursed by God. Why? Because of sin, and the people of the land of Canaan had sinned so wickedly before God. Sin always brings a curse, always. Now there was one man who tried to ignore this curse, and he went ahead and tr and tried to rebuild the city of Jericho. And by doing so, he ignored the word of God. He ignored what Joshua said. And the Bible says, you know what happened to him in 1 Kings 6. 34, it says, did Hyel, this is the name of the man, Hyel decides he's going to come in, he's going to ignore the curse He's going to rebuild the city and by doing that, what's he doing? He's mocking God. I don't I don't believe God's word. You guys take that serious? Here's a beautiful place. Let's rebuild it. Forget about the word of God. He mocks the word of God. And the Bible says this, he laid the foundation thereof in Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates thereof in his youngest son, Segob According to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun. It cost him his oldest and his youngest son, just like God said By the way, you know where this man Hael was from? He was from Bethel. Hiel the Bethelite. built Jericho, and he paid for it with the lives of his oldest and youngest sons. And so you already have some young men who died because someone was mocking God. A man from Bethel. And so we could say some men young men already died from Bethel because of mocking God. And here, now we see the same thing again. Here are some young men coming out, and they're mocking God, and now they're going to die too. That's the length, the mocking of God. And notice how they mocked him. Notice what they said. Look down at verse number 23 again. It says And he went up from thence unto Bethel, and as he was going up by the way there came forth little children out of the city, and mocked him, and said unto him, Go up thou baldhead, go up thou ball head. What do they mean by this? Go up Well, they could have been just telling Elisha to get lost, get out of here. A more likely explanation is they were deliberately challenging his authority as a prophet, his ability as a prophet. They they could see that he was wearing the prophetic mantle mantle that Elijah had, and he now bears the authority of a prophet. They heard about Elijah miraculously going up. Being translated into heaven, I mean word spread quickly, they are about that. The sons of the prophets in Bethel knew about this So there's no doubt that the whole city knew about what happened to Elijah. And so they were saying, you know, if you are what you claim to be, if you are a prophet of God, then you go up to You get out of here too. That's probably what they meant when they were taunting him. They were challenging his office and his authority as an anointed prophet of Yahweh. But then the second part of this is they said thou bald. What do they mean by that? Well there are several suggestions that have been made about this. It could be that he was just simply bald. You know, they were making fun of him because of that, just because they had, you know, male pattern baldness. Um this was normally associated with lepers in that day, so for some they may have considered it a shame for that There's another explanation that some give. In the ancient Near East, when a man was in mourning, what would he do? What were one of the some of the things they would do? He would shave his head. Because he was in great sorrow. And what just happened? He lost Elijah, his master. Elijah his mentor. So it could very well be that Elisha was in a time of great grief over that loss and great mourning. And in this case, if the young men were making fun of him because of that, they were making fun of not only his appearance, but also the sorrow that he was experiencing, which really compounds this mocking Or it may have been, at least one scholar has suggested, that Old Testament prophets may have had a distinct hairstyle in which part of the head was shaved. Not unlike what we see in medieval monks, you know, where part of the head was shaved, kind of the style that they had back then. If that was the case, I'm glad that style is no longer around. We can't really be sure, but in any case, what these young men did was wicked. They treated God's servant with contempt, with hostility, with hatred. And God desires that his servants be treated with the utmost respect. And really, in mocking God's servants, they were mocking God. And guess what? God will not be mocked. He will not be mocked. So I want you to see the second part of this story. We see the mock the mocking of the man of God. But number two, think about the mauling of the young men. Because notice what happens after this in verse 24. And he turned back and looked on them. And cursed them in the name of the Lord. So notice his response. First of all, he turned back. That is to say, he turned around So then what does that imply? Well these guys were following him, they were taunting him, they were perhaps coming after him. This is a dangerous situation for Elijah. Again, this is not the case of an old man being followed by a bunch of playful children. We th uh you know if you do the numbers here, Elisha had succeeded Elijah around the time of Jehoram, Ahab's son. uh which was around 850 B. C. and he died at 800 B. C. So that means that Elijah Elisha's ministry spanned about 50 years, five decades. And if we assume that he lived at the typical age of 75 or 80, that means that probably at this time in his life, he was either 25 or 30 He was not an old man. He was slightly older than these wicked young men that were with him. And so these are dangerous young men. They're following after him. This is not just a passing comment as he's walking. They are taunting him. They are on his heels. They are stalking him. I think they intend to do him harm, and he turns around to face them. And then it says he looked at them. The Hebrew word here is the idea he glared at them. He was filled with righteous anger And then what's the third thing that he does? He curses them in the name of the Lord. Now this doesn't mean that he swears at them But rather he prays to God that God would place a curse on them. This is kind of an imprecatory prayer, we could say. He commits them over unto the Lord for the Lord I like what Philip Riken wrote here. He said, Notice what Elisha did not do when he was treated with disrespect. He did not defend himself. He did not scold. He did not call down a curse in his own name. Rather, Elisha called down a curse in God's name for God's glory. And one of the themes of this whole chapter is the idea of cursing versus blessing. You have to see that theme running through this chapter. The city of Jericho was a cursed city, but under Elisha he removed the curse and he brought blessing. Bethel was a place that at one time was blessed because of God's visitation there But then it turned to cursing when Jeroboam set up that false religious system there. And you remember in First Kings, God sent a man of God to prophesy against that altar and against that whole system and prophesy a curse to that altar. And so there was a curse resting there at Bethel. And here's Elijah, and he wants to do for Bethel what he did for Jericho. But when Elisha went to Jericho, what happened? The men of the city they received him. They understood his authority. They believed he was a prophet of the Lord. And the Bible says they received him and they asked him for help. Help us. The water here is not, but when Elijah goes to Bethel, he's not welcome. He's not received. He's mocked. And the author his authority as a true prophet of God is not respected. He's met with hatred and scorn and hostility. And as a result, there will be no reversing of the curse here in Bethel. In fact, Elisha further condemns the city by calling upon God to bring down a curse upon these young men. And once Elisha pronounces this God-honoring curse, it was up to God to carry it out. And God didn't wait. He immediately look what it says in verse 24. After he utters the curse, and there came forth two she-bears out of the wood, and tear forty and two children of them. As a result. God stands for the bears. Again, don't blame the bears here. They're servants of the Lord. They're doing what God told them to do. They're more obedient than the people in Bethel. Bears were not uncommon in Palestine in those days. The miracle here is that at that precise moment, at that very moment, here come two bears right out of the woods. These were the first bad news bears right here. What's amazing to me, they didn't touch Elisha. They they believed he was a prophet of the Lord. But they mold the 42 young men. That's amazing to me. And the youth from Bethel were having fun, they were having a fun time with Elijah. They probably thought what they were doing was hilarious. I mean if they were playing a game, the score was Bethel U 42, Elisha 1. But when these Bears got done, it was Bears 42, Bethel U 0. Now why bears? Why did God use bears to carry out this punishment? You know, God could have judged these young men in a number of ways. He could have He could have called down fire from heaven just like He did for Elijah. when those soldiers came to arrest him and they didn't respect his authority. God could have done it this a number of ways. Why two she bears? Well one of the curses described in Leviticus twenty-six as a judgment upon Israel because if Israel was to break God's covenant, is if Israel was to go into idolatry and not do what God uh agreed with them that they should do when they enter into that covenant. There's a list of curses that God said would take place upon Israel. And in Leviticus 26, 22 it says this, listen, and I will let loose the wild beasts against you. Which shall be review and make you few in number. I think it was one uh comment commentator that I read calls these covenant bears. They were sent by God because the people there had broken the covenant. And this was part of the covenant curse. Wild beasts bereaving them of children. And this is exactly what happened to the people of Bethel. Interesting, in the earlier story about the water of Jericho, the water is described as making the land unfruitful. Same word for bereaves as used in Leviticus 26, verse 22. When Elisha heals the waters, he declares that it will no longer cause miscarriage. And so this incident here at Bethel is a direct contrast between the bl the blessing and the healing given to Jericho. Jericho received blessing and healing But Bethel gets the opposite of the consequences. While Jericho gets the blessing, Bethel will get the curses. And part of those curses are the loss of children and the giving of offspring. Let me give you the third part of this story. We see the mocking of the man of God. We see the mauling of the young men. But here's number three. There's the message to the apostate nation. Now Elisha moves on in verse 25. He goes from thence to Mount Carmel and from thence he returned to Samaria. But what is the message of this story? Why, again, why is this here? This is a warning to the whole nation of Israel. Again, what you have here in verses 19 to verse 24 is this big contrast between these two cities Jericho that receives the blessing, Bethel receives the cursing. Jericho received God's servant, Bethel rejected God's servant. Jericho's children were saved from the poison of waters. The parents were saved from bereavement. Bethel's children were mauled and they were not protected by God. They were not saved by uh from bereavement. And so The mauling of the 42 youth of Bethel stood as a warning to the whole nation. It was God saying to the whole nation, This is what I will do to you if you do not repent of your idolatry. This is what I will do. Now, in the coming years, the prophet Hosea would denounce the continuing idolatry of the northern kingdom. It seems like the mauling of the forty-two children wasn't enough Because God would say through Hosea right after that, listen to what Hosea said, I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs. I will tear open their breasts, I will devour them like a lion, or as a wild beast would rip them open. And here God again is talking about judgment that is good that is going to come upon the northern nation of Israel because of their sickness, their wickedness, and their idolatry. And and this this literally happens. This this all takes place They are destroyed, they are scattered, they are taken into captivity by the Assyrians. And here's the next thing that we learn from this story, and the reason it's in here. And again, this is one of the major themes we see all through the book of Kings, and that is this: God's word always comes true. It always does. When Jericho it when Elijah Elijah spoke word the word of God about blessing, it came true When Elisha spoke the word of God about cursing, it again became true. Whether God's word brings deliverance or disaster, God's word will always come true. Always And that's another big message that God is sending through this whole story here. And let me just give you two uh two up principles of application and we'll be done tonight. Here's one way that we can apply you. Say, what does this mean to us? What does it mean to all of us? Well here's one thing. That you need to draw from this story. Those who have no fear of God are on dangerous ground. Right? Would you agree with that? Those who have no fear of God or on dangerous ground. And I would say this is a major problem with our younger generation today. With many of our youth. The Bible warns of generations of people who are a danger to themselves and the others in Proverbs 30 verse eleven. It says, There is a generation that curses their father and doth not bless their mother. There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet not washed from their filthiness. There is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes, and their eyelids lifted up. There is a generation whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men. The Bible characterizes, again, the wicked as those who have no fear of God. There's no fear of God before their eyes. And you know what? You need to disassociate with people like that. You need to get away from people like that. Because they're a danger to be around. You hear me, young people? Stay away from people who have no fear of God. Get away from them. The only thing worse than being mauled by bears is is is having friends who are fools. Who have no fear of the Lord. Listen to what Solomon said in Proverbs 17, verse 12. Let a man meet a she-bear robbed over cubs rather than a fool in his folly. As bad as it was for those young people to meet a she bear that was angry, it's worse to be around a fool in his folly, the Bible says. If you know someone that has no fear of God like that you need to saturate them with your absence. Just get away from 'em. You know, just the other day I heard uh on TV a commercial just this last week it was um It was a commercial by the son of the former president Ronald Reagan. It was Ron Jr. I don't know if you saw this commercial, but he was asking for donations for the Freedom from Religion Foundation. And in that commercial, he he said that he was an unabashed atheist, and that he was alarmed by the intrusion of religion into the secular government. And so he was asking for money so that he could they can use that money and the Freedom from Religion Foundation to correct that problem. And then he ended the commercial by saying, I'm Ron Reagan, lifelong atheist, not afraid of burning in hell. Exactly what he said. He has no idea the danger he's in. He has no idea the danger that he's in. If we want God's blessings as well as his protection, we better listen to the words of the psalmist who said, Blessed is the one who does not sit in the company of mockers. Get out of that company. Here's the second last thing. Number two, godly people will always be mocked by people of this world. You just need to accept that. Don't be surprised when it happens. It just happens. I mean to see this happening to Elijah shouldn't surprise us. The people of this world will always mock God's servants. They laughed at Joseph, they threw rocks at David. They ridiculed Jeremiah. In fact, the writer of Chronicles summed up the whole entire N Old Testament like this. Listen to what he said. Second Chronicles thirty-six, fifteen. The Lord, the God of their fathers, sent persistently to them by his messengers Because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. Verse 16, but they kept mocking the messengers of God. despising his words, scoffing at his prophets, until the wrath of the Lord rose against his people, until there was no remedy. That was his summation of the Old Testament. And all this mockery reached its peak in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because I want to tell you, beloved, no one was mocked any more than Jesus. Remember how they mocked him at his trial and crucifixion? Listen again to what Matthew says in Matthew 27. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And they stripped him and they put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together a crown of thorns they put it on his head, and they put a wreath in his right hand, and kneeling before him they mocked him, saying Hail, King of the Jews. And they spit on him, and they took the reed and struck it on his head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put on his own clothes on him, and led him away to be crucified And then later on, Matthew says the people that saw him as they passed by, they wagged their heads and they said, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. And all the chief priests and the scribes and the elders, they joined in. Verse 42, he saved others. He cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe him. They laughed. They thought it was hilarious. The bad boys of Bethel said to Elisha, go up. And here these ungodly people around the cross were saying to Jesus, come down. If you go up, we'll believe you're a real prophet. Here they're saying to Jesus, if you come down off the cross, we'll believe you're the Son of God. But all they were doing is they were mocking. And by the way, God heard all of that. He always does. He heard all of that. And they were immediately under God's curse. And let me just tell you, that's still true today. I I like with uh again I'm gonna quote Philip Riken here and we'll be done, but um he he he wrote something really good I liked. He said this He said to have mean-spirited fun at the expense of a little brother or sister is to come under God's curse. To demean a coworker is to become guilty of serious sin. To make a perjurative comment about another ethnic group or to make jokes about men and women on the margins of society is to mistreat people who are precious. And anyone who scorns someone made in the image and likeness of God deserves condemnation. And I say amen to that. But this is why Jesus had to die on the cross. He was dying for the very ones that were mocking him. He was dying for the very ones who had a curse on them. Jesus took all the curse of sin that others had, and he put it on himself, and the Bible says he became a curse that we might have a blessing. And I'm going to close this sermon. I just want to read another passage to you here. First Peter chapter 2, verse 22. Listen to this what Peter says, talking about Jesus. He committed no sin, neither was the sea found in his mouth This is all the time when Jesus is being abused and he's being mocked at his trial and crucifixion. What did Jesus do in return? He committed no sin, neither was the sea found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to him who judges righteously. He himself bore our own sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. The wounds that were created by the very ones who mocked him were the ones that caused your forgiveness of sin. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we uh again thank you for the Word of God and the things that it teaches us, and I pray, Lord, that you will um use this story here tonight, Lord, to instruct us about our own life. Lord help us to be like Elisha to not shrink back from the ungodly taunts of this world, but to simply stand. for truth, believing in the truthfulness and the trustworthiness of the Word of God. Lord help us to remember our Savior Jesus Christ. who was mocked like no other. An ungodly world still mocks him today. Lord Deliver us from any fear of the world. Help us, Lord, as believers, to be willing to take our stand with Jesus Christ. To not be afraid of the mocks and the taunting of the world. To not be victims of the fear that the world wants to instill in all of us. Help us to be courageous like Elisha was, Lord. to stand boldly, to turn and look at the world eyeball to eyeball and trust you and trust in your word just like he did. And we pray all this in Jesus' name, Amen.