Take your Bibles tonight, turn to the book of Revelation, please, chapter 2. We uh resume our study of Revelation. Um that we began before I was uh gone for just a few weeks and I'm excited about coming back to this. We come to chapter two in our study. And uh remember that the book of Revelation is the unveiling and manifestation of Jesus Christ in his full glory. When Jesus was on the earth, he was the glory of God in flesh. But he was that glory was veiled in his humanity. We did see glimpses of that glory in the life of Jesus. But in the book of Revelation, it is all about the full glory of Christ being made manifest. This is a book that was written by John, the same one who wrote the epistles and the Gospel of John. He wrote this from the Isle of Patmos. Look in verse number nine. Aye, John Chapter 1 verse 9, I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation and in the kingdom in patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos. for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Patnus was a small island southwest of Ephesus between Asia Minor and Greece. This was a a penal colony. They would send prisoners there on this place. And John was sent there as a prisoner following his pastorate that was there in Ephesus. And Victorinus, who is the first commentator on the book of Revelation, said that John was a prisoner there in the mines on that small island. And why was he there? Well the Bible tells us for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. In ninety-five A. D. is when we f we think uh I believe this was the date for the book of the of Revelation. This was written during the reign of Titus Flavius Domitian, who was on the emperor on the throne at Rome. And this was a time when he instituted emperor worship. He issued an edict that all people, every citizen of Rome, would burn incense and they would say the words Curios Kaiser, that is to say, Caesar is Lord. John refused to do that as many Christians did in that day. They would say, Christos, um curios, Jesus is Lord Um and because of that, because they refuse this emperor worship, many Christians were persecuted. And John was the leader of uh the church and so he was made an example. He refused to burn incense and Domitian, as tradition tells us, had him boiled in oil. But when John emerged from the oil, he emerged unheard. In fact, one writer says he looked refreshed just as if he had taken a hot bath. So Domitian at that point decided the best thing to do with him is to get rid of this guy, to send him to an island. as a prisoner called Patmos. And so it was while John was on the Isle of Patmos that he got a vision, look in verse 10. And I was in the spirit on the Lord's day. And heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what thou seest write in a book. And send it under the seven churches which are in Asia, under Ephesus, under Smyrna, under Pergamos, under Phiatira, under Sardis, under Philadelphia. and unto Leodicea. And so Jesus tells John to write down what he sees and send it to these churches. And so in verses 19 and 20 really is the outline, the natural outline of the book of Revelation. When Jesus tells him, Write the things which thou hast seen, that is the vision, John writes down this vision of Christ, and we saw we looked at this the last time, this vision of the glorified Christ. And then he says in verse 19, and the things which which are, that is the the letters to the seven churches, is chapter two and three, and then the things which shall be hereafter, that will be And chapter four, all the way into the end of the book of Revelation, the things that are going to happen yet in the future. And this part, what we want to see here is Jesus words to the churches, and we start with the church at Ephesus. Now remember that in this vision of the glorified Christ Jesus has seven stars in his right hand. We see that in verse 13. Look back up to chapter 1, verse 13. In the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man And um it says, clove with a garment down to the foot, girt about the paps or his chest with a golden girdle And also in verse 16, and he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. Now we looked at this and we said, the candlesticks represent the seven churches. The church has to be a light in a dark world. And the stars represent, I think, the leaders or the ministers of those churches. And Jesus is walking in the midst of these candlesticks. What is he doing? He's ministering I think this is a picture of Jesus ministering in his church. He come and he touches those who need a touch. He comforts those who need comfort You ever come to church and just need that comforting touch from the Lord and kind of sense that you get that just in public worship? There's something that takes place when the church comes together. And the Lord is among us. There's a beauty that a fellowship with Christ when He comes and ministers to our hearts in a very spiritual way. And we we sense this. This is what Jesus does. He ministers to his church when the church comes together. But also he's examining his church. The Bible says he has eyes as a flame of fire. there in verse number fourteen. Where it says his hair his head is hair and his hair were white like wool As white as snow, his eyes were as a flame of fire. This is the idea that Jesus looks beyond the surface. He knows everything that goes on in the church. He looks deeper than just what we see. We might see numbers, but Jesus looks Beyond that, he looks at our hearts. When Jesus looks at our church, what does he see? Now, there are some practical lessons we can learn from this. Again, we have to wonder what would Jesus say about us if he was to walk in our midst and he was to give us a report card just like he does these churches. What are some of the things he would tell us? What are some of the pitfalls and dangers we should be aware of? What are some of the sins that we must avoid? And so that we can learn practical lessons from these churches as we study them And these churches, by the way, remember, were churches that were being persecuted under the reign of Domitian. Why were they being persecuted? Well, they had a missionary zeal. They were out about with the gospel trying to win people to Christ. Every church should be doing that. We need to be busy sharing the gospel. But also these Christians, they d would worship Christ alone And again, their worship to Christ was exclusive. They would not burn incense to Caesar, and so therefore they were persecuted. They refused to bow down to idols. And they were thought to be cannibals. I told you this before, because of the Lord's Supper and because the world didn't understand that, they called 'em cannibals, and because of these things they were persecuted, they were looked down on, and yet they were faithful through that. So there's personal lessons we can learn, but also prophetic lessons. These churches have prophetic importance because really the um there are seven churches here, but I think that this really uh it speaks to all the churches of all the ages. One commentator said seven is the number of completion or totality and by choosing seven churches, Jesus is in effect saying, this is my message to the total church, to all of us. And so these letters to these churches have lessons for us in that way, but also personal lessons. Just as there are seven types of churches as we're going to look at. There's also seven, I think, seven types of church members. And as we study through these churches, we need to ask ourselves, what kind of a believer am I? What kind of church member am I? There are Ephesian-type church members There are Smyrna type church members, there are Pergamus type, and so on. So we need to examine our heart as we study this. So I want you to see three characteristics with that in mind of the church at Ephesus. If you're taking notes, here's the first one. Number one, notice the faithful works of this church. Look in verse 1 of chapter 2. Under the angel of the church at Ephesus, right. These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience. And so notice at first glance this church looks like a really good church. We would want to join in. There's no hint of compromising the church at Ephesus. Which would have been easy for them to do when you considered the city that they lived in. We'll talk about that. But Ephesus was a wicked place. But the very first words that Jesus gives to this church are words of commendation. He points out some good things Notice what he says, this is a serving church. I know thy works. This was a church that was active, that was busy. Paul started the church in the book of Acts. We could look at that. Acts 19 records the beginning of this church. And if you read that, that you notice that in Acts 19, verse 10, it says, All they who dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus. Both Jew and Greeks, this was the Paul's ministry there, and this was a great beginning. Verse eleven says, And God wrought special miracles by the hand of Paul. This church, when it began, saw miracles from God This place, this church in Ephesus. And as a result of that, there was a revival because the Bible says in Acts 19, 18, that many b believed And confessed, and so revival took place there, and this church began. Many repented It says in verse 19 of Acts 19, Many of those who used magic arts brought their books together and burned them before all men, and they counted the price of them and found that fifty thousand pieces of silver That was the worth of the books that were thrown into the fire when those people came to know Jesus. They repented of all that stuff, all that um black arts. and magic and they turned to the Lord. And then it says, so mightily grew the word of God. As a result of Paul's ministry in Ephesus, it became a center for evangelism. People were getting involved. They were serving. God was doing great things among them. Revival had come, had broken out. And Jesus commends them for this. I know thy works. I saw the things that you did. I saw the true repentance. I saw the evangelism that took place. I saw you getting rid of things in your life and and repenting from those old sins. I heard about an evangelist that went around having what he called quitting meetings. This is where people came and they repented and they quit doing the things that they used to do. There was one lady who came forward and they said, What do you want to quit doing? She says, Well, I haven't been doing anything and I want to quit that. I want to get busy. And sometimes we need to do that. We need to get involved. This church was serving. They were working. But then also it was a sacrificing church because again, look what it says, I know thy works and thy labor. The word labor kapas Toil, even to the point of exhaustion. And so these folks were not just serving, they were serving many hours. They were laboring to the point of exhaustion. You know, if you're ever really going to do anything for God, it's going to cost you. You're going to have to really work at it. You're going to have to really serve. This is the kind of toil that takes all of you. And you know what? As Christians, we're saved to serve our Lord. And sometimes it's going to cause us to be exhausted as a result of all the things that we do for the Lord. This was a serving church, but also it was a steadfast church. Look again in verse 2. I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience. And this is the Greek word hypomone, which means steadfast endurance. And it has the idea that you don't quit, even though things get difficult. Like good soldiers, they endured affliction. They didn't give up. They didn't quit. When things got tough, they just stayed faithful. There's a lot to be said for that. Because you'll know in the Christian life it's not always easy And there are times when you're going to get discouraged. There's times when you're going to want to quit. There's times when you're going to suffer for the name of Christ. There's times when you may even have to stand alone. But people need to continue on. They need to persevere through the difficulties, through the hard times. And this church has done that. The Lord commends them for their patience. They just stayed at it. And then also this was a separated church. Look again in verse number two. I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are what evil. This church remained pure in the midst of a very sinful city. Let me tell you a little bit about the city of Ephesus. This was the home of the temple of Diana, or also called Artemis Uh it was called one the this temple was one of the seven wonders of the world. People came from everywhere to worship at this temple. The city of Ephesus was a big city at that time. It was kind of like the New York of its day there in Asia Minor. And this temple, the temple of Diana, was a place where they worshiped this goddess. She was the goddess of fertility. She was the goddess of sex. And there was a hideous statue. I'm not even going to describe it to you. It's just so hideous that represented Diana. And this temple was filled with hundreds of temple prostitutes. And the way you worship Diana was in that way. It was just a wicked, wicked place. The temple also served as a bank. People would bring their possessions there to that temple for safekeeping. and so on. But it was a very, very wicked city because of this worship there. In fact, a Greek philosopher named Heracletus said this He said, quote, no one could live in Ephesus without weeping over the immorality which he must see on every side. End quote. This was a Greek philosopher. This wasn't a Christian who said that. This is a Greek philosopher, and he looks at it, and he says, this is such an immoral place that you can't help but weep when you see it. So this was a challenge to live in such an ungodly environment. But in the midst of all of this, this church would not compromise, they remained pure. They would not tolerate sin. And when it appeared they dealt with it. And they kept one another accountable. Again, where it says, How thou canst not bear them which are evil. They would not compromise with sin. They were careful to deal with it in their personal life and in the church But this was also a scripture-filled church. Notice again in verse number two where it says, And thou hast tried them, which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars. So here's a church that knows how to discern. They had biblical discernment. When someone would say, you know, I'm an apostle, I'm a messenger of God, the Ephesians wouldn't just believe that. They would examine it for themselves. False teachers came to Ephesus. And Paul spoke of that. He said that there would be grievous wills that would come, and this church knew how to stand against false teachers and false teaching. And they knew how to discern. In fact, one of the uh false teachings is mentioned. Go down, look at verse number six But this thou hast, in verse 6, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. This is a specific heresy that arose in that day. And this tells us they knew how to deal with it. And Jesus commends them on that. What were the Nicolaitans? Well the Nicolaitans were a group of heretics. They also became involved in the church at Pergamon. We'll see that later on. It was very possible that this heresy showed up in many places. And some scholars believe that this they can trace this heresy back to one of the deacons that was initiated in Acts chapter 6, a man by the name of Nicholas. He apostatized from the faith and became a heretic. And one writer says he pushed liberty to an extreme, and his sect was characterized by extreme indulgence and uncleanness. And so some people have said that Nicholas started this heresy. Others said that Nicholas made a statement that some people misinterpreted. and used it as a basis of their cult. However, Clement of Alexander, who lived at that time, said that the Nicolaitans, quote, abandoned themselves to pleasure like goats, leading a life of self-indulgence. They placed their liberty above God and they they lived uh a a a life uh we could call them anti-nomian as if there was no law or any principle. They lived Not according to the scripture, they perverted the grace of God. And yet the the Ephesians, they knew how to confront this. The Bible says they could not bear sin. They could not bear false doctrine. So this was a this was a scripture-filled church. They knew how to discern, they knew how to deal with sin. But also it was a strong church. Look at verse number three. And has borne and has patience, and for my name's sake, has labored. And has not fainted. And here Christ mentions again their endurance. They were strong. You born, he says. That is, they bore heavy burdens. Where did they get their strength? He says, for my name's sake. They did it for Christ's sake. They wanted to honor Christ. And so this is a good church. And all these things. We look at a church like this and say, wow, this is a church I want to be a part of. All these things that the Lord commends them. But I want you to see the second thing. Notice the fatal weakness of this church. Look at verse 4. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee. Wow. I never want the Lord to ever say that about me. You know, you've done good in these areas, but Jerry, I have something against you. And here Jesus gives These words to this church. On the surface everything looked great, but again, Jesus sees deeper than the surface. Man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. And so I want you to see the Lord's disappointment here when he says, I have something against you. Can you imagine the shock and fear of perhaps some of the people in this church when they heard this? The Lord saying, I have something against you. And notice the Lord's diagnosis. What was it? Look again in verse 4. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. Jesus tells them simply that they do not love him as they should. They do not love him as they once did. Their love for Christ had grown cold. They were becoming mechanical in their worship, mechanical in their Christian life. They loved their church. And by the way, you should love your church. Nothing wrong with loving your church. But loving your church is not a replacement for loving Christ And you should love the truth, you should love orthodoxy, you should hate false doctrine, all of that is good, but again, none of that is a substitute for loving Christ. They love their work. They love doing work. They got lost in their work. They had a passion for it. They served hard. They labored hard. But again, none of that is a substitute for loving Jesus Christ. They were busy, but their hearts no longer burned for Christ. There's no substitute for that. Their ministry grew to be a substitute for Christ in their life. The one thing that Christ wants from his church more than anything else is that we love him supremely. That he's number one. Remember when Jesus was restoring Peter after he failed? Remember the question asked, Peter, do you love me? Three times, Peter, do you love me? Because that's the major issue. The major issue in your Christian life is: do you love Christ? Do you love Jesus? Service to him should be a result of our worship. Not a replacement for it. We serve Christ because we worship him. We serve Christ because we love him. But here, Jesus said of this church, you have left your first love. And what that means, first love, is Christ is to be first on the list. He is to be preeminent in our life. We love Him above all things. We don't put anything in front of Christ. Nothing. Our love and passion for him is number one. In fact, Jesus said this: if you want to be my disciple, you have to love me above all. Remember in Luke fourteen, twenty-six, Jesus said, If any man will come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, and yea, his own life, he cannot be my disciple That's one of those difficult verses in the New Testament when you read it, because you read it and you say, Does the Lord want me to hate my family? Does he want me to hate my father and mother and wife and children. Is that really what he means here? But what Jesus was using here is he was using he was getting across the point that he needed to be number one and he was in a way using the device called hyperbole. And yet what he was saying is that the love that you have for me should be so great that all of the other loves in your life, in comparison, looks like hatred in comparison. You ever drive down the highway and someone pass you by real fast? And you what do you say? They pass me like I was standing still. Right? Now you weren't standing still. You were like a good Christian like me, you do the speed limit, right? Don't a speed limit if someone just who comes by. They passed me like I was standing still. But I wasn't standing still. I was moving. And there's a sense in which Jesus is saying, look, your love for me ought to be so great. That all of the other loves looks like it's standing still compared to the love that you have for me. And so Do we have that kind of love? When you love Christ, he must be first, he must be foremost. And if you your love for Christ fails, then really any everything else around you really doesn't matter. It doesn't really matter. You won't love others the way you should. You won't serve the way you should. You'll go through the motions of that. But that's not what the Lord wants. Spurgeon, one of my favorite preachers, said this. He said, I cannot bear it that we should love Jesus a little. It seems to me horrible. Not to have your heart all on fire for Christ. This is inexcusable. Let us love him to the uttermost. Let us ask him to give us large hearts and to fire them with the flame that is in his that is his own, that we may love him to the utmost possibility of affection So do we have that kind of love? Are we serving the Lord because of our love for Him? The missionary Jim Elliott, you may know his story, how he was martyred by the Alka Indians while trying to bring them the gospel. And one day, years before he went to be a missionary, he was reading his Bible, and he came to the passage in Hebrews that said this: He maketh his ministers a flame of fire. And then he wrote this in his journal. Am I ignitable? Am I ignitable God deliver me from the dreaded asbestos of other things. Saturate me with the oil of thy spirit, that I may be a flame. Make me thy fuel, O flame of God. And what he was talking about there was a fuel and a flame of love for Christ. And that's what we need. Is that a flame of your love for Christ, or is your that flame of love for Christ that you have burning, or has it been put out by other things. So notice what I call the final warning to this church. We see the faith the faithful works of this church. And then the fatal weakness of this church, but notice the final warning. So Jesus speaks to them. Look at verse 5. Remember Therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. Wow, the Lord tells them, renew your love, get back to where you were, and if you don't, I'll have no more use for you. That's an incredible thing Here's this church so busy doing all these things, and yet the Lord says none of that means anything. If you don't have me in the proper place, if you don't love me the way you should, I'm going to remove you, your candlestick. It'll all be for nothing. And so the first thing he tells them is, remember. Remember what it was like when you first learned of Christ Do you remember that? Remember when you just couldn't get enough of scripture, you couldn't get enough of prayer, you couldn't get enough of worship in the church and fellowship? Remember what it was like before you started going through the motions And you lost that first love, you're to remember that. Think about it. And then he says, repent. Turn from your coldness. Turn away from your passionless worship. Your mechanical prayers, your careless service. You need to turn away from that. Stop just going through the motions. Repent. Sometimes our worship is a sin in the sight of God. Sometimes the way we sing with a lack of passion and a lack of thought in the words that we are singing. It's a sin in the sight of God because our hearts are not in it. We've left our first love. Let me give you a few signs that you've left your first love. This isn't original with me. This is uh Really from the um from Bill Gothard, a few points here that I think are good. Number one, he's when you delight in some someone else more than you delight in the Lord, you've left your first love. The Bible says we're to love the Lord with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our might. Number two, when your soul does not long for times of rich fellowship in God's word or prayer, you have left your first love. Your relationship with God demands that you spend time with Him in prayer, in communion with prayer, and in the Word of God. And if you've left that off, you've left your first love. Number three, he says, your thoughts and leisure moments do not honor the Lord. When your thoughts and those leisure moments don't honor the Lord, you have probably left your first love. And number four, he says: when you make excuses for doing things that displease the Lord, claiming only to be human, you've left your first love. There's no excuse for disobeying the Lord. Number five, it says when you do not willingly and cheerfully give to God's work or to the needs of others, because the Bible says that whoever sees Or whoever has this world's good and sees his brother have need, and he sets up his bows of compassion from him, how dwells the love of God in him? And so ask yourself according to this, have you left your first love? Have you become complacent in your own life? Here's the next thing the Lord says, remember, repent, and then we could say repeat. Look again in verse number five. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen and repent and do the first works. Or else I will come unto thee quickly and will remove thy candlestick out of this place. He says, go back and do what you did at the beginning. Go back and do what you did when you first came to know the Lord. Study God's word with that same passion. Pray in the same way. Go back to that, to what you once were, or else I'm going to remove your candlestick. I'm just going to get rid of it. You know, when I change the light bulb, I don't I don't keep the old light bulb. I throw it away. It no longer has any usefulness. It's no longer burning. It can no longer do the thing for which it was created. And the church, when it doesn't love Christ the way it should, is no longer useful to Christ And so he says, I don't need this you anymore. I don't need this church anymore. And you're no longer fulfilling the purpose. And did you know that if you go to Ephesus today, there's no church there in Ephesus? It's gone. But then notice what the Lord says. His reward. Notice what he says in verse number seven. He that hath an ear. Let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. And to him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God. And so here the Lord promises a reward. When you repent, when you repeat, you go back to do the first works, the Lord says, I will reward you. And Jesus in this verse here promises a wonderful reward. Notice where he says, I will allow you to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. Now what does he mean by that? I've read a lot of different commentaries on this, but let me tell you what I think he's talking about here. I think this is a reference to that great big temple that was there in Ephesus. Again, it was called one of the seven wonders of the world. People would come just to that temple And in that temple there at Ephesus, this temple to the to the god Artemis or Artemis, the goddess Diana, the goddess of fertility and life. If you were to go into that temple back in that day and you walked into the courtyard, what you would see there, you would see a gigantic tree that was right there in the courtyard, and it was called the Tree of Life. And the tree that was there was a symbol of the goddess Diana in the sense that that tree stood for fertility, it stood for fruitfulness. And people would go to that temple, they would go to the courtyard, and they would just touch that tree. Women hoping to get pregnant would come and they would touch that tree, hoping that that would cause them to be fruitful. People that wanted health. that were perhaps sick would go into that temple courtyard and they would touch that tree. Or people who wanted life and more abundance. would go there and they would lay hands on that tree and they would touch it. And so for the people at Ephesus, this tree was a source of hope. This tree was a source of fullness of life for them that was there. Now of course Christians didn't participate in that, right? Christians wouldn't do that. They wouldn't do this ritual in that temple to a false goddess. And so if you were a Christian living in Ephesus at that time, perhaps it would be easy for you to feel cheated somehow and left out of that whole ritual, that opportunity of touching the tree of life, but Jesus gives them a promise. Jesus says to them th this, look, if you repent And you get back to doing the first works, and you stay faithful to me, and you love me, and you keep me first in your life. Then in the end, you know what I'm going to give you? I'm going to give you a tree of life. And I'm going to give you this tree, this the tree of eternal life. Notice what he says again in verse 7, to him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God. What does that mean? Do you know that emperors in this day had palatial gardens? And you know what they called them? They called them their paradisos. These palatial gardens were where they would invite and entertain honored guests. If you got invited to the Emperor's Paradiso, to this garden This was a special honor, a special treat. Most citizens would never ever get this honor. They would never get to go to this Faradiso. Let alone Christians. Christians were hated. No Christian would ever go into the emperor's paradise, so to speak. So think about the imagery here that the Lord is giving. These emperors, they persecuted Christians. They marginalize them. But Jesus again makes a promise to this church, to the people, and he basically says, Look, if you stay faithful to me, not only will you be able to have access to the tree. of life, but it will be access to the tree of life in the midst of the paradise of God. And what is Jesus saying? That you will be my honored guest, and I will bring you into the paradise of God. And you'll have access to the tree of life, that very tree of life and the very paradise of God. And so you kind of see this kind of language in all of the seven churches. At the end where the Lord says if you'll repent and you'll be faithful, if it's normally a church that needs to repent in some area, the Lord makes the some great promise to them And it normally aligns with something that was going on that was characteristic of the city in that day. And the Lord was saying, basically in a s in essence what he was saying is this That whatever rewards that this world offers you, I promise you what I give you is going to be so much better. It's going to be so superior. Whatever this world offers is no comparison to the reward that God offers. And so here is an incredible promise that God gives to the church at Ephesus. He says, if you've left your first love, turn back to me, remember, repent. Repeat, do the first works. And if you do that, I have great rewards for you. And I have great blessings to give you if you'll do that. And so as we look at this church, we have to examine our own heart and we have to ask ourselves the question: Has this happened to me? You know, it can happen very easily. We can get so busy that our hearts grow cold. This is something that we have to watch over. We have to guard our hearts constantly to make sure that our love for Christ is the supreme thing, that all we do, we do out of love for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so examine your heart in light of what we've read here tonight. Is this you? Have you left your first love? Would you bow your heads with me tonight in prayer? And with heads bowed and eyes closed, could I just ask you to examine your own heart and ask yourself, Lord, have I, is this me? Have I left my first love? You may be very busy serving You may be very discerning in dealing with false doctrine. You may be very orthodox in your faith. But none of that is a substitute for love for Christ. None of it. And has the love for Christ in your heart. Grown cold. Have you left off prayer? Have you left off the word of God? Is Christ the biggest factor in your life? Just take a moment and ask yourself that. And if that's you, would you just right there, would you just say, Lord, forgive me. Forgive me for putting things ahead of you. Forgive me for just going through the motions. And renew my my passion, my love for you. Cleanse me, Lord. I can't even repent unless you help me, Lord. Help me to get back to where I need to be in my heart. And again, Jesus says, if you do this, if you repent, I'll give you access to the tree of life in the paradise of God. And that means eternal life. The moment you receive Jesus Christ, you have eternal life, and God gives you access to his paradise. And if you don't know the Lord, would you right now say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I I need you. Please, Lord, come into my heart, save me, make me your child. If you're not absolutely certain of your salvation, would you just pray that. Lord, I want to know you Cleanse me and forgive me. And friend, if you want Christ, if you want forgiveness, he will forgive you. The Bible says, him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. If you're thirsty, just come. He's the fountain of life. Father, bless again these words, this challenge. To our hearts tonight, Lord, may we examine our hearts to know that, Lord, you are first place in our life. And if that's not been the case, Lord, we repent We turn from that coldness and ask you to renew our love and our passion, and may we keep you first in all things. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.