It's good to see you here tonight. And I invite you to take your Bibles now and open to the book of Romans, chapter three, as we continue our study in this uh great uh letter that Paul wrote to the Romans. And tonight we're going to be looking at chapter 3. And I want to talk about the title of the sermon is Every Mouth Stopped. Or every man sinned. This is what Paul is going to show is that all men are under sin. And this is really going to deal with the doctrine of depravity here in Romans chapter 3. Now just to kind of give you a little bit of insight of what we have been doing, in Romans chapter 1, Paul basically proved the guilt of uh the pagan Gentile. And then in chapter two he proved the guilt of the self-righteous moralist, the person who might think that uh they do s they do good and that therefore their goodness can be acceptable to God And Paul proves their guilty. And then in the second part of chapter two, Paul proved the guilt of the Jew. And from chapter two, verses seventeen down to verse number twenty-four. But Paul knows the mindset of the Jewish religious person, and he knows that they're not going to go away easily And so in chapter 3, he kind of anticipates their arguments. Remember, I told you that the form of writing that Paul is using here in Romans is the diatribe form of writing. That's where Paul imagines an opponent. an imagin an imaginary opponent and he anticipates their arguments uh what those arguments are going to be and then he very logically dismantles every one of those arguments. Now the Apostle Paul knew the Jewish mind like nobody else did. And he he speaks from experience, I'm sure. You remember as you read through the book of Acts That when Paul went into a town, the first place he would go i is to a Jewish synagogue, and then he would reason with them, the Bible says out of out of the scripture. Reason there is where we get our word dialogue. And so you get the impression that Paul would teach a little bit, he would allow them to ask him qu him questions, and then he would answer their questions. And so I think that even though the Book of Acts doesn't give us a lot of details of some of the questions that were asked, I think that we can probably look here in Romans chapter three and get an idea of some of the major questions or arguments that were used by Jewish Orthodox Jews who believe themselves to be accepted by God when Paul's trying to prove that all of us are sinners before the Lord. James Montgomery Boyce wrote this in of this passage. He said Paul seems to have to have hearing in his mind the questions that sharp Jewish opponents had thrown at him over the years. And these are objections that Paul again, no doubt, heard many times. Now here's the bottom line. No man likes to be called a sinner. If you don't believe me, go out and just try doing that. Go out on uh evangelism and then go through the plan of salvation and then Talk about all of people being sinners. We're all sinners before God. There's nothing good in the sight of God for any of us that could make us acceptable to God. No one likes to be told that That's very offensive. Donald Gray Barnhouse tells of a conversation he had with a man, and uh he talked about the man's need for God and his sinfulness, and the man said, you know, I would have become a Christian if it weren't for that doctrine uh of being totally depraved, of being sinful. Well, if you're not totally sinful, you may not need a Savior if you're acceptable to God in your own works. But it's the sinfulness of men That help us to realize that we need the mercy of God. We need salvation. And before anyone will come to the Lord Jesus Christ, they have to understand their sinfulness in the eyes of God. And so Paul is going to argue these issues, and really the conclusion, look at verse 19, we'll kind of look ahead. Look in chapter 3, verse 19. Now we know that what so things soever the law saith It saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. And this is really the bottom line here. Paul will prove the guilt of all humanity before a holy God. But as he does that, what he's going to do is he's going to handle objections from this imaginary opponent. So I want you to notice four important objections that Paul will answer in this uh in this passage. Objection number one, what advantage is there in being a Jew? Look in chapter three, verse one. What advantage then hath a Jew, or what profit is there of circumcision? Now Paul has just argued that being a Jew and having all the privileges that come with it don't guarantee entrance into salvation. Just because you have gone through the ritual of circumcision is no guarantee of eternal life and of heaven, the Jews taught. that Abraham sits at the gate of uh of hell to make sure that no Jew will enter in, uh, those who have gone through the ritual of circumcision. And so they thought that that was a guarantee of salvation. And Paul proved in chapter two that that's not true. And so the next question then: if this is not true, then what value is there in being a Jew? What advantage is there to being Jewish? That would be the objection. We can apply it to ourselves like this. What advantage is it of growing up in a Christian home, of having a Christian heritage? of having Christian parents. What what advantage is it to be raised in a religious environment? Again, quoting Boyce here, he said, do any religious people have an edge? If we do not, then why bother with religion at all? Let's enjoy ourselves and sin right along with the heathen. That's the kind of the mindset. That's the question here. How does Paul answer that? Well look in verse 2 The answer is, what advantage is there, verse two? Much in every way, chiefly because unto them were committed the oracles of God And first Paul says there are many advantages of being a Jew, many privileges that come with this heritage. And later on in chapter 9, Paul will get even more specific. Why don't you fast forward with me? Hold your place here in Romans 3. Go to chapter 9, and Paul will just list these things, these advantages of being Jewish here Look in chapter 9, we'll actually start in verse 3, for I could wish myself were curse from from Christ, for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Verse four Who are the Israelites to whom pertaineth the adoption and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service of God and the promises who are the fathers and of whom is concerning the flesh Christ came, who is overall, God blessed forever. And so Paul kind of makes a list of the advantages right there, adoption of sons They were God's special family, the divine glory, they were recipients of the glory of God. They got to see God's glory, the covenants He's referring to the covenant with Abraham and Moses and David and so on. The receiving of the law, they were the ones that the law came through, they received it. Temple worship, the promises, the fathers, which is a reference to the patriarch And the human ancestry of Jesus. Jesus Christ the Savior was a Jew. He came through Abraham's seed. These are all great privileges. Wonderful things. But go back to chapter 3 verse 2, but he says, here Paulus points to one big thing. He said much in every way, chiefly, because That unto them were committed the oracles of God. The word oracles is logia, that is the word of God. They were entrusted with the word of God. Man, what a great blessing. To be entrusted with God's very words, is there any greater advantage or blessing than to be given the very words themselves? What a great blessing! What an immense responsibility to be given the word of God. And and to ponder that, we who were in the Engl English speaking world, God chose to uh preserve his word, uh uh and to pass on his word through the English speaking world and then out onto other languages. But You know, we have a privilege as well because we have been given the inspired and preserved Word of God. Do you realize that there are still uh over 2,600 people groups or languages that don't have the Word of God in the world today? And yet God has blessed us so much with giving us the Bible in the English language in so many different translations. William Cooper wrote this and they only, amongst all mankind, received the transcript of the eternal mind, were trusted with his own engraven laws, and constituted guardians of his cause Theirs were the prophets, theirs the priestly call, and theirs by birth the Savior of us all. And so what a tremendous privilege. So Paul answers that. What's the second objection? Number two, doesn't Jewish unbelief cancel God's word? Look at verse 3. For what if some did not believe? Shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect? In other words, man's word is unreliable. By nature, men are promise breakers. Not too long ago there was this movement called Promise Keepers. Hate to tell you, men are promise breakers by nature. And so the question then is, um, we could ask it like this, does man's untrustworthiness to his word Make God untrustworthy to his word. Do we project on the character of God our sinfulness? Or we could think of it like this Does God ever say to man, since you don't keep your word with me, I'm not going to keep my word with you? Does God ever say that? And the answer to that is no. Look at Paul's response. God forbid, yea, let God be true, but every man God will be true to his word no matter how unfaithful and untrustworthy man is to man's word. God will keep his word And the word God forbid here, this is a illustration of dynamic equivalence, uh the gre this is the strongest negative in the Greek. And so when the translators of the King James Version came to this this uh expression, they they kind of gave the equivalent, they gave the strongest negative in the English language that they knew Which is God forbid. May it never be. God forbid. God is always faithful to his word. And look in verse 4, because Paul quotes, as it is written That thou mayest be justified in thy sayings and mightest overcome when thou art judged. He's quoting here from Psalm fifty-one, where King David openly admitted his sin And God's righteousness in judging him. And David, by admitting his sin, declared the righteousness of God, that God is true to his word. All of God's r uh judgments are in righteousness. God has always proven to be true. So, Paul answers that objection. Objection number three. And we only have four tonight. You guys are doing well, you might get out early. Probably not. Objection number three. Why why not sin and glorify God all the more? Look at verse five. But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? I speak as a man. In other words, there were some who argued that by sinning we were actually doing God a favor. Why would someone reason that way? Oh, by sinning we do God a favor. They this was their argument. God's righteousness was put on display by our sin. That is just like you know you put a diamond on a black velvet setting and Really shows the beauty and sparkle of the diamond. The black velvet setting is our unrighteousness. The beautiful diamond is the righteousness of God. And so our unrighteousness makes God's righteousness all the more beautiful, all the more clear. And so, really, by sinning, aren't we doing God a favor when we sin? After all, our sin serves to make his glory shine all the brighter Well notice verse 7, where Paul says, uh well first of all he says in verse 6, um, God forbid. For how then shall God judge the world? But but in verse 7 it says, For if the truth of God hath more abound through my light unto his glory Why am I yet also judged as a sinner? In other words, one can only truly understand the righteousness of God when you compare it to man's unrighteousness And so God therefore is not righteous to judge me because my sin is doing him a service and it reveals his righteousness and glory And so Paul's answer to that again is in verse 6, he gives the strongest negative, God forbid, for how can God then judge the world? If one followed this logic, that means God would have to pass out rewards to men who sinned, not punishment. Can you imagine standing at the judgment seat and God saying, Oh, you were a really big sinner But you know what? You did me a really big favor, because all of your sin only made my righteousness shine all the more. So instead of punishing you, I'm going to give you a nice reward here. Can you imagine God doing that? That could never happen. Here's Judas getting ready to be judged. Judas, you get the biggest reward Because you betrayed the Son of God. If it weren't for your sin, uh Jesus wouldn't have been crucified. And so by your sinfulness and unrighteousness You actually helped out the world, you helped me out, and so I'm going to give you a reward. And of course that whole line of thinking is ridiculous, but that's what Paul is saying here Uh he's arguing that, for if the if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory, why am I yet also judged of the sinner? That's again the argument that he's giving that they give. And Paul again says, you know, that just uh that's just ridiculous, that whole thing. Um and so God Is a righteous judge. And he will judge sin. And so you can't follow that line of reasoning, that logic there. And so look at verse number eight. And and and not rather as we were slanderously reported, as some affirm that we say, let us do evil In other words, there were some of Paul's Jewish enemies that were reporting that Paul was actually encouraging people to sin by preaching salvation by grace. I mean that whole message of salvation by grace, and once you're saved, you're always saved. I mean, Paul's really encouraging people to sin by this message of grace. And by the way, later on Paul will deal with that more thoroughly in Romans chapter six. But what does Paul say here? Basically at the end of verse 8 he says, Whose damnation is just? This statement is so contrary to all reason in Scripture that Paul simply dismisses it and says, People who argue this People who say I say this, who use this line of logic and reasoning, their damnation is just. This whole thing is ridiculous, this whole line of reasoning. So objection number four. Isn't the Jew better than the Gentile? Look in chapter 3. Look at verse number 9. What then? Are we better than they? And the answer, no, and no wise, for we have before proved, both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin. The word before proved Some translate this already charged. It's the Greek word pro Timeo, which is a legal term to indicate a person who's already been indicted for a given offense. And Paul said it's already been proven that all are under sin. The Jews are not better than the Gentiles. We all are in one category. We are all sinners. It's we've already all been determined to be sinners. The word under hoopo to be totally under the power or the authority or the control of someone or something, mankind in his natural state is under the power of sin. That's the bottom line, that's the point. And this is what we call what theologians call the doctrine of total depravity And then what Paul will do from verses 9 down to verse 19 is clearly teach on this idea of the doctrine of total depravity. All mankind is under sin. All mankind is guilty before God. Now, I think that The doctrine of sin and the doctrine of total depravity to me is one of the most important doctrines for people to understand. And I've said this before. And why? Because if you don't understand the problem, you're not going to understand the solution. If man doesn't understand his position in standing before God, he will never seek God in salvation. You know, a doctor's most important responsibility is to make the correct diagnosis of an illness. And if a doctor doesn't do that right then whatever medicine that he gives could be fatal. If the diagnosis isn't correct, then the medicine isn't going to be correct. And many times we read a tragic story where uh there was a misdiagnosis and there was fatal consequences as a result of that. In fact Uh there was an article that I read in the New York Times and it was called Why Doctors So Often Get It Wrong. And this article gave the story of a four-year-old boy who was misdiagnosed and the doctor gave him chemotherapy, which he should not have done. Which almost killed the boy. And then it also gives the story of a little girl named Isabel who was diagnosed with chicken pox. Only when her organs began shutting down did the doctors realize that she had a potentially fatal Flesh eating bacteria infection. And and so Isabel's father through that whole ordeal was so shaken that he began a uh a foundation, a company that was uh given to uh helping to make correct diagnosis and to fight misdiagnosis. And you know, uh the article went on to say, with all the tools available to modern medicine, blood tests, MRIs, and so on, doctors still get it wrong. You might think that misdiagnosis is a rare thing, but it's not And it it went on to say that really nothing has changed since the nineteen thirties. That's kinda hard to believe. There's been no improvement on d misdiagnosis. Twenty percent of people who die die because of misdiagnosis. And the article went on to say there's a crisis, there's a medical crisis where doctors are not getting the diagnosis correct What I would just say this, there's a bigger crisis in the spiritual realm, where that in uh there are many preachers that are not preaching the word of God, and they're saying that man caught man's problem is something other than what the scripture says What's the biggest problem with man? The problem with man is sin and that he's depraved. And this is what the top this is what total depravity teaches. This is man's problem. And so what is the doctrine of total depravity? It is the teaching that every part of our being is affected by sin. Our intellect, our emotions, our desires, our hearts. our our goals, our motives, everything, every part of us is tainted and affected by sin. Paul said this, I know that Wh which nothing in me is good. There's no good thing that dwells in me. Every part of man is corrupt. Every member of Adam's race is born utterly depraved, alienated, fallen from God. In Romans 6, Paul calls this slavery to sin. Man is a slave to sin. Colossians 1 21, man is said to be alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. And so what Paul does is uh again he he he describes this. Look again in verse number What then are we better than they? No, and no wise, for we have been proved before Jews and Gentiles that all are under sin. Look at verse 10 As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. So first of all, Paul speaks about the corrupt heart. There's none righteous. No, not one. Now again, there's some misunderstanding about this idea of total depravity. For example, someone will say, You know, you mean that man is incapable of good deeds or righteous deeds? And they'll say something like this, I see people doing good things all the time. I see men doing righteous deeds all the time. Man doing good to his fellow man. And how can you say then that man is incapable of doing good? Well, again, this is where there's a misunderstanding. First, let me tell you what the doctrine of total depravity does not mean. Total depravity does not mean that all sinners are always as bad as they could possibly be. That's not what it's teaching. It does not mean that every unbeliever will live out their depravity to the fullest measure. It doesn't mean that all non-Christians are morally equal to brute beasts or serial killers. It does not mean that unconverted people are incapable of acts of kindness or goodwill towards fellow humans. Even Jesus said this during his earthly ministry. Listen to what he said in Luke 6. 33. He said, If you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same So here Jesus is saying, yeah, it's possible for man to do good to others. Of course sinners can do good to others. But but here's the point. And the reason for that is that even though man has fallen and he now has a sin nature, he still was created in the image of God. And we still see vestiges of the image of God even in fallen humanity. Again, the illustration was used by Barnhouse is that he he talks about a pure mountain stream. Here's a stream that comes right out of the mountain and it's crystal clear and it's pure And as the stream flows down through the valley, it goes this stream goes through towns, and one town dumps all of its waste and sewage into that stream and it continues to flow to another town where they also dump all of their sewage into the stream and continues to flow down through several towns. And by the time the stream gets down to the bottom through the valley At the end, the stream is nothing like it was when it first came out of the mountain. It's no longer pure. But you know what? If you take some of that water and study it, you'll find that there are vestiges of the purity of that stream still in that water. Even though it's corrupt, even though it's no good, it is still a reflection of the purity when it originally began. And that's the way it is with man. Man was created in the image of God That means mankind still has some of that moral the moral aspects of the image of God. Man has a sense of right and wrong, a standard. God put that moral standard inside of man. Even those who don't know the Lord still have moral standards That's part of the image of God. There's a spiritual aspect to that. Man is a spiritual creature. He wants to worship. He desires a spiritual relationship. And by the way, this is what separates us from the animals. The fact that man has a desire to worship and a desire to pray. You never uh find animals praying. You'll never see uh an animal spending time in intercessory prayer praying for a lost relative. I never walked in and caught my dog praying for me, even though I pray for that dog a lot. Uh that's what separates us from the animals. And then also the mental aspects. We have the ability to reason, we have the ability to think. Again, that sets us apart from the animal world. There's no such thing as the history of canine philosophy. Monkeys don't sit around and talk about philosophy or theology or debate those things. But man has the ability to reason. And then we reflect the image of God in our relational aspects. There's a desire to have a close personal relationship But here's the point, and there's more that we can say about the image of God. But when man fell, all of those things were distorted. All of those things became tainted with sin. The moral purity was lost when man sinned. And his character now doesn't reflect the holiness of God. His intellect was corrupted, his emotions became depraved and unstable. Every part of man's being has been tainted and corrupted by sin. In short, God, it says in Ecclesiastes 7:29, God made man upright, but man has sought out many devices or many inventions. And so man, every part of man Has spoiled, has been touched by sin, and therefore the image of God has been spoiled in every man. And so even non-Christians are capable at times of rising up to the heights of human goodness. They're capable of honesty and decency, capable of excellence. And so the word total depravity does it refers to the extent of our sinfulness, but not to the degree by which we manifest it. Man is completely holy, corrupted by sin, but we don't always see the full measure of that manifestation. And there are still vestiges of the image of God in there. Sin has contaminated every aspect of our being. And so total depravity does not mean that there's no good in man, but that here's the key, but that there's no good in man that can satisfy God. That's the point. That any of those all any of that goodness that man uses towards one another, that doesn't settle your account with God. That doesn't satisfy God. From God's point of view, all men are unrighteous. There's no righteousness that satisfies God. That's the point. All the good works that people can do, that doesn't register in heaven with God. The illustration I like to use is monopoly money. Have you all ever played Monopoly? You good at it? You beat your kids, you you you get all that money. Let me let me ask you a question. Have you ever tried to deposit that money in your bank? You know what would happen if you did that. Can you imagine filling out a deposit slip, taking all this monopoly money, go to the bank, give it to the teller? And say, I want to deposit this one hundred thousand dollars into my account. I I earned it. I did it honestly. I beat all of my children in Monopoly. And you see what she says? What she'll do is she'll hit the buzzer and call for security and have you carried out. You say why? Well because Monopoly money is okay in the game of monopoly. You can use it there, but you can't use it in a real bank. And all of man's righteousness is like monopoly money. It doesn't spend in God's account. God says that's that doesn't mean anything to me. I'm not saying that you can't be good to each other, but none of that righteousness, none of that goodness Spends in God's account. None of that righteousness adds up with God. Why? Because man is completely, totally depraved. And depravity corrupts even the highest forms of goodness in man. It was George Whitfield that said that God could damn us for the very best prayer we ever put up. That even in the very best prayer that we ever prayed, there's enough sinfulness even in that where God could damn us. John Bunyan said something similar. He said he thought that the the the best prayer he ever prayed still had enough sin in it to damn the whole world. And so it must be remembered that the Jews of Paul's day, especially the Pharisees, refused to recognize this bankruptcy. in their own hearts. And so Paul spells it all out. And that's why he he he's very clear here in the rest of chapter three. So we see the corrupt heart, there's none righteous, we see the carnal mind There is none that understands. Look again in verse number ten. There as is written, There is none righteous, no not one. Verse eleven There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeks after God And so, first of all, he says there's none that understands. Lost man is incapable to recognize divine truth. He's not talking about a lack of knowledge. He's not talking about a low IQ or anything like that. He's just talking about spiritual perception. And a lost person, although they can be very smart and understand a lot of facts, spiritually the light is not going to come on for those who are lost. Because God's truth, God's wisdom, is spiritually perceived, spiritually understood. And depravity affects the mind, it darkens the mind. It blinds the eyes to where man cannot understand. Paul said the world through wisdom knew not God In first Corinthians two fourteen, he said the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto them, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned Sometimes I hear people say, Well, you know, I found God. Actually, uh, you wouldn't know where to look for Him. You didn't find God, God found you. Because you didn't have enough understanding to know how to find God. And Paul said this in Ephesians 4. 18. The understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. We in and of ourselves, without the help of God, we wouldn't even know where to look Because of depravity. And so we see then that we see the corrupt heart, there's none righteous, we see the carnal mind, there's none who understands. We see the captive will, there's none that seeks after God in verse number eleven. And Paul's quoting here from an Old Testament passage, Psalm 14. And he's stringing together one Old Testament passage after another. To prove his indictment of mankind. Paul says, there is none that seek after God. And where is he quoting from here? Psalm 14. Why don't you turn there for a minute? You want to do that? Turn to Psalm 14 real quick. Let me just look at this with you. Psalm 14. Because this is what Paul's referring to. Verse 1, Psalm 14, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. Notice that there is this halicizer. We can say it like this. The fool has said in his heart, Ain out of lie, no God. It's kind of a stubborn resistance. No God, I don't want you. I don't want you interfering in my life. Remember in Romans 1 where Paul says man holds the truth or he's holding back the truth? I think Psalm 14:1 is an expression of that. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none that doeth good. Look at verse 2. The Lord looked down from heaven. You ever wonder what God would see if he looked down through the telescope of time and he looked on all of humanity? God's looking ahead. at all humanity through time. This is what's being described here in verse 2. The Lord looked down from heaven upon, and the Hebrew reads here literally, Bene, Habene Adam, all the sons of Adam. So what's God doing? He's looking through time, he's looking down through history, and who's he looking at? All the sons of Adam. To see what's he looking for? If there were any that did understand and seek God. God's looking down through time and he's looking at man and he's wondering is there any that seeks him? Any that's seeking after him? Any that really understands? And what's the conclusion? Verse 3, they're all gone aside They're altogether become filthy. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Does God see anybody seeking him? No. No one seeks God on his own. That's the conclusion. His conclusion is: no one understands. There's none who seeks God. And by the way, when you say that immediately there are some objections. Some people say, well, now wait a minute, I see people seeking God all the time. They're looking for truth. And they I see them going from church to church and religion to religion seeking God. And I would actually argue that they're actually running from God. You see, when God gets close to him in one church, he runs to another. He's actually looking for a God, but he's not looking for the God. You know, the human heart of man is like a uh an idol factory. Man has a tendency to create his own God in his heart. Idolatry is fashioned in the mind and in the heart. This is my God. And then man goes out on a search to find the God that he has made in his own mind and his own heart. That's what he's looking for. And if he can't find that God, if he begins to see the God of the Bible, he runs from that God. He's not really seeking the true God. He's looking for a God that he made, that he fashioned after his own image. That's why I hear people say, oh well my God. Well what do you mean by that? Is it the God that you created in your own mind? God has revealed Himself in Scripture. This is the God of the Bible. This is the God that we submit to. And so this man is not seeking God, he's merely using religious trappings. to disguise his intentions of running away from the Almighty and everything the true commitment would entail. And so God made it very clear: look, there's none sinking me. There's no one in and of themselves that seeks me. And another person will say, well, wait a minute, what about free will? Doesn't man have a free will to seek whomever and whatever he desires? Well, man does have a free will, but there are certain things that the will of man is unable to do. When we say free will, uh you know no man's will is absolutely free. Surely you don't believe that That man is absolutely free to do whatever he wants. There are certain things that man's free will can do, and there are certain things that his free will cannot do. It's unable to do. And one of those things is to seek God on his own without any help. I would use illustration like this: you know, here's a man in a jail cell. He's in that jail, and there's a lot of things he's free to do inside that jail. He can go to sleep, he can do push-ups, he can read a book. There's a lot of things he can do. But there's one thing he's not free to do, and what is that? He's not free to leave. You can't leave because you're locked in. You don't have that ability to leave that cell. And that's what man's free will is like. Man's free will is captive. There's a lot of things that you're free to do. But there's one thing that you can't do that you're not free to do in and of yourself, and that's because of the depravity of man has taken that away. You don't have the freedom to seek God on your own You have to have help. Somebody has to come on the outside and open up that jail cell. There has to be an outside source to help that person get out and open that door. And that's what you say, by the way, what's the prison that keeps man's will in bondage? What is it? You know what it is? It's desire. You will always choose the thing that you desire most. And since man in his depravity does not desire God Then desire is the prison that keeps man's free will in bondage. He will not get out of that prison until his desire changes. And so someone or something, and by the way, only God can do that, only God can change that desire so that man will uh be able to get out. And Paul says this in Ephesians 2. He said this, in which you walked according to the course of this world, you followed the prince of the power, the air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience, among whom we all once lived and the desires or the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of our body and mind, and were by nature the children of You know what he's saying there? We were all in bondage to our sinful, depraved, fleshly desires. Our free will was in bondage to those desires. And that's why Jesus said in John 6, no man can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. There has to be grace. That grace from without that changes man's disposition so that man can come to God. It has to be God. Who does it? That's why we say salvation is all of grace. It's all the grace of God. God is the one that had to change my desires. So that I could get out of that prison and choose to come to him or seek him. And again I quote the uh the line of the hymn written by Charles Wesley, who said, You know, long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin and nature's night, thine eye, talking about God, diffused a quickening ray, a life-giving ray I rose. The dungeon flame with light. My chains fell off. My heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. That's grace, dear friends. And that's, we have to have that grace that overcomes the depravity of man, because without that grace, we can do nothing. And so the captive will, there's none who seeks after God, and then we see also the consequential, or we could say consequent conduct, there's none who does good. None of those good. Go back to Romans 3 and let me finish this up here. According to that clock, I have another 15 minutes. Someone's gonna have to fix that clock or you'll never get out of here. Just give me five more minutes and we'll be done. Go back to Romans uh chapter three. Let me just show you this. And so Paul then goes on and talks about that there's none who does good. Look in verse um again verse 12. There are they're all gone out of the way They are altogether become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good, no, not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre, with their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of ass is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction, and misery are in their ways. All the way of peace they ha have they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And now we know that whatsoever that uh that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are on under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become what? Guilty before God. And so we see the defective way, he's turned aside. All we like sheep have gone astray, the deceitful mouth You ever notice that a person's character is usually revealed with their mouth? And Paul said it's like an open grave. A vivid picture here. Walking by an open grave, you would smell the stench of death. Paul said that's what man's mouth is like. He said, their tongues they've used deceit. This is simply lying. Poison of asp is under their lips. These are people who speak hurtful, harmful lies. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Profanity is a normal way for them to speak. Cursing is a part of the lost man's normal vocabulary. We see it's destructive. Swift to shed blood, destruction and misery, uh just senseless looting and destruction of property. The way of peace have they not known. There's a restlessness And a peacelessness that reflects the heart of man. It's always ready for fighting or war. And there's no fear of God. Well, that phrase characterizes people in our day. No fear of God. And by the time Paul gets to the end, there's like any questions? I mean he's pretty thorough here, isn't he? No, we're all under sin. We have no excuse. And so by the time Paul's finished with this argument of man's depravity, every mouth is stopped. Everyone is silent. Nobody has any excuses. Let me just close with this. The late well-known preacher, Harry Einstein, he once asked a man after a gospel meeting, he said, Are you saved? And the man said, Well, no, I really can't say that I am, but I would like to be And Harry Ironside said to him, Well, do you realize that you're a lost sinner? And the man said, Well yeah, everybody's a sinner. And Harry Einstein said, Well, the question is, are you a sinner? And he said, Well, you know, I'm a sinner, but I don't think I'm a bad sinner. I think I'm a good sinner. And Arnside went on to tell the man that there was little use in showing him the way of salvation. You know, good sinners are like honest liars. Or upright thieves. They're far from ready to admit that they're vile, hell deserving sinners who need God's grace. And there are a lot of people that look at themselves that way. I'm a sinner, but I'm a good sinner. No such thing as a good sinner. We're all in the same position. We all need the grace of God. Without that grace, we're lost. And so Paul concludes this section here of chapter 3 Of showing that all men are depraved and are sinners before the Lord. Now, again, remember I told you that Paul has to get us to understand the bad news so that the good news is really good. And what he's going to do in the rest of chapter three is he's going to start telling us about the good news, the doctrine of salvation. But he shows here that since all people are under sin They all need the good news that God has provided a savior from our sin. That savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. And he is our greatest need. So let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we again are amazed at your grace. We know that without it, Lord, we're nothing. We all are sinners, we're under sin. Hellbound, hell deserving sinners. And although there are vestiges of the image of God in us and that man is capable of doing good deeds to others, we know that none of those things satisfy your holy demands, God. None of them. And that even in our good works, it's still mingled with vestiges of corruption and sin and selfishness, so that there's none before you that really does righteous. No, not one. And so Lord, help us to understand that. Because Lord, that helps us to see how amazing your grace really is. And that our salvation, we have nothing to boast about. All we can boast in is in the cross of Christ. And in your grace, Lord, that even made us alive. So that we can come to you in faith. And so, Lord, we thank you for this amazing grace. And Lord, I pray that this will stir our hearts. May we love you all the more. And Lord, may it help us to go out and tell others about Christ. Because we know, Lord, that when the gospel seed is planted, Lord, you work through the your gospel. To quicken people, to help people see their desperate need. And you draw them under yourself through your mighty power and your spirit and your grace. And Lord, we thank you for this. May it stir our hearts. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, just before we close tonight, do you know this grace that I'm talking about? Do you know the Lord Jesus? Because if you don't, friend, right now is another opportunity. And you know one of these days, these opportunities are going to cease. The day of salvation is going to be over. That's why the Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. And friend, if you haven't made certain your salvation Would you be willing to turn to him right now and say, Lord, I am a sinner, a hell-deserving sinner, and I know there's no righteousness in me of my own. And in and of myself, Lord, I can't even really seek you. But Lord, I want your grace. I ask you to save me. Open my heart and give me salvation. Friend, if you'll pray that, if you'll come and say, God, be merciful to me a sinner, save me, friend, he'll save you. And if you prayed that prayer, would you let us know, maybe just pull us aside afterwards, so that we can talk to you more and pray with you. We want you to know the Lord Jesus. And so, Father, again, take these words, use them for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.