It's good to see you here in God's house. It's always good to end the day on the Lord's Day in the Lord's house. And I want to invite you to turn to First Corinthians. We're in chapter fifteen now as we continue our study through 1 Corinthians. And of course, if you know anything about this chapter, you'll know that this is the resurrection chapter of the Bible. And so we're going to talk about things perhaps you've heard about, but we need to hear about again. uh regarding our faith and how important this doctrine is in our Christian faith. I heard about a scientist who some time ago wrote a book and it was a It was a book about destiny, it was a book about philosophy and about life. And in that book, he asked two very important questions. One was, has anyone ever defeated death? And the second question was, did he make a way for me to do it also? And of course we know that our Lord Jesus defeated death, and he did indeed make a way for mankind to be able to do that. Jesus Christ and outside of this doctrine of the resurrection. And so think about it this way just like the heart pumps life-giving blood throughout our body, we could say that the doctrine of the resurrection is Pumps life throughout all of the body of doctrine of our faith. It is kind of the heart of our Christianity, the heart of what we believe. And so we're going to talk about This tonight, First Corinthians, and of course we won't get through this whole chapter because if you notice, there are fifty-eight verses and and this chapter. the word systematic theology, people their eyelids start to shut, they start to get tired. Uh because you sometimes that sounds it may sound like a boring subject when you talk about that. But systematic theology simply means you take one topic and you see what the whole bible has to say about that topic. It's apart from biblical theology where you would just take a certain part of the Bible, for example Old Testament theology would say what does the Old Testament say about the resurrection? Or more specifically, what does Genesis have to say about it? What does Exodus have to say about it? That's biblical theology. But systematic theology is when you look at the Bible as a whole and you you take from all of the scripture and then you use all of your logic and your reason to systematize all All of what the Bible has to say about one particular topic. about the topic of the resurrection because we're going to see that Paul uses Old Testament, he points to the Old Testament passages of scripture. He uses logic and reason to really explain away any argument against this idea that there cannot be a resurrection or more specifically a future resurrection for those who died. And he just one after another exposed any argument against an idea that anyone who is a true believer could ever hold to the idea that there is no resurrection Now, why does he do that? Well, let me give you a little background into what's going on here in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Some of the Corinthians, if you can believe this, were actually disputing the idea They were there were some who began to deny the teaching of a future resurrection. Now what Paul begins to show them is you can't Cannot deny the fact that Christ rose if you're a Christian. And yet Paul begins to point out that the that the resurrection of Christ and the future resurrection of believers are Tied together. You can't separate them. The fact that Christ came out of that grave is a guarantee that we as the children of God, we will have a Resurrection day. We also will come out of that grave. Our body will come out of that grave. We will get a brand new, glorified body. Now the question is this: why were the Corinthian believers disputing whether there would be a future resurrection Resurrection. How could they even dispute that idea? To some of them, the thought of a future resurrection was ridiculous. This whole idea of a future resurrection And they couldn't grasp it. And why did they think that? Where did they get these ideas? Well, you have to remember, and this is something that we've already learned as we study First Corinthians, that they were in the midst of a pagan world And many times the believers in the church were being influenced by outside ideas that were seeping into the church that was corrupting, it was kind of synchronizing with their own ideas and corrupting some of the theology, some of the teachings that they were to embrace. And in that world back then, there was a basic tenet of Ancient Greek philosophy, Greek wisdom, which was called dualism. Now what is dualism? Dualism is the idea that the physical is intrinsically evil. All physical matter, there's something evil about that, there's something bad about that. And the soul, or that which is spiritual or immaterial, that part is good. And these ideas go all the way all the way back All physical is bot the body is evil, and all spirit is good. So therefore, in Paul's day, the Greeks did not believe in the resurrection of the dead They thought that that was a preposterous idea to think that this body would ever have a resurrection. And some of you might remember in Acts chapter seventeen, when Paul went to Athens and he was there at Mars Hill and he was speaking to the philosophers that would gather there at the area. And when Paul began to talk about the resurrection, This is what the Bible says in Acts 17, 32. When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, that is, when these philosophers that were gathered there in that certain place heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked When Paul began to present the idea of the resurrection, they mocked, and it says, and others said, We will hear thee again on this matter. Their philosophers taught that the body was the prison of the soul, and when the body died, the soul was set free, and death, that soul would be better off. And so they looked upon the body, therefore, as a source of Source of weakness and really a source of wickedness they couldn't conceive of life continuing after death where we had a physical body. Now this was the thinking that Paul had to deal with when he's dealing with this whole issue of the resurrection. And there were people in the church at Corinth that actually began to embrace some of these ideas that were being taught out there in Greek philosophy, they began to deny the resurrection. And that's a w Warning to all of us, isn't it? Again, we need to be careful of some of the ideas that we're not uh pulled away from the faith. Guard your mind and your heart. Make sure you weigh everything with the Scripture. And so Paul set out to prove and impress upon the hearts of these believers the importance and the necessity of the resurrection. Not just the resurrection. Of Christ, which is monumental. But even beyond that, our own resurrection, our own future resurrection. Now, in order to do that, in order to tell these believers that they will have He's doing here in the very first part of chapter fifteen is he is following a standard argument technique where you begin with an agreed upon premise. The Corinthians had to agree that uh Christ rose from the dead, they would have to agree on that because that was the whole basis of what Of the whole gospel message. Since that was the basis of the gospel, the gospel that they heard and the gospel that they received, they agreed at least upon this one thing. That Christ came out of that grave. You would have to agree upon that in order to be a Christian. And then from there, Paul just lays out one argument after another So let's look at the first eleven verses here, and I want you to see five evidences of Christ's resurrection. Agreed upon idea and premise that as a Christian you would have to embrace the resurrection of Christ. So what's the first evidence? We could call it the ex Experience of salvation. Look in verse one of chapter fifteen. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand. Now Now here's again the first point. Your salvation, Paul says to the Corinthians, you're saved. We could even say the very existence of the church The very fact that there is a church, the very fact that there are people saved, the very fact that there were Corinthian Christians whose lives were changed is because they received the gospel Now, notice some important verbs there. Paul says, This is the gospel which I preached. And Paul's basically saying, look, I want to remind you that the very gospel that I presented to you is based on this This important doctrine of the resurrection. If there's no resurrection, you have no gospel. And yet this is the gospel that I preached when I came to you. You remember You Corinthians, when I first came and I began to preach, this was what I preached. There is no such thing as a gospel without a resurrection. I preached, but also you received. Look again in verse 1. The gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received. Paul reminds them that you received it Christ lives in you. It's like the song that we like to sing around Easter. I you know we ought to sing it all year long. But you ask me how I know he lives, and what's the rest of it He lives within my heart. That's right. That's the evidence right there. The very idea that you received this gospel means that you believed in a resurrected Christ. And that Christ lives within you. This is what you have received. To resurrect from the dead. Now, my first question was: what Bible are you reading? Are you even reading the Bible? How can you deny that? It's the gospel which we preach, it's the gospel Paul says that you have received, and it's the gospel where we stand. Look again in verse one, which also ye have received And it's if Paul saying to the Corinthians, Don't you realize that you're standing on the foundation of the resurrection right now? It's where you Stand right now. If you deny the resurrection, you're sawing off the very branch that you're sitting on. Because you stand in the gospel of the resurrection of Christ, but also in which you're saved. Look at verse 2. By which also ye are saved, if you keep in memory what I preached unto you. And so Paul says this is the gospel of the resurrection that wherein you're saved. And the and the the word here for saved, the verb is Present tense of which we could say you are being saved. You're in the process of being saved. Your whole salvation, which is not yet Fully realized, fully complete, it will be uh one day in the future. But you're being saved right now, you're in that process, you're in the process of sanctification. One day there'll be Glorification, Paul talked about that, but this is the gospel that has saved you. And so the very fact that there are people who are saved, standing in the gospel, whose lives have been changed. Itself is evidence of the resurrection. Robert Ingersoll was an atheist. He used to travel around publicly arguing against the existence of God. And uh this was after the days of the Civil War and one day he was over in in England in London and there was a big crowd and he had gathered them together and then he said there is no God and if there is a God I invite him to strike me dead in five minutes and then he got out his watch and he looked at it and then he uh said something blasphemous about god and said okay god I challenge you now to Strike me dead if you're really there, if you're real. And then he began to count down on his watch. Four minutes thirty seconds. Four minutes. And then he continued to count down And finally he counted all the way down and nothing happened. And so he closed his watch and put it in his pocket and he scoffed and he said, There you see there is no God if there was a lot of the other. And so Joe Joseph Parker, who was a famous British preacher, uh in that day, heard of this and he said this, and he said, Did the American gentleman think he could exhaust the pace Now when Robert Ingersoll heard that, he challenged Joseph Parker to a debate. And Joseph Parker Agree to debate him publicly on certain conditions. And these were the conditions. He said he said, I'm gonna bring from my church ten people whose lives have been saved and delivered from Alcoholism by the power of the resurrected Christ. He said, I want you to bring just one person who's been changed by atheism, who was delivered from alcohol by atheism. He said, then I'm gonna bring ten couples, married couples from my church, whose whole marriage and family were salvaged because of the power of the resurrection Resurrected Christ, he said, I just want you to bring one married couple whose family was saved and delivered because of atheism. Now if you'll do that We'll have a public debate. Well Robert Inger Ingersoll turned debate down, turned it down. He didn't want to go there. You know why? Because he understood what Joseph Parker also understood and that is there is no argument against a changed life. There is no rationale. There is no argument that you can present against someone who has Been changed by the resurrected Christ. And this is really what Paul is saying right here. He said, look, this very gospel of the resurrection is the gospel that changed your life, and it's based on this whole idea of the resurrection The very fact that the church has continued to exist through these two two thousand years and more is because of Of the accuracy and the and the uh historicity of the true resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ and what the Bible has to say about that resurrection And so Paul says, you stand in this. But look at the last phrase in verse number two. Unless you have believed in vain. That is, there may be some who make make a shallow profession of faith. Not everyone who professes faith in Christ truly is saved. And if you don't believe in the resurrection, then your salvation is Is vain. Your faith is vain. I don't see how anyone. In fact, I would say it's an impossibility for someone to be a true believer and deny The physical bodily resurrection of Christ. Now you might uh at first enter into salvation. There might be people who say, Well, I I got saved, I didn't fully realize all that at the beginning, but dear friend, if you reject That, then you reject salvation. It is important. And so this is the experience of salvation. But here's number two: there's the evidence of scripture Look at verse three. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how the Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. So Paul says, I delivered this to you. When he says I delivered to you, he means I brought authoritative teaching to you. It's not something of his own origin. He didn't design it It was something that uh he delivered that was from God, he delivered it unto them. Something that the scripture taught. You remember on the uh road to Emmaus that The disciples, the two disciples didn't recognize the resurrected Christ. And he be Jesus began to go through all of the scriptures, which was the Old Testament. And then show them how these things needed to be, how they had to happen, how the Christ had to die and be buried and what and rise again from the dead. And so he went Through the Old Testament scriptures. And that's what Paul is saying. This whole message of the gospel is something that was given in the Old Testament, given in the scriptures. When he says first of all, he means it's of first importance. This doctrine of the resurrection is of first importance, and it's according to the scripture. And friend, we could go through Old Testament passages that prophesy Or teach in in way of type or implication, or in way of story form, the truth of the resurrection. The Bible says, For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither will thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. Hosea six two, after two days he will revive us in the third day, he will Raise us up. There is of course, I think, in Noah's Ark a picture of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a picture of Jesus coming out of the grave, being exalted, sitting seated at the right hand of the father. That's a beautiful picture to me of the resurrection. You could go to the story of Abraham and Isaac, how that in Genesis 22, God told Abraham to take your son Isaac and sacrifice him there on Mount Moriah, of course you know the story where God spared Isaac. But they went up and they came down on what? The third day. On the third day. A picture of the resolution Resurrection. There's Aaron's rod that butted. There's Jonah. You remember when the Pharisees and scribes said, you know, give us a sign, Jesus. And Jesus said, I'm not going to give you any more signs. They've had all kinds of signs There's all kind of miracles that were already done, and in essence, to even ask for a sign was an insult. But Jesus said, There's only one more sign that I'm going to give you, and that's the sign of Of Jonah, who was in the three days in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. In other words, the resurrection itself was a sign of the truthfulness of the Messiah. And so there is the teaching of Scripture, and there's a lot more I could say about that. But let me move on to the next thing here, and that is the eyewitness of saints. Look in chapter or chapter fifteen, look at verse number five, that he was seen of Cephas That is Peter. Then of the twelve, after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present But some are fallen asleep. Now Paul says here's another evidence of the resurrection of Christ, and that is there were eyewitnesses who Now according to the Old Testament, a fact is established at the testimony of two or three witnesses. In the court of law today to a Establish a fact. You only need two witnesses. Two witnesses is enough. Three is is better. But how many witnesses were there to the resurrection of Christ? And this is what Paul's adding up here. There were a lot. First of all, there's Peter, he says in verse five. In fact, one of the requirements to be an apostle was to see the rest of the Resurrected Christ, and so he appeared to Peter. We're not exactly told the occasion here that Paul's referring to, uh the exact time, but we know the Lord appeared to Peter, at least we know And then it says also uh then of the twelve. And again, this is recorded in John twenty and Luke twenty-four. They were assembled together that Easter evening. They were fearfully assembled when the Lord Jesus came into their midst. you have all the disciples together at once. And if that's not enough, look at verse number six. And after that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once. Wow, that's a lot of witnesses. Five hundred at once? Think about that. You know uh Um if there were five hundred people who individually, not at once, but individually said, you know, I saw Elvis, they had a Elvis site 500 people individually, and by the way, there's probably more than 500 that have said they've seen Elvis. Elvis is still alive, you know, especially down in Memphis where I used to pastor I saw Elvis. Now it's one thing for 500 people individually at different occasions to say I saw Elvis. But now it's a whole different thing. If all five hundred at one time Time at one place, altogether, said they saw him. Now that's different. Now, this is exactly what the Bible, however, says here about Jesus It's not saying that 500 individuals on an individual case case by case one at a time saw the resurrected Christ. No. Hundred all together at once. Is that enough witnesses for you? Five hundred at once. Now again, scripture gives no indication of who those people were and the uh exact occasion when Jesus appeared. But Paul when he writes this, as he's writing this letter, and and Paul wrote this letter in fifty nine A. D. So he's saying there are some of them that are still alive in verse number six, of whom the greater part remain unto this present. They're still alive. If you want to go Go talk to them. They're still available. You can talk to them. They're still alive, but some have fallen asleep, Paul says there. And so there's Peter There's the twelve. There's five hundred at once. And then in verse seven he says, and after that he was seen of James. Now I think that James here was the Christ. And then it says, and all of the apostles. It says, and so over a period of forty days he appeared to all of the apostles. Now friend, that's more than enough evidence w regarding the physical bodily resurrection of Christ. And so there's the experience Paul says there's the evidence of scripture that supports Christ's resurrection. There is the eyewitness of saints. But here's number four, there's the encounter with Paul himself. Look in verse Verse number eight. And last of all he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. And so Paul says, I saw him. When he says born out of When Jesus gathered them together, because one of the criticisms that people leveled against Paul was that he's not one of the twelve. He's not one of the apostles. And so some people doubted his apostles Apostleship. But Paul says, no, he appeared to me. I was one born out of due time. I came along a little later, but he appeared to me, and we know when that happened. Paul was on the road to Damascus Paul was going to persecute Christians and even that itself. What could take a person whose heart was so filled with hate against church and the believers and suddenly his life make a union To where that hatred is replaced by love, and whereas he was a persecutor of the church, then he becomes its greatest preacher. What can do that? What can change a And notice what he says here, verse 9. For I am the least of the apostles, and am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God We are singing about the grace of God tonight. And I think this is what Paul's referring to. I'm not even worthy to be called an apostle because I was a persecutor of the church. Who am I That God would take me a murderer, a persecutor, and actually make me an apostle. I'm not worthy of it. I'm not worthy of the grace That God has given me in my life. But notice what he says about that. He says, But the grace of God, verse 10, but by the grace of God I am what I am All that I am it's by his grace. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. And you know what Paul's saying here? He's saying, you know, when God in his grace Grace met me there that day on the road and I saw the risen Christ and his grace saved me. I wanted to make sure after that, being a person who was a persecutor of the church, I wanted to make sure that when God Invested his grace that I didn't deserve into my life, that that was not a vain investment. That was not an unworthy investment. And Paul says, that's why I go Go out and I labor more abundantly. I work. I am the word labor here to work to the point of exhaustion, Paul was constantly laboring and working for the gospel of the kingdom because he didn't want God's grace to be there. You know, there are some people and they get saved and they're initially excited about the things of God, but after a while that kind of you know goes away and they begin to just really drift. They're not really passionate about their relationship to Christ. They're not passionate about serving the Lord. And then there are some Christians that really, after a while, they just sit back and they don't do anything. They let everybody else around them do And to someone like that, the Apostle Paul would probably say that God has bestowed his grace in vain. Because you're not serving the Lord, you're not passionate about the And friend, I don't want to be someone to who God has saved and given me his grace and uh and have it be done in vain where I'm not Making a contribution to the kingdom of God and serving the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul says, I worked harder than all of them. But notice what he says again, and yet not I But the grace of God which was with me. Paul said it was God's grace in me, but I work more than all, and yet it's not me, it's the grace of God. You say, Well, what is it, Paul? Is it God's grace Grace or isn't you? You know, he sounds a little confused here. I'm working hard, but yet it's not me, it's God. And again, it's both. Friend, God does his part. We do our part We labor, we work, we serve, we read the scripture, we learn, we grow in Christ, we do all the things we need to do And yet we know that it's not us, it's the grace of God. What's the verse say in Philippians? Work out your own salvation With fear and trembling. And the very next verse, what does it say? For it is God who works in you, both the will and the do. You say, Which is it? It's both we work and God work. And that's what Paul is saying here. It's the grace of God in me, and I'm working harder than all. And then here's the last thing. There's the experience of salvation in itself. There is the evidence Of Scripture, there's the eyewitness of saints, there is this encounter with Saul, but then here's the last thing: the emphasis of a singular message. Look at verse 11. Therefore, whether It were I or they, so we preach, and so you believe. And Paul is saying whether it was I or the twelve Or one of the 500, or James, we all preach the same message. We're all saying the same thing. The focus of our message Is the resurrection. That's the point. And this is important. This is foundational. His resurrection was the pivotal message that was proclaimed. And so really it doesn't matter who the person is as long as they're preaching this gospel of the resurrection. As long as they're preaching that truth Paul says whether it's me or somebody else, we're all preaching the same gospel message. There's only one real gospel, and it's a gospel that includes the physical, bodily remote. Resurrection of Christ. One time D. L. Moody heard a man preach, and when he got done, Mr. Moody said, I'm not need you anymore. And the man said, Why? He said, Well, because you preach Christ on the cross, but you left them there, you didn't preach a resurrection, and we don't need a gospel without a resurrection. Kind of, you know, we would say harsh, but very true. Very true. The man learned a great lesson from that, and he never preached the cross again without preaching also the resurrection from the dead. All these things. And again, what's the foundation? What's he doing? In the very first part of this chapter, he's saying, look, you have we all have to agree on this one thing. Now again, this is the The basis on which he's going to build the rest of his arguments throughout the whole chapter because from this he'll talk about uh the necessity of the resurrection, he'll give some hypotheticals, but then he'll also talk about the believers' future. Resurrection, but Paul says we all have to agree on this one thing, and that is Christ came out of that grave. That's what our message is is about. And if you're a Christian, you must believe that. Because that is the foundation of our hope. Our hope is in the resurrection of Christian. That were played and the funeral was there at St. Paul's Cathedral there in London. But at the end of the funeral service it was arranged that in the very and if you ever been to St. Paul's, you know it goes way up. There's that dome there where people could kind of walk around. It just keeps keeps going up. It's so very high. But they arranged where one person would be on one side of that dome. And if he would play With his bugle, he would play the song taps. And when he was done, a person on the other side of the dome with his bugle Would play the song Revelie, signaling the beginning of a new day because Churchill wanted to communicate that death wasn't it. If you know the Lord Jesus, friend, there's also a revelie, there's a new day for those who trust in the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's good morning for those Those they die down here we might say goodbye, but over there, up there in heaven, they're saying good morning. It's a brand new day because our hope is in the resurrection. Let's bow for prayer. tonight. And so Lord, it's wonderful to be able to come to your word and once again affirm A doctrine that is so important it really defies description. We can't really say with words, with accurate words, how important it is to Affirm this doctrine of the resurrection. And Lord, together as we look at First Corinthians fifteen and we learn these things that the Apostle Paul wrote, and we once again reaffirm Our own faith and trust in the Word of God in the resurrection. I pray that you'll strengthen our faith. And I pray, Lord, that our faith would become so strong and we We know these arguments so well that we're able to give an answer to anyone who asks us of the hope that is in us regarding this resurrection. Lord, we believe it, we affirm it We thank you for it. Our hope is in it. And I know, Lord, there are many here tonight who have loved ones that have passed on, and their whole hope is in this This truth of the resurrection, that one day they will see their loved one again. And we'll know each other there in that day. We'll all have brand new glorified bodies, and yet we'll know each other because Lord you teach us that And there'll be no more death, no more sorrow, nothing but a glorious eternity with our God. We thank you for this wonderful hope that you give us. So Lord bless these words. May they strengthen our heart and bring us great comfort. And I'm wondering with heads bowed and eyes closed, it just might be Again, we want to extend an invitation. It just may be that you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ. And I want to say, friend, I would never want to offend you But I would tell you this that if you have no if you haven't put your faith in the resurrected Christ, friend, you have no hope. There is no hope without Christ. There's no hope beyond the grave without Without putting your faith in the resurrected Christ. And it's no accident that you're here, the Lord brought you here. Because He wants you to have this hope. He wants you to know That there's life beyond the grave. And because Jesus came out of that grave on the third day, we also will have eternal life. We will have a resurrection day. Of course, the b the soul when a death goes to heaven, the body stays in the grave until that resurrection day, when body and soul are reunited, and there's a glorious eternity that we spend with our Savior. And I'm asking you, do you have that hope? And if not, would you be willing right now to put your faith in Christ? Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I want to know that That I'm going to heaven, that I have this hope. And would you pray and say, Lord Jesus, forgive me for my sin and save me? Cleanse my heart And I turn to you tonight. And I place my faith in you and you alone. How many will pray that in meaning? Can I pray for you tonight, friend? I don't want to embarrass you, but we certainly want to help you and encourage you. Is there anyone here tonight to say that's my prayer? I want to trust the Lord Jesus. I want to know that I'm a Christian. All right. Father, again, we thank you for this Hope. Bless these words to hearing hearts for your glory's sake, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.