Take uh God's word this morning and open please to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter thirteen. We uh We've been doing that on Sunday morning, and we come to the last chapter. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I want to read a few verses with you here this morning. 2 Corinthians chapter 13, starting at verse 1. This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. I told you before and foretell you as if I were present. the second time, and being absent now I write to them which hitherto have sinned, and to all other, that if I come again I will not spare Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to you word is not weak, but is mighty in you. For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God towards you. Examine yourselves whether ye be in the faith Prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates? But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates. Thank you. You may be seated. May God help us understand his word today. May God give me clarity. Let's pray together. Pray with me. Father, thank you for this important passage of Scripture. I pray, Lord, that we would, through the help of the Holy Spirit Understand this warning that the Apostle Paul gave to the Corinthians so many years ago, and is a warning that we all need to hear today. So Lord help us in our understanding of this. Help me, Lord, as I Preach this text and I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, getting a physical exam can save your life. Um not too long ago I switched primary care doctors and the new doctor wanted to get a baseline on how I was doing and did a bunch of tests and long story short he found something he didn't like and That led to other things and finally out there was an issue there that they had to take care of and had they not taken care of that, it's I'm not even sure I would be here today. It was that important. Well, what's even more important than a thorough physical exam is a spiritual examination. Paul calls upon the people at the church at Corinth to examine themselves spiritually. And the verse that we read that's a key verse in this whole section is verse number five. Again, look at that verse. Examine yourselves whether ye be in the faith. Prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates? This is such an important verse that Paul gave to the church. Now there are three words in here that are crucial to understand. First of all, in verse 5, examine, which is a word to try to learn the nature of or the character of something. That is to try to learn your own nature and character. And then the word prove is uh from the Greek word documus to test the genuineness of something. This is a word that was used to test money to see whether or not it was counterfeit. Um and then the word reprobates in verse number five. The word reprobates is the word ah documus, same exact Greek word, only they give the alpha negative to documus. If if you were testing money back in that day and found it to be genuine It was real money, it was called documus. It was tested and found to be qualified or legitimate or real. If the money was found to be counterfeit It was given the word ah dachymus. The alpha negative, you know, reverses the meaning of the word. It is not genuine. It is not uh authentic. Uh in other words, it failed the test. And this is the word that was used that Paul uses to talk about some of the people in church at Corinth that procla that were proclaiming to be saved. And he says you need to test yourself to make sure that you are not ah documus, that you are real, that you're not counterfeit. Also I would just say about this verse here, the verbs here are reflexive. What does that mean? That means simply it is something that we have to do personally. It is something that we have to do individually. Paul is not asking the Corinthians to judge others. He's not asking the Corinthians to go and look at your brother and sister in Christ and to test them to find out whether they're in Christ. No, that's not what he's saying. This is something that you do for yourself. You reflect on your own life. You judge your own self. You know, it's easy to judge others and say, well, I don't think that they're saved. But what Paul is saying is you need to self-examine. You need to judge yourself. Don't go around making judgments about others, about their salvation. Make a judgment about yourself. And literally, the text places the pronouns before the verb. So we could say it like this. This is literally how it reads in the Greek. Yourselves test to see whether you're in the faith. Yourself examine. And it and it's the pronouns are put there first for emphasis. You need to judge yourself. You need to examine yourself. To make sure you're in the faith. Now remember the context of this. What's going on with Paul? Well, the Corinthians have been arrogantly judging Paul. They were questioning whether or not he was a legitimate apostle. And you remember that 2 Corinthians is a very defensive work from Paul. He had to defend his own authenticity as an apostle of the Lord. And Paul is saying, here, you have been examining me to see whether or not I am a true servant of Christ. Now, what I want you to do is I want you to turn that around, and I want you to start examining yourself. And I want you to examine yourself to see whether you are truly a Christian, whether you're truly saved. Now this command to examine yourself implies at least three things. Number one, it's possible to be saved and not have assurance. There are some believers that really seem to struggle with this issue of assurance in their life. They never really seem to get the matter settled. It's possible possible to be saved and not have the assurance of your salvation. Spurgeon said full assurance is not essential to salvation, but it's essential to satisfaction. It's essential for you to have your assurance for your own peace of mind. You know, you may be at peace with God, but yet not be at peace with yourself. And so it's a matter that you need to get settled in your own life, that you know that your salvation is real, and that you have Examine yourself according to the scripture to know that you truly are trusting in Christ. As a pastor, I'm encouraged when I see a person wrestle with the assurance of the salvation. You know why? Because to me, that's healthy. It's healthy that they that they're examining themselves. You know, the ones that I worry about are the people that never question their salvation They never examine their self. They never wonder about their own repentance, whether it's real before God. And again, but yet there are still people that seem to lack assurance. There may be some reasons for this. First of all, strong preaching on God's holy standard might be a reason. A pulpit that confronts people with their sin A pulpit that holds high the standard of holiness, a pulpit that calls people to a high standard of Christian living, that might lead some to be to question their salvation. And that's not a bad thing because guess what? The pulpit is is the purpose of it is to create anxious hearts. I want you to question your salvation I want you to examine it to get it right. I remember in another church I preached in a lady came to me, she was very upset because I was preaching through 1 John and I forced her to examine her own salvation and she was upset about that I always question people to get upset because they have to examine themselves. You know, and she was really angry at me. But the pulpit is supposed to provoke Christians to examine themselves to see whether they're in the faith. My greatest desire for all of you here is that you know for sure that you know Jesus that you're going to heaven. That there's no self-deception on your part. And believe me, folks, there are people all over. Remember what Jesus said? Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, haven't we done all these works in your name? And Jesus will say, Depart from me. I never knew you. And of course, we know that the Lord knows everyone. He knows everybody because he's omniscient, but the word know there is a knowledge of salvation. I didn't know you with reference to true salvation. I pray that there's no one here that will ever hear those words from the Lord Jesus. But also another reason why people might question their salvation is because they can't seem to accept forgiveness. They're kind of tyrannized by their emotions. They they're feeling too bad to be forgiven. Oh God can't forgive me for what I've done. And they're and they normally have an unbalanced view of God. They focus more on God's law and God's justice. They forget about the mercy of God. So they have this imbalance of view of God where they only see him as a God of justice and a God of wrath. And by the way, that's exactly what the devil would like you to think He's the accuser of the brethren, and he wants you to feel like you have absolutely no hope of forgiveness or no hope of salvation. But then another reason why some people might lack assurance is they fail to comprehend the gospel and the plan of salvation. They fail to comprehend the full sufficiency of Christ's death on the cross. They fail to comprehend the fact that the justice and wrath of God is satisfied by what Jesus Christ did on the cross. So they don't understand the extent of God's mercy. They don't extend understand the extent of God's grace or the extent of God's forgiveness. They feel that there is something that more that they must do instead of fully relying on the grace of God alone. It was Martin Luther that said, look, when I look at my myself, I can't see how that I could be saved. But when I look at the cross and I look at Christ, I can't see how I could be lost. And that's so very true. And what he was saying is, you know, when I examine myself, I find in me enough unholiness to shock me. But when I look at Christ And I see what he did and how he took all of my sins, I know that when I put my faith in Christ, I know that I can't possibly be lost. And that's what we must do. We must look to the cross. But then another reason why people may lack assurance is they don't know the exact date of their salvation or the exact time of their salvation. They can't remember the exact day, time, or place when they actually got saved. And because they can't remember that, they don't know whether or not that they're truly saved. And to me that's kind of a a a ridiculous argument if you ask me. It's almost like a person saying, I don't know my birthday, therefore I don't know whether or not I'm alive. You know, your birth date is important to know, don't get me wrong, but it's not needful for you to be alive Alright? And so it is spiritually. You know, I can honestly tell you right here, I can't tell you the exact moment, date, and hour when I believed and trusted in Jesus Christ. But I'll tell you this, I believe when I'm right now. The word believe is not past tense, it's present tense. What are you believing on this very moment as your only hope of salvation? If you're believing in the finished work of Jesus Christ And you continue to believe, and you don't, you know, some people they believe the past tense and then they walk away from Christ. That's not real salvation When you believe on Christ, you believe every day. And you're fully relying on Him. Your repentance is not a one-time thing. It's a continual thing Your faith is not a one time thing. It's a continual belief and fully relying upon Jesus Christ and Him alone But then another reason why some people may wrestle with the thing of assurance is because they feel the flesh strongly and they wonder if they even have the new nature. In other words, they feel or they see the sinfulness in them. And they think, how can I be saved with this this sin that I have in my life? But the fact that you're more sensitive to sin and you're more sensitive to your own fallenness is not a sign that you're lost, but it's a sign to me that you're saved. Because the first thing that happens when you truly know Jesus Christ is that you begin to see sin in a new way. And you feel the fallenness of your flesh more acutely. Remember what John said in 1 John? John said, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. Believers become more acutely aware of their fallness after they trust Jesus Christ. And so therefore, since we sense the flesh and the sin, what do we do? We confess our sins. We continually make confession to the Lord. 1 John 1 9. But another reason why people may not have assurance is because they don't see God's hand in their trials. People say something like, How could God love me and let me go through this? How could God love me and take away my loved one? How could God love me and not hear my prayer and not deliver me? How could I be a Christian and go through what I'm going through? And if you think like that, you sentence yourself To a lack of assurance for the rest of your Christian life because the strongest proof of assurance of salvation is that you go through a trial and you don't lose faith. Beloved, when you go through a fiery trial and you don't lose faith in Christ, you know what that means? That means that your faith is real. Remember what Job said? When he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. And so a Christian that goes through a deep dark trial, they don't lose faith in God, but actually they hold on to God more. They depend upon God more, and their faith is refined, that is a sign of true salvation. And so that is a source of assurance. But there's another possibility from this. It's possible that you could be saved and not have assurance, but number two, it's possible to have assurance and not be saved. This is the most dangerous position for anyone to be in. People that say that they're saved and they never doubt it, but yet they're not. There are some people that have assurance of salvation, they don't have a right to it. They have no right to it. It's a false assurance And they're self-deceived. Remember what Jesus said? Jesus said, look, if your light be darkness, how great is that darkness? If what you think you have It's the true light? And the light that you think you have is actually darkness? How great is that darkness? You know the hardest people to lead to Jesus Christ are religious people. And they're proud of their religion. And if you ask them about their salvation, though they'll give you a list of things that they did for the Lord And their their hope is in what they have done. Their hope is in maybe past actions. Or oh I oh I'm a member of thus and such church. Now they haven't been there in years. But their hope is in that religious decision, maybe a membership a long time ago, and there's no real repentance in their life, there's no real desire for obedience to Christ, there's no real perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. They can remember a day, time, and a place when they made a decision. In fact, they could show you their birth certificate, their spiritual birth certificate. But there's no spiritual life. There's no true repentance. There's no desire for the things of God That's a dangerous place to be. You know, not everyone talking about heaven's going there. And that's again what Jesus said. You know, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father which is in heaven. How do people get this false assurance? Well somebody gave them some information that wasn't true. Or maybe they're holding on to something that is not real, not true. You know, just pray this little prayer. And this little prayer, that's all you have to do, and then sign this form, and then your eternity is sealed. And after that they never ever wonder, you know, they never they're not living a life of obedience to Christ, but they made a decision and that's what they're holding to. You know, and that's a dangerous place to be. But then there's another a third possibility from this. It's possible to be saved and to have full assurance. And this is why Paul is telling these Corinthians to examine yourself. Because obviously the end goal, he said in verse number five, is to make sure that you're not reprobate. You're not ah documents. That you are truly a child of God because it is possible for you to be saved and to have that matter settled and to have assurance. That's what Paul wanted for the Corinthians. That's what I want for you. That it's a true biblical assurance of salvation. Surprisingly, there are some that teach that you can't get full assurance. There are some religions that teach that. The Catholic Church, of course, of course they don't preach a true gospel, but they basically said you can't have true assurance. No one can be certain of your eternity in heaven. And then there are even some Orthodox Christians who say that full assurance is not possible. But that betrays what the Bible says. In Isaiah thirty-two, verse seventeen, and the work of righteousness shall be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever. Wherever God imputes his righteousness, he always also brings with it quietness and peace or assurance that there is real salvation. And so it's possible that we can know that. And that's what Paul means again in verse number five: examine yourselves, whether you be in the faith, prove your own selves, know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you? In other words, you can know that Jesus Christ is in you. You can know that you have true salvation, that you've put your faith in Christ. Now, based on all of that. I just want to uh uh uh give you the just three marks here of a true believer that we can see here in our passage that Paul is going to talk about. Three marks of a true believer. Number one, a true believer submits to godly discipline. Look at verse number one. This is the third time I'm coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. Paul was planning a third visit to the Corinthians. Remember, his second visit was very humiliating, not only because of the attacks against him, because no one came to Paul's defense. None of the Corinthians stood for him. None of them showed loyalty. But also because many of the Corinthian people were living contrary to the will of God. They were living in open rebellion to God's word. Some were living in sinful immorality. They were not submissive to the word of God. Paul warned them about the consequence of sin, and Paul here gives another warning. Paul says, look, if I come and I see members of the church that are sinning and being disobedient to the word of God, Paul is saying, I'm going to confront them. I'm going to confront them and discipline them. Look in verse one. Then in the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word shall be established. What is he referring to there? He's referring to the process of church discipline that Jesus talked about in Matthew chapter 18. What do you what are we supposed to do? If we see a brother, a sinning brother, what do we do? We go to them in love and meekness and we and we ask them to stop, please don't do that. It's hurting you. And the Bible says if they listen to you, you've gained your brother. But what if they don't listen? You bring with you what? Two or three witnesses. Why? So that every word will be established. This is what Paul means here in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. And if they still don't listen, what do you do? You bring it the matter to the whole church and you tell the church why, so that the church will pray, that they will repent. But if they still don't repent after that, what does Jesus say you do? In Matthew chapter eighteen, he said, If they neglect to hear them, tell it to the church, if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Let him be as if he's not one of you. He's lost. What the church is doing there at that point is making a functional judgment. The church together is basically saying, we don't believe that you're really a Christian, because if you were truly a Christian, you would have repented by now. And so then so that because you're not a true believer, you're no longer part of us. That was a judgment from the church to that person. And notice verse number two, Paul says, I told you before and foretell As if I were present the second time and being absent now I write to them which hitherto have sinned, and to all other that if I come again I will not spare Paul had been patiently warning the Corinthians about their sins. Paul knew that somewhere in the church were still living in rebellion and in sin, and Paul said, you know what? If I when I come again, I'm not going to spare. Paul had been patient up until this point. But Paul said, when I come this third time, I'm going to confront I will not spare. He promises to thoroughly deal with sinning members. Look at verse 3. Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, Which to you word is not weak, but is mighty in you. For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but by But but we shall live with him by the power of God towards you. What's Paul saying there? Paul said, look, you've been examining me, you've been ex asking for proof or signs that I am truly his apostle That I'm truly his servant? Well, I'm going to bring that proof with me. It's called discipline. I'm going to come and I'm going to show you But I am truly God's because I'm going to bring with me harsh discipline. That will be my proof. You've accused me of being weak. I'm gonna bring with you I'm gonna bring with me the authority of God to those that are living in rebellion. You know, you accused me of being weak. They said Jesus was weak when he was crucified, but he showed his mighty power when he rose again. And Paul's comparing himself to Christ, saying, Yeah, I might appear to be weak to you, but I'm going to show you the authority I have in God, because I'm going to bring with me discipline when I come. And so Paul says that true believers will submit to God's discipline in their life. But here's number two. A true believer submits to spiritual examination. The spiritual examination. Again, we go to our key verse, verse 5. Examine yourselves whether you're in the faith. Prove yourselves. Know ye not your own selves how that Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates. Again, this is the key verse, and Paul is, this is in the imperative commanding them, examine yourself. Now, any true believer will not get angry or offended when they're asked to examine to make sure they're saved. Whenever I see someone get defensive about spiritual self-examination, it causes red flags that go up in my mind. You know, why would any person who is truly saved be offended by that? I remember one time in another church I pastored, a lady came to me and she she asked if I would counsel her son. Her son was addicted to drugs. He was addicted to alcohol. He was living with his girlfriend, living in sin. He hadn't darkened the door of a church for years. He was living in open rebellion to the Word of God. And when I counseled him, my first thing was, I asked him, are you sure that you're saved? Because he professed to be a Christian. Are you sure that you're saved? I said, what you need to do is you need to examine your life and make sure that you've truly repented and you know Jesus Christ. Well he got offended at that Why would I why would I question his salvation? Well, Galatians five is one reason. Now the works of the flesh are manifest which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, idolatry, witchcraft, by the way, the word witchcraft, Greek word pharmakaia, drug abuse. You know, and it goes on to list a bunch of other things. And Paul goes on to say, of which I tell you, as I have told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. The word do, present in President uh active, if you continue, if this is your lifestyle, if this is the way you live your life, this is your practical pattern of life You're living this way, you are not a child of God. You're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. If that's the way you live. That's one reason why you should probably examine yourself. Well, he didn't appreciate that. In fact, his mother came to me later and she got offended. She said, How dare you question my son's salvation? I said, ma'am, I talk to him as if he were my own son. That's exactly what I have told my own son. question whether he was saved. She said, well he came to church as a child. He raised his hand. He walked the aisle. None of those things mean anything if you're not living in obedience to Jesus Christ. It means nothing. What you have is a false assurance. If you're not living out an obedient life, I'm not saying that a Christian can't lapse into sin for a a time in their life. They can. But if you're a child of God, he's not going to let you stay there. He will chastise you. He will bring you back. He will make sure that you and that's how you know if you can just live that way and be happy, friend, you need to examine yourself. God's not going to let a child of his continue in that way. Yet there are many people that come to church, they walk a aisle, they sign a card, they go out and they live their own life, and they say, oh, I'm just a carnal Christian. I'm a carnal Christian, really? There's no such thing as an ongoing carnal Christian. A Christian can lapse into carnality, but that's not the way they live their life. You can you can live carnal for a moment, but there's no such category in the Bible for carnal Christian. That is an artificial designation made by those who preach an easy believism where you don't have to truly repent of your sins. And so it's a dangerous place for people to be. And so um We need to be careful on this matter and we need to examine our own self. You see, there is a two sources of assurance when we examine ourselves. There's a subjective means What I mean by that, that is inward. That is if you're saved, you'll have the Holy Spirit. And the Bible says that the Spirit of God will bear witness with our Spirit that we are a child of God. God will give you an inward subjective witness from the Holy Spirit. And part of that will be is that you'll find yourself, you'll find feelings and desires welling up in you to cry out and say, What? You have a desire to pray. You have a desire to seek God at times in your life. Where does that come from? Well, that doesn't come from the devil, and it doesn't come from your sinful flesh either. That comes from the Holy Spirit of God living inside of you that causes you at times to cry out to God. And you'll want to pray, you want to seek His face. There's that inward subjective means As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. But then there's also the outward objective means, and that is by measuring our life by what we do. What are the outward evidences of our life that show that we are truly a child of God? And Jesus said it in the passage I read to you in Matthew 7. 21. Listen to this. Not everyone who says unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. You see the contrast there? Jesus is contrasting false profession with true profession. And a false person profession is someone who will basically rely on all of their works as their only means, but a true believer, someone who has trusted in Christ alone. And that is the only way, the only thing that you're trusting in is the finished work of Jesus Christ. And the evidence that you're trusting in Christ alone is that outwardly there's going to be a life of obedience to the will of God. You're going to just be obedient to Christ. Now this is not a perfect obedience. We're not talking about perfection here. We're talking about direction If you're truly saved, you're going to have a desire in your heart to do the will of God. You might not always know what the will of God is, but because you're still learning what God's Word says. But there's going to be a desire in your heart To obey Christ. What's the key sign of a true believer? Obedience. I just want to listen to Jesus. I just want to do what Jesus says. And I'm not doing it in order to get saved. I'm doing it out of gratitude because he already saved me. He already has saved me. And so therefore, since he saved me, my life belongs to him. And I just want to obey what he tells me to do. And I want to please him. He is my Lord now. And that's the telltale sign. John said it like this in 1 John 2, verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know him. How do we know that we know Jesus? If we keep his commandments. This is how you know It's interesting, the first time the word know here is used, it's perfect tense, completed action in the past that has continuing results. Second time it's used, or excuse me, first time it's present tense, let me get this right. We continually know. Here's how we can continually know that we have already come to know him. Perfect tense. How can I continually know? How can I continually have assurance that I've already trusted Jesus? pa in the past, perfect tense, if we keep his commandments. If I have a desire for obedience in my life, I want to do what he says. And again, we're not talking about a perfect obedience. We're not talking about a legalistic obedience. Whereas, you know, I'm if I don't if I don't get if I don't do this, I'm gonna get whacked over the head with a divine hammer. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about obedience that says, you know, Jesus, I I just love you And I and I I owe everything to you. It's your grace that saved me. And I just want to listen to what you say. I just want to give my life to you. I just want to serve you. It is not a legalistic obedience, it is a loving obedience to Jesus Christ. And I'm not going to do it perfectly. There's going to be times when I may fail and fall, but the pattern of my life is a pattern of obedience with every once in a while it'll be a slip-up. But the pattern is obedience. It's not the opposite. I'm living in disobedience, and every once in a while I might get obedient. That's not a believer. The pattern for a believer is I'm living obediently. And when I do slip up, I confess it. I get up. I repent. I may even lapse into sin for a time. But God will patiently speak to me, He'll spank me, and then He'll bring me back in line, and I'll be back where I was, and I'll pick up where I was before in this area of sanctification. But and that's the pattern. And that's why we need to examine ourselves. Is there outwardly this loving obedience to Jesus Christ where I want to do what he says? And John goes on to saying his commandments are not grievous. It's not going to be a burden to me. I'm not like, oh man, got to go to church. Whew. Man, let me get this over with. Let me check this off the list. Let me uh g get my tithe. Hold on. You know, oh I gotta do this, I gotta do that. If that's your heart, if his commandments are grievous to you That reveals that there's not real life there. I do it out of joy. I do it because I want to do it. I do it because it's all gratitude for what Jesus has done for me. It is a loving obedience to Jesus Christ. That's what he's talking about there. Like the psalmist said, I will run the way of your commandments. I want to do this. So do you enjoy fellowship with the Christ? Do you confess your sins? Do you have a desire to obey Jesus? Do you reject the evil of this world? Do you eagerly await the return of Christ because you long to be with Christ? Do you see a decreasing pattern of sin in your life? Do you love other Christians? All that is signs of true life. Do you experience answered prayers in your life? Do you experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit where He convicts you of sin in your life? Can you discern with the help of the Holy Spirit between truth and error? Do you suffer rejection from this world because of your faith? Because they they see Jesus in you? You know, if you if you get if you get persecuted from the world, you know what you should do? You should say thank you. You just gave me more assurance that I'm truly a child of God. Because the world hates Jesus. And when they see Jesus in you, they're going to go after you. And that's assurance that Christ is in you and that you're not a document, you're not a reprobate, you truly know Christ. But let me give you the third thing quickly. A true believer submits to godly discipline. A true believer submits to spiritual examination. But then number three, a true believer submits to one another. Submissive one another. Look at the end of this letter. Look in verse uh verse 11. Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace shall be with you. Greet one another with a holy kiss, and all the saints salute you. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Ghost be with you all. Amen. And in the closing words of the apostle in this letter, he calls upon the believers in Corinth to be of one mind, to be united together in the church. You know, the church of Corinth was known for their division. They were divided over several issues, and the false apostles here in the church even made matters worse. But you know the mark of a true child of God, they love peace. They love peace. They're not out on the campaign for their own agenda. Their heart is to do the word of God and the will of God. They love unity and they strive to keep unity. You know what? Sheep love unity. They can lie down together. Goats, they butt heads. You tell them you tell them something they say yeah but Yeah but that's a goat that's not a sheep True children of God, love, unity. And Paul says here, be perfect, verse 11. And the word really here is restored. Be restored. to one another. If you're at odds with a brother or sister, strive for that rec r restoration. It's a word that actually means to mend the nets that have been broken. True believers strive for unity and submit to one another. You say, oh man, we have to work to get unity. You don't have to work to get unity. We already have unity. You see, that's been given to us as Christians. We have to endeavor to keep the unity that God has already given us And the way that we do that is by submitting to the Word of God, submitting to the Lordship of Christ, submitting to one another in the fear of the Lord, loving one another. And that's what true believers are like. They have a submissive spirit where they love one another. They're willing to submit to one another. And And and that shows the true spirit of a child of God. Now, let me just close, we're out of time. But you need to examine yourself. And when you do your examination Be thorough with yourself. Because again, this is the most important issue. I pray this more than anything else I pray this for every person who is a part of this church that you truly know Jesus Christ And that you're growing in grace. I pray this for my children, my grandchildren, my church family, my friends. I want you to know that you know Jesus. I want you to get this matter settled. And when you examine yourself spiritually, be strict with yourself. I remember in school there was the times when the teacher allowed us to grade our own quizzes. And that you say, qu you know, grade your own quiz. We'd all say, Hallelujah. I get to grade myself. I was always very generous with myself in my grading. But you know the problem with that is that when the final exam came in, she didn't let me grade that. She graded that herself. And the final exam revealed how my grading system was wrong. Friend, Jesus is going to do the final exam one day. He's going to grade us. Right now, Paul is calling upon all of us. to examine ourselves. But keep in mind that your examination is not really the one that counts. Remember that there's going to be a final exam given by the Lord Jesus Christ. So you better make sure that when you examine yourself That you do it right, that it's according to the word of God, so that one day when the judgment comes, you will stand confidently before the Lord, knowing that you know The Lord Jesus Christ. Let's let's bow for prayer together. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you right there with heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm not gonna I don't want to embarrass anyone. I don't want to try to c call anybody out, but I want you to do what Paul says. And I want you right there where you are to examine yourself and ask yourself these questions. Does my life reveal true faith in Christ? Does it reveal that Christ is in me? That I'm not adokimas, that I'm I'm genuine. There is a desire in my heart to obey Jesus, not because I'm trying to earn my salvation, but because I am his child. And it's an obedience that's a loving obedience to Christ. It's my faith in his finished work alone. Have I truly repented and turned from the sin of this world and put my faith in Christ I'm not coming to Christ because I want a better life. I'm not coming to Christ because He can fulfill all of my desires and dreams. I'm not coming to Christ because He can give me what I want. I'm coming to Christ because I'm a sinner Hellbound, unworthy. I I turn from those sins and I turn to Christ and Christ alone. I pick up the cross. And realize that trusting Christ and repenting might not make my life better. It might make it worse. But that's not the point. The point is that I know Jesus. That I've my sins are forgiven, that I'm trusting in him and him alone. And friend, is that you? Do you know Father, I beg you please that your spirit would move upon hearts And that no one here under the sound of my voice will ever hear those words that are, I think, the most fearful words in all of Scripture. Depart from me, I never knew you Oh God, please deal thoroughly in every heart. May we examine ourselves to make sure that we're in the faith. May we know. And may we we have the assurance and the peace and the quietness of soul that comes to those whose righteousness has been given by Christ, whose sins have been paid for by Christ. And we pray all this in Jesus' name, Amen