Would you take uh God's word this morning open please to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter five? Second Corinthians chapter five. We've been studying through This wonderful book, and we're in chapter 5. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? I want to read the first eight verses of 2 Corinthians 5, verse 1. For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon from our house, which is from heaven. If so be that being clothed, we shall not be found naked. For we that are in his this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that which we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit. And therefore we are always confident, knowing that whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith and not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's infallible word, and may we be submissive to it. Would you pray with me? this morning. Father, thank you for your word and the joy that we have to learn more of you and all the blessings that you give to us through the Scripture. So Lord, please help us to be attentive and worship them in the way that we listen and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you know that uh this week my father went home to be with the Lord. And by the way, we're so very grateful for all of your prayers and the cards and and the food. Um please stop sending food to me. I'm trying to lose weight. Um I have more than I can do. Sunday morning after the service, Carolyn and I went to uh my parents' house. My dad, who had been there for several months under the care of my mom, we knew he was uh you know not doing well, declining, and we could see that day that he was beginning his final war with death. Ecclesiastes 8. 8 says that there's no discharge from that war, speaking about death. All of us are going to meet that final war. There's no way for any of us to be discharged from that unless the Lord Jesus comes back. But as we gathered, we uh we prayed and we asked the Lord to take my dad quickly. He was ready. He knew the Lord. We know where he is now. And in fact earlier he had said, you know, why doesn't the Lord just take me? And of course we didn't want him to suffer. And I know many of you have been in that same position. You understand what we're saying. And God was very gracious, and in that next hour My father went to heaven. And you know, I was thinking if you're going to go to heaven, that's a good way to go with all your family around you and praying for him. And so we sorrow, but that sorrow is mingled with joy. You know, um, you know, honestly, my dominant emotion in all this is gratitude and joy for all the blessings of God. Now someone might ask, how can you have sorrow and joy at the same time? That's what the scripture says. We can sorrow, but also we can rejoice, and both of those things can be at the same time. In fact, 1 Peter 1:6 says this, and this ye rejoice Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved, or you're in heaviness. You can have heaviness and happiness side by side. And Peter was writing believers who were going through severe trials And yet Peter said, While you're sorrowing at the same time you can greatly rejoice. The Greek word there for rejoice literally means to leave for joy. The word for heaviness, Lukeo, deep grief. You can have deep grief, and at the same time you can have joy. Those things can be there together. One time they asked the great preacher Spurgeon, Can Christians rejoice while they're sorrowing? And he said, Most assuredly they can. He said, Mariners tell us that there are some parts of the sea where there's a strong current upon the surface going one way, but down in the depths there's a strong current going the other way. And he said these two seas do not meet nor interfere with one another. And that's the way it is in the Christian life. On the surface we can sorrow, but down deep there's this joy. And there's this rejoicing that undergirds us, that is our foundation. Now Paul said that in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 10, he said, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing. We can have sorrow and we can yet rejoice. Now Paul modeled this many times in his ministry where he was uh suffering, and yet at the same time, underneath it all, he had this impeccable, wonderful joy that undergirded him. And we really see that attitude here from Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. As he penned this letter, you have to remember he was facing death. Remember in chapter 4, verse 11, he said, We're always delivered to death. Seems like Paul was always suffering and facing death. In 2 Corinthians 4. 12, he said, So then, death worketh in us. Hostility swirled around Paul. Animosity was constant. The reality and the threat of opposition and death was all the time with Paul. And that's because his enemies, unbelieving Jews and Gentiles, they didn't like the message that he preached. They felt that he was a threat to their religion. He was a threat to their economic prosperity. He was a threat to their political stability And so they looked upon Paul as uh someone who needed to die to get out of third life. In 2 Corinthians 11 23, Paul said, Well, I'm often near death. Now, some people might have expected Paul to tone down his message a little bit because of that. brought death, you would think that Paul would tone it down, but in fact he didn't. In fact, when his enemies threatened him, he got much more bold. Uh he just turned it up a notch. He never wavered in his faith. He never wavered in his preaching. In fact He faced death with confidence, with absolute confidence. In fact, that's the key phrase in this section. Look at again at verse 6. Therefore we are always confident. He said. And again in verse number eight, we are confident. The word confidence, the reo, to be of good cheer, to be bold, to be courageous. Even in the face of death, Paul said, look, I'm confident. I'm confident. So the question we have to ask is what gave Paul this confidence even in the face of death. And by the way, we can have that same confidence in the face of death. Well there are three things that I see in here That gave Paul confidence in the face of death. And here's the first one. Number one, death is moving into an eternal house. What is it for the believer? What is death for God's child? It is moving into an eternal house. Look at verse number one of chapter five. For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For the believer, death is moving out of a temporal tent and into an eternal home. Now, Paul is a tent maker, so he's using tent maker terms here. And he's using a metaphor about our body now. Our body, this body that we have now, it's like a tent, Paul said. And one thing about a tent, a tent is a temporary dwelling. Tents are not meant to be permanent. And when a believer dies, they fold up that tent, as it were. And verse number one, where he says, This earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, cataluo, as the idea of dismantling. You know, you ever try to take apart a tent and fold it? That's the idea here. And some translations actually uh use the word fold up Or to dismantle. That's the idea here. At death for a believer, this tent is folded, and the believer is given a new body. That's part of that eternal weight of glory that Paul talked about in chapter four. That eternal weight of glory includes a new body. Now that had to be comforting to the Apostle Paul because his physical body had been so mercilessly battered And uh he was suffering because of the effects of the fall, because of his own personal sin, because of hardship, because of illness, because of the rigors of life. And because of all that, Paul longed for a body that was incorruptible, that was immortal, that resurrected body. And that's why for Paul, death would be nothing but a welcome relief. Death is moving out of a temp. It's moving into a new house. Now think about this new house with me, because Paul talks a lot about it here. First of all, there's what I want to call the desire for a new house. There's that desire. Now remember, Paul is building on the argument that he started back in chapter four, verse number sixteen, back up to four sixteen where it says this for which cause We faint not, but though the outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. The outward man is perishing, Paul said. That's part of the light affliction that we bear here in this life, the groans of this life. I read about John Quincy Adams, one of the early presidents. of our country. Someone asked John Quincy Adams. They said, How is John Quincy Adams today? And he answered by saying, John Quincy Adams is very well, thank you, but the house that he's living in is not doing too well. He said, as a matter of fact, it's quite dilapidated. And he said, in fact I think I shall be moving out of it and moving into a new home very soon. But John Quincy Adams is very well. Thank you. You know, John Clincy Adams knew the Bible because that's the imagery that the Bible uses as we get older This house that we live in, it starts to run down. Understand that? That's what Solomon said in Ecclesiastes. You might remember in Ecclesiastes chapter 12. Solomon said, remember now your creator and the days of your youth, because what's going to happen is you're going to get older and the and the difficult days are coming. And he said this in verse 3, in the day where the keepers of the house shall tremble. And he's he's talking about aging and death like a house that is getting old. The keepers of the house shall tremble. What's that? That's your hands? Your hands will tremble. The strong men shall bow themselves. What's the strong men? That's your shoulders. Your shoulders will bow. The grinders cease because they are few. What's the grinders? That's your teeth. You start missing a few of those. Those that look out of the windows shall be darkened he said, What are the windows? The windows are the eyes, you don't be you don't see like you used to. The doors shall be shut in the street that your ears can't hear what like you used to And the sound of the grinding is low, that your voice gets low. And he shall rise up at the voice of a bird, that is, you really can't sleep well, so you get up early. All the daughters of music shall be brought low. That is again when you t speak or sing, you have a low voice. And he said, When they they shall be afraid of that which is high. Let me give you the Harmon translation for that. I'm not walking up that hill. That hill's too high. I can't walk like that anymore. That's kind of the idea there. And then it says, and the almond tree shall flourish that your hair goes white. The grasshopper shall be a burden, you know. At the beginning of spring, the grasshopper is hopping around at the end of summer. He's dragging himself along. And that's the idea there. And so it goes on to say, and the uh the they shall go to his long home. It says, Desire shall fail, the things that you Used to desire, the physical desires you once had are no longer there, and the long man goes to his home, and eventually death will come. That's what Solomon says. This old house is going to age. And one day we're gonna die. That's what scripture says. We just grow weak and we die. You know, I I remember my daddy was such a strong person in his day, but we saw what age and time does, and it does you say, why? Well it does it to all of us. We're all in that process. This old house gets run down and it needs repair. And I want to tell you, there's only so much that medical science can do, beloved. I mean it can give you a new hip and new knee and new this and new that but it can't give you a new body I I I once saw a documentary about the great baseball player Ted Williams, great phenomenal athlete, one of the greatest baseball players. And when he died, his daughter said, We're freezing his body, and they said, Why are you doing that? She said, because we believe in medical science and we believe that science one day will be able to resurrect him and he'll be able to live forever. That's what she said Well, if you want to put your faith in medical science, go right ahead. But I got something better than that. God promises a new body. God promises a new home. And look at verse number two. For in this we groan. This is our desire. That is, in this body we've grown, look at verse 2, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. We moan and we groan in this body, but part of that groaning is we're desiring that new house And Paul said in verse 3, if so be clothed, we shall not be found naked. We're not going to be disembodied spirits when we go to heaven. We're going to have a new body, a new house. You know, that's what he's talking about here. We don't groan to be disembodied. Look at verse 4. For what for we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that we would be unclothed. But clothed upon mortality might be that mortality might be swallowed up of life. We don't groan to be just out of a body and to just to be a disembodied spirit in heaven. No, we groan for that new house, that new home. So there's the desire for a new house, and then there's the design for the new house. Look back in verse number one, where it says this, we have a building of God, a house, not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. What does Paul mean, not made with hands? I think when Paul uses this expression in the New Testament, it always refers to something that is a work of God. It is an unmistakable work of God. When you were saved, you received a spiritual circumcision, a circumcision that was not of hands, Paul said in Colossians 2. 11. It was a work of God. In Hebrews 9. 11, when Christ appeared as a high priest, he entered through the greater, more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands. That is to say, it's not of his creation. Not made with hands means it's spiritual, it's transcendent, it is eternal, it is not physical, it is not temporal. And Paul gives us some hints about that new house that we're going to get. Back up to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 real quick. Just back up a few pages. Let me just show you a little bit. We can't spend a lot of time here. But people were asking about this new house and Corinth. In verse 35 of 1 Corinthians 15, he said, But some men will say, How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? You know, what's what's the new house going to be like? And Paul answers that in verse thirty-seven, and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, and sh may chance of wheat or some other grain. Paul said, look, if you want to understand the the the new body, the resurrected body, how that all works out, you just look at a seed that's put into the ground, and when you put a seed into the ground, you don't get that seed back, do you? A better form of that seed? No. You don't get that seed back. The outer shell dies. A little blueprint is released out of that seed. God organizes a new life, a new matter, a new body around that little blueprint. You get something better back, something brand new. In return, Paul said, if you under want to understand God's work, we see a foreshadowing of it every time you put a seed into the ground you get something more beautiful back and then also um Notice what he says in First Corinthians fifteen, look in verse thirty nine. of birds. There are also celestial bodies, bodies terrestrial. The glory of the celestial is one, the glory of the terrestrial is another. Paul said, look out in the field, look at animals and see how they all have different bodies. The bird has a body designed that's fly, fish has a body designed to live underwater, animals have a body designed to live in the field. God creates different bodies to live in different environments. The body we have here now, this tent, it's a terrestrial body. One day we're going to get a celestial body. Designed to live in the heavens, designed to live with God, and it's it's so much better, Paul says And if you want to understand God's design, look at verse number 41. There's a glory of the sun and a glory of the moon and another glory of the stars For one star different from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. Paul says, if you want to understand your new house and the design of it. Look up into the sky on a dark star uh night when the stars are out and see how the stars shine. And there are some that shine with glory. Some have more glory than others. That's the way it's going to be in that resurrection. That's the way the new body's going to be. It's going to shine with the glory of God. And so and then he says this in 1 Corinthians 15, 49 Just as we have borne the image of the earthly, that is, just as we now bear the image of Adam, the man of dust. We're going to bear the image of the man of heaven, that is Jesus. We're going to be just like Christ. I can't answer all your questions about your new house, the design of it, but I can say this and I know with certainty that you're going to be like Jesus. That's what he's saying. Paul said in Philippians 3 20, for our conversation is in heaven, that is our citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body. That's wonderful to know. That's the design of your new house. We have a desire for a new house. We see the design for the new house. You say, well, how do we know we're going to really get this? Well, I want you to see the down payment for the new house. Because look in verse number five. Now he that hath wrought us for The selfsame thing is God, who also is given unto us the earnest of the Spirit. That word earnest there is a word It's Araban, and it means the first initial payment as a guarantee, the down payment. God's already made a down payment on your new house. It's already been made. And what is that down payment? That down payment is the indwelling Holy Spirit of God that lives in those who know Jesus Christ. The fact that you have a Spirit is the down payment, which is the guarantee that you will get a new house. That's what he's saying. And so death is moving from a tent into an eternal house. But number two. Why can Paul be confident in the face of death? Because death is fulfilling God's eternal purpose. Look again at verse number five. Now he that has wrought us for the selfsame thing is God. In other words, we can say this was all of God. This is all God's plan. This is all God's idea. This is all part of God's salvation. When we were saved, we were justified. We were saved from the penalty of sin. Now we are in the second stage of salvation. Salvation is in three stages. Justification, say from the Penalty of sin. Sanctification is this process that we're all going through if you know Jesus. We're being saved from the power of sin. Ultimately, our glorification is when we will be saved from the presence of sin. That's all part of God's plan. And death fulfills that plan. Death is when we become just like Christ. And this is what God determined. He determined this all the way back in eternity past. And what God determines in eternity cannot be undone in time. This is all what God said he was going to do. Right now we're we're in this second stage of our salvation, which is sanctification. And how many of you know this is kind of a difficult stage? Because every day we do battle against sin. That's why Paul longed for the glorified body. Not necessarily because he would be free from the physical weaknesses that he had, but the thing that really caused Paul to groan was wrestling with his own sin. Paul called this tent that we live in, he called it the body of sin. In Romans 7 he describes that battle. Paul said, I am of the flesh. sold into the bondage of sin, Paul said. He said, sin dwells in me, Romans 7, 17. He said, evil is present in me, Romans 7. 21. Every time I try to do good, evil is present with me. I'm constantly fighting this tent, this body, because this is how the sin nature fulfills his evil designs is through this tent, this body And it's like a body of death. And I long to get free of this. And at one point he cries out, O wretched man that I am, who will Deliver me from this body of death. The apostle longed to be free to worship and serve God in absolute purity. free from the restrictions of his fallen and sinful flesh. And death does that. Death releases us. from that and death is the beginning of the fulfillment of that final stage of our salvation. So Death is fulfilling God's eternal purpose. But let me give you the third thing. Death is moving into an eternal house. Death is fulfilling God's eternal purpose. But then, number three, death is entering into God's eternal presence. Look at verse number six. Therefore, we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith and not by sight. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. And I love the way this reads. Therefore, Paul says, based on everything I said We're always confident. Verses 6 to 8 is really kind of the climax of Paul's heavenly anticipation of that new home. Death will bring the believer into the presence of the Lord. And in his presence is fullness of joy, and at his right hand there are pleasures forevermore. I can just imagine Paul having a conversation with his enemies. You know. When they confront him, they say, Paul, you you gotta stop preaching that gospel because you're gonna die. And we we will kill you if you don't tone it down. You tone it down, we'll let you live. And I can just imagine Paul saying, hmm. I have a decision to make. I can stay in this tent or I can leave this tent. If I if I leave this body, the bad news is if I leave this tent, you know, I I have to leave behind the things that I love and the people that I love. The good news is, if I leave this tent, I won't have to live in this dilapidated, worn out ten anymore. I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus, Paul said. I'll have a brand new eternal house. I won't be naked. I will be clothed. Mortality will be swallowed up in eternity. That's part of my weight of glory. And then I can see Paul's enemy saying, How do you know that you're going to get a new house, Paul? And Paul says, Well the down payment's already been made. I have a guarantee by the very Spirit of God that lives in me. And then Paul says, besides all this, the best is this. When I leave this tent, I will be in the presence of the Lord. You think you can scare me with death? And Paul's enemies say, Paul, how do you know that heaven is real? How do you know that? We can't see it with our eyes. We can't touch it. You can't be sure. And Paul responds in verse 7, we walk by faith, not by sight. I know it's there. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Abraham walked by faith, and he looked for a city whose builder and maker was God. None of the Old Testament saints looked for that city. There is a land that is fairer than day, and by faith we can see it afar. And so they say, okay, Paul, but you're staring death in the face. And Paul said, that's all right. I'm confident. We're confident. In fact, we're willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Bring it. I'm ready for that. That's better. In fact, if you take my life, you would be doing me a favor. In another place, Paul said, For to live is Christ, and to die is gain. The world says to die is pain, but not the believer. The believer says to die is gain. It's better. The word for gain is kurdas. It's a profit made on an investment. Paul is saying, you know, if I die, I'll just cash in on my investments. It's going to be so much better. I'll have that eternal weight of glory. And Philippians Paul said, If I live in the fresh flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I choose I don't know. I'm in a strait betwixt two. I have a desire to depart, which is far better. And Greek scholars tell us that he's piling up comparatives there. We could say it like this in English, to depart and be with Christ, that's very, very, very, very, very, very, very much better. That's so much better than to stay here. O death, where is thy stain? O grave, where is thy victory? So, you know, honestly, when my dad breathed his last breath, did we start off? Of course. But underneath it, I'm telling you, there's joy. There's joy. We rejoice. I know where he is. I know. And I'm I'm telling you the truth before God. I'm confident. I'm confident, and you can be too, if you know Christ. He makes all the difference. I'm confident knowing that at death he moves into an eternal house. He fulfilled God's eternal purpose. And he entered into God's eternal presence. Doesn't get a whole lot better than that. And the question is, do you know Christ? Do you know Jesus? Because he makes all the difference. If you know Christ, you can say, I'm confident I'm confident, let's bow for prayer together. So I want you to just take a minute and examine your heart. My greatest desire As a pastor, is to know that everyone under the sound of my voice knows Christ. That you know that you're saved. That you've got that matter settled. I have a fear, so many people have a false understanding of the gospel and salvation And I don't want that to be the case for anyone here. I want you to know that you know Christ. I said before, my biggest prayer is that all of my family and children know Christ. And that all of the people under my charge know Christ. Because if if you know Christ's friend, then you can any trial that you go through, he'll go through with you. There's nothing too hard for you if you have Jesus. He'll walk with you, he'll take you by the hand, he'll walk through it with you. Like the psalmist said, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there's none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. And so, friend, do you know Christ? And if you don't, you know what? If you just come to Him for mercy, if you just say, Lord, I'm a sinner, and I know that you died for me And I'm coming repentant, understanding my need on my sinfulness. And I cast myself before you and I cry out for your mercy. Save me, Lord Jesus. That's what the publican did. God he said, God be merciful to me a sinner and save me. And Jesus said, that man went away justified I encourage you to do the same thing. And if you're here today and you know that, you know what, you can be confident like Paul. You know what, we're getting a new house. We have a desire for a new house. We have a design of a new house. We have a down payment for that new house. And one day we're going to move in Father, thank you for your word, the strength, the encouragement, the hope that it gives us. May everyone under the sound of my voice know Jesus May they right now cry out. And for those who do know you, Lord, may we with all of our heart praise you. Thank you. And rejoice in this wonderful, glorious gospel. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.