Amen. All right, would you take God's word tonight and open to the New Testament letter of James? We're going to pick up Back in James, and we're actually coming to the end of this study that we've been doing on Wednesday night. And we come to James chapter 5, and we're going to look at verses 7 down to verse 11 tonight. of James chapter five and verse seven. Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold the husband waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he received the early in the latter reign. Be ye also patient, establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. And grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering, affliction, and patience. And behold, we count them happy which endure. You've heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. You know, it's common in our day to be able to get anything we want quickly. We uh since the you know the invention of push buttons, you know, we've grown accustomed to instant gratification. We get instant meals by just putting them in a microwave. We instant coffee just by putting it into our Curid Coffee Maker. We get instant entertainment just by pushing a few buttons. You can get it on your phone now. You can watch things on your phone. I hope you're not doing that tonight during the sermon. You know, we don't have to roll down our windows anymore. We just touch a button and the window goes down by itself. We can get instant cash and we go to an ATM machine And that's twenty-four hours a day. We can get instant text messages on our cell phones, instant weather reports. Uh we have Instagram, you know, uh as one of the apps. As a result What are happen what's happening is people are growing more and more impatient about things. This is called the culture of instant gratification. We want things and we want it now. And sadly, that sometimes translates into the Christian life. You know, we take this this this instant gratification and we think that in the Christian life We should get things instantly too. So therefore when we pray to God, we want an instant answer to our prayers. We want God to answer immediately the thing that we ask for. We want to grow spiritually, but we want to do it right now. We want instant spiritual maturity. You know, we look we want to go to some conference where God just throws down some kind of sanctified lightning bolt and hits us and all of a sudden we're holy. You know, we're like the Lord Jesus Christ. And that simply is not the way it works. When we bring our problems to God, we want God to solve them instantly. When we're in the middle of a trial, we want the the resolution to it. But let me tell you something you already know. God is not subject to the culture of instant gratification. God has his own time and he does things his own way. Not on our time, but on his time. One time the great preacher Philip Brooks was feverishly pacing in his office like a caged lion, and a friend asked him, What's wrong? And he said, Well I'm in a hurry and God is not. And I think that we can relate to that. The message of James is very simple, it's very straightforward. The message is be patient. Be patient. In fact, you might have noticed when we read these verses the word patient used over and over again. In verse 7, it starts starts off by saying, Be patient, therefore, brethren. And in the end of verse 7, you know, it talks about uh hath long patience for it, talking about the farmer. In verse 8, he again says, be also In verse 10, he talks about those prophets and servants of the Lord that exercise patience. In verse 11, he talks about the patience of Job. So why does James emphasize this so much? Now remember the context of this. He's writing to believers that are going through trials. And in the context, he just sharply rebukes some of the wicked rich people that were holding back wages on laborers and the poor, oppressing the poor. And now James shifts from the persecutors to the persecuted. Now he's speaking to the people who are suffering some of the injustices, some of the abuse. And he basically says, look, in trials you need to learn to be patient. And you need to learn to wait on the Lord. And really, in a sense, James is returning to a theme that he started out the letter with. In the very beginning of the book of James, you might remember when he says, Count it all joy when you fall into divers. Temptations or trials. Count of joy. Why? Because the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience So he's kind of going back to that. Trials produces patience. Let patience, he says in chapter one, verse four, have her perfect work that you might be perfect. And entire. The word perfect doesn't mean sinless, it just means spiritually mature or complete. A sense of completeness in your life. You ever get the sense there's some things missing in your life spiritually? Sometimes I hear Christians say, I'm not as faithful as I need to be, I'm not as um in the word or praying like I need to be. There's things in my life that are missing. Well, God uses trials to teach us to fill in those gaps and to uh Grow spiritually. Uh not too long ago I was talking to a Christian who said, you know, I've been praying for God to do a perfect work in my life, and all that's happened is I get one trial after another. Be careful what you pray for. Like the writer said, I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace, might more of his salvation know and seek more earnestly his face. It was he who taught me thus to pray, and he, I trust, has answered this prayer. But it has been in such a way as almost drove me to despair. I thought that at some favorite hour, at once, he would grant my request, and by his love's constraining power renew my sin and give me rest. Instead of this, he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart and allow the angry powers of hell to assault my soul at every part. And that's normally what God does. He doesn't instantly just hit you over the head with sanctification. He allows you to go through trials because they have their Maturing perfect work. And so we'll go through trials, we'll go through suffering. Some of the suffering we go through is just common suffering. It's just suffering because we live in a sin-cursed earth. Because in the Bible it says, Cursed is the ground for thy sake. When man sinned, God cursed the earth, and thistles and thorns and suffering and sorrow are our symbol that we live in a cursed world And God has something better for us. And then there's carnal suffering, a suffering sometimes we bring on ourselves because of our own foolish mistakes, our own sins. And then of course there's Christian suffering. You suffer because you're doing the right thing You're trying to please the Lord, you're trying to live for God. And don't ever think that if you stand for truth, everything's going to be okay. That you're never going to have to pay a price for it. There are times when you do have to pay a price for it as a Christian. But nevertheless When we go through trials, whatever the reason for the trials may be, whatever the cause, we know God has a purpose in it all. And we have to be patient. And trials. And this is what James is telling us. Be patient. James was wise enough to realize that believers might react wrongly. to trials or persecutions or sufferings. And so he says, be patient. Now what's interesting, there are two different Greek words he uses for the word patient. In verse 7, when he says, be patient The Greek word here is is to a combination of two words, macro, thumeo, macro long, thumeo anger. And it means it takes a long time for a person to get angry. We would say the person is long-tempered. And I think this is used a lot of times in the New Testament in relation to people. In relation to people, we're to be long-suffering. We're to be long-tempered, don't get angry fast. But then in verse 5, there's a totally different word for patience. So in verse 11, or excuse me, chapter 5, verse 11 when he says, when he uses the word patience there, you've heard of the patience of Job. The word here is hopomone, and this is a word that means endurance. And this is in relation to circumstances. We're to be patient with people, and we're to be patient with circumstances. Well, you know, w what trials do we have that don't include people or circumstances? All right. That covers it all, right? You're either dealing with people or you're dealing with circumstances. But we're to be patient. Now what James does is he gives us four basic reasons we could say or four things to remember if we're going to be patient in the midst of trials. And here's the first one. First of all, he just tells us, remember the Lord's coming. Remember the word's coming. Look again in verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. We know this. You don't need me to tell you again the second coming of Christ. Jesus is coming again. This is called the second advent. Jesus made the promise that he was going to come again to his disciples to his followers in the book of Acts when Jesus ascended out of heaven. He gave the promise he would come back in Acts 111. It says that there were some two men who stood in white apparel, and it says which said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand gazing into heaven? This same Jesus was taking up from you into heaven shall so come in like matter. Jesus is coming again. And he reminds us. So the exhortation is be patient. Now what's the point that he's making here? Well What he's saying basically is that we know that there's things in this world that are out of order. And when Jesus comes back, he's going to reconcile all those things. That's the whole point. All the things that are out of order. The Bible says you remember in the beginning when God created everything was good. You read in Genesis over and over again, you see When God created, God saw that it was good. God saw that it was good. There was a beauty and a harmony in all of God's creation. It was untouched by sin. It was untouched By corruption. Everything was working in perfection. All of creation was in subordination to God. There was perfect harmony, perfect peace. But something happened that messed all that up. And we know what it was, right? It was sin and rebellion. Sin brought um God's creation uh into a place of decay and corruption. Satan and his demons were at war with God, this invisible war in the heavenlies, and then of course there was Adam's sin in the Garden of Eden. And the visible creation now as we look out, it's out of tune. And we live in a cursed world, we live in a cursed earth. Sin has defiled and corrupted everything in our earth and so the heavens are polluted. They're occupied by Satan and his cohorts, what the Bible say he's the prince and the power of the air. The earth is polluted because it's occupied by sinful man And so creation is out of tune and we live in jeopardy every hour. And whereas before the earth uh freely gave of his resources to man after the fall, what did God say? That man, through the sweat of his brow, is going to have to pull from the earth. It no longer freely yields. Now man's efforts to master the earth are cursed by sweat and drudgery, and he's subject to the destructive powers of the earth. It takes everything that man has to subdue the curse of creation, to live in this world and subdue the curse of creation. That's why I always wonder what people say, I just want to be a natural, I want to live a natural life. I want the oh the natural world is so wonderful. Let's just all be natural. Yeah, well nature will kill you if you let it. I don't want to be a natural person. I want to sit in air conditioning. I want heaters. We face extremes of heat and cold, poisonous plants and reptiles. All this was released after the fall. Everything that God gave for man's good and blessing became the enemy. All the earth is in rebellion against man and man is fighting this battle to hold back the curse of creation and the curse of the earth, but it's a losing battle Because man is ravaged by disease. I mean COVID should remind us of that, right? We think we're so smart, our scientists had it all in control. One little virus can bring us to a standstill. And that's just one. There are many, many more out there. Man is ravaged by disease. Man is dying and the earth with him. And in the end, he will be conquered by death. It's a horrible, horrible tragedy. It's a tragedy that comes as a result of the fall of depravity and dominion of the the earth over us and death. And even the earth knows its own condition, right? The Bible talks about that in Romans 8. We know the whole creation groans and travails and pain together until now. So what's James's point? All this stuff that we're seeing, when Jesus comes back, he's going to set it all straight. He's going to bring it all to an end. He's going to reconcile all things. All things are in rebellion against God, but God is going to reconcile all those things, and all these things are going to be put in subordination to Jesus Christ. How? When he comes back, Satan and his dominions will be cast into hell. And by the way, anyone who doesn't repent of their sin and trust Jesus will be cast there too. I hope that everyone has repented of their sin. God is in the process right now of redeeming mankind and bringing them to Christ. But God is going to recreate the heavens and the earth. He'll cleanse the universe of sin. We see this in the book of Revelation, the rapture, tribulation, millennial rain, rebellion, Satan casting into the lake of fire, new heaven and new earth And all of creation is groaning and waiting for this to happen. And Jesus Christ will be King of kings and Lord of Lords. Everything will be in submission to Him. All the creation we've will be brought back into tune with Christ. You know, I I heard about every time a orchestra gets ready to uh play, the orchestra leader uh uh has him strike one note And everyone in the in the orchestra uh tunes their instruments to that one basic note Otherwise, it would be a cacophony rather than a symphony. When Jesus comes back, all of the universe will be tuned into one person, one note, and that is Jesus is Lord of all. And so we're to look forward to that. You so that doesn't help me right now. Well, it it depends on how you look at what your perspective is. There's some people that all they look at is just this earth. They have no eternal perspective. They're not looking for eternal things. And if all you're thinking about is just the here and the now on this earth right now, then you probably will be depressed. But friend, this is not all there is. God has a great future for his people. And so we have to remember Jesus is going to come back. He's going to make it all right. He's going to reconcile all things. And we have to be patient. Until that happens. And trust the Lord and wait on the Lord. And then James gives an illustration, the illustration to be patient. Look again in verse 7. Behold the husband and waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth. and hath long patience for it until he receives the early and the latter rain. And he's giving us here a illustration of what patience looked like. Take a farmer, for example. Do you think he plants his seeds in the soil and expects a harvest back the very next day? Or even the next week? He has to wait and wait and wait. And while he's waiting on the crop, uh he he does all that he can do. He he waters it, he nourishes it as much as possible. But there's a lot of things that are out of his control. The rains have to come at the right time, the early and the latter rains, and the sun has to do its work. of uh the photosynthesis that takes place and the soil has to release its nutrients The farmer doesn't have control over those things. He has to trust God. He has to wait patiently for the Lord to do all of the rest of it, but God is in control. But Finally, the harvest comes. And all the waiting is made worth it. And that's what James tells us in verse. Look at verse 8. Be ye also patient. Just like that farmer who's waiting for the fruit of the earth, and he waits a long time. You also be patient, establish your hearts For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Is the farmer willing to wait, of course, because the crop is worth it? And so should we say it's worth it to wait on Jesus. Whatever trials that you go through here, remember that it will be worth it all when Jesus comes. What's up, verse Romans 8, 18? For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And I think I told you before the word reckon is a word that w where it has the idea of logic. He's thinking about it and he's making a comparison and he's putting on one side the trials and the sufferings and the sorrows that we have here on earth And he puts on the other side the glory that will we will receive and inherit and will be revealed when the Lord comes and Paul's basically saying if you put the suffering on one side, the groans on one side, and the glory on the other, the glory far outweighs the groans that we have now. So just keep being patient and let this truth strengthen or establish your hearts while you wait. Number two. Remember the Lord's coming, but here's number two. Remember the Lord's judgment. Remember the Lord's judgment. Look at verse 9. Grudge not one against another, brethren. Lest you be condemned. Behold the judge standeth before the door. And here, James, there obviously there were some people in the church there holding grudges. There was some difficulty in some relationships. And James is saying, look, don't hold a grudge. Don't don't do that. Don't grumble against one another Sometimes when you're going through trials and difficulties, if you're not careful, your heart can instead of growing better can get bitter and you can get hateful and and towards one another. If you're living in difficult circumstances and you see others that aren't And you see, you know, things seem to be going well for another person, they're not going well for you, and you can grumble and complain. And James says, look, don't do that. Don't you realize the judge is coming? And notice when Jesus comes back, he's no longer Savior, now he's judged, right? He was He came the first time as the Savior, now he's the Judge And he's going to judge when he comes. All judgment will be committed to Jesus. And so Don't grumble, don't complain, he says. Don't have grudges against one another. Because the judge is coming. In fact, how close is he? Well, notice what he says. He says, the judge standeth before the door. He's right at the door. He's almost ready to enter in. Right there at the door. That's how close that his coming is. So we remember the Lord's coming. We remember the Lord's judgment. But here's number three. Remember the Lord's servants. Remember the Lord's servants. Look at verse 10. Take my brethren the prophets. Who has spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering, affliction, and of patience? Do you think you're the only one that's gone through trials? Do you think that this generation of Christians is the only one that's gone through difficulty? You know, we we we're right now being tested with this COVID. Do you think we're the only generation that's been tested with uh a plague? Or pestilence, or what we're going through. There have been other generations of believers that have gone through much worse than what we have gone through. There are many servants of the Lord that have through of yesteryear that have suffered so much for the sake of the gospel. and they have been faithful. And so James is pointing to them as an example. He's saying, look, if you are having trouble being patient and enduring, Through your trials, then you remember those who have gone before us. Remember the servants of the Lord who have been faithful. And by the way, that's why God gave us part of the reason why we have the Old Testament. We have stories of servants there. Paul said all these things happened to them as examples unto us. And they're written for our admonition upon whom the end of the worlds have come. We're living now on this side of the cross towards the end of all things. And we're to look back to those who lived in another era, who've gone through a lot of trials and suffering, and they were faithful. And so let them inspire us. Moses had to put up with rebellious Israelites who left Egypt. David was hunted by Saul Elijah faced hostility from the evil king Ahab and his wife Jezebel. Jeremiah endured opposition. He was thrown into a pit. And persecuted. Ezekiel endured the death of his wife during his ministry. Daniel was torn from his homeland as a young man and thrown into a den of lions. Hosea endured the heart a heartbreaking marriage with an unfaithful wife. Amos faced lies and scorn, and on we could go on and on And by the way, this is the reason why I personally love to read biographies of faithful Christians. Because what it does is it encourages me, it inspires me. And it's why I also love to When I go to places, I try to visit places that have some Christian history. And you know, some of you know when I I go over to England, I try to go to some of those places that are rich with uh spiritual heritage. And And just see where these people were and the circumstances they were in and how faithful they were to the Lord And so I, you know, when I was over in England here recently, I went to uh took a train up to Bedford. Um Bedford is the place where John Bunyan, the famous Baptist preacher, minister, John Bunyan, the writer of Pilgrim's Progress. and the church that he pastored, there's still a congregation that meets there. But they have a museum set up really with a lot of his things and the prison, what it looked like, the prison that he stayed in. was arrested for preaching the gospel. And the reason they arrested him was because he was preaching without the required license. There was a period in English history where you had to have a license from the Church of England before you could preach And the Church of England was really kind of an apostate church at that time. They had some bizarre things going on in there. And so uh nonconformist ministers believed in preaching the word and they would find places to preach. One time he was preaching in a barn. with a lot of people and he was arrested and put in prison and he stayed there for twelve years. You know how he took care of his family? He made shoelaces. And they were sold and that's how he took care of his family for twelve years while he was there in that prison. Um And you know what was interesting is that they told John Bunyan, they said, you know what? If you just promise not to preach, we will release you. We'll let you go. And John Gunyon said, if you release me today, I'll be preaching the gospel tomorrow. And he stayed in prison for twelve years because he refused to compromise. And so for twelve years his wife and children, including a blind daughter, were without their father. But while he was in prison, that's when he wrote Pilgrim's Progress and many other books. And here's a man that went through a deep dark trial and he endured and he was faithful and he was patient and the Lord used him in a great way And what James is telling us here is that look, remember these servants in the past. Remember the afflictions that they went through And let them be an example of suffering affliction and of endurance, patience. Let their example inspire you to be faithful to the Lord So remember the Lord's coming. Remember the Lord's judgment. Remember the Lord's servants. But here's the last point. Remember the Lord's blessing Remember the Lord's blessing. Look in verse 11. Behold, we count them happy which endure. You've heard of the patience of Job. And have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. And here's the point that James is making here He's reminding us to remember this one important fact. When you're enduring trials patiently, remember that God greatly blesses those who patiently go through trials. The end of that person is blessing from God. The end is they will be happy or blessed. In fact, the word blessed there in verse number Our ver excuse me verse 11, the word happy we could it's been translated as blessed in other places. It's makarios You might have heard me talk about this word before. This is the word used by Jesus on the Sermon on the Mount, blessed. But it's a word that has the idea of being fully content, not needing anything outside of Christ or God that you're complete in Him and you don't need anything else. You don't need any other resources. Because Christ is all, and you've learned to be happy in him. There's a certain level of spiritual uh growth that you attain. um and blessing from the Lord that you get. This is what James was talking about when he said, let patience have her perfect work, that you might be perfect and entire. One thing, nothing. This is what he's saying right here, that in the end, there's a great blessing for those who patiently endure. You'll be complete, you'll be happy. I heard about a certain father who was a chronic grumbler. He was sitting with his family in the presence of some guests in the living room, and the subject of food came up, and one of his children, a little girl. was having fun and she said she described what every family member in the house, what their favorite food was. And he said to her, Honey, what's daddy's favorite food? She said, Daddy, your favorite food is whatever you don't have at that moment. Many Christians are like that. We grumble what we don't have rather than being thankful for God for what we do. But James here is saying that when you go through trials patiently, God Will give you that sense of blessedness and contentment and fullness, and you'll be satisfied in him. You'll be mature, needing nothing. Now, James points to Job as an example to prove his point. Look again in verse 11. Ye have heard of the patience of Job and seen the end of the Lord. And the story of Job, of course, is one of the most popular stories in Jewish history. There was uh this was a a contest where uh we see in in Job chapter one the story opens up with Job having all this prosperity. It gives a beautiful picture of a happy family with children that got along and God blessing Job. And then it's almost like the camera shifts to heaven. And there is a a divine council meeting in heaven between Satan and who's there and and the and the angels that are there. And there's this challenge. God, the only reason Job worships you and serves you is because of all the things that you give him. You take those things away, and he will curse you to your face. What was the challenge there? That The challenge was that Job's faith was superficial. That the only reason he serves God is because of what God does for him. That's the one challenge. There was a challenge against Job. That he wasn't real. And there was a challenge towards God. The only way you get worshippers, God is you have to buy him. People don't worship you because of who you are. They worship you because of what you give them. And so God's character was on the line. And Job's faith was on the line, and this was the to the the challenge, and so God gives permission And you know the rest of the story. All these things come upon Job. He lost his children, he lost his wealth, he lost his health, he lost his reputation, his friends came and accused him of secret sin His wife even said, Curse God and die. But did Job curse God? I mean remember that was the challenge. Remember that's what Satan said he would do. You take away all those things, he'll curse you to your face. But what happened with Job? He didn't curse God. If you read the story, what happened? He rent his clothes, he put ashes on his head, he fell down to the ground. Did he curse God? No, he said, the Lord has given and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He didn't curse God. He blessed God And he thanked God. And he endured that trial patiently. And in the end, what did God do? God loaded more blessings on Job. And he had more, he had twice as much. blessing in his life than he had before. Let me give this to you quickly, but there were five important purposes for Job's suffering. Number one, to test his faith and prove it genuine, to demonstrate what he had was real. That's why God will test us at times, to thwart Satan's attempt to destroy that faith, to strengthen Job's faith. And enable him to see God more clearly, to demonstrate that God is worthy of worship, not just because of what he gives us, but because of who he is, to increase Job's blessedness. You see, God put let Job go through that trial, not to take away blessedness, but to increase it, to give him more. And this is the point that James make. You see the end of the Lord. That the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. He was more blessed in the end than ever. And so what's the point that when you likewise you go through trials and you do it patiently, that God's going to bless you. He's going to reward you. And you'll be complete spiritually. That's how we endure trials. We remember the Lord's coming. We remember the Lord's judgment. We remember the Lord's servants. We remember the Lord's blessings. Let's bow for prayer together. Might be that you're going through a trial tonight. Right now. You need this. You need Patience to endure. You need the grace of God to help you through whatever trial you're in right now. Not an accident. You're there by God's purpose and design. And he wants to bring blessedness in your life. He wants to bless you. But you need God's help to Go through this patiently. How many say that's me? Would you pray for me tonight? Um pray for me as I go through this trial for God's help that I will endure this patiently. For God's blessing. And it may be that you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ. You know, Jesus patiently endured the cross that you might be saved. That you might have salvation, eternal life. And if you've never trusted Christ, I would encourage you right now, don't wait. Right now, don't leave without knowing for absolute certainty that Jesus is your Savior, that you've turned from your sin and turned to Him. Ask Him to come into your heart and save you. Just pray. Reach out in prayer. It doesn't have to be my words. It could be your words. Heartfelt words. Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Jesus, cleanse me, make me your child And whatever trials that you deem necessary for me, give me patience. Give me endurance. And do your perfect work in me. Father, thank you again for your word. May we apply these things to our heart and our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.