Well it's good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. We're doing a study through chapter 11 that we're calling the Hall of Fame of Faith And we are looking at some of the characters that are mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11, because the writer of Hebrews focuses on them to demonstrate to us what it means to live and to walk by faith. Now Hebrews 11 has been called the great faith chapter of the Bible. It's been called the Hall of Fame of Faith. That's title's not original with me, certainly, and for good reasons. Again, all of these characters that are listed here in this chapter really are a demonstration to us that faith is what is necessary to approach God. Faith is the only way that you can please God. You want to get to heaven? You have to get there by faith. You want to live a life that's pleasing to the Lord? Well you have to walk by faith. That's what God blesses. Now remember the writer of Hebrews was writing to the Hebrews to tell them to don't turn back into Judaism. Some of them were considering the claims of Jesus Christ. And uh they have come out of a system of of Judaism which was really a perverted s uh type of religion, not really Old Testament Judaism. Because the Old Testament taught the same principle of faith. Somehow, in some way, throughout the centuries, Judaism got away from that principle and they began to teach that you have to do good works to be accepted by God. And the writer of Hebrews is trying to say that's not the way to be accepted by God. That's not the way that you approach God. You approach God by faith. And Judaism began to teach some kind of a system of works And the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, don't turn back into that. Don't turn back into that old system that you're coming out of. Come to God and come by faith. Remember, we told you that really the whole argument begins in chapter 10 and verse number 38. Why don't you look at that real quick again? Now the just shall live by faith. Again the writer Hebrews is quite quoting from the Old Testament here. He's quoting from the book of Habakkuk, chapter two, verse number four. Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in. him. Don't turn back. God says, if you do, my soul will not have pleasure in him. And then the writer of Hebrews then, in chapter eleven List one after one after another, one after another, illustrations from the Old Testament of the heroes who live by faith, who approach God by faith. And the encouragement is that all of us are to do the same thing. All of us are to approach God by faith. And when we approach God by faith in salvation, that it doesn't end there, friend, it only begins there, because we all live a life of faith. We run the race of faith, as we'll see in chapter 12 But that's how we live every day of our life. We walk and live by faith. And so the writer then goes back into the Old Testament and he gives one illustration after another after another, and we have looked at some of these. Old Testament illustrations. And tonight we're going to look at another one. And look in Hebrews chapter 11, look down at verse number 20, and notice the next character that he focuses on. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. Now the writer focuses on the life of Isaac. Now for an athlete today to get voted into the Hall of Fame, they have people that vote, they have sports writers and other athletes that vote whether or not that person should get into the Hall of Fame. Now you and I don't get to vote who gets inducted into the Hall of Fame of faith. But if we did have a vote, we probably wouldn't vote for Isaac. Because if you look at the life of Isaac, there's really nothing really spectacular about Isaac. You remember the comic Rodney Dangerfield, his famous line is, I don't get no respect. Well, Isaac is the Rodney Dangerfield of the Old Testament. He doesn't get a whole lot of respect. Alexander McLaren, the great school Scottish expositor began a sermon on Isaac by saying this, quote, the salient feature of Isaac's life is that it has no salient features. Although Isaac he lived longer than Abraham and Jacob and Joseph, his whole life is really covered in just two chapters in the Old Testament. In Genesis chapter 26 and 27. So it was kind of a kind of a blah type life, you could say. He wasn't bold like Abraham. uh who made a daring raid against the kings. You might remember that story. He raided the kings of the East. He wasn't shrewd like his son Jacob He wasn't a gifted leader like his grandson Joseph, and yet God still uses Isaac to work out the covenant promises that he made to the family of Abraham. Again, Isaac's not mentioned much in the Old Testament, just a few chapters, and really the chapters are not that flattering. I mean he's really known for having some disputes about some wells that he dug in the land of Canaan. And uh but he makes a lot of mistakes. We're going to look at that in here in just a minute. But the writer points out one thing that he got right. There's one thing that he got right, and it's again we read it in verse number twenty of Hebrews 11. By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. He blessed both of his sons, and that blessing revealed that he had faith in God and in God's word concerning the promises that God made for the future. He believed it. And he submitted to it, and he blessed his sons based on those promises. Now, before he got there, I want you to know he made a lot of mistakes. And he didn't go there willingly. He only went there after he finally realized that, you know what, you can't overrule the sovereign hand of God. All you can do is just submit to it. But it also shows us that in order to live a life of faith, you don't have to be perfect. Now I don't know about you, I don't want to shock you tonight, but I'm not perfect. I I stumble along in my Christian walk. I make a lot of mistakes all the time. And I don't know about you, but I'm still trying to figure this thing out in a lot of ways I'm still still trying to live by faith and walk by faith, and I don't always get it right and I mess up a lot. But the key is we just continue to persevere and you know what? We trust God to bless the faith that we have and to strengthen that. But here's the one thing that we can learn from the life of Isaac. Ultimately, to get it right, you have to set aside your own selfish will and agenda, and you have to embrace God's plan. That's the key. That's part of walking by faith. Walking by faith is not, you know, putting my agenda out there ahead of what God wants Walking by faith means that I submit to the will of God for my life and trust God in that will. Even though I might not always understand it, even though I might not always agree with it, I submit to The hand of God. Now, again, Isaac has to learn that. So look in Genesis chapter 27. We'll just take a tour through the life of Isaac. And see how he learned this very lesson. If you're going to live by faith, you set aside your selfishness and you submit to the word of God. Now, as we look at the family of Isaac, we're going to see a family at work We're going to see a home that was just basically filled with selfishness. And the family has many outward enemies, but perhaps the greatest enemy of the family is selfishness. I know that when I I counsel uh folks that have marital challenges and family problems, and to me The common denominator, the w the number one single thing that seems to break up more marriages and break up more families is selfishness. If we could just learn to get over That one thing, selfishness. We will never be what God wants us to be until we first deal with that stubborn sin of selfishness And this story again teaches us that living by faith means that you set aside your selfish agenda. And so we're going to look at this here in the life of Isaac. Now There are four scenes that we're going to look at in chapter 27 here. Four scenes that demonstrate what led up to Isaac blessing his sons by faith. But again, it didn't get there uh easily. And so really this four scenes and there are four characters that we see here in chapter twenty-seven. Isaac comes onto the stage in verses one to four and he uh has a desire to bless Esau. Uh that's his selfish desire. He doesn't really conform to the plan of God. God's plan was um was to to bless Jacob. And to use Jacob to continue the covenant promise, but Isaac prefers Esau. And then in scene two, Rebecca, the wife of Isaac. She was kind of eavesdropping on the conversation between father and son. And she has her own plot that she wants to hatch to make sure that Jacob gets the blessing. And then in the third scene, Jacob Successfully carries out his mother's scheme. And then finally in the fourth scene, Isaac and Esau discover they've been deceived. And Isaac can only give a lesser blessing to Esau. And then and then it pretty much ends in uh chapter twenty-eight verses one to four, and you have finally Isaac blessing both sons. So let's look at these scenes real quick. First of all, seeing one, I call this a disobedient father. Look in verse one of chapter twenty-seven. It came to pass that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son. And he said unto him, Behold, here am I. And he said, Behold, now I am old, and I know not the day of my death. Now therefore take I pray thee thy weapon and thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison. And bring me savory meat such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless thee before I die. I call this first of all Isaac's his self-will. He's about 137 years old at this point in his life. Wow, he must have been a vegan, right? No, not really, because he loved deer meat. And he sends his son Esau out. This is his really his deathbed request. He's going to give a blessing onto Esau before he dies. And a deathbed will was legally binding in that day, just like a legal will is binding today. And Isaac is requesting that Esau go and he fix them Go go hunt a deer and and bring it and fix it just the way I love it. Obviously this has been done several times before. And then Isaac wants to give the blessing of the firstborn. to Esau. This was Isaac's choice. Now the firstborn blessing meant that that son got the lion's share of portion, we could say, of the inheritance. He got the larger part of the inheritance. But what Isaac was about to do was wrong for two reasons. First of all, Esau was not the one chosen by God to carry out the privileges of the firstborn. This was not the one that was chosen by God. He was not the one through whom the messianic promise would come. And we have to assume that Isaac knew this. You say, how do we know that? Well, if you go back to chapter twenty-seven, verses twenty-three and twenty-one and twenty-three, uh we see uh a a clue of that, chapter twenty-five, verse thirty-one, where it says, And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. What profit shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him, and sold him his birthright unto Jacob. And so we assume that Isaac knew all of this had taken place. Esau had already forfeited his birthright. He sold it for a morsel of meat. And uh also remember look in verse 29, back up to verse 29 of chapter 25, where it says this, and and Jacob saw potties and Esau came from the field and and was faint. Um I'm sorry, I forgot the wrong I think I forgot the wrong passage there. But the idea here, however, is that he sold, he forfeited his birthright by selling it for a bowl of chili. All right, now you say how do you know it was chili? Well you just have to read the text. It was red red pottage, red stew. They probably had a chili cook off and and Jacob won. He hung around his mother and he had a really good chili recipe and it was must have been really good because Jacob was uh made made it and it was so good that Esau was willing to s to sell his birthright for it. And uh, but also uh the Bible also tells us that Esau forfeited the birthright also because he married heathen women. And Genesis 26, verse number 34. Isaac knew all this, and he knew that it was God's will for uh Jacob to be the one that would ultimately get the blessing Uh and really when you look at the birth of uh of of Isaac or excuse me, of Jacob and Esau, we also see this because the Bible says in chapter twenty-five, verse twenty-five, when that when Rebecca gave birth, the first one came out red, uh, all over in a hairy garment all over like a hairy garment, and they called his name Esau. And after that came his brother out, and he uh and he took hold of Esau's heel, and his name was called Jacob. And uh later on um the Bible says that the the elder shall serve the younger. The elder shall serve the younger. And so this is all part of God's plan. Jacob was the one that was going to get that blessing. Now, Isaac is at the end of his life. And before he dies, what is he thinking on his deathbed? He wants to make sure that He what he wants gets done. He's concerned about his son Esau getting uh the blessing, not his son Jacob, like it was part of God's plan. And so here he is. Uh he's on his deathbed. He says, Look, bring me a nice meal. I'm about to die. That's the thing he's thinking about more than anything else himself. I want to have a good meal. I want to give you this blessing. I don't know when I'm going to die. Evidently he wasn't doing well, and it was pretty soon. And so that was his whole point there. He was really just thinking about himself, what he wanted. So we see number two, scene two, a deceptive mother. Look in chapter 27, look down at verse number six. And Rebecca, actually verse 5, starts with verse 5. And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau, his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison and to bring it. So Rebecca, here's the plan between the husband, her husband, and Esau, and she springs into action. Um, you know, you might say, well, you know, at least she knew that Jacob was the one who was supposed to get the blessing and the birthright. But really Rebecca is just as bad as her husband because she favors Jacob. What you have here is you have the father, Isaac, and his favorite son is Esau, and the mother, Rebekah, her favorite son is Jacob. And so you have a little bit of a split already here in the home. And uh one commentator says of Rebecca, she was a deceitful, proud, selfish woman who wanted her way and not the Lord. She wasn't really concerned about the Lord's will either. She wanted her way. And she wanted to make sure her favorite, Jacob, was going to be the one who got the blessing. And so we see her eavesdropping in verse number five. She was lifting through tent walls. I mean if uh wigwalls have ears, tent walls must really have ears. You must be able to really hear conversations through that. So, but reading this chapter you get the idea that she was constantly going around playing detective, getting information. She had spies all throughout the household informing her. Look in chapter twenty-seven, look at verse number forty-two of Genesis here, where it says And these words of Esau, her elder son, were told to Rebekah, and she sent and called unto Jacob her younger son. So how did who told her that? They were heard. One of her spies reported in, you know Here's the lesson we can learn. When you live by faith, you don't need to go around practicing eavesdropping or have spies all out or play detective and try to find out information. I I know this. When God wants me to know something, He has a way of giving me that information. I don't need to go out and play detective or worry about that. But here is Rebecca doing that. We also see her scheming in verse 7 of chapter 27. And it says this, and she says to Esau, Bring me venison and make me Excuse me, yeah, verse 27 verse 7. And re we'll start at verse 6. And Rebecca spake unto her unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau, thy brother, saying, Bring me venison and make me savory meat that I may eat. And bless thee before the Lord my before my death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. Go now to the flock and fetch me from thence two good kids of goats. And I will make them savory meat for thy father, such as he loves, and thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, that he may bless thee before his death So here's her scheme. She doesn't really trust God to make sure that Jacob gets the blessing, that he becomes the one that inherits that promise. But she schemes herself. But let me just say this. Faith is living without scheming. If you're living by faith, you don't need to scheme But she decides to exploit her husband's weakness and she deceives him. And so she she sends her son to get two small goats. And she says she'll prepare it just like Isaac loves. She evidently knew how to do that. She knew the recipe to make it taste like deer. And uh she's going to make her husband think that Jacob is actually Esau. Think about what she's doing. She's dishonoring her husband by exploiting his weakness to get her own way. And again, beloved, faith doesn't operate that way. But she's also teaching her son Jacob to lie and to be deceptive. How many our children learn from the things that we do? And she's teaching him how to be deceptive. She's not trusting God to accomplish his will, but rather she thinks she needs to help God out by doing these things. And um someone say, well, but her husband was wrong. Let me just say this. God has not given wives the responsibility of correcting their husbands every time they're wrong. And my wife said that I could say that tonight. I got permission to use that line. But it's the truth, you know. Uh ladies, just remember this. Put your Put your husband into the hand of the Lord. You just live a godly life. You might not have a husband who's sanctified completely through the Lord. And uh but it's not your job to always go around and correct Your husband, the Lord is able to do what needs to be done in his life. God is big enough to take care of Jacob, or excuse me, of Esau. Let me get it right. Of Isaac. He can take care of all of those guys too, but we're talking here about Isaac. He's he's he's big enough to take care of Isaac and all of his uh selfishness. But we also see her penalty. She's going to pay for her actions because she'll never see Jacob again after this. According to verse 43 down to verse 45. Um, you know, when when Jacob has to leave, she's gonna send Jacob away. She only intends for him to to be gone for a little while and then come back After you know things go bad and Esau gets angry, she goes, you know, son, go live with my relatives and then come back. But what she doesn't realize is she'll never see him again. That was the last time. And so she pays a heavy price for her deception. Esau from this point on deliberately acts also to hurt. His mother, Rebecca. He does things to really that to hurt her, to irritate her. And so it's really sad. Her bad example also costs Jacob. You know why? Because she taught Jacob how to be a deceiver And guess what? When you deceive others, you're going to reap what you sow. And others are going to deceive you. And we're going to see here that Jacob, he gets deceived by his father-in-law. Ten times he deceives his father by putting animal skins on his arms and pretends like he's Esau, lies to his father, but throughout the rest of his life he will be the he'll be the subject of being deceived Not only by his father-in-law, but ultimately later his own sons will come to him one day and say, Your son Joseph was killed. They'll lie and deceive him to the point of great sorrow and pain. Always remember that you reap what you sow. You always reap more than you sow. But we also see her responsibility. Look at verse number eleven of chapter twenty-seven. Jacob said to Rebecca his mother, Behold, Esau, my brother, is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. My father, per adventure, will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver, and I shall bring a curse upon me, not a blessing. And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son. Only obey my voice and go and fetch me them. So notice Jacob is concerned about all this. He's not concerned about doing wrong, he's concerned about getting caught. I don't want to get caught and bring down a bigger blessing on me. His concern wasn't, this is not right. Wait, wait, wait a minute, we can't do this. That was not it. Uh he just didn't want to face severe consequences. He didn't want to bring a curse upon himself. But Rebecca's response is let the curse be upon me. I will take full responsibility for this. And she makes the meat. She puts skins on her son and uh on his hands and his neck and she sends him in with the meal. Now Jacob must have been really sweating this out. Can you imagine? Going into his father's tent. When my father recognized my voice Will these goat skins really work? Um, you know, will this meat taste like venison? You know, uh will Esau come in in the middle of this whole ordeal? You know, and then that really is going to backfire if that happens But he goes along with it because he's also selfish. And he wants that blessing for himself. And so he was willing to risk to get what he wants. So we see scene one, a disobedient father, scene two, a deceptive mother. Here's scene three, a dishonest son. Look in verse 18 of chapter 27. And he came unto his father and said, My father, and he said, Here am I. Who art thou, my son? And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau, thy firstborn, and I have done according as thou biddest me. Arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me. And so here comes Jacob, and he just basically tells one lie after another. to his father. Here's lie number one. I who is it? I am Esau. No, you're not. It's Jacob. Here's lie number two. I've done as you told me. That's a lie. You didn't do any of that. And then he says, eat of my venison. That's the third lie. It wasn't his venison. And it was goat meat. And his mother made it, not him. And then notice what Isaac says in verse 20. And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, because the Lord thy God brought it to me. He brings God in on this lie. Oh, God, God brought it to me. That's another lie. And so look at verse 21 and verse 22. And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son, Esau, or not. And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father, and he felt him. And he said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. And so he hears the voice. He i it sounds like Jacob, but it he feels like Esau. Evidently, Esau sang bass and Jacob sang tenor. And his voice doesn't match, however, his hands. By the way, that's a great definition of a hypocrisy when your voice doesn't match your hands. And so he's unable to discern any more than that. But look at verse 23. And he discerned him not because his hands were hairy. And as his brother Esau's hand, as his brother Esau's hands, so he blessed him. And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am. There is another lie. He lies again. He just keeps lying one lie after another after another. Did you ever notice that whenever you tell one lie it doesn't end there? Because you have to tell further lies to cover that one lie. And one lie never does it. You always need to lie a whole lot more. And this is exactly what happens here. And Isaac He didn't pray, he didn't seek the Lord, he just depended upon his own understanding there. And so af in verses twenty-five down to verse twenty-seven, after Isaac ate He asked his son for a kiss, the Bible says. And um look at verse 27. And he came near and he kissed him. And he smelled the smell of his raiment, and he blessed him and said, See the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord has. Blessed. Verse twenty-eight. Therefore God give thee the dew of the heaven and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine. Let the people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee. Be Lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee. Cursed be everyone that curses thee, and blessed be he that blesses thee. And so he gives him this blessing. That involved three areas, natural and material prosperity. Let the earth bless you, the fruit of the earth, political power, and verse number twenty-nine, nations will bow down to thee. Spiritual protection that those who Curse you will be cursed, those who bless you will be blessed. And so Jacob leaves and the scheme worked to perfection. But this is one of the most, I think, pathetic episodes in the Bible and in the life of Jacob. You know, how does he how does he live with himself after this? I agree with the commentator James Montgomery Boyce that said Jacob is the basis character in the episode. Can you imagine deceiving a blind man? And not only a blind man, but that your father, your own father, and taking advantage of his weakness in that way. I mean, who does those sort of things? I was reading about an ABC News report where the ABC News rigged a camera at a bakery and they hired two actors to pretend they were blind. And they hired the cashier to pretend to rip off the blind person, giving them back the wrong change. And they wanted to see how many customers would speak up when the blind person was shortchanged. They wanted to see if that would happen. They found out that in each instant, the people, when they saw that that blind person being shortchanged, they immediately stood up for that blind person. That's what they found out. The idea is unthinkable to to to take advantage of someone in that way And yet compare that to this story here where here you have a son who is lying and taking advantage of his own father. And the last days of his life, on his deathbed, because of his blindness. Wow. You talk about selfishness. You talk about being selfish. This is the epitome of selfishness. So we see scene one, a disobedient father, scene two, a deceptive mother, scene three, a dishonest son. But here's scene number four, a despondent brother. Because look at verse number 30 of chapter 27. And it came to pass as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob. And Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau's brother came in from his hunting. And he also had made savory meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau. And Isaac trembling very exceedingly and said, Who? Where is he that hath taken venison and brought it to me? And I have eaten of all before thou cameest, and have blessed him. And look at this next line, yea, and he shall be blessed. Well, as soon as Jacob leaves, here comes Esau. And Isaac and Esau found out about this hoax. And notice the reaction. Isaac trembles. This was a physical shaking. He trembled violently. Because he knew in that moment he had to know that God sovereignly overruled his own selfish plan. And God's plan was actually happening. You say, now wait a minute, Jacob did something that was really wrong. Are you trying to say that God Had him do that. No, Jacob did exactly what he wanted to do. And yet what he chose to do did not thwart the plan of God. It upheld God's plan And that you say that's that's a mystery between the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man. What he did was wrong, and he will be judged for it, and he'll pay he'll pay for it, by the way. But yet what he did was all a part of God's plan. And in that instant, Isaac knew that he could not overrule What God had planned in his sovereign will, that Jacob would be the one that would carry forth the blessing. And so That's why he says, you know, who is this one that came in and I ate of his meat and I blessed him? And guess what? He will be blessed. That blessing will go to him. It cannot be brought back. Why did he say that? Because again, in this time and in this culture, a deathbed blessing was legally binding. And the reason we know that is because archaeologists discovered in the town of Nuzi about 4,000 clay tablets, and these clay tablets basically describe life in that patriarchal time, the customs And one of the things that's described in one of those tablets is a deathbed blessing. And it records how that an oral deathbed will was legally binding and it could not be reversed in that culture. And so that's why Isaac says, there's no reversal on this. I can't take the blessing back. I gave it to Jacob, and he will be blessed. And what's Esau's response? Well, he weeps. In verse number 34. And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry. And said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my Father. And he said, Thy brother came with subtlety and hath taken away thy blessing. And he said, Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he hath supplanted me these two times. And uh then he begs him for a blessing yet. And he says, uh, now hath take he's taken away my blessing and And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me? Verse 37. And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy Lord. And all his brethren have I given to him for servants, and with corn and with wine have I sustained him. And what shall I do now unto thee, my son? And so Esau realizes that uh there really that blessing will not he'll never get that. That he will end up serving his brother. And even through his tears. And we and you know, we we feel sorry a little bit for Esau, but you have to remember he was a fleshly man. He concerned he was concerned more about uh feeding his physical appetites than spiritual things. That's why he sold his birthright to begin with. I mean we we can't really feel that Terrible for him. And he was weeping not because he was repentant of what he had done, but because he regretted losing that material wealth Um and so his tears were an attempt to change his father's mind, but his father would not change his mind And again, the idea here is that Esau, like his father, was trying to thwart the purposes of God, but no matter how hard you try, you cannot overturn God's purposes. It is futile to fight against God. And so Isaac does give him a blessing. And uh in verse number uh thirty seven um Actually, look down in verse number 38. And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Verse 38, bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be The fatness of the earth, and of the dew of the heaven from above, and by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother, and it shall come. to pass that when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break uh his yoke from off thy neck. And so um And in verse number thirty-nine, where it says here, you know, your blessings shall be of the earth. Really, the the Hebrew preposition min, we could translate away from the earth. Or we could say it like this, behold, away from the fatness of the earth shall your dwelling be. Other words, the idea here being that Esau would have a hard existence. Things would not come easy for him. He would not have great riches or live off the dew and the fatness of the earth. Far from that, it's going to be much harder for him. And his descendants would live by the sword and violence. And so he's kind of paying the price for his own uh selfishness and his own desire for physical blessing, material things rather than spiritual things. And so Esau makes a vow in verse number 41. Look at verse 41. And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father at hand, then will I slay my brother Jacob. And so he holds an unforgiving spirit, he vows to take out revenge upon his brother. And uh you can just see how selfishness manifests itself in this family and basically tears this whole family apart. Tears it apart. And again, the lesson is for all of us that we deal with this issue of selfishness in us. A father disobeys God and seeks his own will. A mother is deceptive and secretive and manipulates. A son is dishonest. A brother vows to get back and kill his own brother. When uh all these things happen, all because of selfishness. Now let me give you just a through a few thoughts about that. Again, we have to deal with this thing of selfishness in our own heart, right? So here's a few suggestions. Number one, acknowledge that you have it. We have to acknowledge it. We all have this tendency to be focused on us. Rather than our family or others. And we put ourselves ahead of others at times. And we have to realize this tendency. And And the reason for this is because we are all we all have that sin nature and we all have this inordinate self-love that at times gets in the way, and it's the opposite of what is Christ-like. Christ was the most selfless person. And if we want to be like Jesus, we have to be selfless, not selfish. And uh so ask yourself, am I constantly irritable? Do I complain because I don't get my way? Am I plotting and scheming? To get things that I want? Am I angry when I don't get what I want? Am I impatient? Do I argue with others? Am I angry at God for my lot in life? Do I harbor grudges? All those things reveal selfishness. Number two, think about the destructive effects of selfishness, what it produces. And we really see that in this story here. It just breaks up this whole home. Selfishness is the cause of every war, it's the cause of every argument, every contention, every division. Number three, confess the sin and forsake it. We have to confess that, forsake it in our own life, put it to death. We have to mortify that sin. You say how? By intentionally putting others ahead of you You say, well I don't feel like doing that. Well do it anyway. You need to do it when you don't feel like doing it. You know, your heart will catch up later. It's action, it's doing the right thing. 1 Corinthians 10 24, let no one seek his own good but the good of his neighbor. We need to learn to deny ourselves, deny our flesh. And then I would say, meditate on Jesus. Meditate on Christ. And along with that, just memorize Philippians 2, the most selfless chapter in the Bible. This is your spiritual homework, all right? That's me as Christmas, right? You want a Christmas passage to memorize? Memorize Philippians 2. The absolute selflessness of Christ when he left heaven and came to earth. To die for our sins, when he took upon him the form of a servant. Just a beautiful chapter on selflessness. And learn that and repeat that over and over again in your mind. And when you're tempted to be selfless, just pull that chapter up. You see, now wait a minute. The writer of Hebrews commends Isaac for his faith when he blessed his sons. How does this story demonstrate faith? Well, here's the point. Isaac finally learns from this episode. It's not too late to learn. I mean, he's 137 years old. He's still learning spiritual lessons And he learns. He knows that God is going to accomplish his will. God will keep his promise. And through Jacob, God will extend the covenant promise that he made to Abraham. And Isaac's faith really isn't manifested until we come to chapter 28. Look at verse number one. It's manifested right here. And Isaac called Jacob. This is after the whole episode. You're thinking he's going to call him in and really chew him out, right? And he blessed him. And charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan Arise and go to Padan Aram to the house of Bethuel, thy mother's father, and take thee away from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people, and give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abram. And Isaac sent away Jacob. And so here's the lesson here. And this is the story behind Hebrews 11, 20 that we read, where we see, we read by faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. Finally, it dawns on Isaac. That this is what God said, this is what's going to happen in the future, and he trusted in that and he believed in that. And again, that is faith. Faith believes to the extent that the future unknown becomes a present reality. And suddenly he knows that you know what? When God makes a promise, God's going to keep that promise. And no human scheming, no man can overturn or thwart the purposes of God when God promises to do something, it will be done. And by faith then he blesses. Jacob and Esau appropriately, the way they he should have from the very beginning, and he trusted God to fulfill what he promised to do and accomplish his will. And so, what do we learn about faith? It is setting aside our personal selfish agenda and trust God's promises. You want to know the definition of a frustrated life is when you you try to overturn what God's doing. You don't get in harmony and submit to God's plan. And allow God to do His will instead of resisting it, instead of rebelling against it. Or trying to do your own thing. Submit to God's word and submit to God's will. That is a life of faith and a life of peace. Because you know God is in control and God's going to fulfill what he wants to do. Let's bow for prayer together tonight So, Father, thank you again for your word and what we learn from it. And how Lord, we need to be people that submit to your sovereign will and your word. That's faith. Setting aside our own plans, our own agenda, and submitting ourselves, Lord, to it. what you desire, what you want. That is the walk of faith. And Lord, help us to live that way. Help us to walk that way and to believe in your word and to trust you, Lord, to accomplish the things that you desire to accomplish. For your honor and for your glory, we pray you In Jesus' name, a man