Be finding 2 Timothy chapter 1 in your Bibles this morning. 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we're going to read from verses 1 to 7. I would ask when you find that. Let's all stand together for the reading of Scripture. as we honor the word of God in reading. 2 Timothy 1, verses 1 to 7. 2 Timothy chapter 1 verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience That without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that it is in thee also. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stirred up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Let's bow for prayer together today. And so, Father, as we come before you, we thank you for the inspired word of God This is our source of authority and our instruction. And Lord, today it's our desire to hear from you through your word. Lord, help me, your servant, to make your word clear. And Lord, I pray this will be a time of blessing, a time of edification for your people who hear the Word of God. Speak to hearts, save souls, and strengthen the body of Christ, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated. I heard about two elderly women who were talking and they were reminiscing about when they were young and they were talking about how things have changed. And let me read you what they said. They said, we were born before TV, before penicillin, before polio shots, frozen food, xerock plastics, contact lenses, frisbees, and the pill. We were born before radar, credit cards, split atoms, laser beams, and ballpoint pens, before dishwashers, clothes dryers, electric blankets, air conditioners, drip-dry clothes, and before man walk on the moon We got married first and then lived together. How quaint can you get? In our time, closets were for clothes, not for coming out of Designer jeans were scheming girls named Jean, and having a meaningful relationship meant getting along well with our cousin. We were born before house husbands, gay rights, computer dating, dual careers, and computer marriages We were born before daycare centers and group therapy in nursing homes. We never heard of FM radios, tape decks, electric typewriters, artificial hearts, word processors, internet, cell phones, and yogurt. For us, timesharing meant togetherness, not computers and condominiums. A chip meant a piece of wood. Hardware meant hardware, and software wasn't even a word. In 1940, made in Japan meant junk The term making out referred to how you did on your exam. Pizzas, McDonald's, and instant coffee were unheard of. In our day, grass was mowed. Coke was something you drank, pot was something you cooked in. Rock music was a grandma's lullaby. AIDS were helpers in the principal's office. And we made do with what we had. We were the last generation that was so dumb as to think you needed a husband before you had a baby. No wonder we are so confused and there is such a generation gap today. But we survived. We just wonder if this new generation is going to survive. And sometimes I wonder the same thing, and so must you I think that what we need is we need a good dose of the faith of our mothers and our grandmothers. That's really what the Apostle Paul is telling Timothy right here. Now in this letter of 2 Timothy, let me give you a little bit of a background. We're going to talk today about the faith of our mothers, because this is what Paul points to here in this letter. This is appropriate, I think, for Mother's Day when we thank God for motherhood. And we thank God for godly mothers. Paul is writing to Timothy. He's trying to encourage Timothy to fight a good fight. He's talking from prison. Paul was in prison at the time that he writes this letter. It's pretty sure that Paul will face death, that in a very short time he will be executed by Nero for his faith, but he's not worried about himself. He's worried about Timothy, his son in the face. You see, he doesn't want Timothy to quit. He doesn't want Timothy to give up And he wants Timothy to continue on to fight the good fight of faith. And so this is why Paul writes this letter to Timothy He's telling him to fight the good fight. He's encouraging him to stay strong and prepare for ministry for days to come. And so really you can divide up 2 Timothy into four sections. Chapter 1 is a pastoral appeal. Chapter 2 is a practical appeal. Chapter 3 is a prophetic appeal. And chapter 4 is a personal appeal. Now, I think of all of the letters that Paul wrote, this is perhaps the warmest letter, perhaps the most personal letter, because he's writing again to Timothy. uh his son in the faith. And what Paul wrote to Timothy is a message that we all need to hear today. You know why? Because I see Christians all over who are going AWOL, who are dropping out, who are quitting, who are getting discouraged, who are giving up I was reading an article just a few days ago where it talked about pastors who are bailing out of their ministry in drugs. In fact, one statistic said it reported that uh in the last year, 1,500 pastors leave the ministry each month due to burnout or contention in their churches or some kind of failure. And then it said this. It said 70% of pastors constantly fight depression. 50% are so discouraged that they would leave the ministry if they could, but they have no other way of making a living. But not only pastors, there are many Christians who are burnt out, so to speak, in their Christian life. Perhaps they started serving in a church. And something happened to them where they were wounded, they were criticized, uh, some bad event took place where it just caused them to quit and drop out. They're not doing what they used to do. They're no longer involved in really serving God. They're no longer on fire for God. They are no longer using the gift that God has given them. And so this message that Paul wrote to Timothy is something that we need to hear today, to keep us encouraged, to keep us faithful because when I read about the life of Timothy, you know what I see a lot of myself in Timothy. I see you might see a lot of yourself. in Timothy as well. Timothy was a timid young man. Look in verse number seven again, for God had not given us the spirit of fear. That's a word that means to be timid, to lack confidence. Timothy was a young man that lacked confidence at times. He had a very big job in front of him, following in the footsteps of the Apostle Paul, and he at times doubted himself, and he was reluctant to exercise his own pastoral authority because of his youth. In many cultures at this time, young men were not even allowed to speak in a public assembly. So Timothy was a timid young man. He was also a tender young man. Look at verse number four, again what it says, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy. tears. The last time Paul and Timothy met, they had a tearful departure. They had such a close relationship and Timothy depended so much on Paul. And uh Timothy was a very sensitive young man uh in his heart. Paul would say of him in Philippians, I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. Timothy's a good young man. He has a sensitive, tender heart, and will care for you. He was a timid young man. He was a tender young man, but also he was a talented young man. Look at verse number six what it says. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance That thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hand. Now Timothy had some God-given gifts for ministry. But because he was discouraged, He wasn't really living up to his capabilities. And Paul had verified himself that Timothy was truly called of God by putting his own hands on Timothy and ordaining him. When a person is ordained, a church doesn't have the power to give gifts to a person. The church only recognizes what God has given to that person. And Paul recognized this in Timothy. And so he says to him in verse number 6: wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God. Timothy, stir up your gifts. Get back into the fight. Don't quit. Stay faithful. There's a long road ahead of you yet. And I want you to be faithful. Don't be ashamed of the gospel. Don't be ashamed of me. Don't be ashamed to stand for Christ. Don't be ashamed to suffer persecution and ridicule for the gospel. All these were things that were challenging Timothy. And so Paul wants to motivate them. Paul wants to get them back into the fight. But you know the one thing that Paul does that I think is very effective in this passage? You know what Paul does? He points to Timothy's heritage. He points to his grandmother and his mother. Look again in verse number five. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that it is in thee also. Timothy, remember when you're tempted to quit and drop out and throw in the towel, I want you to remember the faith of your grandmother. I want you to remember the faith of your mother. Because that faith that they had, I'm persuaded, is in you too. It was passed down to you. Timothy's grandmother was the first one saved in her family. She was a godly, faithful Christian. And Timothy's mother was also a godly woman. Timothy's father was probably not a believer and wasn't saved, but yet he had a godly mother. Thank God for mothers who are faithful. Even mothers who may be married to a man who's not a believer, and yet they're still living out their faith. They're still faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul is pointing to them. He's saying, Listen, look at your mother and your grandmother. Remember their faith. Let me just say this: that godly mothers and grandmothers are the salvation of the human race. You understand that? They're the salvation of humanity. In fact, hold your place here. Go back to 1 Timothy 2 and verse number 13. Let me show you a verse here. 1 Timothy 2, 13, where it says this. For Adam was first formed, then Eve. Verse 14, 1 Timothy 2, 14. For Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Verse 15, notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. What's Paul saying there? He's saying when she shall be saved, he's talking about womanhood. In other words, what Paul is saying is there's a sense in which there's a stigma that rests on womanhood because of the fall. In the Garden of Eden, Adam wasn't deceived, it was Eve that was deceived, and she was deceived by the serpent She ate of the fruit, and then she gave to her husband who was there with them, and he ate. You know the old saying that man is the head of the home, but woman is the neck that turns the head? What's illustrated right there? It's illustrated right there in that passage. Adam was right there. He saw everything unfolding. But Eve was kind of calling the shots, and she said, here you eat. And he did. And there's a sense in which then there was a stigma on womanhood because Adam wasn't deceived, but she was. However, Paul says that stigma that rests on womanhood is removed by what? By motherhood. When a woman bears a child and that woman teaches that child the gospel and they get saved, And it says in verse 15, if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety, she shall be saved. What shall be saved? The whole stigma that rests on womanhood is all removed And she brings salvation to the human race, one child at a time, when she teaches that child to continue in faith and love. and and and a holiness and so on. So literally then godly mothers are the salvation of the human race. And that's what Paul is saying here. And now Paul here is pointing back to mothers again. And Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, I know you're discouraged. I know that uh others have despised you I know that you're probably not doing all that you would like to do. Things aren't going your way. I know that you're tempted to quit and throw in a towel, but Timothy, I want to remind you of the faith of your grandmother And the faith of your mother. Because the faith that they had, I am persuaded, is in you as well. And they were not quitters. They were not the kind of people that threw a Natal. Remember the faith of your mother and your grandmother. Let me give you four characteristics of that faith. If you're taking notes, write down. First of all, there was a faithfulness about it There was a faithfulness about it. Look again in 2 Timothy 1, verse 5. I call to remember remembrance the unthane faith. Look at the word unthane there. This is a word that's an interesting word in the Greek. It's uh Hippocrates. It's where we get the word hypocrite from, right? But it has the alpha negative in front of it, so it's ah. Hippocrates, which we could say then, not a hypocrite, not hypocritical. And literally in the ancient world, a hypocrite was an actor who wore a mask Now today's actors they get all dialed up in makeup, right? But back in that day, they just would wear a mask in the theater. And a person who wore a mask was called a hypocrite And what a person who uh didn't wear a mask was not a hypocrite. And this is what Paul is saying here. The faith of your grandmother and your mother was not a hypocritical faith They didn't wear a mask on in church and then take the mask off when they got home. What they were at church They were the same at home. They weren't putting on an act. They weren't actors in a drama. Their faith was a real faith. It was real at home. It was real everywhere they went. This word sometimes is translated in some translations as sincere. They had a sincere faith. There's nothing phony about their faith. Do you know kids can smell a phony a mile away? They know what's real and what's not. They can tell whether your faith is real. And so Timothy knew that their faith was a real faith. One time a pastor was preaching on the importance of Bible reading, and the pastor and his wife were invited over to the home of some of their parishioners, and on the when they went over, the pastor's wife noticed that the woman had the woman of the house had written on a chalkboard or little calendar type board in her house uh that date that they were coming over and there was a little notation in there that said this pastor and missus coming for dinner, dust off all Bibles Thank God for sincere faith. Faith is not one thing at home and another thing at church. And this was what their faith was like. Some of you might know that I just a month ago I conducted the funeral of my 100-year-old grandmother. She was my maternal grandmother, my mother's mother. She was a godly woman And uh I was reminded of that in the funeral service when a lot of the grandchildren got up and spoke. But one thing that my mother told me, she told me of a time when uh she had her mom come over and stay with her for a few days and one day after her mother had gone into the room to get ready for bed, my mother went in to check on her and when she went in the room there was nobody in there. And she was wondering, where did she go? How how does a 90-year-old woman get out of here? But then she noticed that as she looked across the bed, she could see just the tip of her head. She found her kneeling beside the bed Praying because every night before she went to bed, she would get on her knees and she would pray for every one of her children, every one of her grandchildren, and she did that every night. Every night, no matter how old she was, she would get on her knees and she would pray. Thank God for that kind of grandmother. There was a faithfulness about it. But then secondly, write down there was a fruitfulness about their faith. Look again in verse 5. I call to remembrance The unfained faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee. And what I want you to see here is that there are three generations that are mentioned here There's the grandmother and then the mother, and Paul says, and now Timothy, it's in you as well. Not only are godly mothers women of sincere faith, but they are also women who seek to hand off that faith to their children. And hypocritical faith can't be handed off. If you're a phony, your kids aren't going to want to be what you are. They're not going to want to have that kind of faith. But genuine faith is contagious. It is, someone said faith is caught as well as taught. When that faith is sincere, it's passed down. Paul saw in Timothy what he saw in his grandm in his mother and in his grandmother it was handed down. Again I say Timothy's father was apparently not a believer. He was he was Greek according to Acts 16. 1. We don't know why Timothy's mother was married to an unbeliever. Perhaps she got saved later on. But this whole story should give hope to women who may be married to a lost man in a marriage. You can still have a godly family and godly children because certainly Eunice, that was her story. But what happened here is that Timothy was taught the scripture as a child. As a small child. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 3. Look in verse number 16. Just flip forward to chapter 3. Actually verse 15 there. And look, notice that. And that from a child, Paul's talking to Timothy. Timothy, from a child, thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith that is in Christ Jesus. The word for child is brefos. It's a Greek word for, it could speak anywhere from a baby that's not born all the way up to a toddler. It's talking about a small child. And Paul is saying, Timothy, even from the very earliest days, you were taught the scriptures. You know what? You can teach scriptures to children at a very, very young age. Just when they're very, very young. Isaiah 28, 9. Whom shall he that is God teach knowledge? Whom shall he, God, make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk Them that are drawn from the breast. I believe that God honors mothers who take the scripture and begin to teach it to children who are very, very young. You'd be surprised how much your children pick up How much they can learn at a very young age. I still remember back to my daughter Abby when she was uh just bar barely learning to walk. She was still crawling, and one day I was sitting in my living room uh my lazy boy and I was reading the Bible and she crawled over and she pulled herself up to my lap and she put her little finger down on the Bible and she said and and and mind you now she had just learned how to talk she learned how to say mama and daddy and that was about it But you know her first word after Mama and Daddy, she put her finger down and she said, Bible. Bible. I was shocked that she knew that That was incredible that at that young age she recognized something about this book. Now the next word after that was pizza, you know Kind of tell you about our life. A lot of both. And uh But I was so shocked. And you know what? I my mind went back there because when she came to visit now and she has a little boy around little Theo. And I was in my study and Theo He came into my study. Again, he pulled himself up on my lap. And you know what? My mind went back because Tio put his finger on my Bible. You know what he said? Bible. That took me back to Abby's first word. Bible. Bible. Children can be taught the scripture. At a very very early age, Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, from a child, from a breath, from just a little child, you have learned the Holy Scripture. Timothy was taught the trustworthiness of Scripture. It says you've learned the Holy Scripture. And that is scripture that is inspired, that is of God. We need to teach our children that this is the living word of God. This is the authority of God. This is dependable. This is trustworthy. Friend, we need to get that message out, especially today, when there's so much attacks against the scripture. And when children are being taught to believe so many lies. We have to ingrain this truth into the hearts of our children. Timothy was taught the trustworthiness of Scripture And this teaching of the scripture when he was young eventually led to his salvation. Look again in chapter 3, verse 15, it says again From a child thou hast learned the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the seeds of salvation were planted in Timothy's heart when he was young because of what his mother and his grandmother taught him. You might not see the result of your teaching quickly with a child. Timothy really didn't get saved until he was a young adult. It wasn't until later when the Apostle Paul came through Lystra on his second missionary journey, and the Apostle Paul preached the gospel that Timothy embraced Christ and he got saved. But Paul understood that the seeds of the gospel had been planted when Timothy was just a child. You may be here and you may be a mom, and you might say, well, you know, I have been faithful to teach the gospel and the Bible to my child and I haven't yet seen the results. Just hang in there, Mom. Just keep praying. It's not over yet. It's not all the results aren't in yet. It may be that later on in life, as a young adult, or even later, that you'll see the fruit of what you have done. But it eventually led to Timothy's salvation. And that's why Paul is reminding Timothy, Timothy, remember the faith of your mother and grandmother. Remember they taught you the Word of God. They taught you that this is the authoritative word of God. They planted that word in you, in your heart. Don't give up on what you have been taught. I believe that when we teach our children the Bible, it teaches them that God is holy. It teaches them the gospel. It teaches them the fear of God. And God uses that and will use that all throughout their life. Charles Spurgeon. You've probably heard me quote from him a lot. He was a great preacher. And in his autobiography, he he goes, he takes about twenty pages and describes This this mountain of guilt that he had when he was 10 years old to he was 15 years old, and he's so graphic in the way that he describes it in his autobiography. That I'm persuaded that had he lived today and he was describing the kind of guilt that he was experiencing, we would probably take him to a psychologist today and say, you know, you're you're having trouble here. But there was no problem You see, what happened was is when he was a child, Spurgeon's mother taught him the Bible, and you know what she taught him? She taught him the Ten Commandments And you know what the Ten Commandments taught Virgin that God is holy? He has a perfect standard that none of us can reach. None of us can live up to. And it brought guilt, and you know what that guilt did? That guilt drove Spurgeon to Christ. It drove him to the to the gospel. And one day when he was 15 years old, he went to church. It was snowing that day. It was snowing so hard that the pastor didn't even show up to the church. Just a handful of people, but Spurgeon was there. And a deacon got up, and he opened up his Bible to Isaiah 45. Look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. And that deacon pointed to Spurgeon and said, young man, look to Christ. And Spurgeon had already, his heart had already been clouded. and broken by the word that he had been taught by his mother, and watered with her tears when she would pray for him every night. That finally he gave his heart to Christ. And I say that story to remind moms here. Listen, you just keep teaching the Word of God and you keep praying and you give the results to God and God will honor that That's what happened in the life of Spurgeon. And he became one of the great preachers in the history of the church. There was a faithfulness about There was a fruitfulness about her faith. Let me give you a third thing. There was a fearlessness about her faith. Again, look in 2 Timothy chapter 1, look in verse number six. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting out of my hands. For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And again I say, Timothy He had the tendency to retreat from the front lines of serving Christ. He had a tendency to walk away when the battle waxed hot. And Paul knew this about him. Once Paul had to write to the Corinthians, he said this in chapter 16, verse 10, now if Timothy comes to you, see that he is with you without cause to be afraid. He told the Corinthians, When Timothy comes, don't you do anything to intimidate him or try to hurt him. Because Paul understood the sensitivity of this young man. And Paul knew that the rowdy Corinthians might run roughshod over him. So Paul says to them, be gentle to him. And again, Paul is now in a dungeon and he knows that he's going to die soon, and he wants the faith to continue on. He wants Timothy to get strong. So again, he's writing to remind him that the faith of your grandmother and your mother was a there was a fearlessness about it. Because if you look in verse 7, he uses the word us. God has not given us The spirit of fear. Who's the us there? Again, I think he's referring back to his grandmother and his mother and even Paul himself. Timothy, we're not ashamed. To suffer for the gospel. And we're not afraid. Look at verse number 8 when he says, Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. Nor of me as prisoner, but be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel, according to the power of God. There's something in people where we want the rewards of the gospel, we just don't want to bear the reproach of the gospel. And that was the tendency in Timothy and Paul says, no, no, no. There's going to come a time when you might have to stand for the gospel. There's going to come a time when the world will come against you. But don't be afraid. Don't run. God's not giving us the spirit of fear. Remember the faith of your grandmother and your mother. There was a fearlessness about it. There was a boldness about it. I wonder about our country today because it seems like more and more people are afraid to stand for truth. People are afraid to stand for what's right. They don't want to get battered. They don't want to get hammered. So they're afraid to stand for truth. This is not the faith of our grandmothers and our mothers who stood on the Word of God. And Paul says that to Timothy. So he says to him, stir up the gift that is in you. That gift that God's given you. You know God's given every one of you a spiritual gift. Are you using it And notice the word gift is singular. It's not plural. Not gifts, but gift. You see what God does is he kind of mixes together the spiritual gifts. He might give someone a little bit of Like for me, he might give me a little bit of the gift of teaching and mercy and administration. He might give you the gift of encouragement or giving, and he will mix them together and in such a way that the gift that you have is a unique gift Kind of like a snowflake. No two snowflakes are exactly alike. There's no two spiritual gifts that are exactly alike because God brings them all together in such a way He gives you this unique gift and you are to exercise that gift in the church. And you know who misses out if you don't give your gift or if you don't use your gift, we miss out on that. Because your gift is given For others. And it's your own gift. In fact, the Apostle Paul uses the word idious, which is he says this in 1 Corinthians 12, 11, but all these work That one and self-same spirit dividing to every man severally as he willed. It's the word idios. It's where we get the word idiot from. Uh and you know what the word idiot means? There's n no one just exactly like you. That's exactly what it means. All those years when my father called me an idiot, I thought he was insulting me. Actually he was saying there's no one just exactly like you. And this is the word that's used to describe your spiritual gift. You have a gift that is idios, it is put together, not nothing, no other gift exactly like it. And you're to use this gift for the church. And this is what Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, use that gift. There's no such thing as mass production. Everyone is different. Everyone is uniquely made by God. And friend, if you don't use your gift, the church suffers. And the gospel is not as effective if everyone's not employing that gift and using that gift. The farmer had a team of horses in which one horse was consistently working harder than any of the other other horses, and the farmer said, All the horses are willing, the one's willing to pull and the rest are willing to let them. Sometimes that's true in the church. There's only a handful that's willing to pull, and the rest are willing to let them pull. But friend, we all need to get involved. And this is what Paul says to Timothy, don't be afraid. Exercise the gift that God's given you. And then finally, before we are dismissed, here's the last point. There was a forcefulness about her faith. There was a faithfulness about it. There was a fruitfulness about it. There was a fearlessness about it. And there's a forcefulness about it. Look again in verse 7, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. Timothy, draw on the divine resources that God has given you. He has endued you with power. We don't do what we do in the flesh. We are dependent upon the power of the Spirit to do it. He has enriched you with love. He's given you love. This is love for others in the church, love for God's people. He has enlightened you with wisdom, a sound mind, making good decisions. wisdom in the Bible is making godly choices. And God has given you all of these resources. He's given you this power, this love, this wisdom. So don't quit. Stay faithful. Remember the faith of your grandmother and the faith of your mother. Don't turn back. Let me just say this. Maybe you're here today and you feel like as a mom you've you might say, well I haven't been faithful. I've failed. Well let me just tell you this, all of us have failed. But you know what? Just repent. Turn to God and say, God, help me from here on out to be what you've called me to be. And it may be that you're here today and you say, uh, you know, I I have been on the verge of quitting. I haven't been faithful to the Lord. Like I should. Well then I I just extend this same message to you. What Paul said to Timothy. Remember the faith of those who have gone on before you. And fight the good fight of faith. Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, bless these words to our heart today. Thank you, Lord, for the godly grandmothers and mothers that you've put in our life that have Than a model to us, a pattern of godliness, faithfulness. And I think, Lord, there's many of us here that could say we haven't always been faithful to follow. And that godly example. But Lord, forgive us. Help us to do exactly that. To make this commitment today before you. That I will remember the faith of my mother, my grandmother. Help me, Lord, to be like them And Lord, I pray that if there's some here that are tempted to throw in the towel and quit, or maybe they've been discouraged. Let this message encourage their heart today. I pray in Jesus' name with heads bowed. Now you might be here today and you might be saying, you know what, I I really don't have a godly example. I didn't come from a Christian home. Well then you determine that you will be that example for the next generation. And you know what? You might not have a a mother figure in your family that you can look to, but you know what in the church God has put many spiritual moms here That you can look to for encouragement and strength. Look at their example. Find encouragement in their faith That you'll follow right in that same pattern. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, this would be a great day to start right here. To become a child of God, a son or daughter into faith. And the way you do that is by simply turning from your sin and turning to Christ and saying, Jesus, come into my heart, save me, make me your child. If you pray that it means he will save you. And it's my heart's desire that you know the Lord Jesus Christ if you don't already know him. Would you do that today? Would you pray? Just pray this in your heart. God be merciful to me as sinner. Save me for Christ's sake Let's all stand together, friend. I'm going to give a moment of invitation. I'm going to ask our ministers to come. We're going to sing just as I am. If you have a spiritual need, you just need to use this altar. Maybe you want to come and know how you can be a Christian. You come as we begin to sing I'm not going to extend the invitation long, friend, but I want to give you an opportunity to respond, if God's speaking, just as I am