I want you to take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. As you know, we've been looking at Hebrews chapter 11 on Sunday morning. We've been looking at these great heroes of the faith In Hebrews chapter 11, we're going to deal today with verse 17 down to verse 19 of Hebrews 11. Notice what it says in verse 17. By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that had received a promise offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. I heard about a professor who gave a grade to a college student on a test, it was a final exam, and the uh The uh grade that he received was a big fat red F. The student came to the professor and said, I just want you to know I don't deserve this grade. And the professor said, yes, I know, but it's the lowest grade that we have. We don't have anything lower. Perhaps you can relate to that. Maybe you failed a test that bad. Bomb the test. No one likes to fail a test. On the other hand, it's wonderful to pass a test. And did you know that in your spiritual walk, in your spiritual life, God has tests for you to take? Because just like in school you take a test to see whether you advance, that is also true in the spiritual life. God will give us tests of our faith. And He will re patiently repeat that test until we pass it. I don't know about you, but I don't want to keep taking the same test over again. I want to make sure that I pass the test that God gives. Uh and so someone has said a faith that cannot be tested is a faith that cannot be trusted. And that's very true. I mean how would you like to get on an airplane that has never been tested? How would you like to have a doctor do surgery on you who did not pass some tests in medical school? I heard about a man who was having surgery. And the doctor looked at him and said, You seem very nervous. He said, Yes, doctor, this is my first surgery. The doctor said, Yes, I know how you feel. It's my first surgery too We want people to be tested. And God wants us to be tested. He wants us to know where we are in our spiritual life. And so He will give us tests of our faith. Now we've been dealing with Hebrews chapter 11, where the writer has been exhorting all of us to walk by faith. And the reason being is because faith is what pleases God. In fact, you can't please God without faith He's writing to a group of Hebrews who were so accustomed to be a performance-driven religion where that you had to please God by your works. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, No, we please God by faith, by putting our trust in Him. And he's been establishing the fact that we are saved by faith, not by works. We live by faith And we die by faith. And what the writer of Hebrews does is he goes through the Old Testament, he goes through one character at a time, and he shows the readers that all of the characters, the great heroes in the Old Testament, were people just like us, and yet they were people who learned to live by faith. And we need to follow their example. And now he focuses in on a few verses in the life of a man by the name of Abraham. Abraham is called the father of the faithful. In Romans chapter 4, verse 11, he's called the father of all them that believe. And today we're going to look at a test that God gave Abraham. I call this faith final exam, because this is a kind of a final exam that God gives to Abraham And I think you probably know the story already. Abraham passes this final exam with flying colors. But the Bible tells us that in verse 17 that God commanded Abraham to offer up his son Isaac as a sacrifice And did you know that the Old Testament tells us that without hesitation he obeyed God? Look at verse 17 again. By faith, Abraham, when he was tried, that is to say, tested, offered up Isaac. And he had received the promise, he that received the promise offered up his only begotten son, of whom was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead. How is it that Abraham could just obey the command of God to offer his son in a burnt sacrifice and just do it without hesitation, without question? The reason he was able to do that is because he trusted the character of God. You see, God had made a promise to Abraham. What was that promise? That through Isaac I'm going to bless you. Through Isaac, I'm going to multiply your seed. I'm going to bless the earth through your seed, Isaac. How would God fulfill that promise if Isaac was dead? Isaac had not yet been married. He had no descendants. How is God going to do all of that? And so the Bible says that Abraham considered Look down in verse 19 where it says that Abraham, accounting that God was able to raise him That word accounting there is a word that's really it's a uh a word that means to a numerical calculation, uh reckoning. Abraham didn't take a blind leap of faith. When God gave this command to Abraham, he just began to calculate in his mind. He began to think about it deeply, and he thought, how will God fulfill the promise that he gave to me? If my son is dead. And so he began to think about it in his mind. Well, let me see. Number one, God, it may be that God's not telling me the truth. Maybe God's lying to me. Maybe God's playing on me a cruel joke. Or it could be that perhaps God's giving me some kind of a message, an object lesson. Or God's doing something that I don't understand, and yet he will fulfill his word. And so Abraham made this decision. I know that God can be trusted. That he will fulfill his word. And so he, by faith, the Bible says, offered up Isaac in verse 19, accounting that God was able to raise him up from the dead. Abraham made the calculation in his mind that if indeed he did offer his son in a burnt sacrifice, he could raise, God could raise his son up. That is a incredible calculation. That's called the logic of faith. And because of that, God honored it. Let's look at the story closer. Ultra place here in Bruce, go back to Genesis chapter twenty-two, will you? Go back to the Old Testament. Let's take a closer look at the test that God gave Abraham. And what I want you to see today are three lessons that we can learn because how many of you know that God will test you too? All of us will go through testing. And so we can learn something here from the life of Abraham to help us through the tests that we go through. Here's the first lesson I want you to write down the reality of testing. Just know that it's a reality. Just know, beloved, that you will be tested. The question is not if, but when. When God will test his people. Look in chapter 22, look down at verse number 1. It came to pass after these things. Notice the conditions here. After these things. After what things? This refers to all the previous events in Abraham's life. God had blessed Abraham. God fulfilled his promise, gave him a natural-born son named Isaac. He made peace with the Bimelech in the land, and all was going well. He settled down in the land. He had his wife. He had his son He had a beautiful place to live. He had prosperity. He had riches. He had honor. He had peace. All was well. Do you realize the testing comes right when everything's going good? Right when everything's really going well. You say, I'm not, everything's great with me now, blood pressure down, bank account up. I'm doing really well. Well, that's when testing comes. After these things. Many years had passed from chapter 21 of Genesis and chapter 22. Josephus says Isaac was twenty-five when God tested Abraham. If that's true, there are many years that that pass between chapter twenty-one and chapter twenty-two. Many years of things going well. But notice again in verse one, it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. And the word tempt there is really just the word test. You see, Satan will tempt us for our evil. God will test us for our good. And many times in the New Testament, the same Greek word for tempt is the same word for test, because it could be used either way. Satan will tempt us, but God, he will test us. And this isn't the first time that Abraham went through a test. In fact, if you look at his life in Genesis, you're going to find that he went through a series of tests. Rabbis say that he went through ten. tests from the very first time God said, get up, leave your country, leave your family, go to a place I'll show you. Until this last test here, he went through a series. The first we call the family test. He had to leave his loved ones. That was followed by the famine test, where he failed because he doubted God and he went down to Egypt for help. You might remember that story. And then there was the fellowship test When he gave Lot a first choice in using the pasture land when there was a conflict over the land, and then there was the fight test when he defeated the kings. that were coming against him. And then we could say the fortune tests when the King of Sodom offered him the wealth and he said no to it But he failed the fatherhood test. You remember that story when Sarah got impatient and she gave Abraham Hagar, her handmaid, for Abraham to have a son through her. And she would kind of be a surrogate mother. That was a test he didn't really do so well on. And then we could call this the farewell test when he had to send Ishmael away. Perhaps Abraham thought that was his final test in his life, but it wasn't. This is the final exam that he's going to take right here. Notice the command in verse 1. It says, God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. This is a commandment. Look at verse 2. And he said, Take now thy son, thy only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him therefore a burnt offering upon one of the mountains that I will tell thee of. This is an incredible thing. Here God comes out of nowhere, says, Abraham, I want you to take your son, your son Isaac, the one you love. I want you to take him to a place I'm going to show you. I want you to offer him there for a burnt sacrifice. Now, God is opposed to human sacrifice. In fact, that's one of the reasons he was angry with the Canaanites So you can imagine what's going on maybe in Abraham's mind. You mean you want me to sacrifice him and human sacrifice? This was more than just a contradiction in the character of God, but also a contradiction in the promise that God gave that through Isaac, God was going to bless him. And so Isaac was the son that he had waited for so long. When God said to Abraham, Leave your family. I'm going to bless you. I'm going to give you a seed through a natural-born son, even though he couldn't have a child. God finally fulfilled that promise. Even though Abraham waited and said, God, maybe Eliezer, maybe you can fill that promise for him, God said, no, it's going to be a natural-born son. And Abraham waited years. Until God finally brought that promise to pass. And now God is saying, I want you to take him, I want you to go and sacrifice him. Look at verse 2 where it says, take now thy only son, and it says, and get thee into the land. That Hebrew there, Lilaika. That verb is only used one other time. It's used in Genesis 12 when God said to Abraham at the first test, get thee away from your father, away from your family, and go into a land I'll tell you of. The first time God came to Abraham and told him to do that, God was saying to Abraham, just forget about your past and trust me. Now here God's giving him the same command. In essence, he's saying, forget about your future and trust me. And this was the test. Offer him there for a burnt offering. And this suggests a process. You know what a burnt offering was like to the Middle Easterner who did that? They would take the animal, they would cut the animal's throat on an altar. Imagine what Abraham was thinking in his mind. Can you imagine the horror that may have seized him in his mind? God came and gave him a huge, huge test. This was the biggest test of his life The biggest test of his life. Again, I want to remind you, beloved, that God will test you. But I want you to see number two. I want you to think about the response. Because almost as as amazing as the command is Abraham's response, because look in verse 3. And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him And Isaac his son and clay the wood for the burnt offering and rose up and went into the place which God had told him. Notice Abraham doesn't say a word. He just obeys. Now you remember that when God came to Abraham and said, I'm going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, you remember how Abraham bartered with God? God, will you do it? Is there 50 righteous? Forty-five, forty. If there are thirty righteous guys, will you do it? He kind of bartered with God until he got him down to if there are ten righteous, I won't destroy it. You could say that he was kind of arguing maybe a little bit with God, but here he doesn't say a word, not one word He just gets up, he does what God tells him to do. And notice the narrator here kind of meticulously informs us of Abraham's every movement. He got up early, saddled his donkey, took two young men. Uh cut wood for the burnt offering, went to the place that God had told him. How long did he travel? The Bible says three days in verse four, and then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes. That's a lot of time to think about this A lot of time to think about what he's going to do. It allows for sober reflection. of all that has to happen. We can only imagine how difficult this journey was here for Abraham. There was no one that really could share his sorrow or his pain. at that time. This was something that he was going through here. And I don't want you to miss this, that really there's a picture here. No one can chair in the father's sorrow when he sacrificed his son Jesus Christ for us. us. That's what all this is a picture of here. After three days he lifts up his eyes, he sees the place And notice Abraham's command in verse 5. And Abraham said to his young man, Abide ye here with the ass. I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come to you again. That's amazing. He's saying to the young men, the lad and I will go and worship and we will come back. Well, wait a minute, Abraham, if you're going to offer your son in a burnt sacrifice, how's he going to come back with you? There's faith in that statement here. Did Abraham really believe that Isaac would come back with them? Well I believe that although he doesn't really know how, I believe he realized he believed that God would work it out because he knew that God promised that through Isaac he would have Many seed, as many, as numerous as the stars, and the sand on the seashore, and through Isaac, God would bless the world. God made him that promise. And we already read in Hebrews where he says he considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead. I believe that Abraham knew somehow in his mind that when he came back, Isaac would be with him. Friend, that's faith. That's faith in the character of God. He believed God. He trusted God And then in verse 6 it says, And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, he laid it on Isaac. Again, I I don't want you to miss this. This is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ, isn't it? The wood that's laid on his back. And some people think that the wood represents the cross that Christ would carry one day. I think that the wood actually represents the burden of sin that Jesus bore. For us. He took upon him the sins of the whole world. And notice that in this story here, Abraham he takes the fire in one hand, the knife in the other, and they went both of them together. The knife is to end Isaac's physical life, the fire to burn the wood. Fire is often a symbol of the holiness of God and of judgment. The fire of God's judgment would fall upon Jesus Christ on Calvary. Again, this is a picture of what would happen in the future. In fact, do you know what the word Moriah means? They went to the Mount Moriah. Moriah means foreseen by God. Because here in this story, God is foreseeing what will come to pass in that very same mount. Did you know later on on Mount Moriah, that's where in that same mount Christ would be crucified? Later on, same location. There. So notice Abraham's conversation in verse 7. Abraham goes. To the mount, both of them together, verse 7. And Isaac spake unto Abram his father, and he said, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for the offering? Now it's been solemn silence between father and son up until this time. This is because of no doubt Abraham's sorrow. I think Abraham at this point has to be grieving. But then verse 7 breaks the silence, and I think it kind of heightens Abraham's grief because here's his son saying, you know, look, we've got the fire, we've got the wood, where is the sacrifice? Now, Isaac understood how all that worked. He had done sacrifices with his father many times, and he noticed the wood, he noticed the altar, he just didn't see a sacrifice. Where is the sacrifice? Look at the answer that Abraham gives in verse 8. Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering So they went both of them together. Was Abraham here just giving him a little white lie to keep from telling the truth? Or is this again an expression of faith? One commentator says this Abraham refers Isaac to God as the one who will answer the possible question. He does not deceive him But simply opens up to him as a possibility, what for himself is a fact, he throws the ball back into God's court, so to speak. And really, it's an amazing statement when you think about it. I think this is a declaration of trust in God. God's going to work all this out. God's going to provide a lamb, whether it's you or whether it's something else He leaves the matter in God's hands. I think it's an expression of hope. And I think it's even a prophecy about the future. Whether Abraham realized it or not, he was speaking prophetic words because on that very mountain, that very hill, God would provide a lamb. Later on, that would be his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want you to notice the next thing, Abraham's commitment. Look at verse number nine. And they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built an altar there. Laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. As they come to the place, it says in verse number 9, you know what that implies? That God was leading them? God was speaking to them the whole way. How did Abraham know the exact spot? Because God was leading them there Again, this is the word Moran means foreseen by God. God knew that one day in the future this would be the same spot where he would sacrifice his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So God leads them to the spot. Abraham takes and builds an altar. He lays the wood in order. And then he begins to bind his son. Now, somewhere along the line, Isaac began to get the picture here. That he was going to be the sacrifice. And one thing we note for sure is that Isaac submitted himself willingly It's a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Abraham was a hundred years old at this time. Isaac was perhaps in his twenties, early twenties. Do you think a young man in his early twenties could overcome a hundred-year-old man if he wanted to? Or escape at least, run down from the mountain. Of course he could have. Could have done all of that. But he willingly submits himself And here he's a picture of our Lord Jesus Christ, who willingly went to the cross. No one had to tie him up, no one had to bound him. What bound Jesus to the cross, the ropes that bound Jesus to the cross, was his love for you. His love for me. Philippians 2. 8 says that being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And so Abraham lays him on the altar. This is the climactic moment. In verse number 9. And then in verse number 10, will he actually go through with this? Is he actually going to do it? Verse 10. And Abraham stretched forth his hand And took the knife to slay his son. He reaches forth with the knife. He reaches back. Now, if this were a movie, it would be in slow motion now, right? Because the drama is all focused right here. This is the moment. And if you're a reader reading this for the first time, you're asking yourself, is he actually going to do this? Does he really trust God that much? That he would sacrifice his only son? And that he would plunge that knife down into the throat of his son and cut his son's throat And kill his son. He's got the knife, he's got it raised. He's ready to plunge it into the throat of his son But look in verse 11. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. Verse 12, and he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thy only Son, what an incredible moment this was. This is the whole turning point of the story. The angel calls out to Abraham, speaking from heaven. The voice is urgent. Abraham, Abraham, stop. And when he heard this voice, and he heard his name, he froze instantly. Perhaps the knife, maybe even started it a bit downward when he heard that voice. In verse 12, for I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy only son. And here Abraham realizes that this whole ordeal was a test of his faith. Abraham has demonstrated to all outwardly But what he the what he believed in was genuine, his faith was real, he truly trusted God, he truly believed God. And really this test is really not so much for Abraham as it is for all of us This is what real faith looks like. This is a man who fully trusted in the character of God, and his faith was put on display. Then look what happens in verse number Twirteen, an amazing verse, and Abraham lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. How did that ram get there? Who put that ram there? Right at that very moment in time, and Abraham happened to look up and see the ram, God indeed did provide a sacrifice For Abraham that day. Just like one day in the future, he would provide a sacrifice for all of us. This is a beautiful type. This is an Old Testament Calvary. This is a dress rehearsal for Calvary here. Happening in the Old Testament. This is substitution. This is the principle of substitution. Rather than Isaac being the sacrifice, a ram wasn't uh the substitute for Isaac. Did you know that this is where the story where Isaac represents you and I, rather than we uh suffering the wrath of God, Christ suffered that wrath for us. He was our substitute for us. And so in verse 14, Abraham called the place, the name of the place, Jehovah Jerai, which means the Lord will provide. And it looked into the future in the time when God would provide for us a sacrifice. And again, this was the place later where Christ would die there on the cross. The missionary Hudson Taylor, it is said that in his office had uh two plaques hanging up. One had the Hebrew word Ebenezer, hitherto has the Lord helped us, and the other one said Jehovah Jerai, the Lord will provide. Or the Lord will see to it, literally. He will see to it. And that is so very true. We're here because God has brought us this far, and you know what? He'll bring us through the rest of the way. He will see to it. He will provide for us. But what we see here is just the incredible obedience of Abraham and trusting God, even in the most difficult Time of testing in his life, he still trusted in God. That's a lesson for all of us. We must trust the Lord. Even in the most severe time of testing in our life, our actions reveal our faith in God. But let me give you the third thing quickly. And that is the results of testing, because what we're going to see here is that God rewards him greatly. And this is the principle, God greatly rewards those who demonstrate faith in a time of testing. You say, I'm going through a test right now. I know, but God wants to bless you. That's why you're in this. He wants to bless you. We see future blessing promise. For Abraham looked down in verse 16, and he and he said, By myself I have sworn, says the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, is not withheld thy son, thy only son, that in blessing I will bless thee. Abraham, I'm going to bless you. And the same is true of us. When you go through testing and you show your faith, you maintain your faith in God, you know what you have coming to you? You have blessings coming to you. That's the principle here. And you know what else is the result is the result of surrendered life? Of course, God didn't want Isaac's life. He wanted Abraham's heart. Isaac was so dear to Abraham. You remember in the beginning in the beginning where God said, Take the son that you love, the son that you love. God wanted to be sure that in the heart of Abraham, Isaac wasn't an idol. You know, in this life, God gives us so many gifts to enjoy, but we need to make sure that none of those things make their way into our heart and they come an idol. God wants our heart himself. He wants full surrender to him. Watch him and me in one of his books. says that we approach God like little children, begging for gifts, and he says this in his books, because he is a good God, he fills our hands with good things, life and health and friends and money and success And recognition and marriage and a nice home and children and a good job. All the things that we count at Thanksgiving when we count our blessings. And so like children, we rejoice in all of those gifts. And we go running around comparing our gifts with others. And when our hands are finally full, God says, my child, I want to have fellowship with you. Reach forth your hand and put your hand in mine. But we can't do it because our hands are full. And watch when he says, God says to us, put those things aside. Take my hand. And we say, no, we can't. It's too hard to put them down. And God says, But I am the one who gave you those gifts in the first place. And we say, Oh God, what you've asked for is too hard. Please don't ask me to put these things down or put these things aside. And God says quietly, you must. Put those things aside if I ask you to put those things aside. And then Watchman D says this Isaac can be done without, but God is eternal. You see, it's a process that God brings us through in our life. That's why God gives us testings. He gives us trials. He wants to know that our heart is devoted to him and him alone. Again, maybe Abraham thought he had no more tests coming, but in a moment of prosperity in his life, God came with a test To test the faith of Abraham because God wanted to bring him through this process of continual surrender. That's why God will bring us through one test after another, after another. So that we will surrender our things to God. But you know what God does in return when we surrender those things to God? He ends up giving us back even more. Because he can trust us with those things. Jim Elliott, at age twenty-one, who would later be martyred, seven years after he wrote these words, said this, one does not surrender a life in an instant. That which is a life That which is lifelong can only be surrendered in a lifetime. And the Christian life is a process of yielding all that I have, all that I am, all that I know. To all that I know of God. That's what the Christian life is a process of. That's all part of this thing called sanctification As my self-knowledge grows, you know, I thought I had surrendered everything to God, but you know what? God begins to show me things about myself that maybe I didn't realize that there were certain things in my life that I had not surrendered And when God shows that to me, I have to go through the process of yielding that up to God, and then He'll show me something else, and I'll yield that up until finally I've yielded everything up to the Lord All the crutches have been knocked out. I am trusting in him and him alone. There's no rival or competition in my heart to Almighty God. He has my first devotion in my heart He's first place. And that's the process. And that's why God will test us. One night a family of five was crammed into a Volkswagen and they were inching along in a heavy thunderstorm, rainstorm. Suddenly they saw a man and a woman walking on the highway and they were carrying a baby. And uh when they stopped and pulled over and talked to them, the lady said, you know, we were in a we live in a town miles back And they said that um but lightning caused to shorten the wiring in their house and it started to uh the house caught fire and we got out of the house And we escaped with our lives. Basically we're walking to the next town seven miles away to stay with my sister, the lady said, until further provision could be made. And so this family in the Volkswagen Felt sorry because there was no room in that little Volkswagen. There was already five of them crammed in there. There was no room for them to get in. So they gave the lady twenty dollars because they felt sorry for her And then they went on down the road, and the father in the Volkswagen, after a few miles, pulled over, and he said, How much money do we all have? Let's all put it together. And they pulled together and they came up with a hundred dollars And they turned around and went back to the lady, pulled over, and said to the lady, the father said, Where's that $20 I gave you? Can I get it back? And she was kind of perplexed. So she reached into her purse, pulled out the twenty, and gave it to him. The father then took the twenty, put it with the hundred, and put it back in her hand, and said, We want to give this to you from our family. That whole story kind of illustrates how God works with us, how he treats us. He gives us so many wonderful gifts, and then sometimes he'll come back and say, I want that gift back. And we kind of look perplexed. And sometimes we say, I don't think so. God says, give me back the gift that I gave you. Finally, some in faith will give it back, and you know what God does? God takes that gift and he puts it with others and he gives it back to us. He gives us even more He gives us from his unlimited resources and love because now he knows that he can trust us. And we have passed the final exam of faith. But I want to ask you, friend, how about you? How are you doing on your final exam? How are you doing in a time of testing? Are you grumbly hateful or are you humbly grateful? Even through the tests that you're going through, can you honestly say from your heart, God, I know, I know, I don't understand it, I don't get it, but I know I can trust you. I know I can trust your character, and I do. And by the way, that faith is made clear by what you do. Abraham, pass this test. because he obeyed God. His every action in this story revealed that he trusted God imminently. And because of that, God blessed him And friend, that's what God wants of me. That's what God wants of you. And as a result, God will bless and reward those who put their trust in him. And let me just say this one other thing, and we're finished today. Again, this whole place, this mount, was Mount Calvary. And like Abraham was directed by God to come to that certain spot. Did you know that God will direct you to come to Calvary? Because there at Calvary, that's where your needs will be met. That's where God will bless you when you put your faith in the finished work of the Lord. Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer together. And I want to ask you, friend, have you been to Calvary yet? Have you been to that place? There at the cross where God provided everything any sinner needs to be reconciled to him. Have you been there? Have you had your sins forgiven? And do you know him? And if there's any doubt about that, I want to invite you right now, where you are, to put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. To reach out in faith and say, Jesus, save me. Save me, Lord Jesus. This very moment I put my faith in what Christ did for me there on that cross. When he died for me. Is that your prayer? Can I see your hand? Can I pray for you, my dear friend? I won't embarrass you, but I want to pray for you Would you put your faith in Christ today? You say, yes, that's me, preacher. I'm putting my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the only way of salvation. I realize that I'm putting faith in him today. Is that your prayer? How about if you're a believer here today and you say, you know what, I am going through a trial. I am right now. And I want to magnify God. I want to trust God Would you pray for me, preacher, that I'll manifest true faith in the trial that I'm in? That's me. Would you lift your hand, friend? Pray for me in this time of trying and testing in my life. I want to pass this test. I want to pass it by faith God bless all of you. Father, apply this message to our hearts. It's a beautiful story. But Lord, may we live it out in our own life because we know that at some point, at some time in our Christian life, Christian walk. You're going to test us. Lord, may we be ready. May we know that no matter what we go through here from our earthly perspective That might bring confusion of mind. We know that in our heart we can trust you. We can trust your character. We know that you mean good for all of us and you're working good for us. So Father, teach us to trust you. Help us To throw away all the crutches, the things that we lean upon that really don't mean much. They're just gifts that you give us. May we throw away those crutches and put our full faith and devotion in you and you alone. Bless these words to our heart. Pray in Jesus name