Take your Bibles this morning open to the book of James. I've enjoyed the music this morning. It's been a blessing. But now we go to God's word, and hopefully this will be an encouragement to you today. We're in James chapter 2, verse 14, and I'm talking this morning about a faith that works. I heard about a great tightrope walker. He was performing on a cable across the Niagara Falls. He was doing all kinds of incredible things and He turned to the audience at one point and said, How many of you believe I can put a man in a wheelbarrow and take him across this tightrope? And they all cheered and the man who was cheering the loudest in the very front, he said, You sir, get in the wheelbarrow The man spun around on his heels and made his way out. He said he believed it, but he was unwilling to make a commitment about that. Well that's really what James is talking about. He's saying, you know, if you believe it, if you say you believe it, you're going to really show it. Remember, James is the show-me book of the Bible. The message is very important. Don't tell me about your faith. Show me your faith. Show me what it looks like. Someone said if you don't live it, you don't believe it. Now again, look in James chapter 2 and look at verse 14. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he had faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye shall give them not those things which are needful to the body, what does it profit? And so James is telling us here about Living out your faith. Now, some might read this passage of scripture and they might be tempted to think that James is talking about works for salvation. And let me just say, if you believe that good works will save you, you will die and face the wrath of God. Because good works cannot save you. If you believe, there are some people that believe when they get to heaven, there's kind of the big scale in heaven on one side is all my good works, and on the other side is all my bad. If my good outweigh my bad, then I'll make it to heaven. If not I will die and go to hell. And that's just simply not in the Bible. That's not true. And if you believe that, you'll never have the assurance of your salvation. If you believe in works, there is no salvation. One of my favorite characters of church history is the great reformer, Martin Luther. One day in July in 1505, he was traveling along a parched road. He was a university student at that time studying law. While he was traveling a great thunderstorm came. A bolt of lightning crashed right next to him He feared for his life. He cried out to St. Anne. Martin Luther was a Catholic at that time, and Saint Anne was the patron saints of miners. His father was a minor. And he cried out to the Saint Anne, the saint, for help And he made a promise to God, if God, if you'll let me live, I'll become a monk. And of course, God did let him live, and he did become a monk. Shortly after that he left the university and he entered into a monastery to become an Augustinian monk. And Martin Luther, under that kind of theology, that Catholic theology that taught that salvation is not just by faith, but it's also by works. You it starts with the sacrament of baptism. If you're baptized, you're infused with the substance of grace. When we talk about grace, we don't talk about it as being a substance, but an activity of God. But in that theology, you're infused with grace and you have saving faith, you have salvation, you have justification through that one sacrament. However, you could lose it By committing a mortal sin. They're called mortal sins because when you commit that sin in that theology, you kill the grace that is in you And so therefore you have to do all kinds of works, congruous works, to get your salvation back. And so thus it's a system of salvation by faith, but also works. You have to do all these works And Martin Luther did that. He tried to do all these works of merit. No one worked harder. He tried to keep all the commandments, of course he couldn't. He went to confession every day, part of the in that system of penance, as you go to confession, you get your sins absolved. He would go to confession every day, and he would spend hours in confession And still there was no peace. He would spend four hours one day in confession, go back and spend six hours the next day in confession. And some of his superiors thought that Martin Luther was just trying to get out of work. He's just trying to get out of his priestly duties. How can you spend that much time in confession? Four hours one day, six hours the next day, six hours the day after that? I mean how much trouble can you get into in a monastery And so, but he was not trying to get out of work. His soul was in torment because he knew he was not just and not right before God. And people would see him so cast down, and they would say, Martin Luther, don't you love God? Why are you so cast down? And Martin Luther said, Love God? He said, sometimes I hate him. Because he's standing over me as an angry judge with a sword in his hand. And he's given me laws that I can't live up to. And then he'll condemn me to hell when I die. Well, his superiors thought, well, maybe if we send them to Rome, that'll help. And so they did. They took them sent them to Rome on a pilgrimage. That was the holy city after all. And when he went there, it didn't make him better, it made him worse. Because he saw the corruption of the church. He even went to the Santa Scalia, the holy stairs, supposedly the stairs. that Jesus ascended on his way to Calvary. Those stairs that were in Jerusalem were dug up and brought to the city of Rome. And tradition says that you can still see the blood stains of Jesus on those stairs, whether or not that's true, that's very s suspect, of course. But people would go up these stairs on their knees, saying, Hail Mary's, and Martin Luther went through all that ritual. And still nothing brought peace to his troubled soul. Until one day he was studying the book of Romans. And he came upon the verse in Romans 1. 17 where it says, the just shall live by faith. Not faith and works, or faith plus works. But the just shall live by faith. Faith alone. And suddenly he realized It was simply glorious. It was gloriously simple. One is saved, not by works. Laws and rituals and ceremonies and indulgences and penance of merit. One is saved by placing their faith in Jesus Christ. For his work on the cross. And this is what he wrote later in that experience. He said, Then I grasp that the justice of God is that righteousness by which through faith and sheer mercy God justifies us through faith. Thereupon I felt I must to be reborn and to have gone through the open doors to paradise. He said scripture took on a whole new meaning. This passage of Paul became to me a gate to heaven. He had got it. He learned the true gospel, salvation by faith. But it was this same Martin Luther that when he came to the book of James, Began to question the writings of James. Because to Martin Luther, on the surface, it seemed like when he read James, it was saying that James was teaching salvation by works. And he thought that he was contradicting Paul. And so he stumbled a bit over this passage here in the book of James. And this is what he said one time. He said he would give his doctor's beret. To anyone who could reconcile James and Paul. Because he felt as if there was some kind of a conflict there. What was he talking about? Hold your place here in James chapter 2. Look in Romans chapter 4 real quick. Just flip back to Romans 4. We're going to look at this verse. We're going to come right back to James. But look in Romans chapter 4 and look down at verse number 2. And notice what it says. This is the Apostle Paul in Romans 4, verse 2, for if Abraham were justified by works, he had whereof to glory, but not before God. For what saith the scripture, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. And so here Paul's very clear. It's not by works, it's by faith. Faith alone. Go back to James chapter 2. And look in chapter 2. Look down in verse number 21 of James 2. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac, his son, upon the altar? And so on the surface here, it looks like there's a contradiction. Some liberals and doubters and skeptics look upon this and they say, aha, here's a contradiction in the Bible. But friend, there are no contradictions in the Bible. Only wonderful truths in the Bible. And actually you say, well, what's the resolution of this? Well, it's very simple. They are both saying the same thing. They're both saying the same thing, but they're saying it from a different perspective. You see, here's the idea, and listen very carefully. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before men. This is two sides of the same point. Man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. Now look at me. I'm saved. I know Jesus Christ. Look at me. Can you see any faith in me? You can't look inside my heart. God can see my heart. He knows that I'm trusting in Christ and Christ alone. But you can't see that. All you can see are my outward actions. All you can see are my works Paul is talking about justification before God. James, justification before men. You can tell that my faith is real when you see how I live. When you see my outward works, salvation comes not by faith plus works, but by a faith that produces good works. After the fact. After I believed. You see, salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing. But that faith that is a real faith will produce good works in my life. And if those good works are absent Then James is saying, look, your faith is dead. You show that your faith is real by what you do on the outside. Paul was talking about the root of salvation. James was talking about the fruit. Of salvation. Paul was looking beneath the surface. James above the surface. Paul was talking about the provision of salvation. James was talking about the proof of salvation. Paul was talking about the means. of our salvation. James was talking about the marks of our salvation. Paul was referring to inward. James was referring to outward. Paul was talking about a no-so salvation. James was talking about a sho-so sal salvation. And that's the difference. But also James was tackling a problem in the early church, and I think it's a problem that we still have in the church today, where many were professing to be saved, but their lives were not backing it up. Their lives were not backing it up. Their lips said yes, but their lives said no. And so James is going to tell us about an authentic faith, a faith that works. That's the whole idea here. You know, almost 80% of Americans claim to be Christians, and yet our nation seems to be on a moral decline. How can that be? Salvation without transformation is a fabrication. It's simply not true. So James is going to tell us about three kinds of faith here in this chapter. Now, if you're taking notes, just write down the first thing. I want you to see the autopsy of dead faith. The autopsy of dead faith. Look again in verse 14. What doth it prophet, my brethren? Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? Now again, this is empty confession. They're giving lip service. There's a key phrase here, and that is say in verse 14. If a man say he has faith. We see it in verse 16, and one of you say In verse 18, a man may say. James is saying, talk is cheap. I meet people all the time that say, Oh yes, I'm a Christian. But they live a life of perpetual disobedience. They don't do what God wants them to do. Anybody can say that they're a Christian. I was reading recently where Hitler claimed to be a Christian. When he was trying to get to be the head of Germany, he made free use of the Christian vocabulary according to this author. This author went on to say that he was showed his tattered Bible To some deacons and declared that how he drew strength from the great work of the Word of God in his heart. Call me crazy, but I don't think he was a Christian. But he said he was. And James is saying again the same thing. Talk is cheap. Anyone can say that. Look in chapter 1, verse 26. If a man if any man among you seem to be religious, And bridleth not his tongue, but deceived his own heart. This man's religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before the F God and the Father is this to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Again, it's not what you say, it is what you do. And James says in verse 14, can that faith save him? Or we could say it simply like this, can this kind of faith save him? The kind of faith that is only intellectual, that is in the mind. And it stops there. It doesn't go any farther. Can that kind of faith save him? And the obvious answer to that is no. That's not saving faith. There's a empty confession. But then false he gives an illustration. Look at false compassion in verse 14. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What doth it profit? Even so Faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. And so he gives an illustration Here's a person, and he calls them a brother or sister. This is we assume then a Christian. And we see that they are destitute of just basic clothing and basic food. We see that And all we say to that person is, God bless you. I'm praying for you. Meanwhile, our wallet is filled with money. We have the resources to help this person. But we simply go by them and say, oh, be ye warned and filled. And we don't do anything. How have we helped them? And again the idea talk is sheep. We haven't helped them. That's what James is saying. That kind of faith is a dead faith. It helps no one But then here's the second kind of faith. Not only the autopsy of dead faith, but write down number two, the absurdity of demonic faith. Look in verse number 18. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. And so James anticipates the re the reason and argument of some who are willing who are not willing to accept what he's saying. And some will argue and say, well, you you're into works, that's you, but I I'm into faith and I know what I believe. I know in my heart what I believe. Even though I might not practice my religion the way I should, I still know what I believe. And your problem is you're too much in the works. That's the argument that he anticipates. People do not like to have their faith questioned. They do not like that As a matter of fact, sometimes they get angry when you question their faith. And and and they will appeal to their emotion. I know what I feel in my heart. Some people will talk about their experience. Man, I went to church and I heard the word and I had an emotional experience. I went to the altar and they may have even cried crocodile tears. And it was such a real thing because their emotions were involved. And yet James is a little sarcastic here. Look at verse 19. Thou believeth there is one God, thou doeth well. The devils also believe, and they tremble. This is demonic faith. You see, it goes not just into the mind, but enters into the heart. The demons believe they're orthodox. In fact, demons are more orthodox than some preachers I know. Demons know that this Bible is the Word of God. They don't want you to believe it, but they believe it. They know Jesus is the Son of God. They don't want you to believe that, but they know it's true. They're Orthodox, they believe, and in fact they tremble. You talk about an emotional response, they tremble before God because they know that it's true. And they know the judgment that they face. That's an emotional response, if you ask me. When's the last time you came to church and trembled before God? They tremble, James says. And yet it's absurd to believe that a demon is saved. That's not true, saving faith. That faith that goes into the mind and enters into the heart, if it stops there It's not real faith. And by the way, I'm not putting down emotion and worship. It's okay to worship and have emotion. It's okay to say praise the Lord and glory to God. I can't worship without emotions. We have to have that. By the way, when God speaks to us, he normally goes from the mind, then into the heart. Beware of any religion that bypasses the mind and goes straight to the heart. God speaks to us through his truth, and that truth brings about affections. It brings about feelings of joy and thankfulness and gratitude and thanksgiving before the Lord. But if your faith is only In the mind and in the heart, if it stops there, then that's not real saving faith. Regret is being sorry mentally Remorse is being sorry mentally and emotionally. But true repentance, true faith is being sorry mentally, emotionally, and volitionally. And this leads us to the third idea here, the third point, and that is write this down. Not only the absurd the autopsy of dead faith, and number two, the absurdity of demonic faith, but write down number three the activity of dynamic faith. What is real faith like? Look in verse 21, and this is where James appeals to Abraham. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac, his son, upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. Verse 23, and the scripture was fulfilled, which saith Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. And then in verse twenty uh verse twenty-four You see then how that by works a man is justified and not by faith only? Verse 25. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers and sent them out another way. Now, in order to show what real saving faith looks like, James gives us two Old Testament illustrations. He gives us the illustration of Abraham, the patriarch, and Rahab, the prostitute. One was a Jew, the other was a Gentile. One was a man, the other was a woman. One was rich, the other was poor. One came from the highest level of society, the other came from the lowest rung of society And I believe that James uses these two illustrations of people from opposite sides of the spectrum to show that true faith transcends. It transcends gender, it transcends race, it transcends religion, social standing, economic standing So first Abraham in verse 21. Here he's talking about something that happened in Abraham's life, that happened later in his life. What he talks about in verse 21 with Isaac on the altar happened in Genesis 22. But look at verse 23. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith Abraham believed God. Now, what he's referring to there in verse 23 is recorded in Genesis 15, earlier in Abraham's life. And in verse 23, that was Abraham's salvation and experience. It took place in Genesis 15. The Bible says Abraham believed God. And God imputed it to him for righteousness. Now, people in the Old Testament are saved the same way as people in the New Testament times. People in the Old Testament, they look forward to the cross. What do we do here? We look back to the cross. And we respond to the revelation that God has given us, has taught us. And by the way, our revelation of the gospel was not completely perfect. I mean, how many of you fully, perfectly understood everything about the gospel when you got saved? None of us But we knew this, we knew we were sinners and we needed a Savior. And we knew Jesus was the answer. And we put our faith in what God showed us at that moment. That's exactly how people were saved in the Old Testament. They didn't have the full revelation of the gospel. They had pieces of the truth. But what happened was in Genesis 15 Abraham responded to the revelation that God had given him, which thus far at that point in progressive revelation was that out of your seed is going to come someone who will bless the world. And he will be the one who will die, and he will be a substitute for sin. And so God gave him a piece of the revelation, and Abraham said, and by the way, the word for believed in the Old Testament, you know what it is? It's Amen. And so God showed him that revelation, and Abraham said, Amen. And God said, that's enough faith to save you right there. And before God, he was justified at that moment, before God. But now no one else knew that. God knew that. When was it revealed before man that Abraham's faith was a real faith? It wasn't revealed until later in Genesis 22 when God said, Abraham Take your son Isaac, your only son, take him up to Mount Moriah and sacrifice him there. And you know what Abraham did without question, without hesitation Because at this point in his journey, his he staggered not at the promises of God. And he took his son Isaac to Mount Moriah and he he laid him on the altar and he lifted the knife ready to plunge it. And God said, wait a minute, Abraham. No, that's not that's that don't do that. I know that you fear me. What Abraham did there showed the world what God already knew, that his faith was true faith. He believed God in his mind, he believed them in his heart, he believed them so sincerely that he obeyed God without question. He committed his will to the Lord to do whatever God told him to do. Saving faith has all of those elements in it. That's Abraham. What about Rahab? Look at verse 25. Likewise also was not Rahab, the harlot, justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another Way and so here now is Rahab and and James says her faith was real. How do we know that? Well she risked her life to save the spies that came to Jericho, and we know that story Joshua sent two spies to on a reconnaissance mission to scout out Jericho. And they came to the inn, which is I think the Hebrew word there, a little inn where Rahab was running that. And And she knew that they were God's servants, and she knew that what God was going to do to Jericho. You say, how do we know that? Well, if you read Joshua chapter 2 very carefully, you'll read that she heard What God had already done? How does faith come? Faith comes by what? Hearing. She heard the word you say, Well, how did she hear it? Visra would come by in the end. They said, Man, did you hear what happened over in Egypt? You hear what God did over there? You hear what he did to the two kings on the other side of Jordan? Bashan and Ag? This God is something else, this God of the Jews, and she would hear that And she would hear what God was going to do. And she heard, and you know what? She believed in her heart. In fact, she said that when we heard the reports of what God did, we trembled She believed it in her mind. She believed it in her heart. She trembled. Well, how do we know that her faith was real? I think at one point when she said, I believe this God, she was justified before God. But how did the rest of the world know that her faith was real? Because James tells us right here. In verse 25, when she received the messengers and she sent them out another way, do you realize that that one act She was putting her life in danger, in great danger. She was willing to risk her life because she believed God. She put it all on the line right there. She received them and she sent them out another way. Now some people they say, well, you know, she lied. They get all you know They get all sidetracked on this ethical issue that she told a lie. First of all, um this was wartime. Okay? And we we we sometimes honor people that that are spies during wartime and do these things But the other thing is maybe we're expecting a little bit too much from a prostitute in Jericho on our new faith, our new journey. Don't get sidetracked on that one issue. Here's the point. And by the way, the Bible never condones her lie. The Bible just says she received them and she sent them out another way. The fact that she was willing to risk her life for what she believed. showed before the world that her faith was real. And in that sense, she was justified by works, justified before men. And so what do we see here in this? We see that faith has then these three elements to it. The notion, the believing of the facts, the essential stuff believing in the heart and the fiducia, the commitment of the will to what you believe. Three kinds of faith. Now dead faith, Gates says faithful works is dead. If you just there are a lot of people that say, oh I believe Jesus, but they believe it right here. And some people even have an emotional response to that. But the question is, have you committed your life to Christ Are you committed to him and are you obeying him in your life right now because you believe him to be the Lord and the Savior? And all the works that you do are not to be accepted by God because you're already accepted when you come by faith. The works that I do now after salvation say simply one thing: Jesus, I love you. And thank you for what you've done for me. That's what James is talking about here. Dead faith, demonic faith, dynamic faith. And so the question is today, what kind of faith do you have? Is it real saving faith? Is there a commitment of your life to these truths? The truths of the gospel. Now, Martin Luther, when he first came to this passage, he was a bit confused. But later on, after careful study, It all changed in his mind. And this is what he wrote, and I say this in closing. This is finally what he wrote when he understood James. He said, Oh, it is a living, quick, mighty thing, this faith. It does not ask whether good works are to be done, but before the question could be asked, it does them. And is always doing them. He who does not these good works is a man without faith. Yea, it is impossible to separate from faith as it is impossible to separate, or separate works from faith, I should say. It is impossible to separate works from faith. just as it is impossible to separate burning and shining from fire. And that's so true. It just goes together. If your faith is real, then you know what it's going to produce? It's going to produce good works. You're going to obey Jesus. You're just going to say, I'm just, I'm, I'm his servant. And even to the point if you if you're willing to give your life to that. Because your faith is a genuine, real faith. And again I ask you, what kind of faith do you have? Is it real, genuine, saving faith? Let's let's bow for prayer together And so, Lord, we thank you again for your word, so very clear to us. And I pray for these, your people, Lord, that they would examine their hearts before the Word of God, before you. And ask, is my faith a genuine faith? Is it a dead faith, something I simply believe in my mind? Or a demonic faith, something I believe in my mind, in my heart? Or is it a dynamic faith, something that goes not just to the mind and the heart, but to the hands and to the feet? My whole life. testifies by the things that I do and how I live, that my faith is a genuine faith. Father, use these words to strengthen the faith of these your people. And for those who do not know you, Lord, may you draw them unto yourself. And true saving faith today. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask you, do you have genuine saving faith? Have you put your faith in Jesus? Have you come to Him? Have you repented? If you've not, right now, again, God is graciously reaching out to you this very moment. And you know what he's saying? He's saying, come to me. This is the only way of salvation. Salvation is not by works. Salvation is by the completed work what Jesus has already done for you. on the cross. Friend, you either believe that or you don't. If you believe that Jesus died for you on the cross, he paid the debt of sin for you with his suffering on the cross, and that salvation is a gift, there's only one thing for you to do. Turn from sin and turn to cross. Christ and receive his gift of eternal life today. Would you be willing right there where you are to pray and ask him to save you this very moment? Would you pray the prayer of the publican who said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me for Christ's fate