Take your Bibles today, open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven. And uh we're going to look at one verse. And would you all stand for the reading of God's Word? You look like you need to stretch a little bit before the sermon anyway. Let's all stand together. It's just going to be one verse. You won't be standing long. Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 20 is the verse we want to consider today. And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this church. Thank you that this church was built upon the preaching of the word Thank you, Lord, that there's a congregation of people here today that are hungry to hear from you. And so, Lord, help me, your servant, to make your word clear today. Bless us as we worship in the way that we hear your word. May we apply truth to life, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated. I want to talk today about a faith for a divided house, faith for a divided home. And in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, as you know, we've been looking at the subject of faith. My hope is as we study this chapter that it will increase our faith. That our faith will be stronger in the Word of God. Because we've looked at faith and what it actually means, and faith is is belief in what God says. Faith is not uh calling something into existence and then believing it. That's another kind of a false view of faith. Real faith is believing what God says. Believing in the Word of God, even those circumstances in our life might not look like it's going to come to pass. It's believing nevertheless It's being willing to set aside our own will to embrace God's will, to embrace what he says in his word. And we've been looking at Hebrews chapter 11 because the writer here It's been pointing people to people in the Old Testament, Old Testament saints, who all live by faith. They walk by faith. They died by faith. And we want to see what that looks like because we want to emulate them. And this is what the writer of Hebrews is telling us to do. It's almost as like he's saying, look, this thing of living by faith is not new. Let me show you a list of people who did this and God blessed them. And so he goes all the way back to the beginning, all the way back to uh uh Cain and Abel. He gives us a story of Abel and his faith. And then he gives us a story of Enoch, and he gives us a story of Noah and the story of Abraham. And today we come to another character here we saw in verse 20, and his name is Isaac. And the writer is telling us now that in the life of Isaac, there's something that we can learn from in this matter of walking by faith. Now remember Hebrews 11 has been called the Hall of Fame of faith in the Bible. It's kind of like Faith Hall of Fame. How many of you have heard of the Hall of Fame in uh baseball and football? We we have those, right? Did you know that for a person to get into the Hall of Fame, they have to be voted in by sports writers and some other athletes that are already there? We don't get to vote who who's in God's Hall of Fame of Faith. We don't get to vote on that. God's God's the one who chooses that. But I'll be honest with you, if I were given a vote about who would go into the Hall of Fame of faith, I'm not so sure that I would give a vote for Isaac, to be honest with you Isaac is uh you kind of look at his life and you kind of scratch your head and you say, What's so special about Isaac? You know, the comedian Rod Rodney Dangerfield said, I don't I get no respect. Well, Isaac is the Rodney Dangerfield of the Old Testament. He kind of gets no respect. There's really not a whole lot in his life that we can look at and say, wow, there are certain things. Alexander McLaren began a sermon on Isaac by saying the salient feature on Isaac's life is that there is no salient features in his life Really nothing about him that we could just that jumps off the page. He was kind of, you know, blah. He he wasn't bold like his father Abraham, who made a daring raid against the kings of the East. He wasn't uh shrewd like his son Jacob He wasn't the gifted leader that Joseph was, who would later be a leader in Egypt. Isaac really isn't mentioned much in the Old Testament. Really, just two chapters. The most exciting thing about his life was uh some squabbles over some wells. But here the writer of Hebrews points out one thing that demonstrated that Isaac had faith. What was it? We saw in verse number 20 that he blessed his son, Jacob and Esau. And by doing that, he was uh confessing his faith in God. He demonstrated uh faith in God's promise about the future for his sons, not only Jacob, but also his son Esau. But I gotta be honest with you, before he got to that place he made a lot of mistakes. And I'm going to tell you that encourages me because you know what it tells me? I don't have to be perfect to live a life of faith. I'm not going to get everything right. And Isaac was that way. He didn't get everything right, but he did get this right. And in order to really look at his life, we've got to go back to Genesis. So go back to Genesis chapter 27. This is just one verse, but this one verse really summarizes an event that took place in his life In Genesis chapter 27. And really, to order in order to really understand what the writer is saying, we kind of have to take a look at his life. So we're going to look at what happened in the life of Isaac. And we're going to learn a lesson here. And if there's anything that we can really learn, it's this. If you're going to live a life by faith, you have to set aside your own selfishness and you have to submit to the will of God. Let me say that again because this is the main idea of the sermon. If you're going to live by faith, you have to set aside your own selfish will, your own selfishness, and you have to submit to the will of God. You have to submit to God's word. Now that's not easy because I want to tell you that we're all selfish creatures. Don't look so holy at me this morning I'm a selfish person by nature, but all of us are. You know what it's called? It's called the sin nature. We have that selfishness in us. It's kind of in our DNA. Even when we think we're selfless, we really are selfish. It's a sin in our life that we have to reckon with. It's a sin that can destroy families. We're going to see here in this story that it almost destroyed the family of Isaac. But it's something that we have to reckon with Like I said, we all have it. You heard about the two friends who went to met for dinner at a restaurant. They each requested a filet of sole of fish there. And after a few minutes the waiter came with the order and she had two fillets. There was a big fillet and a small fillet. And the man, the one friend took the plate and he put a small fillet on it and gave it to his friend And he kept the big one for herself and the friend said, Well, that was pretty rude. I mean, you know, you t you give me the small piece and you Take the big one for yourself. He said, Well what would you have done? He said, I would have given you the big piece and kept a small one for myself. He said, Well that's the way it ended up. What are you complaining about? What's the problem This story again teaches us today that we have to set aside our own selfishness. We have to consider others. really, frankly, we have to consider God and his will first. So we're gonna look at the life of uh uh Isaac and Rebecca and you would look at their life at the beginning, you think that you know they started off well, but a good beginning doesn't guarantee a good ending. And I want you to see really in chapter 27 of Genesis four scenes that we're going to look at, and these four scenes each focus on a the four characters in this story. Isaac comes on the stage in the first few verses with his selfish desire. In scene two, Rebecca, who's eavesdropping, hatches her pot to deceive her husband Isaac. On the third scene, Jacob comes in and he successfully carries out his mother's scheme. And then on the fourth scene, it's Esau who comes in and he's very disappointed to find out he's been deceived yet again by his brother But let's look at the first one. Seeing one, a disobedient father. Look in chapter 27 and verse 1. It came to pass that when Isaac was old and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son And he said unto him, Behold, here am I. And he said, Behold, now I am old, and I know not the day of my death. Now therefore take I pray thee thy weapons, thy quiver, thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison And make me savory meek such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless thee before I die What we have here is a scene. It's really not one of Isaac's better moments. We see in the very beginning his self-will. Isaac is 137 years old. At this point, he's ready to die. It was the custom back then that before you die, you kind of bequeath your deathbed will to your Today we go to a lawyer and we have wills drawn up and that sort of thing. But back then it was kind of a deathbed uh will that was given, and these were legally binding. And Isaac requests Esau to come and he says, son, I want you to go out and I want you to get some venison and make it the way I'd love for you to make it. Evidently he uh this was his favorite dish. His son Esau would make it. He was a hunter And he said, bring it back to me and I'll eat and then I'll bless you. I'll give you the blessing. I'll give you the lion's share of the inheritance. This would be the blessing of the firstborn. And uh this was, I'm sure, something that um Esau looked forward to. But what Isaac was about to do was wrong for two reasons. Number one, because Esau was not the one chosen by God to be the firstborn. through which the blessing of Abraham would come with all the privileges of the firstborn. He was not the one through whom the messianic promise would come. And we have to assume that Isaac knew this. You say, how do we know? Well go back to chapter twenty-five and look at verse twenty-one when his wife is about to give birth in chapter five, verse twenty-one. Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife because she was barren, and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebecca was conceived, and the Lord and the children struggled together within her, and she said, If be so, why am I thus And she went to inquire of the Lord, and the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall separate from thy bows. The one people shall be stronger than the other people, the elder shall serve the younger. God established right there that it was the younger of the twins, Jacob, that would be the one who would carry the privileges of the firstborn. I'm sure Isaac knew that. But he didn't really submit to it at this point. You know, some of the biggest challenges that you'll have in your Christian life is submitting to God's plan, not your own plan. Isaac has something different in mind. But this is wrong for another reason. He's about to bless Esau and give him the firstborn right, which God said should go to Jacob. But there's a second reason why it's wrong. Esau had already forfeited his birthright. Remember? When he came home he was really hungry and Jacob had cooked a really great bowl of chili It was called red red red s uh uh stew, but I think it was chili. I believe it. It's only chili that could cause you to sell your birthright, right? He won all the chili cook-offs back then. He had the best chili in the land of Canaan. Jacob did. Esau came home, he was hungry, he was famished, he said, Give me something to eat, he said, I'll I'll give you this bowl of chili if you sell it me your birthright And Esau said, What good is my birthright if I die of hunger? So I'll take the bowl of chili. And he sold him his birthright. And already that had been taken care of And by doing that, Esau forfeited the birthright. And then later on he married heathen women, the Bible says. Isaac knew all of this. He knew it was God's will for Jacob to carry the family torch, to inherit the blessing and the birthright. But for some reason, Isaac at this point doesn't want to submit to God's will. He thinks that he thought the same thing that many people think today, that in a way you can thwart God's purpose and plan. And friend, you can't. You can try, but you can't. And so Isaac is going to try. So he says in verse 4: Bring in my savory meat that I may uh that I love, and bring it to me that I will eat it, and then my soul will bless you before I die. When he says, my soul, this shows a lot of passion here, said one commentator. Isaac summons from the very depth of his own soul all the vitality and energy in his command in order to invoke God's blessing on his son. But it's funny, the only thing he's thinking about before he dies is having a good meal, blessing his son, giving his son the one he wanted Esau the birthright, and then to die. And in this way, Isaac, again, it's not very flattering. He's kind of selfish here. He does what he wants. How many of you know that God has called fathers to be spiritual leaders in their home? And that means that we have to be selfless with our family. When Douglas MacArthur was asked what's the greatest quality of a leader, his answer without hesitation was selflessness. You have to be selfless. And if you lead anything, you're going to have to be selfless. And this is true especially of a family. Does your family, sir, see a man who is selfless or someone who always wants what he wants, someone who's always thinking about himself. Or are you submitted to the will of God? The Bible says love Uh seeks not its own, but you seek what's good for others. So that's scene one. Scene two is a deceptive mother Because Rebecca now enters the scene. Look in verse six. And Rebecca spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau, thy brother, saying, Now she hears what's going on She's kind of um y you know, what did that you know if you can hear through walls sometimes in your house? Well they had tents. If you can hear through a wall, you can hear through a tent, right She hears all this going on. And uh she's just as bad as Isaac because she her desire is for it to put forth Jacob. Now she's not doing it because she knows it to be the will of God She just favors Jacob. And one commentator says she's kind of deceitful, proud, selfish, who wanted her way. She wasn't really concerned about the Lord's way or her husband's way. She just wanted her way. Here's another example of selfishness. In the house. And by the way, that's why there's division in this home. We don't have time to look at all of it, but if you study this whole family situation, it's a dysfunctional family because everybody's looking out for themselves And I want to tell you that will destroy a family. If you're constantly looking out for yourself, number one, you got problems. And Father, if you're selfish, it's going to rub off on your children. That's what's happening here in the house. Dad wants his way, mom wants her way. I often tell couples when they come to me for marriage counseling, what's the big thing we need to look out for? And I always give them the same answer. It's selfishness Selfishness will destroy your marriage. It'll destroy your home. It'll create such conflict in your house. And it does here in the house of Isaac. She wants her way. She's eavesdropping in verse number five. And uh she has a scheme in verse number seven. Notice her scheming. Bring me venison and make me um savory me that I may eat and bless thyself before before the l before my death. She's rehearsing what Esa uh what Isaac said to Esau. Look at verse eight. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of goats, and I will make them savor or make them savor me for thy father such as he loves. She she says, look, go out to the to the barn there, find two little goats, bring them in, I'll fix it up, I'll make it taste like venison And I'll bring it into bringing into your father. You can pretend to be your brother Esau, and that way you can get the blessing and not him. Think about what she's doing here. She's dishonoring her husband. She's exploiting his weakness because the Bible says Isaac was blind. He couldn't see. So he had to depend upon his hearing and a sense of of of uh touch and also taste, evidently. He would know if his son cooked this or not, but of course Rebecca knows how to cook a mean bowl of meat as well And so she's deceiving her husband. And by the way, she's teaching her son Jacob to do the same thing. She's teaching him how to lie. She's not trusting God. And let me just say this: if you're living by faith, you don't have to scheme. You don't have to resort to eavesdropping. You don't have to resort to scheming. If you're living by faith, you trust God. But she's not doing that. And I know and her penalty is going to be later on, Jacob is going to be forced to leave the home. This is going to bring such a conflict in the home that Jacob has to run And go live with her family a long way away. And she only intended for Jacob to stay away for a little while, but as it turns out, and she doesn't know it at the time, she'll never see her son Jacob ever again This will be the last time. So she pays a serious price for her deception here. She brings conflict into the home. Esau will try to deliberately hurt her and put a wedge between her and her son Esau. And it gives Jacob a bad example because Jacob goes on to learn how to deceive. And how many of you know you reap what you sow? Jacob deceives his father. Later on, Jacob will be deceived by his eleven sons about the life of Joseph. They'll use an animal skin to deceive him. And he'll be deceived also by his father-in-law. The Bible says that his father-in-law Laban changed his wages ten times. He'll live constantly with the pain of being deceived by somebody else. And so he'll pay for this. But nevertheless, she said, and he's worried about it. Look in verse 11. And Jacob said to Rebecca, his mother, Behold, Esau, my brother, is a hairy man, and I'm a smooth man. And my father per eventually will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver, and I shall bring a curse upon me, not a blessing. And his mother said unto unto him, But Upon me be thy curse, my son, only obey my voice and fetch me thence. You know, Jacob, he was concerned about this. He wasn't concerned because it was wrong. He was concerned about he didn't want to get caught. I mean, he wasn't concerned about the commandment, obey your honor your father. He was concerned about the 11th commandment, thou shalt not get caught. He didn't want to get caught and bring a curse down on him. And so notice her responsibility in verse 13. She says, Let the curse come upon me. I will take full responsibility for this. You just go and do what I say. And so she makes the meat. She puts the the skins on her uh on the two of the two young goats on the on the hands and neck of her son. She sends him in with the meat. The Bible tells us, and I'm sure Jacob must have been sweating this out. Is this really going to work? Will my father recognize my voice? Will the goatskins fool him? And so on. And so notice scene number three opens up. Scene one was a disobedient father. Scene two was the a deceptive mother. Scene three will be a dishonest son. Because look in verse number 18. He comes in to his father, and he came in with his father and said, My father, he said, Here am I. Who art thou, my son? And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau, thy firstborn. I have done according as thou badest me. Arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that my thy soul may bless me. And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the Lord thy God brought it to me. That every hunter's dream. God, you bring me the deer. Put it right in front of me. The Lord brought it to me. Verse 21, and Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee. That I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not. He's a little suspicious here, right? In verse 22, and Jacob went near unto Isaac, his father. And he felt him, and he said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau, and he discerned him not Because his hands were hairy as his brother Esau's hands, and so he blessed him. Now There are some ex commentators that want to exonerate Jacob here and say, well, you know, he just valued spiritual things. That's why he wanted this birthright. I say baloney to all of that. He's being deceptive. He's deceiving a blind man. And he tells a series of lies, straightforward lies, to his father. Lie one, I'm Esau. It's a lie. I've done as you told me. It's a lie. You didn't do anything. How did you find it so soon? Oh, the Lord brought it to me. It's a lie. He just lies to them. And this is the definition of hypocrisy when your voice doesn't match your hands. He says, Your voice sounds like Jacob, but you feel like Esau. Your arms and hands feel like Esau. And the Bible says he discerned them not. And so there was a deception here. He couldn't discern him. This is just really bad. And lest you think, well, I would never do anything like that. You know what the Bible says of all of us? Write down Jeremiah 17, 7. The heart is deceitful. You know what the word for deceitful is? It's the proper name, Yaakov, Jacob. The heart is Jacob. You know what? All of us have a little bit of Jacob in us. Maybe not a little bit, maybe a lot. We got Jacob in us. Our heart is like that. We are good at being deceitful. We're good at deceiving. We're good at lying. We have to recognize this about all of us. And so this is just a really bad sin here. And think about what they're doing. He's deceiving his father, his blind father, a blind man. Because he wanted that blessing. He wasn't really after the spiritual part of it. The blessing included material prosperity. In verse number 28, we see that It included political power, it included spiritual protection, and so on. This is just, I agree with James Montgomery's voice that says that Jacob is this is the basis character in this whole episode. What Jacob does. It's wrong. Can you imagine deceiving a blind man? One time ABC News rigged a camera at a bakery. They hired two actors to pretend to be blind. They hired the cashier to pretend to rip the blind person off by giving him back the wrong change. They wanted to see how many people, how many customers would speak up when the blind person was shortchanged. And they found out that in each instant, the people stood up for the blind person every time. Because there's something in us, innately in us. That deceiving someone like that, weak and vulnerable, is unthinkable for a person who has normal morals. But you compare that to this story And here is a young man who's deceiving a blind man, but just not any blind man, his own father, and lying to him. That's the epitome of selfishness. Remember what I said the real message of this whole sermon is about? If you want to live by faith, if you want to walk by faith, you've got to set aside your selfishness. And you gotta trust God and trust what God says. And in this story so far, we see three family members, and each one is living according to their own selfish agenda. Isaac and Rebekah and also Jacob. And then Esau's really known better. Because here's scene number four, a despondent brother. And this picks up in verse thirty. And it came to pass as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau, his brother, came in from his hunting and he also made savory meat, and brought it to unto his father, and said unto him, his father, Let thy my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. Imagine how Isaac feels at this point. And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? He said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau. And Isaac trembled very exceedingly and said, Who? Where is he that hath taken venison and brought it me, and I have eaten of all Before thou cameest, and have blessed him, yea, and he shall be blessed. Notice that last phrase, and he will be blessed Why did he say that? You know, we would say here in our day today, wait a minute, this guy deceived me, he's not going to get that. I'm not going to let him get away with that. He's not going to get that. That's not what happens here. He says, no, I blessed him, and he's going to be blessed. You know why? Because in this culture, in this day, a father's deathbed will was legally binding. He couldn't get it back. Archaeologists have dug in this region in a place called Nuzi and they discovered what they call Nuzi tablets. And this was a document, actually 4,000 of these tablets, and they found on these tablets That the custom of that day was whenever a father gave a deathbed blessing, it could not be taken back. It was legally binding. And that's why Isaac says at the end, and he will be blessed. And notice where it says Isaac trembles in verse 30. He's trembling. What do you think he's thinking? Maybe in his mind he's thinking, you know what, I tried to thwart the will of God for my own will, and guess what? God won. After all. Because it was God's plan that Jacob be the one through whom the Messianic promise was Come. He would be the firstborn. He would be the one that would receive the blessing and the spiritual privileges that came with that, even though it wasn't Isaac's will. And so Isaac trembles. Esau weeps in verse 34. Notice where it says: And Esau heard the words of his father, and he cried with a great exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me even also, O my father. He wept bitter tears. And some people try to paint Esau as a victim here, but he's as much to blame as anyone. He was too was selfish and self-indulgent. If he valued the birthright, he would have never sold it for a bowl of chili to begin with. He would have never traded that. And what he wanted was not the spiritual privileges that came with the birthright. He wasn't concerned about anything spiritual. He just wanted the material blessings. He just wanted the money. That's what he's crying about. And later on, he will marry into pagan women. He's not concerned about obeying God or doing God's purpose. He's concerned about himself. And Isaac does bless him. Look in verse 30. uh seven and Isaac answered and said, Esau, behold I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren I have given him for servants with corn and with wine and so on. And then Esau says, You know, don't you have one blessing for me? Look at verse 39. Here's a blessing. And Isaac, his father, answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth. and of the dew of heaven from above. And you know, really the KJV translation here is not as clear as it could be. The the word The preposition of there is the Hebrew preposition min, which can be a separative or mean away from. So we could say it like this. Behold, away from the fatness of the earth shall be your dwelling. Away from the dew of heaven on high. In other words, Esau would have a hard existence. He would not have the great riches that he had hoped for. He would live off the dew and the fatness, but it would be away from it. It would be a hard life. And uh his descendants would live by the sword and violence, and they would be subservient to the descendants of Jacob, that is Israel. You'll be subservient. The ironic thing is that he misses out on the very thing his flesh wanted. He wanted material wealth. And so he also pays the price for his selfishness. And then in verse 41, he vows to get back at his brother Jacob for this. He kind of has an unforgiving spirit, and he vows to take revenge. So you see how selfishness is really kind of ripping this family apart. Ripping it apart. I think the application is still true today. Selfishness can tear us apart. It's something we have to recognize about us. It's the nature of human nature. So let me just give you a few things as we close, and then and then I'll go to the part where the writer of Hebrew refers to What do we do about self-inities? Number one, acknowledge that you have it. Don't pretend that it's not something that you struggle with, because I think to some extent all of us struggle with this. We all are born thinking about our number one. Uh we ha we have this. And then number two, but but ask yourself these questions. Am I constantly irritable? Do I complain because I don't get my way? Am I always plotting and scheming to get things my way? Am I angry when I don't get things my way? Am I impatient? Do I argue constantly? Am I constantly claiming my rights? Am I angry at God for my lot in life? Those are all evidences that we struggle over this. Think about the destroy the destructive effects of selfishness. The Bible says from whence comes war and fighting among you? Comes from our own selfish nature. We have to recognize that. And then number three, just confess it and forsake it. What does the Bible say if we confess our sins? But it's something that we have to constantly deal with. We have to, number four, put it to death in us. Intentionally, don't yield to your selfish nature. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 10, 24, let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor. Just constantly think about others. Deny yourself. That's crucifying this selfish nature inside you. But here's another thing: meditate on Jesus Christ. Because you know why? The most selfless person to ever live was Jesus Christ. He came in this world thinking of others. In fact, that would be the next thing is memorize Philippians 2. It's the selfless chapter of the Bible. It talks about where Jesus left the glory of heaven, became a man Took upon him the form of a servant. Why did he do all that? That he might die for your sins. He laid aside eternal glory. He laid aside all the privileges that come with deity He became a man, and the apostle Paul is pointing to Jesus Christ to the Philippian church. You know why? Because there was selfishness in the Philippian church, and the church was about to split over it It had two women in there that were fighting. Yodis and Sindichi. One country preacher pronounced her name Yuomi, it's so touchy. Because they were constantly at each other. And Paul says to the church, the whole church, think about Christ. Think about have the mind of Christ. That's not a suggestion. That was a command. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who set aside all of his privileges and rights that he might serve others. If you have a problem with selfishness, look at the Lord Jesus Christ, meditate on Christ. Now, in closing, you might be asking the question, now wait a minute. We started off in the sermon talking about how that in the hall of fame of faith Isaac is listed. That's why I said I don't think I would have voted him in the Hall of Fame. Except, for one thing, he did get something right. He finally yielded to the will of God. And what does the writer of Hebrews say? He, by faith, he blessed his sons. You say, where is that? Well, now look in chapter 28 and verse 1. This is after all this had happened. Jacob had deceived his father. All this had fallen out. But what notice what Isaac does in chapter 28, verse 1. And Isaac called Jacob and what? And blessed him. And charged him and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan. But look at verse 3, the blessing. And God Almighty blessed thee. And make thee fruitful and multiply thee that thou mayest be a multitude of people, and give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed with thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger Which God gave unto Abraham. And so here, finally, Isaac acknowledges God's will. And God's word. And Isaac says, yes. This is going to happen. It's going to happen. Now at that point, Jacob was single. He had to leave the land of Canaan for his own safety. How's he going to inherit this land if he's gone? How's he going to have children if he's single? Humanly speaking, it looked like none of this was going to happen. But Isaac now is operating by faith. And he says, you know what? God is going to do this. I believe God. I believe that the Lord is going to do this, and so therefore I bless you, and I say, You take the blessing of Abraham, that you might Multiply your seed, multiply, and you'll have this land. All this is going to happen. Humanly speaking, it looks like it's never going to happen, but with eyes of faith, Isaac could see it. And by faith he blessed Jacob Because he believed and trusted God. And that's what faith is. Faith is trusting and believing what God says. My question to you is, how is your faith, do you trust and do you believe the word of God? Because if we really believe what God says, we're gonna live differently from people around us We're not going to be eavesdropping, we're not going to be scheming, we're not going to be arguing for our own way. We learn to claim the promises of God. Even though things on the earthly perspective don't look like it's going our way, we know ultimately God's going to fulfill his word. So we're we're fine. We walk and live by faith in the promises of God. And again, it shows me that even though Isaac was not a perfect saint, he had a lot of failures. He still is able to live by faith in this. He learned his lesson. What about you, friend? Are you willing to lay aside Your selfish agenda before God. Are you willing to trust the Lord? It might be that you're in a situation right now, you've been praying about it, it just doesn't look like it's going to happen. Are you willing to trust God? Are you willing to put your faith in him? Are you willing to live by faith in what God says? Let's have a word of prayer together today. So, Father, bless these words to our heart today. Lord, give us the faith of Isaac. Lord, we're encouraged by the fact that we know that he wasn't perfect, and like us, Lord, he made a lot of mistakes. Yet ultimately, he trusted you. Lord, I pray that that would be our testimony, that even though we stumble and fall, even though there are times in our own life when we we put our own selfish agenda ahead of what you want. It's not too late for us, Lord, to set all that aside and to trust you and say, yes, I believe. I believe. And I trust you. Father, bless these words to our heart. Help us to live and walk by faith because we know that faith is what pleases you. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I want to just give two invitations. First, I want to ask you, friend, to have you put your faith in the risen Christ. Do you know Jesus as your Savior? That's the first act of faith that you need to do is to put your faith in what Christ has done for you on the cross. He came into this world and died for you Again, the most selfless thing that ever happened was Christ became God became a man. He took your sins on the cross. He died for you. That you might have eternal life. If you try to work your way to heaven, you'll never make it But if you put your faith in the finished work of Christ, you'll have eternal life, friend. If you haven't done that, I want to encourage you right there where you are, would you pray and say, Lord Jesus, come into my heart, save me, make me your child. Pray that prayer and mean it, friend, and he'll save you. Secondly, to believers, have you been walking in a selfish way in your life? And you feel so frustrated because it's not working. Never does. Maybe you just need to submit to God's will Stop trying to strive against God. Stop trying to make things happen your own way. But yield yourself to God. Yield yourself to his will and find peace. That's what he wants from you. God says to you today, let me take care of this. Give it to me. Stop striving. Stop worrying about your selfish agenda. Trust me in this. Would you be willing to do that where you are? Say, yeah, that's me. I need to just give this matter over to God And trust him with it. How many say, preacher, that's me today? God's talking to me today. Anybody hear what you pray for me? God bless you, friends. God bless you. Bless you. God knows our heart. He knows our need. Father, we just lift up to you all these things together. We confess that we trust you. We wait upon you. We lay aside our own selfish will. We submit to your sovereign will. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.