Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. We are continuing study in this chapter of the Bible, one of the key chapters of the Bible, and it speaks about the theme of faith. And we've labeled this series the Hall of Fame of Faith. And tonight I want to talk about Faith's final exam. Someone said that a faith that cannot be tested is a faith that cannot be trusted. And I think that's very true. For example, how would you like to get on an airplane that's never been tested? How would you like to have a doctor do surgery on you hit who had not passed some tests in medical school? Yeah. I heard of a doctor I heard of a man who was having surgery and the doctor said to him, he said, Sir, you seem nervous. And he said, Well, this is my first surgery. And the doctor said, I totally understand. This is my first surgery too. We want a faith that is tested. You mu we kn may not want it, but certainly God wants it. Because again, that is what strengthens our faith and solidifies our faith Now the writer of Hebrews has been teaching us all that we need to be people of faith. We need to live by faith. In Hebrews chapter eleven, if you've been with us on our study, you know that it's a series of studies from Old Testament character all whose lives illustrate what it means to live by faith. Faith is the only way that you can approach God. Faith is the only way that you can please God. We get saved by faith, and then we walk by faith. We're sanctified by faith. All of our Christian life is learning to grow in the faith that we have in God. And so the writer of Hebrews wants us to follow the example of these believers that are listed here, because these were all people of who came to God by faith. They lived by faith, they walked by faith, and they died by faith. And the verses tonight is the focus of these verses is on Abraham. Look at verse 17 of Hebrews chapter 11. By faith, Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Now, Abraham is a predominant illustration of someone who lives by faith. He's referred to often in the New Testament and several times here in this chapter. And uh he's called in the New Testament the father of the faithful. Romans 4. 11 says that he is the father of all of them that believe And today what we're going to look at is an episode in the life of Abraham where he passes one the greatest test of faith in his life. The writer of Hebrews points to Abraham as an example of someone who takes what we could call the final exam of faith and he passes it with flying colors. Now again, the author's purpose in showing us these things is to show these about these believers in Hebrews 11, all of whom face trials, they face difficulties. And they were able to overcome all of these challenges in their life because of their faith in God. And he wants us again to follow that example. So here's Abraham, and again it says that he was tested by God, he was tried, offered up Isaac, and when that had received the promises, offered up his only begotten son. Look at verse 18, of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be called. Accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. God commanded Abraham to offer up his son, Isaac. And Abraham obeyed without hesitation. How could he do that? How could Abraham obey without any hesitation whatsoever? Because Abraham knew that God would keep his promise. Now what promise is that? Again in verse 17, and he that received promises offered up Isaac. Again, what promise is it referring to here? Well, the promise that God gave to Abraham when he said, through Isaac You're going to have many descendants, Abraham. And I'm going to bless the world through your descendants and through Isaac will the blessing come? And the Bible here says Abraham accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from which he also received him back in a figure that is in a type. Abraham's faith in God was so great that he thought, you know, if God wants me to take and sacrifice my son Isaac and a burnt offering, which means to kill him on the altar, That I believe that God is able to raise him up in order to fulfill his promises. Now, this is amazing because there had been no resurrections from the dead. uh in the world at that time. Uh the Greek word here, accounting, that is a word that actually talks about a numerical calculation. It is an accounting term. And it came to be used metaphorically without reference to number. It just means to reckon something, to think through something, to reason something, to come to a logical conclusion. And Abraham is thinking in his mind and He takes into account the fact that if God commanded him to take Isaac and go out and sacrifice him, Abraham is thinking in his mind, well I know God keeps his promises. Abraham didn't just blindly take a leap of faith. No, he he thinks about it in his mind and he thinks, you know, God, God is loving. God is just. He's mighty. He never deceives us. And when God makes a promise, he keeps his promises. And uh if God made a promise to me that through Isaac will, he's going to give me uh many s many children, many seed, many descendants. Then I believe that God, even though He he wants me to take the life of my only son, I believe that God can raise him again. Now, friend, that's faith. That's incredible faith. And so what logic here? This is just an incredible story of faith in God. So won't you hold your place here in Hebrews 11? Go to Genesis 22 and let's look at this story in detail and kind of enter into the drama of what took place in the life of Abraham. And while we look at this story, I want you to see three lessons about testing, three lessons about trials and testings that God may bring upon us. Here's the first one. Number one, think about the reality. of testing. God will test his people. Look in Genesis 22. Look down at verse 1. And it came to pass that after these things that God did tempt Abraham, or we could use the word test. God did test Abraham. And he said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. And he said, Take now thy son, thy only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee unto the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of. So notice here what I call first of all the conditions. All of the events in Abraham's life lead up to this thing right now. To this one momentous event where God is going to put Abraham's faith on display. God's going to test him. And God's going to put his faith on display. Up until this point in Abraham's life, Abraham is blessed. God has fulfilled his promises. God gave him a natural born son, which He thought was not humanly possible because he was beyond the age of childbearing, he and Sarah both, and yet God fulfilled his promise. Canaanites around them with Abimelech after the war over the the wells there. Everything is going Abraham's way. He has his wife, he has his son. He has a beautiful place to dwell. He has prosperity. He has riches. He has honor. He has peace. He has grown in his faith. He has learned to trust God. All is well. Many years have passed from chapter 21 to chapter 22. Many years. These are the silent years of Abraham's life. Again, everything is going well in his life. And it's right when things are going well that God comes to him. Now, according to Josephus, Isaac was twenty-five when God tested Abraham at this time. And so This is the time sometimes when testing will come. Everything's going well in your life. Everything's at peace. I like to say, you know, you look at your life, blood pressure is down, bank accounts up, everything is doing well And then suddenly, here comes a test. Here comes something that you didn't expect out of nowhere. Throughout Scripture, you'll find that God will often test his people. Oh you're no exception to that, and neither am I. God will test us. If he tested his characters in the Bible, his His followers in Scripture, like men like David, men like Job, men like Abraham, even his own son Jesus, we certainly will go through times of testing. And Abraham, you have to remember that in his life, his life really in Scripture has been a series of one test after another, all the way up until this point. This is not the first test that he's faced. This is the last one that we'll see recorded in Scripture that Abraham faces. The first test We could call the family test. God said to Abraham, get up, leave your family, leave your kindred, leave your loved ones, step out into faith into a new land. And Abraham passes that test and he and he trust God and he leaves his homeland. That was followed by the famine test where uh this is kind of a test that Abraham failed because he doubted God. Remember when he got to the land of Canaan, no sooner did he get there than a famine comes to the land. And rather than staying in the land and trusting God, Abraham did what many of the people did in that time. He went down to Egypt. And down in Egypt, he got himself into some trouble. And had to leave Egypt. He didn't do so well in that test. That was followed by the fellowship test where Abraham has and his nephew Lot, their herdsmen, clash together. And Abraham and Lot have to separate. And then there was another test, the fight test, when he defeated the kings, that that uh confederacy of kings led by a man by the name of uh Chador Leomar who uh was a wicked king and di and Abraham had to go out against this confederacy of these five kings uh it's a battle But he had to trust God. He wasn't a warrior, he wasn't a soldier, and yet God helps him to defeat those kings. And then after that there was the fortune test, where he was offered some of the wealth of Sodom, and Abraham said, I'm not going to take a shoelatch from you. Because he didn't he believed that that would be uh a bad testimony of his trust in God. And then the fatherhood test. He failed this test when he got impatient with God and uh God kept saying to Abraham, I'm gonna give you a natural born son. And he and Sarah both decided to take matters into their own hand and and and father a uh a a child through a surrogate mother. That was a failure. That didn't work so well. And then there was what we can call the farewell test when he had to send Ishmael away, and that broke his heart. So what we see is just one test after another after another after another until all of this leads up to this final test, the final exam of faith, I call it. Where everything's going well now for Abraham. It seems to have grown in his faith. And now God all of a cut all of a sudden comes and says, Abraham, I want you to take your son Isaac, and I want you to go and sacrifice on Mount Moriah. Look at the command in verse 2. Look how it said, take now thy son, thy only son, Isaac. Whom thou lovest. God knew that this was going to be hard for him. This command was perplexing to say the least. How could God ask him to do that? I mean, in that day the uh Egyptians didn't value human life. It was considered cheap and the Canaanites were sacrificing children, but here's the God, the God of the true God, the one and only God. Who said in the Bible, whoever sheds the blood of a man by man shall his blood be shed? Who said, Thou shalt not murder Who warned Israel about the Canaanites because of their burning their children and warned Israel not to imitate them. But here is God now saying to Abraham, take your son Isaac. and offer him up for a burnt offering. Again, this is just an incredible command. Abraham had waited years for God to fulfill his promise to give him a natural-born son. And finally that son came. And now here is God saying. Sac sacrifice them. All of Abraham's hope was in Isaac. The hope for all the promises that God was going to give. It was all in Isaac, and here's God saying, Now I want you to Give Isaac to me in a burnt offering. So we see three commands in verse 2. Take, go, offer. Get the in into or get into this go you know into this land, leave your past. Remember when God came to Abraham at first, he said, you know, leave your past. Leave your homeland. But now here God is using the same command and he's saying, don't worry about your future, just trust me. Go take Isaac offer him for a burnt offering to a place that I'm going to show you. And so that the bottom line is testing is a reality in the life of God's children. It may be that you're here tonight going through a time of testing and you're thinking about, you're thinking about, man, I I never thought I would have to go through what I'm going through right now. I mean, I never dreamed that I would be dealing with this issue in my life. And if we're not careful, we can grow angry. Or bitter or get frustrated or throw off our hands and give up. If anyone ever had a reason to do that, it would have been Abraham But he doesn't do that. I want you to see the second thing here. The response to testing. The response. Not only the reality, God will test his people, but then there's the response to testing. We should respond to testing with obedient faith. And this is what Abraham shows us. Because what we see here is an immediate, unquestioned obedience on the part of Abraham Now, when we read the command from God to take Isaac and go sacrifice them, we're astounded by that, at least I am. But when I see Abraham's response, I'm even more astounded at Abraham's response. Now, in the previous chapters of Genesis, when you look at Abraham's faith, you don't see a perfect faith. You see him wavering, you see him faltering, you see him at times questioning God. You know, but here what we see is Abraham, he doesn't stagger at all at this command. He doesn't Without he doesn't argue back to God. He doesn't complain. He doesn't hesitate. What we're seeing is Abraham just obeys Which demonstrates true faith in God. This is why James in the New Testament points to Abraham in the Old Testament and says, if you want to see an example of real faith, look at Abraham. Look at how he obeyed God. His outward obedience revealed that his inward faith was genuine. So we see Abraham's compliance here in verse number three. Look at verse three. And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claved the wood for the burnt offering. And rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him. He gets up early. Abraham doesn't say a word. Remember how he argued and battered uh barters QV with God when God informed him that he was going to judge Sodom and Gomorrah? And Abraham, in response to that, he said, God, if there were 50 righteous in those cities, would you destroy them? No, not for 50. What about 45? What about 40? What about 30? He just keeps going back and back. And finally, You know, he leaves off talking with the Lord, but he just kind of, God, are you righteous? Would you do this if there was this many righteous people there? Here, he doesn't say a word. He simply obeys. And here, the narrator, we could say, in this story, that gives this story, just kind of meticulously informs us of Abraham's every move. It's like in a movie where you know the scene kind of slows down and we're seeing each individu each detail being acted out. He got up early in the morning He saddled his donkey. He took two young men with him. He cut wood for the burnt offering. And then he rose up and he began the journey to the place that God was telling him. You also get the sense that, you know, the Lord was leading him along the whole way. God didn't say, here's the place or here's a map. No, God is leading them. Here's where you go, Abraham. He's leading them every step of the way. And they travel for three days. For three days. Why did God select such a distant place? I mean here he's asking him to do something, the hardest thing ever in his life. And for three days he's making this journey. One Old Testament scholar said this. In the biblical world, three days was a typical period of preparation for something important. But it's like to me God is forcing him to think about what he's going to do for three days. Three long days. He has to muse it over and over in his mind. And don't you think he thought about that probably a thousand times in his mind? How this was all going to happen. And it also shows that this was not impulsive obedience. He has to persevere in obedience. And he has to take all the negative thoughts and the bitter emotions that may have a tendency to well up in him, and he's got to put them all down and say, No, I trust God. I trust God. This is not easy. What I'm going to do is not easy. He had to fight off those negative emotions and negative thoughts. and trust in the Lord. He doesn't act rashly, but he proceeds with resolute faith. It allows time for sober reflection. And yet, during all of this time of traveling, his resolve to do what God says does not weaken at all. He knows that God has a purpose. He doesn't understand it. But he he trusts the Lord. And notice verse number four. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and he saw the place afar off. Notice next there's Abraham's command. Abraham's command in verses five and six. And Abraham said unto the young man, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, laid it upon Isaac, his son, and took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. So he tells the two young men to stay behind What Abraham must do, he must do alone. And what we see here in the narrative is it kind of compounds the isolation and the loneliness that Abraham is feeling in this hour of trial. You know, some trials and tests that we face, we have to face them alone. And that's the way God designed it. Just you and God, that's part of the trial. Abraham must leave everything behind. He has to make that lonely journey up that mountain. And that again symbolizes the uh the journey of faith. to this place of sacrifice. He says, I and the lad will go yonder and worship and text this and will come again to you. That statement there expresses Abraham's faith in God. If Isaac is going to be the burnt offering, how is it that he's going to return with Abraham? You see, there's that's where I see faith there. Did Abraham really believe that Isaac would come back with him? I think that he does. He doesn't know how. But he trusts God. He knows somehow God is going to fulfill his promise. Somehow God is going to work all this out. And that's what the writer of Hebrews meant in Hebrews 11. When he talked about this where it says accounting that God was able to raise him up. He he calculated that in his mind. He figured that in his mind. He considered that God was able to raise him from the dead and figuratively speaking bring him back from the dead. And so Abraham knew that God was going to fulfill his promise. And so verse 6, and Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and he laid it upon Isaac. We cannot help but see a picture of Jesus in this, can't we? I mean at some point the w the wood, or excuse me, some point to the wood as a picture of the cross that Jesus would bear uh you know the the cross was placed on Jesus back and he had to bear his own cross. Some people see the wood here as a picture of the cross. But I would disagree with that. I think that the wood, which is mentioned five times in this narrative, And it really uh Isaac doesn't start carrying the wood until he arrived at Mount Moriah. This wood is not a picture of the cross. Because Jesus didn't carry his cross all the way to Calvary. I think the wood seems more to me to be a picture of the burden of sin that Jesus bore for us. That wood would be burnt up with fire, which is a symbol of judgment. And Abraham is the one that laid the wood on Isaac's back. And what does the Bible say about Jesus? The Lord laid on him. God the Father laid on Jesus the iniquity of us all. And again, the fire consumed the wood is a picture of the judgment of God against sin. So Abraham goes, he takes the fire in one hand, the knife in the other hand. It says in verse number six, and they went both of them together. Again, the fire is a symbol of a judgment that would fall on Christ at Calvary. Then we see Abraham's conversation while he's on his way to the place that God's pointing out. Look at verse number 7. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Now, up until this time, there had been kind of a silence between Abraham and Isaac. This is no doubt because of Abraham's sorrow He's probably not in a very talkative mood. He's grieving deeply at what he has to do. And Isaac breaks the silence with this question that I think only heightens Abraham's grief. You know, Isaac in the question that he asked in verse number seven implies that they had done this before. They had built an altar before, they had done burnt offerings before. Isaac knew the routine. In verse 7, my father, he said, behold the fire. We got the fire and we got the wood. We're missing something here. We're missing the lamb. Where's the lamb? For the sacrifice. I mean, Dad, we've done this a lot. Where's the lamb? This is the only thing missing here. And Abraham, again, his response I think reveals faith. And look at verse 8. And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. Now, was Abraham here telling a little white lie to keep the truth from Isaac? You know, some have asked that question, or is this statement an expression of Abraham's faith? Well, I think what Abraham does, it's an expression of faith. And what he basically does is he puts the ball in God's court, so to speak. He just says, you know what? That's something that God's going to take care of. He doesn't lie to him. He just says, you know, God's going to take care of that. That's really an amazing statement. It's, I think, a declaration of trust. God is going to provide a lamb. Whether it's Isaac or whether it's someone else, we'll see. But Abraham leaves this matter into God's hands. And I think it's also an expression of hope. um about what God will do. And it ends up becoming a future prophecy, doesn't it? Because in that spot God will provide a lamb for the sacrifice. And that will be the Lord Jesus Christ. Jehovah Jerai, which we'll we'll see here. And so he climbs Mount Moriah with his son. Abraham is confident that God is going to meet Fulfill his promise. He had faith in that. No matter what may happen, God will fulfill his word. And notice Abraham's commitment. The next thing. Look down to verse number nine. And they came to the place which God had told him of. And again, don't miss that. Who's directing Abraham? God. Same right here. He leads them all along. And finally to the very spot to where he's going to do this sacrifice, God chose him the place that God told him. He's leading him, he's speaking to him the whole way. This is a divinely ordained spot. And here again the narrator of the story slows down and he's very deliberate. With the details of Abraham's actions. So what does Abraham do? Well, it says in verse 9, and Abraham built an altar there. At that very spot, Abraham builds an altar. You can just see him stone by stone building this altar. And then he gets the wood and he lays it there on the altar in order, the Bible says. And then he bounds Isaac, his son. Now at this point, Isaac's got to know who the Lamb's going to be. He knows that he's going to be the sacrifice here. And this is where, again, this becomes a beautiful picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because one thing is for sure, Isaac submitted. If Isaac didn't submit himself, do you think 100-year-old Abraham would have been able to lay him on that altar? I mean, if Isaac says, you know, Dad, I'm out of here. Then it's over. You know, I'm sure he could outrun his father. I'm sure he can, you know, wrestle away from his father. But when Abraham I the way I picture it on mine, when he starts with that rope just to bind his son, all of a sudden it dawns on Isaac. You know what Isaac does? He just submits himself. He says, Okay, Dad. If this is the way God wants it, this is what I'll be. So he willingly submits himself. And again, what a picture of our Lord Jesus Christ, who willingly yields himself to be the sacrifice for our Sin. Jesus could have called 10,000 angels, but he submitted himself to the death of the cross The Bible says this in Philippians 2. 8. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. So he binds Isaac. And then in verse 9 it says, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. So here's the climactic moment. Will Abraham actually go through with this? Does Abraham really trust God so much that he'll take the life of his son? Will he plunge that knife into the throat of his son and proceed to cut his throat and then dismember him and burn him in the fire? Because that's exactly what they would do with a burnt offering. They would cut the throat, dismember the animal, burn him in the fire. Does he trust God so much? That he'll do that to his only son. And the answer is yes. He does. Because look in verse 10. And Abraham stretched forth his hand And took the knife to slay his son. Abraham had every intention of following through and taking the life of his son. Again, this verse gives the details. It's like, again, a film that kind of slows down in slow motion. So in my mind, I just see Abraham reaching for the knife. Picking it up, raising it up very slowly, and he's ready to plunge that knife into the throat of Isaac. There's no way in words To capture this moment and what Abraham was feeling at this time. You can only imagine. Put yourself in his shoes. What if that's your son? And God's telling you to do this And there's no hesitation with Abraham. There's no last-minute intercession. God, are you sure you want me to do this? No hesitation whatsoever. He doesn't question God, he doesn't complain. He simply begins the motion to plunge that knife into the throat of his son. And notice verse 11. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. I think that those were welcome words when Abraham heard that. Abraham, Abraham. Wow. Here's the angel that calls out from heaven. This is the turning point of the whole story. This voice is urgent because it repeats his name two times. Abraham, Abraham. I can just just hear that voice just very intensely, very passionately. His name is called. And when Abraham hears that name, his name he freezes. Perhaps the knife had already started somewhat that downward motion, but suddenly he stops, and Abraham responds, Here am I. And then notice what God tells them in verse twelve, and he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thy only son. From me. And suddenly Abraham realizes that this whole ordeal was a test of faith. Abraham has demonstrated to all his complete faith in God. Now, when the voice says, you know, now I know. Did God already know that? Of course he did. God already knew Abraham's heart. He already knew that his faith was genuine. The test was to put Abraham's faith on display to the world, to us. And again, later on in the New Testament, James will point back to this story and say here is an example of what real faith acts like. It trusts God. It obeys God even in the most difficult, dire circumstances. of life. It has complete, total trust in God. And so look at verse thirteen. And Abraham lifted up his eyes Again, we see that expression lifted up his eyes. We saw that when he lifted up his eyes and he saw the place where he was to sacrifice his son. And now here again is the expression. So when he lifts up his eyes, he sees the mount. We could say Mount Moriah. That's a special spot. That's the place where one day there will be a lamb that will be crucified. But here he lifts up his eyes, and what does he see this time? He sees a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And if verse thirteen, and Abraham went and took the ram and offered him for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jerai. As it is said, to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. So here we see God does indeed provide a lamb for the sacrifice. And here are the tight switches from Isaac to this ram. You know, we see the ram as a substitute for Isaac. At this moment, in the type, Isaac becomes a symbol of Israel and a symbol of the people of God. Here is the principle of substitution. There has to be someone who's going to come along and be the substitute for us. And that is Christ, Christ our substitute. So we see here in C form the doctrine of substitutionary atonement that is revealed here in Genesis This idea of a substitute who will come one day. And Abraham here learned a new name for God in verse 14, Jehovah's Jerai, the Lord will provide, is the idea there It will be seen. God will provide. And so that's what Jehovah Jerichi means. And by the way, dear beloved, I know that people love to use that name of God, you know. When you get a uh a check in the mail, Jehovah Jerai. Or a car or something else, or you find $100 out jogging, Jehovah JRI. Look, I get it, but remember that this expression talks about God providing Christ for us. Us, the sacrifice, the Lamb who would be the substitute for us for our sins. Now I I think right there at that very spot, we know that later on uh the temple will be built there on that mount, but I think also this is the very spot where the true Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, would shed his blood For us. They're right there on the cross. I think that's why God is directing Abraham. He's guiding him. He takes him to this very place where Abraham builds the altar because on that very spot is where Jesus Christ. would be the sacrifice for the sins of the world. Let me give you the last thing. We see the reality of testing. God will test his people. We see the response to testing. We should respond with obedient faith, and here's the results of testing. God greatly rewards those who demonstrate faith in him in the test. And we see this in verses 15 on down to verse 19. Now often we leave off the story at that point, but God speaks to Abraham again. And he gives them a promise. Look at verse 15. We see promise future blessing. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven a second time. And said, By myself I have sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, and if not withheld thy son, thy only son. That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed, as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies. And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice. Here God Himself swears an oath. to Abraham. By myself I have sworn, he says here. Now in Hebrews chapter 6, he refers to this. In Hebrews chapter 6, verse 13, for when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. And so men normally swear by something greater than themselves, you know, to make the oath binding, but there's nothing greater than God. And so God, the Bible says, swore by himself, God will bless Abraham because of this act of faith. But here we also see another thing, a surrendered life. A surrendered life. You know, of course God did not want Isaac's life. He wanted Abraham's heart. Isaac was dear to Abraham, and God wanted to be sure that Isaac was not an idol standing between him and Abraham. God wanted to make sure that it was possible that Abraham was trusting Isaac to fulfill the promise instead of trusting in God. Sometimes it's easy for us when God gives us things and he blesses us with things to switch from trusting God to putting faith in those things. And we need to be careful not to make that mistake. Sometimes God will take those things back in order to teach us to trust in Him. And one of his books, Watchman Me, said that we approach God like little children with open hands, begging for gifts. Because he's a good God, he fills our hands with good things, life, health, friends, money, success. recognition, challenge, marriage, children, and so on. We count at Thanksgiving all these blessings. And like children he says, we rejoice in what we have received, and we run around comparing what we have with each other. And when our hands are full God says, my child, I long to have fellowship with you. Reach out your hand and take my hand. But he writes, but we can't do it because our hands are full. God, we can't, we cry. Put those things aside and take my hand, he replies. No, we can't. It's too hard to put them down. But I am the one that gave them to you in the first place. Oh God, what you've asked is too hard. Please don't ask us to put these things aside. And God answers quietly, you must And at that point, God has to teach us to let go of the gifts in order that we might take hold of God Himself. Take hold of God. And me adds this. Isaac can be done without, but God is eternal. God's goal is to get us to the point of ultimate surrender to Him Ultimate surrender to him. It's a process that God brings us all through. And while this new trial of faith hit Abraham suddenly, It was also the culmination of God dealing with Abraham through the years, bringing him up to this point in his faith to where God was stripping everything away. So that Abraham was clinging to God and God alone. And God will do that with us. At age 21, Jim Elliott, who was a martyr in Ecuador, before he was a martyr, he wrote this. This is seven years earlier, he wrote, one does not surrender a life in an instant. That which is lifelong can only be surrendered in a lifetime. And that's right. Um it's a process in the Christian life of yielding all of myself and all that I have and all that I am Over to God and each day surrendering more and more and giving more and more to God until I'm finally holding on to God and nothing else. And again, that's not easy, but it's a process that God brings us all through. And it may seem cruel of God to do that, but it all stems from his love. One night, a family of five was crammed into a Volkswagen and they were inching along during a heavy rainstorm. And suddenly they saw a man and a woman walking along the highway in this pouring down rain. And they pulled over and they asked if they could help. And they saw that the woman was carrying a baby. And uh they said this couple that they had lived in a town several miles back, but the lightning had caused a short and the wiring of the house, and it started a fire, and it burned the fire the house to the ground, and they had escaped barely with their lives And they were just walking to the next to town which is seven miles away to stay with her sister until further provisions could be made. And this family was crammed in the Volkswagen. They couldn't get any of them in there. But they felt sorry for 'em and so they uh One of them pulled out twenty dollars. The father pulled out twenty dollars and said, look, here just take this. Hopefully this can help you. And then they drove off. And then a couple miles down the road, he stopped the car, the father, and he asked his family, he said, How much money do you all have? And they all began to dig into their pockets and pull out money and they pulled it all together and they had about a hundred dollars. And this man turned back around and they pulled up alongside this couple and surprised the woman when they said, Do you still have that $20? We just gave you. She said yes. Well the father said it. Well, I want it back. I want it back. And she was shocked But she reached into her pocket and she pulled out the twenty dollars and she handed it to him. And then the father took that twenty dollars and he combined it with a hundred dollars and put it together and he gave it back to her. He said, We want you to have this You see, this story illustrates how God often treats us. He gives us so many wonderful gifts. And then he comes to us and he says, I want all of them back. Give them back. And you know why he does that? Because if we'll surrender back what he gives us, you know what he does? He just combines it with more and he gives it back to us. Because he knows that he can trust us, that we're our dependence is upon him. And that's how the Lord works in our heart. He wants us to learn to trust in his unlimited resources and trust in him alone. So there's the reality of testing. God will test his people. There's the response to testing. There's the results from testing. God wants us to fully yield all to Him. Complete, total surrender to Almighty God. And so that's why God will test our faith. Are you going through testing now? Is it happening? The best thing you can do is to trust your Heavenly Father. Trust him, he's got a purpose for it. He has a reason for it. And he's he's building you. He's growing you. He's strengthening you in your faith. And hopefully we can all grow to the point to where it can be said. of us, like it was said of Abraham, that he staggered not at the promises of God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for this beautiful story in the life of Abraham. Lord, it's it's challenging when we read it. So convicting, Lord, because we think of our own life and we think of how many times, Lord, we have failed in testing. To our own shame. And how we have selfishly clung to the gifts that you've given us, rather than freely surrendering them and yielding them up, knowing, Lord, that you are the giver of every good and perfect gift And all that we have and all that we are is because of you, Lord. And we can trust you. When you want to take something back, you have a purpose for it Lord, help us to be like Abraham, to walk in faith, to trust you in the times of testing, and that we grow to the point in our life where we are just absolutely Surrender to you, trusting in you and you alone for all things. What a wonderful place to be. So Lord, help. I pray for those who are here tonight. Right now they're going through a trial of faith I don't know what it is, Lord, but you know. I pray, Lord, that you'll strengthen their heart, encourage their heart, remind them, Lord, of Your promises. Give them the strength, Lord, and the ability, the enablement to just let go. of the things that's keeping us from fully trusting in you. And may our faith grow. May it increase for your honor and for your glory. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.