It's good to see you here tonight. Uh thank you for coming out on a cold night. Thank you for choosing to come here and not stay home. and uh be here in the Lord's house. And uh I will be praying for you as the snow comes in. I check the weather at uh where I'm gonna be in India. There's not gonna be any snow there. Uh in fact it's gonna be eighty degrees where I am. And uh the only cold I'll get is from the AC. Hopefully they work in the room. But uh I will be thinking of all of you. And when the snow is gone, I will come back. So open just kidding, open to Hebrews chapter 11. And uh We're going to look at verse number thirty tonight as we continue our study through Hebrews. Uh this has been a uh uh for me a just an encouragement to go through and look at these men and women of faith and how they Display faith in their life. And as we've been studying, Hebrews 11 is course of course the great faith chapter of the Bible It's called the Hall of Fame of Faith. And we're studying these characters as they're as the writer lists them, Old Testament heroes who lived by faith. And he's trying to teach us the important principle of faith in our life. Faith is how we enter into the kingdom of God. It's the only way that you can be saved is through faith in what Christ has done, his finished work. It's the only way that you can approach God. It's the only way that you can please God. If you want to have a life that's blessed, then it has to be a life that lives by faith. And so the writer is going to encourage us by giving one example after another after another, and he as if to say, follow in these footsteps. These characters, these heroes, all of them, even though they were not perfect, even though they had flaws, uh, their p their faith was not a perfect faith, and yet They demonstrate for us what it is to live a life of faith. Now, today we look at Joshua and Jericho, and we need to learn how to face the Jerichos of our own life and how to overcome them. Jericho was a stronghold. It was a military citadel. A stronghold by Webster's dictionary is a place having a strong defense, a fortress And in ancient times kings and nobles and nations built strongholds and they would take refuge in them from invading armies. And they would build these cities with walls and towers on those walls, and they were highly guarded. You say, what does all of this have to do with us? Well, spiritually speaking, we all have strongholds that we're going to face in our life from time to time. Things that are very difficult for us to overcome. Look in Hebrews 11, look in verse number 30. By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they were come past about seven. days. And so, uh, what is the stronghold in your life that has to come down? That's the question we need to ask ourselves. What is the giant fortress that just keeps you from having the joy and the peace and the victory and the fullness in your life that you should have as a believer? What is it that keeps you from living that victorious Christian life that God has given to you as your birthright as a Christian? And so we're going to look at uh uh the the story of Joshua. And how he conquered the land of Jericho. And in the Bible, the land of Jericho represents to the Christian entering into the life of victory that God has promised. Canaan is a picture and a type of victory. There is no victory, however, without struggle. There is no victory without conflict. And so we have to remember that we have enemies all around us. We have the world that is our external foe. We have the flesh that is our internal foe. We have the devil, he is our infernal foe. We have enemies all around us that keep us from trying to be all that God has called us to be. And so The book of Joshua teaches us how to tear down those strongholds, and this is what we're going to look into because go back to Joshua chapter 5. We see this verse number 30. And again, remember the writer is writing to Jewish people, the uh Hebrews who knew The Old Testament story is very well, but let us look back at this story and let us look at how Joshua was able to overcome that stronghold. Now that again, the stronghold is the city of Jericho. Some things about Jericho. It was a sinful city. This was a wicked place. The people there worshipped idols. They were involved in gross immorality. They did incredibly wicked things in the sight of God. And some of the sins that they committed are listed in the book of Leviticus, which included child sacrifice. Just again, a wicked place. And so God declares Karim or holy war against the people of the land of Canaan. Now This uh this Jericho may be a maybe a sin in your life that you're struggling with, uh that you're just unable to seem to overcome and can't get victory over it. Jericho was a sinful city, but also Jericho was a strong city. This was a military stronghold for the land of Canaan This is the most formidable city in the whole land. And that's the way strongholds are. They just are not torn down easily. It's going to take a lot to get over this stronghold. But also, Jericho was a strategic city. If Joshua and Israel Wanted to take possession of the land of Canaan, they had to conquer Jericho. They couldn't just bypass it and leave it behind them. That would be a big mistake. But by conquering Jericho, Joshua and Israel would have access to the whole land. And the book of Joshua actually reveals three military campaigns that they started in actual the the central campaign was first and the idea was to invade the central part, kind of split up the enemy, and then go south and then go north. The central campaign meant that uh Jericho had to fall first. And after Jericho there was Ai and then Bethel and then Shiloh and then Shechem, and then he would go down south to Gibeon and Hebron and Jerusalem, and then he would make his way up north all the way to Hazor and Maram and Kadesh. And so conquering Jericho was the key that opened up that whole land. And so if they were going to have the land of Canaan, Jericho had to fall. If you're going to have victory in your life and be what God wants you to be, your Jericho has to fall. You have to overcome it. And this is what Joshua and the children of Israel did by faith. So what is your stronghold tonight? What is your Jericho? So let me give you three principles that we can learn from this passage of Scripture about tearing down your strongholds in your life. Here's the first principle. Number one, consider it with Christ. Just look at that mill that stronghold, that thing that's keeping you from having all the victory that God wants you to have, that thing that's an obstacle in your life, that thing that is really hindering you in some way. Look at it, but look at that stronghold through the eyes of your captain, the Lord Jesus Christ. Okay? So Joshua and the children of Israel, they cross the Jordan River. You remember reading in the book of Joshua that God miraculously uh divides the Jordan River. What God did for Moses, God does for Joshua. He kind of divides the river. They walk through. And so now they're just outside the city of Jericho. As of yet, Joshua had received no divine instruction on what to do as he's facing this city. I mean, it seemed reasonable and logical that the city of Jericho would be right there next on the list. And so Joshua One night goes out on a kind of a reconnaissance mission to study this impregnable city for himself. And so here before him is this massive, massive fortress. And despite Joshua's military experience, and he had some experience, he never led an attack on a fortified city. Think about that. All of his warfare has been out in the open. He's never taken over a city. They had no battering rams. They had no catapults. They had no uh moving towers. The only weapons they had were slings and arrows and spears and swords, which was no match against this city. And so, furthermore, Joshua knew that the battle had to be won. He knew that. They could not leave this city open behind him. And so Joshua is pondering all these things in his mind. He didn't really know what to do, and suddenly he was startled by the presence of someone when he was out there looking at that city. This was a divine visitation. This is what we call a preincarnate appearance of Jesus Christ. You know something about our Lord. He doesn't leave us alone in the battle, does he? He always shows up. He comes to our aid. So first of all, consider his presence in the battle. Look in chapter 5, look at verse 13. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us are for our adversaries. And he said, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth And did worship and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? Now Joshua, when he sees this figure, he doesn't recognize him at first. He sees a soldier with his sword drawn in his hand. Instinctively, Joshua kinda issues, a bit of a challenge. Are you for us or are you for our adversaries? And in fact he was saying, you know, what a guard would say, who goes there? You know, what do you want? And Notice he asked the question, are you on our side or are you on their side? And the answer in verse 14, nay, no. But as captain of the Lord of hosts am I now come. That is, here is the Lord, and he says to him, I didn't come here to take sides, I came here to take over. The question is not, uh, am I on your side? The question is, are you on my side? You see, that's the issue. Uh are you on his side? Now, you say, well, how do we know that this is a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ? Well, look at Joshua's response in verse 14, where he fell on his face to the earth and did what? Worship him Now, if this were just a mere angel, the angel would surely say, Stand up, don't worship me, I'm just an angel. But that's not the response here of the captain of the Lord of hosts. Joshua knew that he was in the presence of God. This was the commander uh of the whole army. And the sword is drawn, notice that. This really speaks of God's time of mercy and long suffering with the inhabitants of Canaan is over. Judgment is going to come. The iniquity of the Amorites, excuse me, is full. And so Joshua and Israel were to be the instruments of God's judgment to that wicked people. And notice what the the Lord says. Look at verse fifteen. And the captain of the Lord's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is Holy. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly what God said to Moses. Remember when Moses was in the presence of the Lord, take your shoes off. The place where you stand is holy. ground. God's presence sanctified that very spot. Now what did this do for Joshua? It gave him the assurance that he's not in this battle alone. And you know what? You're not in your battle alone either. Remember what God said to Joshua? He said, you know, as I have been with Moses. So will I be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Now here is God affirming that promise in a very personal Wait. And God was saying, Joshua, you're not the one who's first in command. I'm first in command. You're second in command. In order for you to win the battle, what you have to do is listen to me. Listen to me. That's the whole point. And so we need to remember this. You know, I'm not in charge. God's in charge. Moms and dads, you need to remember that. God is in charge. We are second in command. If we forget this fact, we will fail. And so no matter what stronghold you're dealing with in your life, you are not alone. The captain of the Lord of hosts is there. with you and we must confess that we in in a in of ourselves in and of ourselves we are not able to overcome this stronghold. We don't have the tools We don't have the know-how. We don't have the might. We don't have the ability. And you know what we must do? We must worship our captain who does That's what we have to do. We have to look to the captain of our salvation to help us in this battle and realize that the weapons of our warfare are too weak. They're too pathetic. we're not going to be able to do this. But here's the second thing. Not only consider his presence in the battle, but also consider his promise for the battle. Now again, Jericho is it's straightly shut up, the Bible says. Look in verse one. Now Jericho was straightly shut up because of the children of Israel. None went out, and none came in. They were ready for the fight. It was locked up tighter than a drum And uh God had already given the victory. Because look at verse 2. And the Lord said unto Joshua, see, I have given unto thee and to thy hand Jericho. And the king thereof, and the mighty men of valor. And so here is God saying, look, the victory is yours. I've already given it to you. Have given is a prophetic perfect tense. It's a future tense that describes an action as if it is already done, already accomplished. Victory is assured. And this is the principle that we need to understand for the Christian life. As a Christian, if you're in Jesus Christ, you don't fight for victory, you fight from victory. Because in Jesus Christ, because of him and his authority, he has already given us victory as his children. You understand that? We just simply have to claim it. The victory is already ours. And we need to understand that. If you don't get that, then you're missing out on one of the great blessings in your Christian life. Our position of victory is guaranteed. And so when Joshua met the Lord, he discovered that the battle was the Lord's and that the battle was already won because that the Lord was his commander. All again Joshua had to do was to listen and do what God says. Just obey the word of God. So we consider then his presence, we consider his promise, but then we consider his plan for the battle. God had a plan for Joshua to follow. Okay? Now Joshua didn't submit his plan to the Lord and say, here's my plans, Lord, for how to overcome my stronghold. I want you to read over this and then I want you to bless it. That's normally what we do. God, here are all my plans, here's my agenda. I just need you to check off on this. Um if you don't mind, and if you don't mind, I'm waiting. Could you get back to me real quick on this? And but that's not the way God operates. You see, we submit ourselves to the Lord and we say, God, what's your plan? You let me know what is your plan, and I'll follow that. In a meeting with a small group of missionaries in China, James Hudson Taylor, founder of the China Inland Mission, Reminded them that there were three ways to do God's work. He said, number one is to make the best plans we can and hope they succeed. He said, number two is to make our own plans and ask God to bless them. Or number three, to ask God for his plans and then do what he tells us to do. And that's the best way to go forward. God, what is your plan? Now, humanly speaking, what God asked Joshua and Israel to do didn't really make a whole lot of sense when you think about it. He didn't ask them to dig a trench. He didn't ask him to build a bulwark or make some ladders or make some you know big towers uh or anything to which is normally what you would use for siege warfare. I mean the ordinary w weapons of battery rams and scaling ladders and catapults, none of those things were a part of the battle plan. And again, even if they had all those weapons, Joshua and the people of Israel, they probably didn't know how to use them. They had never done anything like that before. And so what were they to do? What was God's orders to them? Well, look in verse number three. And ye shall come past the city, all ye men of war, and shall go around the city once, and thus shall ye do six days. Okay, Joshua, I want you to get all the army together. And I want you to have a parade. I want you to have a procession. And I want you to mark around march around the city. I want you to do it one time, once a day, for six days. And the armed men were to lead the procession. We see this in verse 3, we see it in verse 7. And verse 4, seven priests with seven trumpets were to follow them. And then according to verse seven, the ark was to follow after that. And then the rest of the people were to follow the ark, the re-reward. And so what God does is he lines them up in formation like a parade. And I want you to just march around the city. Do it once on the first day, once on the second day, each day for six days. On the seventh day we're going to do something different. Oh good. What is it, God? I want you to march around seven times. Now, this kind of military strategy causes us to scratch our head and say, God, what are you doing? But here's some things we can learn. Number one, God's orders are designed to test our faith. God's ways are not man's ways. God has a different way of doing things. The Bible says the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than man. So God told them what to do. But he doesn't tell them why. Just go out and do this. I can just imagine that it had to be tempting for Joshua to say, Lord, um, am I getting this right? Why are we supposed to do this? You know? But Joshua doesn't do that. And you have to believe this, that God knows what he's doing. He knows what he's doing. Have faith in God's word and God's way. God was making sure that everyone knew all for all the ages that this city would not be taken by mechanical means. God wanted everyone to know that. It would not be by human wisdom or strategy or ingenuity that would overcome this stronghold. It wouldn't be human methods or a great strategy, none of those things. None of those human carnal weapons were going to be involved in this. How was this city captured? Well, we already read the verse in Hebrews 11:30, by faith. The walls of Jericho fell down by faith. You see, that's the key. Faith is not in the wisdom of men, but faith is in what? The power of God. to get to do it. But number two, God's orders are designed to test our patience. You know, the city didn't fall immediately or overnight. Thirteen times they had to walk around that wall of the city. Again, no reason was given to them as to why. Someone estimated that the city was about twelve acres. It would take an army about an hour to walk around it if they just kept a normal pace. I've been to that Old Testament Jericho and walked around it myself. It's about an hour to walk around those, you know, that city. Um I'm sure that they were probably taunted by the enemy that was watching from the the walls. And they're probably whispering, what are these guys doing? You know. But they were instructed to be patient and um And just do what God said. But here's the third thing. And by the way, did you ever notice that God's never in a hurry? We are But God, again, as I said this morning, not to repeat this morning's sermon sermon, his timing is always perfect. He does it beautiful in his time. But he's not in a rush. He knows what he's doing. Number three, God's orders are designed to test our self-control. In the week's schedule of uh uh it was a test of patience. But it was also a test of their self-control because the command was to be silent. They were to walk around in silence. This had to be the hardest of all commands. Especially for some Israelites who like to talk. You know, uh I was gonna say that's why there was no women in this army, but I shouldn't say that. I'm just kidding. I r I repent of what I just said. Anyway, silence. You can't say anything. Just walk around the wall, be quiet. You know, you know, self-control begins, according to James, with our tongue, our mouth. We can't control how we speak or when we speak. then we're probably not going to have control over the rest of us. There are times for Christians where we just need to be still and know that he's God. Be silent and just do what the Lord says. But also God's orders are designed to test our obedience. Sometimes God will ask us to do things that may seem unreasonable and illogical to us just to see if we will obey. And trust him. You see, God cannot use a disobedient Christian. He will not use a disobedient Christian He has to use those that trust him, that will obey him. You just need to obey God's word as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I heard that General George Patton had a u unusual way of selecting leaders for promotion. He would get a bunch of guys together and he would say, I want you to dig a trench and I want it to be, you know, so many feet And then uh when he told the men to do it, he would uh kind of go into an office where he could hear them outside talking. And he would overhear what they would say and one man would say, I don't understand why I gotta dig a ditch. I mean I'm you know, I I'm I'm this rank. Why why should I be digging ditches? And other men would say different things, but then finally there was always one guy that would say, Look, let's just do what we're supposed to do. Let's just Listen to the orders because he has a reason for it. That's the guy that General Patton would promote as the leader. And uh there's a parallel there in the Christian life. God just wants soldiers that will trust him. and do what he says. So, what's the first thing when we are facing a stronghold? Consider it with Christ. Consider his presence. Consider his promise. Consider his plans for that stronghold to fall. But here's number two. Not only consider it with Christ, but right down circle it with prayer. Circle it with prayer. Now again, we have to admire Joshua because he doesn't hesitate, and this is immediate obedience Notice verse number six. Notice what happens. And Joshua, the son of Nun, called the priests and said unto them, Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark of the covenant. of the Lord. And he said unto the people, Pass on and compass the city, and let him that is armed pass on before the ark of the Lord. And as you read on down to verse number nine, what you find out is that Joshua lines them up according to the formation that God prescribed. He tells them to be silent. He tells the priests to blow the trumpets just like God says. There are no ladders, no catapults, no battering rams. Again, Joshua and Israel didn't know anything about siege warfare. But the truth of the matter is they didn't really need to know any of that because it was all unnecessary. The battle was the Lord's, and God was the one laying siege to the city. Now, I'll be honest with you, this passage of Scripture baffled me for many years when I read it. I would just read it and say, this just doesn't make any sense I can't figure out why God is making them march around this city in silence one time day for six days and then on the seventh day seven times it just doesn't make sense. If any military commander tried this strategy in any battle, I promise you he would lose. Okay? It just doesn't make sense. And then it dawned on me, it took me a while to, but then I finally put a wisdom from the Lord, and it dawned on me that this is not a military strategy You know what this is? This is a dedication service. That's what it is. You see, God's instructions to Joshua about taking the city of Jericho is no reference to a military strategy. That is not what this is This was instructions for a worship service, a dedication service. That's what this was This is not a military maneuver. This is a religious parade. This is a solemn dedication to God. That's why there was silence, because it was a solemn. Dedication. There are times in the life of the Christian when we're dealing with strongholds in our life, and again, we just need to be silent before the Lord and give it over to Him. Be still and know that He is God. That's why there's trumpets. These instruments were used to uh call people for worship. We see that in the Old Testament. Whenever there was a solemn assembly that was gathered. It would be announced by the blowing of trumpets when God's people would come together and worship. That's why you see the number seven. in this. Seven priests, seven trumpets, seven days, seven circuits on the seventh day. Why is that? Well because seven in the Bible signifies what? The work of God. This was something that God was going to do, not man. And they're just giving this whole city, this whole thing, over to the Lord. The Hebrew word for savage, Shiva, comes from a root that means to be finished or to be satisfied. It has the idea of God Finishing or completing something, God doing it. Again, that's why we see the number seven all over in the scripture. All this would be the work of God. And so really all of their actions was basically this, saying, God, here. This is your city. We in solemn worship and dedication are giving this stronghold over to you. Now it is yours to deal with. That's exactly what they're doing here. The key is in verses 17 and verse 19. Look down in verse 17 of chapter 6. And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord only. Ray Rahab the heart that shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that were sent. Verse eighteen, and ye in any wise keep uh Keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest you make yourselves a curse, when you take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel a curse and trouble it. But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are confisc consecrated unto the Lord, they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. All of this belongs to God. You're not to take anything out of this city for yourself. And so Joshua and the army They were setting this city aside for God. And they were saying, God, you, you do this. Do you remember in 1961 the Soviets constructed a wall right through the middle of the city of Berlin, Germany? And it is known as the Berlin Wall, a massive stone cement wall with barbed wire and so on, and it stayed there for twenty-eight years. And in one of the more dramatic speeches of President Ronald Reagan, uh he in 1987 gave a speech right in front of the Bir Berlin Wall, and some of you might remember where he made those famous, now famous words uh Mr. Gorbachev teared down this wall. And then of course two years later in nineteen eighty nine the Berlin Wall came tumbling down. Well, I think about that when I read this passage. Because really what this whole assembly, this whole parade of all these soldiers marching around and blowing the trumpet and silent uh silent dedication, they're basically saying to the Lord, Lord, tear down this wall. And that's exactly what happened. They gave it to the Lord, and God tore it down. He tore down the wall. You see, when we have a stronghold in our life that's troubling us, we have to circle it with prayer. We just have to give it over to the Lord. And say, God, you take care of this. I can't handle this. I don't know how to tear down this thing. It's too much for me. I don't have the know-how, the weapons. The walls are just too big. Lord, tear down this wall. Tear down this wall for me. And again, the battle is not with physical weapons, it is with spiritual weapons. So again, I ask you, what is your stronghold? What is the thing that is hindering you and your Christian walk? Is it a wayward child? Is it uh just some ailment in your life that you need to get victory over? Uh Is there a circumstance that you just don't have the ability to change it? Only God can change it. Whatever it is that's hindering you, circle it with prayer. Give it to the Lord. But here's the third and final thing. Consider it with Christ. Circle it with prayer. But here's number three. Claim it by faith. Claim it by faith. Look at verse number 20. So the people shouted when the priest blew with the trumpets, and it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet. And the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city. Now why did they shout? Well, first of all, because God told them to But also because this was the shout of faith. This was Joshua and the people of Israel claiming God's promise. Notice they shouted It would be pretty anticlimactic if they shouted and nothing happens. But the shout of faith is what enacted the power of God. It was their faith. Again, we go to our passage in Hebrews 11. 30. By faith the walls of Jericho came down. It was the shout of faith. And they were giving, I think, a a shout of praise to God. They were thanking God for the victory. They were praising God for what he was going to do. And God did it. And so this is what we have to do. We have to claim it by faith and trust God to give us that victory. And then just claim it and then wait for God to do what He will do. And so we see this, you know, in the in the New Testament, for example, the church of Corinth was giving Paul much trouble. It seemed like the conflict that had developed between the church and the apostle Paul because of some false teachers that were there in the church, all kind of internal strife. This was giving Paul a real problem. And uh he had made a painful visit and also wrote a severe letter, and nothing seemed to happen. And finally he got word that the people had repented and God had broken through in their heart. And what does Paul do? The Bible says in 2 Corinthians that Paul uh said this in verse 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14. Now thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ. And maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us. Paul is saying that God is the one who always causes us to triumph in Jesus Christ. He is our victory. And so the church for Paul, the church at Corinth, had been a stronghold. It had a serious problem. And you know what? God was able. to overcome all of that. And Paul had to wait on the Lord. Paul had to look to the Lord. And he circled it with prayer. You say, how do you know that? Well, in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul speaks about it, and he speaks about it, for though we walk in the flesh, we're not waging war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not what? Carnal, but mighty through God. To the pulling down of strongholds. And so Paul learned to trust in the Lord And God gave them that victory, and God will do the same for you and for me. We consider it with Christ, we circle it with prayer, we claim it by faith. And let God tear down that stronghold in your life. Let me close with this. In 1944, World War II sub lieutenant Hiro Onoda of the Imperial Japanese Army was ordered to stay on an island in the Philippines and to hold it for the glory of the Emperor. So he did. The following year the the Allies bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Japanese surrendered. Shortly after the war ended. But unfortunately, uh Onoda did not know. No one told him the news. So he kept on fighting the next year. And then the next year. And then the next year. He was still fighting twenty-nine years after World War II ended. On that same island, located there. He was totally unaware that the war had finished long ago. Even when the police searched the jungle using megaphones, asking him to surrender and telling him that the war was over, he refused to give up and shot at the helicopter. It wasn't until 1974, when they brought his wartime commanding officer to order him to surrender that he finally stopped fighting. When they brought his commanding officer. You know what? It's over for Satan. He's been defeated. But you know what? He doesn't stop fighting, does he? The only way to defeat Satan is to bring our commanding officer Jesus into the fight so that we can claim the victory that is already ours. Even though Satan is fighting, even though he might put up strongholds, our commander, the Lord Jesus, gives us the victory And we need to claim that. Do you apply the victory of the cross to your daily life? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this wonderful encouragement from your word. That even though we have strongholds in our life, Lord, you can give us victory. And our plans need to be torn up. And we need to just submit to you and recognize that you are the captain of the Lord of hosts, and the battle belongs to you. And Lord, we need to humbly submit to your plans. They may not be the way we want it to be. It may not even make sense to us. And it might not happen exactly the way we want it to happen or in the time. That we want it to happen. But Lord, we know that your plan is always right. And that the battle is yours. And that we need to trust you. We just need to trust you and give it over to you. And so we can live by faith like Joshua. By faith the walls of Jericho came down. So Father, tear down our stronghold We give it to you. Help us, Lord, to live and walk in faith for your honor and glory. We pray in Jesus' name