I'd like for you to open to an Old Testament book, the book of Daniel. Look in Daniel chapter 3 tonight. Old Testament, a great Old Testament book, the book of Daniel, chapter number three. Daniel three. And while you're finding Daniel three, uh How do how do you win the World Series? Ever think about it? It's baseball season coming up. I was reading uh decades ago when the New York Mets were the Uh I don't know if you follow baseball much. Some of you might be old enough to remember when the New York Mets were kind of the darlings of the National League. There were two young pitchers who were told the secret of how to win the World Series, Tom Siever and Tug McGraw. For some of you old timers that recognize those names. Uh these were two great pictures. And they said they basically, when they were asked how do you how do you win the World Series, they uh they took a line from a Walt Disney character And said, basically, you just gotta believe. You gotta believe. That was it. And so in almost every World Series sense, someone takes up the same slogan. for their favorite team. You know, if you want to win, you wanna be champions, you just gotta believe. And so there appears a kind of a consensus among popular culture that good things will happen to people that just believe. Now when you ask them believe what, I guess it's just believe that you can win or believe that you can do it. You know, if you have enough confidence in the outcome, they say dreams will come true And so it's this idea of if you just have adequate faith or enough confidence, that can trigger God into doing the things that you want Him to do for you. And surprisingly, even Bible-believing Christians kind of buy into this idea here of just mustering up enough confidence and enough faith. And if you could just muster up enough belief and enough faith, well that will trigger God and God will work on your behalf. In fact, great movements of Christianity across our world have kind of gained steam under this idea only to lose track later because this just simply isn't the case according to the scripture. If this kind of special confidence really defined the biblical faith, then we would have to skip over this chapter that we're going to look at tonight, Daniel chapter 3. Now this chapter, I'm sure you know this story. It's a very well-known story in the Old Testament. It tells us of three, we could say, faith giants. We know the names of the three Hebrew children, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And we know these names because we know this story. And also they're um really in a way kind of highlighted, pop not with their names, but what they did is highlighted In Hebrews chapter 11, we looked at that on Sunday morning. Um we call it the God's Hall of Fame of faith. And the Bible says that they through faith quenched the power of fire. And so they refused with great courage. They refused to bow down before the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And when they were threatened with the idea of being thrown into a furnace of fire, they they you know at that point they didn't say, well, you know, we just if we just believe enough, God's not going to let that happen. That's not what their response was. They had no idea what God was going to do. And look in chapter 3, look down at verse numbers 17 and 18. Notice what it says, A furnace, and he will do. So our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us From the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But look at verse 18. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. And so if they were living today, they would probably be corrected by certain preachers and Christians that would say, oh no, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendago, don't say if There are no ifs if you have real faith. Don't say if God is if not, don't say that. You should believe without doubting. And that's the idea that some people have. But the three Hebrew children, as we're going to see as we look into this story, they did not operate on the popular notion that faith is exceptional confidence in popular outcomes. Biblical faith is not cop is not confidence And popular outcomes, biblical faith is confidence and trust in a all-wise and sovereign God. And learning to trust in him no matter what. So let me just give you the big idea of our sermon tonight. All right, and here it is. I hope you capture this. Faith is not believing in spite of circumstances, it is obeying in spite of consequences. And any other perspective will ultimately harm our faith. So let me just give you two lessons here tonight. about faith. Two important lessons that we learn from this story here. And if you're taking notes, break down number one, faith honors God in spite of difficult circumstances. Faith honors God in spite of difficult circumstances. Now I want you to notice that this whole story is set in a very difficult time for the three Hebrew children. They were living in hostile territory. They were living in a pagan land. Look in chapter 3, look at verse number 1. I want you to notice the king, what I call the king's arrogance. Look at verse 1. Nebuchadnezzar the king was made an image of gold, whose height was three score cupits and the breadth thereof six cupits, and he set it up in the plain of Durah in the province of Babylon. Now I think that what he's doing here Uh King Nebuchadnezzar, I think this is an act of defiance. There's no accident that he sets up this image right after chapter two. If you ever study the book of Daniel, you know in chapter two he had a dream, and Daniel was able to interpret that dream and it was a dream of a big a great image. And you know the story. This image represented the the Gentile world empires that were to come in the future. And at the top of that was the head of gold, which represented Nebuchadnezzar and his empire, and then the other medals represented other empires that were to come. Really it was a blueprint for the end. And then you know in that vision there was the stone made without hands that crushed those empires and it became the supreme empire of the world and of course we know that to be what? That's the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, right? Thank God that our Lord's going to come again and set up his kingdom on earth. And so it's no accident that right after he had this dream of this image that we find in chapter 3, he sets up an image. You see, I think the idea here is, when he saw this image, he knew that the head of gold represented him And I think that um the idea of him just having a passing uh place on the center stage of history didn't sit well with him. I think he wanted for his kingdom to endure, and I think that's what this image represented. Um Nebuchadnezzar began to think of the implications of that dream and what it meant, and I think he did not really like it. I don't think it sat well with him. I like what James Montgomery voice wrote. He said this. He must have said to himself Wouldn't it be nice if more of that statue were gold than just the head? The head represents me, and I'm glad that I'm the head and not a toe, for example. But it would really be nice if I were the whole statue. Why should my kingdom be so succeeded by other kingdoms? Why shouldn't this great statue that I have built last forever? And I think that is the mindset of Nebuchadnezzar here in chapter 3. I think he uh sets up this statue, it's more than just a relic. It represents him, it represents his empire This is the king saying, I will not allow Daniel's God to set up his kingdom over my kingdom. This is Nebuchadnezzar saying, My kingdom come, my will be done. I think this is an act of defiance. It reminds me of the poem in Dictus, the words of the poem that said, I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my And so this image, we could say, is the invictus statement of King Nebuchadnezzar. He was more concerned about his kingdom. than any other any of God's kingdom. Now before we judge Nebuchadnezzar too harshly, we might make the same mistake. Are you more concerned about your agenda and your kingdom than the kingdom of God? What did Jesus say? Seek ye first the kingdom of God And his righteousness and all these other things will be added unto you. Now notice the sh the size of this. This was meant to impress in verse 2. Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes Or I'm sorry, back up to verse number one, where it says, the height, whose height was three score cubits, the breadth six, and he set it up on the plain of Dura. And so, you know, to use today's standard of measurement, this would be 90 feet tall, the width would be 9 feet wide. And I think that the proportions would make it very thin, or better yet, I think it was set upon a pedestal that was very, very high. This would reach up to 90 feet high And so this would be an image that would be very well seen from all over. It was done outside, just outside the city of Babylon. It was overlaid with gold, it should just shine there with the sun beaming down on it on the plains of Dura there. And so this was meant to be very, very impressive. And then he wanted to have a dedication of it in verse 2. This the king sent to gather together the princes and governors and captains. The judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces to come to dedicate to the dedication of the image, which Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. Notice he mentioned seven different different classes here, and these are would represent all of the Top governors, the rulers that were all over in that region of the Empire of Babylon And he also mentions different people. Look in verse 4. Then a herald cried aloud to you, it is commanded, O people, nations. and languages. And so this kind of gives us the idea that not only were the top officials from all over there at this dedication service, but also there were people from all over the empire that had come for this this grand event. And of course he had an orchestra in verse number five. What was the command that at what time you hear the sound of the cornet, the flute, the heart, the sackbutt, the sultry, and ducimer, and all kinds of music? Ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up. And verse 6, and whoso falleth not down to worship Shall be cast, shall the same hour be cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. And so this was pretty serious. He wanted everyone to observe this And so he has this orchestra ready to play, and when they would hear the beginning of that music playing, everyone was to bow down. This was not just a normal dedication service. This was more like a worship service. Everyone bowed down. And again, the image, no doubt, represented Nebuchadnezzar himself. And if you didn't bow down. You would be thrown into the furnace. Now King Nebuchadnezzar used this furnace in the past as a means of punishing people. This would be a horrifying prospect for anyone there. In fact, in Jeremiah 29, 22, it records that Nebuchadnezzar roasted to death two men already in that furnace. So this would be a horrible judgment. And the furnace here I was reading from Archer who describes it. He says this, judging from the base release, it would seem that Mesopotamian smelting furnaces tended to be like an old-fashioned glass milk bottle in shape with a large opening for the insertion of the ore to be smelted and a smaller opening at the ground level for the admission of wood and charcoal. So if you can just imagine a j uh just a great big opening at the top with a kind of a milk bottle shape and an opening on the side, anyone that would not bow down would just be thrown into that opening. And so in verse 7, when the music started, notice what it says, therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sapphux, altry, and all kinds of music. All the people, the nations, the languages fell down and worshipped The golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. Again, as I said, a worship service. This wasn't just paying tribute. This was worshiping. And they were compelled to do so. However, notice we saw we see the king's arrogance here. This is his defiance. This is my kingdom, and people will worship me, and this is the image of me. But notice the Childeans' accusation. Look at verse 8. Wherefore at that time, certain Childeans came near and accused the Jews. They spake and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live forever. Thou, king, has made a decree that every man that shall hear the sound, and there are those musical instruments again. I'm not going to read them again All kinds of men shall fall down and worship the golden image. And whoso falleth not down and worshipeth he shall be cast into the mist. Now, King, didn't you say this? Did our ears deceive us? We just want to make sure we got this right. Don't you just hate tattletales? We just want to make sure we got this right. That when the music started, everyone was supposed to bow down. Didn't you say that? And verse 12, they continue, there are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, have not regarded thee. They serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. Now there's a little bit of a jab there, if you ask me. First of all, here's these Chaldeans. They I I think they didn't like uh these these Jewish um leaders anyway that were set up at certain strategic positions in the Empire of Babylon. I think that they didn't like them anyway. And here was an opportunity For them to bring an accusation against them. The word accused here, literally, it's a very strong word suggesting severe hatred, literally to eat up. you know, to to relish with great hatred the idea that they had something against them. And they bring this because they saw that the three Hebrews refused to bow Now you can just in your mind if you could just picture when the music started, you look all over the plane, everyone bows down. It would be hard not to see three men that did not bow. But these Chaldeans, they were looking. Uh they were looking. They kind of maybe had a suspicion. And they came with this accusation. And they there's a little bit of a jab against the king. Aren't these the men that you set up over your kingdom? over these provinces. These are the people that you chose, that you put in this position. And so I think there is a little bit of a jab here. against the king because of bringing these men and putting them over the kingdom. Now this made Nebuchadnezzar angry. Look at verse 13. Then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury Commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before the king. He's beside himself with rage. I think there's a sense of disbelief. I think in the heart of this king he trusted these men and believed in the integrity of these men. So I think he kind of gives them another opportunity in verse 14. Nebuchadnezzar spake and said unto them, Is it true? Oh Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do you not serve my gods or worship the golden image which I've set up? And so he's going to give them another chance. You know, we're gonna he basically says in verse 15, I'm gonna play this music again. We'll start this over. You can have another chance. That's very interesting to me that he would give them another opportunity. Why would he do that? I think it's because he had a fondness for these men. Now we're going to give you another chance. And notice the second part of verse 15, but it says, But if ye worship not Ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. And who is that God that shall deliver you out of my hands? If you don't The idea is, is there any God? What God is there that can deliver you from me? Uh no one will be able to deliver you from me is the idea there. Really, this is a challenge to the God that they worship And Nebuchadnezzar is saying, you know, he won't be able to deliver you out of my hands. But again, notice the answer I see, the Hebrews answer. Look in verse 16. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. That is to say, we're not worried about this. We're not really that concerned. I think the answer there is the idea of to defend ourselves. We don't need to apologize. For the fact that we did not bow down. We don't need to defend our actions. I don't think they were being arrogant. I think they were being respectful and matter-of-fact. They were not ashamed of what they had done. They believed that they were doing what they needed to do to honor God, and indeed they were. They would obey Nebuchadnezzar as far as humanly possible, as much as their convictions would allow them to be good servants of the king and obey him, they would do it. But this was something that they could not do. And they would not do. They would not worship other gods. That was strictly forbidden. In the Old Testament scripture, they would be violating, they would be violating with the Word of God. They would be compromising their convictions of what they believe. You understand that God calls upon us as believers to hold to convictions And to stand firmly on the Word of God and not compromise our beliefs in Scripture. And so this is where they are. They're standing on the Word of God. They're not worried about answering. And I think again, verses 17 and 18 really is the the central part of this whole story. These are the key verses. Look again in verse 17. If it be so. Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, Be it known unto thee, O King, we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. Here they affirm the power of God. Our God is able. There's no question in our mind We know he's able. You know what faith is? Faith believes that God is powerful. God can do whatever he wants to do There's no difficulty or circumstance that God can't deliver you out of. And so faith believes in the power of God And the idea here seems to be He may rescue us, or where it says and He will deliver us out of thine hand, the Aramaic verb here is kind of imperfect, so we could render it like this. He may rescue us. He's certainly mighty enough to do it. And he just might do it. But even if he doesn't, even if God chooses not to deliver us out of your hand. We're not going to bow down. We're not going to worship your golden image. Here they teach Nebuchadnezzar more theology about their God. You know what they're telling Nebuchadnezzar? Our God is sovereign. And he does whatever he wants. We can't manipulate him. He's the one that's in control. We're going to serve him and trust him no matter what. He's perfectly powerful enough and able to do it, but whether he does it or not, that's really up to him. But we know this: he's all wise. And whatever decision he makes, we trust him in it. That's faith, beloved. That's real faith. He might deliver us, he might not, but if not, we trust God. It's that kind of faith that you have several Sunday mornings ago I was kind of preaching on this, and I remember when I said you have to have the if-not clause in your faith. If not, you know, God is able to deliver us, God is able to do this. He might not choose to do it, but if he doesn't, I'm still going to trust God I'm still going to believe God. God can deliver us from the furnace. It might be that you're here tonight and you say, you know, I want to be delivered from a trial. He's able to do that. He's able to deliver you from the furnace. He's able to deliver us in the furnace. It might be that God allows you to go through the fiery trial in your life. And while you're in that trial, God might deliver you out of it. He might do something miraculous in the midst of that trial. In fact, he might allow you to go in that trial just because he wants to prove himself mighty to you and others. That might be his will. And then God might deliver us to the furnace. He might say, no, I'm going to let you go into this furnace. He might be putting us in this furnace, you know why? To burn some of the dross off of our life and to purify us. And so God says, I'm just going to let you go through this furnace. God never promised us that we would be delivered from the furnace. He just promised that he would be with us. Look at again, look at the courage in verse 18. This is a great statement of courage and faith. Be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods. nor worship the golden image. Now that had to that was so strong. And you have to imagine they're saying this with all these others listening. They've probably never seen anyone stand With this kind of courage up to King Nebuchadnezzar in this manner. No matter what, we're going to obey God. We're not going to bow down. And so this leads to the second lesson. Faith. We said, number one, faith honors God in spite of difficult circumstances. But here's the second lesson: faith obeys God in spite of dangerous consequences. Faith obeys God. It doesn't matter if the consequences are dangerous. I am going to obey God. Notice the rage. of the king after this. Look in verse 19. Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Now we thought he was mad before, right? Now he's really met, I mean he just blows his stack. The form of his visage was changed. That's pretty strong. His face showed his just utter rage that they would speak there speak like this against them. Verse 19, therefore he spake and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times more than it was wont to be heated. Turn up the heat in that furnace. Jack it up. I think when it says seven times here, this is the idiomatic way of saying, you make that thing as hot as possible. Turn up the heat in that furnace. I really want these guys to really, really suffer. Now that shows you how angry he was. You know what happens when you get angry, you get irrational. If he really wanted them to suffer, he would have turned down the heat in the furnace. Not turn it up. You turn up the heat, they're going to die just like that. It's over. You turn down the heat, they're really going to suffer But King Nebuchadnezzar, he's not thinking straight. He's angry. Turn the heat up in that furnace, he says And so, in verse 20, notice what happens. And he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. Then these men were bound in their coats and hoses and in their hats and other garments. That's important. That's a note that we'll see later on. And were cast into the midst of the burning, fiery fire. furnace. Notice verse twenty two, therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire slew those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. This was so hot. And the idea here is that the command was so urgent. There was such an urgency and a haste to throw these men in the furnace. That the strong men that bound them and threw them in didn't have time enough to protect themselves from the heat. And they they fell uh down. They were slain by the heat, the extreme heat. killed them. And verse 23 it says, and these three men, Shadrach, Meshadak, and Abednego, fell down into the midst of the burning fiery Furnace. Again, this was at the top. They threw them down in. Perhaps the king and others were at the side looking in the bottom. And just to uh can you can imagine um you know this kind of sadistic pleasure that Nebuchadnezzar would take in watching people burn I I can't imagine that. You know one thing I hate I I hate, you know, watching people go through pain. I just can't stand that. You know, and you sometimes people will post these videos on on uh social media of accidents where people are injured. I just can't stand watching those things. I don't understand any pleasure out of watching someone be hurt Or watching an accident like that. Yet here's this king, and he's watching. He wants to see them writhe in pain, but that's not what he sees. Verse 24. Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste and spake, and said unto his counselors, Did not we cast three men down into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king. He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt, and the former of the fourth is like the Son of God. This is one of the great miracles in the Bible. We see here the revelation of the sun. The king's anger turns to astonishment because he sees a fourth person in the fire, and he asks this question in astonishment: hey. Is my math correct on this? Didn't we catch three in? Yeah, we threw three in. Well there's four. And they're walking around and there's no hurt. Now, this particular verse here has been the inspiration for many good Southern gospel songs, has it not? He's still in the fire, you know, those songs like that. But it's so true. It's just an incredible miracle because he sees that they were unbound. Now they're free. Now remember they had ropes. They were bound up, but now they're free. So the fire burnt the ropes off of them. But it didn't harm them. Didn't burn their clothes. Just the ropes. That's incredible. They were unharmed. They were walking around as if they were enjoying it And the fourth person had the appearance that in the mind of this pagan king he said was like unto the son of God. Now I love that the fact that the King James capitalizes son of God Because this is none other than a appearance of Jesus Christ in the Old Testament, an appearance of the Son of God. Uh we what we would call a Christophany, a preincarnate appearance of Christ, and this is just a great great miracle from God. Here is Jesus in the furnace with them. Write down Isaiah 42, 43 verse 2. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. And in verses 26 and 27, Nebuchadnezzar went closer to the mouth of the opening for a better look. And then he calls them And tells them to come forward. Verse 26, then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace and spake and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of the Most High, come forth and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abindnego came forth in the midst of uh of the midst of the fire. And you can imagine the the just the the amazement Verse 27, the princes, governors, and captains, and counselors being gathered together saw these men upon whose bodies the fire had no power, neither was a hair of their head singed. Neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them. They came out of the furnace, and you know what? They didn't even smell like smoke. I wish I could leave the barbershop like that sometimes They didn't even have the smell of smoke on them. There was absolutely no hurt whatsoever. Just an amazing thing. You know what? The only thing that was burned off of them was what the world put on them. And you know, God will allow us to go through the fire sometimes to burn things off of us. that he doesn't want to be a part of our life, to unbound us from perhaps the ropes that the world has put on us. And here are these men in verse 28, and they're looking around and they're amazed. And then Nebuchadnezzar, verse 28, spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel. And delivered his servants that trusted in him have changed the king's word. That's an important phrase right there. Whose word did they change? Or actually, whose word did God change? Nebuchadnezzar's word. You see, King, it's not your will that gets done, it's God's will that gets done. That's a key phrase because a major theme in the book of Daniel is the sovereignty of God in the affairs of men. My word was changed. What I wanted didn't happen. And they have changed the king's word and yielded their bodies. That they might not serve nor worship any God except their God. So therefore in verse 29 he makes a decree. Now there are some people that think that at this point Nebuchadnezzar may have put his faith in God. No, that's not what he was doing. He was just putting the God of these three Hebrews on the top of the list. You know, the Babylonians worship many gods. And after Nebuchadnezzar saw this, he said, you know what? We're gonna bump this God up a few notches. We're going to put him on the top of the totem pole, on the top of our list of gods as far as being great and powerful. There's no God like the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. In fact, if anyone says anything bad about their God There's a serious penalty about that. They will be cut in pieces and their houses be made a dunghill in verse number 29, because there's no other God that can deliver after this sort and as a result the king promoted these three Hebrew children. Now, let me just give you some practical lessons after we've looked at the story. Here's one. Number one, I think we look at this through where we can learn the proper response to God's sovereignty is humble sin. That's one of the things we see in this story, right? Never this story started with Nebuchadnezzar demonstrating his defiance of God's plan. And guess who won out? God. And guess who will always win out? God. The best response to God's sovereign plan is humble submission. And friend, if you try to go against God's sovereign works, you're in for a very frustrating life And a very unhappy life. I've often said you can choose to be a Joseph or a Jonah. You can submit to God's providences in your life and be at peace like Joseph. Or you can be angry and not yield to God's providences, and you can be like Jonah at the end of the book. He's sitting on a hill bitter and angry and having a pity party. The best response to God's sovereignty is submission. But here's number two: those who choose to live by their convictions must count the cost That's what we see in this story. Look, if you're going to stand on the Word of God, don't get the idea that when you stand, that everything is going to go exactly the way you think it should. You may have to pay a price for standing. There's a cost involved in standing for truth. Are you willing to pay that price? And then here's number three. And again, this is the big idea, the big picture of the whole story. Faith is not believing in spite of circumstances But rather it's obeying in spite of consequences. Again, sometimes we get this idea that if we just think positive thoughts, everything's going to work out the way we want it to work out. And friend, that's just simply not the case. Faith is not positive thinking. Faith is putting our full trust. It is belief in the word of God. Real faith says I will trust God and obey his word despite my feelings, despite the circumstances, despite the consequences. It might not work out all the way I want it, but I believe it'll work out the way God wants it, and I trust God. I choose to trust him because he is trustworthy. Sometimes I hear people say to someone else, you know, God did this for me and he'll do it for you. Well, that may sometimes be true, but sometimes it might not be true. God might not do for you what he does for someone else because his will for you may be different. It may be that God will deliver you out of the furnace, or it may be that God won't allow you to even go into the furnace, or God might allow you to be put into the furnace We don't know what his will may be. Faith says, God, whatever it is, I'm going to trust you in this. Remember when Peter was thrown into prison and the church prayed? And Peter was miraculously delivered. You remember the doors of the prison opened up automatically, and Peter got out, went back to the church, knocked on the door, the girl answered the door, and uh She ran into the group that was praying for Peter to get delivered, and she said, Peter's at the door, and they said, be quiet. We're praying for Peter to get out of prison. It was just a miraculous deliverance. But you know what? James was also thrown into prison. And you know what? The church prayed for James to be delivered. And you know what happened to James? James was not delivered out of prison. James was beheaded. By Herod. Was it because Peter had more faith than James? No. That was not the case at all. In fact, I would say out of the two, maybe James had more faith because he he probably could have delivered himself from being beheaded if he just compromised to Herod. If he just said, you know what, Herod, I've been thinking about it, and you know what, I I think that I'm not going to say anything more about Jesus. I'm going to obey your wish that I be quiet about this. And he could have been released. But there was no such compromise in James. James stood firmly on what he knew to be true, and he was beheaded. You don't have more faith if you're Just because God delivers you than someone who doesn't get delivered. It's just a difference in God's will and his way. And sometimes God's ways are mysterious. We don't understand it And so I believe it takes greater faith to endure the valley than for God to move the mountain. But faith is not believing in spite of circumstances, it is obeying in spite of consequences. And let me just give you a number five or number four here. God did not promise to deliver you from the furnace, but that he would be with you in the furnace. It may be that God allows you to go through, but just know this. He's doing this because he has a purpose. I think that the fellowship that the three Jews, the three Hebrew children had there in the furnace with Jesus was the greatest fellowship they had ever had. And I believe that when a person goes through the furnace and the Lord will be there with you and you know what? You'll have greater fellowship with the Lord than you've ever experienced in your life. And then number five, God uses the furnace to purify his people. Again, they came out of that furnace unbound. And I believe that when God puts you through a trial, it's because he wants to free you, perhaps, from some things that have had you bound. And he uses that to purify you. And again, here's the last thing: God uses the furnace. to reveal himself to us in a greater way. In a greater way. And so just know that. Let me close with this story. It touched my heart when I read it. Dr. R. A. Torrey was the founder of the Bible Institute in Los Angeles. He was a great Bible teacher. And I read that where he lost his daughter when she was 12 years old in an accident. Just a terrible thing for he and his wife to endure. And he says that the funeral was on a rainy day And that he went to the few after the funeral to the graveside. They stood there beside what he s described as that hole in the ground, surrounded by loved ones. He said it was a dark and dismal day He said his wife, Mrs. Turry, said to him, I'm so glad Elizabeth is not in that box. And they went home that night with their grief. And Dr. Tory says that he tried to sleep that night, but he couldn't sleep. And he got up in the morning and he went for a walk, and a wave of grief just broke over him anew. When he thought about his daughter. This terrible feeling in his heart that he would never hear her laugh or see her face or witness her growth on this side of heaven. And so he couldn't take it, he says. And Dr. Torrey said he leaned on a street light and he looked up and he began to pray. And then let me read to you the words that he wrote because they're so good. He said, And just then the fountain of the Holy Spirit, whom I had na whom I had in my heart Broke forth with such power as I think I had never experienced before. And it was the most joyful moment I had ever known In my life. It was an unspeakable, glorious thing to have the Holy Spirit, to know that He was within me and this fountain of ever-springing joy Sprang up in my heart, and it springs up 365 days in a year in all circumstances of life. You know what? God came to him in a very special way when he was in the furnace of suffering. And you know what I believe? I believe that God might not deliver us out of the furnace. Faith says, Lord, if you want me to go through the furnace, I'll go through. I trust you in it. I do believe this God will be with us in the furnace. And we have to trust him and know that he knows what he is. is doing. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Might be that someone here tonight just needs that encouragement. Might be that you're in the furnace tonight I don't know. God knows. He knows your heart. He knows what you're going through. And friend, you can rest assured you're not going through that alone. Faith says, you know what, I trust God. I trust God. I trust Him even when the circumstances are difficult. I'm going to obey him even if the consequences are dangerous. It doesn't matter. I'm going to obey him. I'm going to trust him. Because he's trustworthy. And friend, that's the faith that God honors. And when you express that faith, I believe there's a new fellowship, a new level of spiritual intimacy. That you have with the Lord in your life. Just take a moment tonight. Just talk to the Lord right there where you are. Whatever circumstance you're in. Ask God. For his upholding presence, his fellowship, his strength. If you happen to be going through the furnace right now Pray that the Lord would reveal Himself to you in a very special way. Father, bless these your servants tonight, your people that love you so very much. For those that are in the furnace, Lord, strengthen them. Thank you that they have the faith to trust you. When things don't go their way, they still believe, they still trust in you. As Job said, though he slayed me, yet will I trust him. That's real faith. Lord, would you just reveal yourself in a very special way in their heart and in their life And we pray this in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name, Amen.