Would you take your Bibles, please? Go to First Corinthians chapter seven. You might remember a few weeks back when I w was preaching here on Wednesday night. We're doing a series called Family Matters and we're dealing with issues of the family And we talk about singleness. This is not an issue that's preached about a lot. I thought, you know, a lot of times when we do a series on family, we try to talk to all the people in the family and apply scripture to their situation. It seems like sometimes singles are left out. And so I want to just go to the scripture and see what the Apostle Paul has to say about uh singles, advice to singles. Should I marry? Should I not? This is the question that comes up from time to time to me as a pastor. You know, Pastor, how do I know if it's God's will for me to marry or to stay single or and and so on. And so Paul deals with this issue here in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And if you're with us the last time, you know that this is the really the second part of the message I began on this, and so I'll just give you a little bit of review. uh uh review what we've covered so far and then we'll continue on in the points here from 1 Corinthians chapter 7. But you might remember that when Paul was addressing this issue, he was actually answering questions that were written to him and a letter from the Corinthians regarding issues of singleness and marriage and celibacy and so on. And so the Apostle Paul just kind of goes through and he answers some of these questions. And here in chapter seven, we're really focusing in on the issue of singleness and what does the Bible say about it. Now in the church at Corinth, you remember there were two extreme views. There was one view that says, you know, celibacy and singleness is you know, uh a more holy type of existence. You're more spiritual if you're celibate and single. And uh there were people there that exalted that position so much so that some that were even married were trying to live celibate because they thought It was a more holy way to live. And the Apostle Paul debunks that whole idea and deals with this in chapter seven. And so there were some that were th thinking singleness and celibacy is the the holy existence for believers, the highest form of existence, and Paul says, no, that's not true. And then there was another f uh uh uh uh idea uh in the church at Corinth which is everybody should get married and if you're not married there's something wrong with you. And this comes from the Jewish view that from Jewish leaders that believe that the that everyone should be married and th the reason they say that is based upon Genesis 128 where it says, be fruitful and multiply. If you're not involved in the creation mandate of being fruitful and multiplying, then you are not fulfilling God's plan and you're disobeying the Lord and so therefore uh everyone should get married. And according to the Jewish leaders there were seven kinds of people that couldn't get to heaven. Number one was a Jew who had no wife And y the second was a wife who had no children. It's kind of harsh, wouldn't you say? But that's what they believed. And so there was this extreme view that everybody should get married. And if you're not married, then there's something wrong with you So the Apostle Paul is addressing all of this, and basically what he's saying is that neither state is spiritually better than the other. He takes a balanced approach. For whom the Lord wills, if it's God's will for you to be single, then that's better for you. But if it's God's will for you to be married, then that's better for you It's really a matter of God's will. The Bible speaks about marriage in wonderful terms. The Bible calls marriage the grace of life in 1 Peter chapter 3. The Apostle Paul compares the husband and wife relationship to Christ in the church. And so it's it's a wonderful thing to be married if that's God's will for you. But singleness is also good. And Paul says that. Paul in fact said in verse 7 of chapter 7, I would that everyone was just like me That is um to be single, you know. Now obviously he's using hyperbole there. He's not giving a directive for everyone to be single. What he's saying is there's nothing wrong with singleness. I'm single. Man, it's so good I would that everybody was like this. And uh again, he's he's he's exaggerating To make the point that there's nothing wrong with being single he single, he's trying to debunk that idea that was prevalent in the church that everybody had to be married. And so Paul says it it's good to be single if that's what God Once for you. Stop looking at people who are not married as if there's something wrong with them. Again, it's just not the Lord's will for everyone to be married. And there are different categories of singleness. There are some who are single by delay. That is, some people are just waiting for the right person to come along. They're praying, they're seeking God's face in that, and that's a good. Some are single by design And that is to say that God has given the gift of singleness to some people. In fact, Paul says that. Look at verse number seven again where he says For I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, another after that manner The word for gift there is the same word that we use for spiritual gift, and he's referring there to singleness. You may have this gift from God to remain single. You might not need that partnership in life that other people do. And if God has given you this gift, there's nothing wrong with that. God has designed people differently. Jesus kind of supports this idea in Matthew chapter 19 when he was dealing with the issue of divorce and he basically said, look, there are some men who are who are eunuchs uh by men, uh that is, you know, some men were captured, made prisoner, made s servants or slaves in a kingdom. They were made eunuchs by men. Some are self-made eunuchs, that is to say They are so devoted to the kingdom of God that they don't they choose not to be married. And then there are some where Jesus said who are born from their mother's womb. That is, they're created by God With this gift of singleness and celibacy where they don't need marriage, they don't need that partnership. That's just the way they're wired because that's the way God created them to be. And so, um, and by the way, there are many in the Bible uh well-known figures in the Bible that were single, Jeremiah the prophet, Daniel the Prophet, Elijah and Elisha, John the Baptist, James and John There's also a list of women that you could go over who were greatly people that were greatly used of God, that had this gift of singleness, that were devoted to the service of the Lord. So again, Paul is saying there's nothing wrong with that. You might be single by delay, you're waiting. You might be single by design because you feel like this is your gift. And then there are some who are single by divorce, some have suffered the the heartbreak of divorce, uh uh and maybe it was not their fault uh and a person just walked out on you and and uh what should a person do in that situation should they marry again and Paul deals with that here too and there are some who are single by death there are m widows and widowers in the church that are wondering, should I stay single or should I marry again? And so Paul's dealing with this and basically what he does here in chapter 7 is give six factors to consider when deciding if a single person should marry or not marry. Here are some guidelines he says to think about. Use the Holy Spirit, use discernment, use these guidelines to think about whether or not it's God's will for you to be married. And here's the first one we went over, the dangers of the time Remember, Paul talked about the danger of the time. Look down in verse number 26. I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I say. that it is good for a man to be so. That is, he's saying, when you take into t into consideration the difficulty of the times, there may be an advantage to being single because of the danger of the seasons, is what he's talking about there. And so present distress has the idea of calamity. It has the idea of danger. And Jesus, you remember, warned his disciples that there was going to be persecution that would come. And you need to be ready for it. And Paul some think he's referring to the dangerous time of persecution that the church was experiencing. In fact Not long after Paul wrote this letter, the church of Corinth and many in the Roman Empire were experiencing fierce persecution from uh the Roman Empire itself. It was kind of open season on Christians. And in that situation where there was going to be difficulty and suffering, where if you had a ministry that would be difficult, where you would be on the edge of danger, Paul had that kind of ministry where he said, you know, he was constantly facing death. It would be much easier to do a ministry like that if you were single than if you had a wife and children. Think about the Apostle Paul if he was married and had children. How much uh more challenging it would be for him to do what he did, to go through the what he went through, if he not only had to worry about himself, but he had to worry about his wife and his children and all of the danger and persecution that he had gone through. And so one thing he says, think about, is think about the time. Consider the seasons around you. And another way we could apply that is to say, you know, what ministry has God called you to? If he's called you to a mission field somewhere where it would be very dangerous and difficult for a whole family, you need to take that into consideration And you need to use some judgment and wisdom on that. Think about the dangers of the times. That's one thing to think about. But also the dysfunction of the flesh. Look down at verse twenty-eight. But and if thou marry thou hast not sinned, and if a virgin marry, she has not sinned. Nevertheless, such shall have trouble in the flesh, but I spare you. Paul again is makes it clear. Uh it's not wrong to get married. There's nothing wrong with that. Um as long as you marry another believer, it's fine to get married. But he Paul's saying, look, just remember that You know, it's not going to be easier. There are going to be challenges in the marriage relationship. That's just the way it is. That's because of our own flesh. That's because of You know, um the way we're wired. We're all selfish and in a marriage relationship, it's it's all about putting another person ahead of you and taking care of that person before you. And being selfless. Love really is selfless acts of service for others. That's really the biblical basis of love when you get right down to it. And are you willing to live for another person and put that person ahead of you And Paul says, you know, you just need to consider that. Just remember that even in the best marriages, there are challenges that come up, that it's just not going to be easy. Even though we have the Holy Spirit as our helper and we have the scripture and the word of God, there will be challenges that rise up and God has given us the resources to deal with that, thank God. But Paul said, just realize that, that you know, marriage is you know is not the end of all of your troubles. You know, if you're having troubles and you think, man, I'll just get married and that all my troubles will be gone. No You carry your troubles into your marriage. And you've got all of us have baggage that we bring in. And and the the the the difference is we can help each other out in that. It's not a cure for all of your problems. The only cure for all of your problems is God. Your relationship to God, your walk with God. That's what settles all of your problems. Not necessarily entering into a marriage relationship. And so don't think of it as if it's going to Solve all your problems. Just know that you know there are issues that you're going to deal with in a marriage relationship and you need to be ready for that. So there's the danger of the times. There's a dysfunction of our flesh You know, we need to understand that. But then I think that's where we ended last time. That's not a bad review there. We just spent a few minutes on it. So let's plow into the rest of this. And let me give you the other reasons that Paul mentions. Another thing to think about when about marriage and singleness is the discontinuation of the system. But this I say, brethren, that the time is short, and it remaineth that both they that have wives be as though they have none, and they that weep as though they weep not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoice not, and they that buy as though they possess not. And they that use this world is not abusing it, for the fashion of this world passes away. Now I think the main phrase in that whole section there is the last phrase, the fashion of this world. passes away. And Paul is saying that the way things are here on earth is temporary. It's all temporary. And marriage is a part of this this system now that is a temporary system. For the fashion of the world, the word for fashion here, schema is a Greek word, manner of life, mode of life, way of doing things, mode of existence. The system of things here in this earthly existence now, this world system, is temporary. It's not permanent It's only for a time. That's why Paul says that the time is short, brethren, in verse number twenty-nine. And the word for short here is uh uh were excuse me word for time tyros which refers to a uh uh a fixed definite period of time. God has set an appointed time for the things of this world to be accomplished. And we all understand that, right? We are all living in this short period of time And everything in this existence now, it's not going to stay the same. It's not permanent. Things change and this is temporary. And you need to understand that. God, a lot of the time that He's given us here, and it's very brief, what did James say? Our life is a vapor that appears for a little time and then it vanishes away. The time here that we have is a very brief time. It's a very short time. Peter said all flesh is as grass and the glory of men like the flower of grass. It's all passing away quickly And so Paul gives four examples of things that are passing away, that are temporary, and therefore we must be free from the bondage or being in bondage to these temporary things. That's his whole point. Paul's not saying that we shouldn't enjoy these things. On the contrary, we should enjoy these things as blessings. But we realize that it's only for a little time. And so what are some of these things? Well, look again in verse number twenty-nine. Uh it he says again, but this I say, brethren, the time is short, it remaineth both they that have wives, be as though they had none. Now, what does he mean by that? They that has wives as though they be as none. This doesn't mean that you neglect your spouse or act like you're not married. Alright, that's not what that means. It just means that you keep marriage in the proper perspective. That's what he means. You don't put your spouse ahead of your love and devotion to Almighty God. You don't let your love for your spouse become an idol. To where you're loving your spouse more than your love for Christ or your walk with Christ. You have to be free from the bondage of the things of this temporary system. God and his kingdom have to be first in your life It has to be first. You're to be entirely devoted to the Lord, whatever state you're in. Okay? So the idea here is we have to hold the things loosely because we know it's temporary. It's not meant to be permanent. Um uh and you know there's an example of this. And by the way, God might want to at times take a spouse from someone for his own purpose. He might have a a reason for that, and that has happened. And so we have to understand that. And in the book of Ezekiel, there's an example of this. God came to the prophet Ezekiel, and God said to Ezekiel this, and Ezekiel 24 16 he said, Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke. Ezekiel, I'm going to take away your wife. with a stroke. Yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down. God said, Ezekiel, look, I'm going to take your wife away. But I don't want there to be on your part any public mourning or sorrow or tears over the passing of your wife. Now why did God ask Ezekiel to do that? Because God was using this whole situation as an object lesson to the children of Israel who were going to be carried off into captivity and the temple destroyed, and the desire of the eyes of the people was the temple, and that was going to be taken And and and God was using all of this as an object lesson to the people there. And the assignment for Ezekiel the prophet was was to watch his wife die and not be overcome with emotion and show grief because that was a sign to the people that God was the one who was in control. So he was to control his emotions. So you might say that in that situation, God was saying to Ezekiel, you make sure you keep me ahead of your wife. Me and my kingdom and my purpose and what we're going to do, you keep that as your priority. You keep your love to your wife in its proper place, in its proper perspective. And so marriage is one of these things that is is temporary. And that's what Paul is saying here. But also there's another temporary thing that we have to keep in perspective. That is emotion. Look in verse 30. They that weep as though they weep not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoice not. And again, Paul's point here is that our emotions can overwhelm us, and we can become controlled by our emotions. Now, Paul is saying, look, God's not calling us to be stoic or hard-hearted or indifferent. We're all going to have emotional responses to bad things that happen or good things that happen. The whole point is we we're not so wrapped up in the now that when we lose something, that our emotions so overwhelm us that we can't function. What does that say to an unbelieving world when one of our loved ones passes away and we're so overcome with grief that we're unable to even function? We're so overwhelmed and a crazy kind of grief and we become obsessive in our grief and we cling to our sorrows and grief. And we're unable really to focus on anything else. The world will look at us and say, wait a minute, I thought you believed heaven. I thought you believed what the Bible says about eternal life and about heaven. Now, beloved, God's not saying we don't weep after the loss of our loved ones because we do and we're crushed. And we have our times of sorrow and we weep, but we don't weep as others who have no hope. We have hope. We know that there is an eternal life. We know that there is a heaven. And so while we weep, we also at the same time, we don't lose control of our emotions. We also at the same time we rejoice While we weep, because we know what the scripture teaches. Don't let emotions overtake you and carry you away. If that happens, what that is a sign of is that you have lost the biblical perspective. You've lost the eternal perspective and your whole focus is on the here and the now and that's it. And if your whole focus is on the here and the now and that's it, then you you know you're way overbalanced. And you're holding on to these things here way, way too tightly. Because you remember that God has a lot for us after this life here. And so Paul says, you know, they that weep as though they weep not, and they that rejoice as though they rejoice not. The Christian also has to learn not to be so carried away with rejoicing over things that will ultimately pass away that you become so obsessed with The joy that makes you happy, the things in this world that make you happy. Now, again, there's nothing wrong with enjoying these things because these are blessings that God gives us to enjoy But we can't allow those things to overcome us where we become so obsessed with those things that we lose focus, that we don't put God first, that we don't make those things idols. This is all part of setting our affections on things above, not on things that are on this earth. We have to keep our affections on things above. And then he goes on to talk about possessions. Look again in verse 30, the latter part. And they that buy as though they possess not. That's easy for us to understand. We buy a lot of things that we don't own, right? Um he's talking here about the accumulation of money and the things money can buy. with having the newest and the best and you know Christians who live for material things and whose major time and energy is In the pursuit of having these things. Now, again, let's be balanced here. There's nothing wrong with having these things, because again, God gives us all these things freely to enjoy. We just don't become obsessed with them. And hold on to them tightly. And if and if someone takes it from you, you know, you don't go into a depression, you know. You learn to be grateful and enjoy what you have, but hold to it loosely. We shouldn't be predominated uh predominantly in our thinking. uh uh by the concern for all these things that are in this world, our thinking should be predominantly concerned with that which is spiritual. and the kingdom of God, not that which is outward and material. And then another thing he talks about is pleasure. Look in verse 31 along the same line. And they that use this world is not abusing it for the fashion of this world passes away. And again, Paul's encouraging believers not to overdo their identification with the world and the things of this world. Now be happy, enjoy your marriage, love your wife, give yourselves to one another, thank God for all the things that He gives you, for all the blessings of life that we have. Be grateful for that. Rejoice over that. But when those things bec we become obsessive on all those things and they become idols, then we've lost the right perspective. And we have to hold it loosely. Don't overvalue these earthly things. Keep them in perspective because It's just temporary. The fashion of this world is passing away. And you need to understand that. And so keep that into consideration. You know, when it comes time to make these decisions, there's the danger of the times, the dysfunction of the flesh, the discontinuation of the system. But there's another principle here that Paul gives us. I call this the distractions of the relationship. Look down at verse number 32. But I would have you, without carefulness. He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife. There is difference also between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she that is married care for the things of the world, how she may please her, that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction And Paul's whole point here, if I could just summarize what we just read, his whole point is that the single person has fewer distractions than a married person. That's really what he's saying there. Much much easier to have an undivided devotion to the Lord is what Paul is saying. The single life with its greater simplicity in regard to obligations allows a potentially greater commitment of time of resources and self to the Lord than would be possible for someone who is married. So you have these devoted interests. Again in verse 32 where he says, I would have you without carefulness. And Paul's basically saying it's better to be free from the anxieties and the obligations that comes with marriage and a family. Paul said, I would love for you to have this carefree attitude when it comes to serving the Lord. And by the way, I think that's what Paul meant in verse 7 when he said, Look, I would have everybody just like me. That's what he meant. I don't have these other obligations and anxieties that I have to deal with here. This gives me an advantage in what I'm trying to do for the Lord. And so, look in verse 32 again. He that is unmarried, care for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord. Again, a single person is able to devote more time and energy to the Lord. Uh I I I read recently about John Stott, the well-known British pastor at All Souls Church in London, famous church over there. Now he's passed away, he's in heaven now, but all of his life as a pastor, and he pastored there for I think for almost 50 years, he remained single all of his ministry He never married. He was very effective where he was, built a wonderful church there. And uh one person said of him, you know, that while he spent this man was talking about, you know, while I spend my time with my family, Stot is writing another book. or planning another conference or traveling to another country. And the idea here is there's no way for a marriage person to match the output of a single person who's totally devoted to the Lord. You see, because of the divided interest. Look at verse 33. But he that is married care for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife. A man who is married has marital obligations to which he is responsible. And if you choose to be married, you must fulfill those marital obligations. And the Bible makes that very clear. Husbands are to love their wife, cherish their wife, serve their wife, be devoted to their wife. Uh and and vice versa, you know, the Bible's very clear on that marriage relationship. One cannot neglect those obligations. If you get into this relationship, remember you have these obligations. Now I've already mentioned that there are some missionaries. that remain single in order because they were going to very difficult places. I also read of some missionaries that didn't remain single and yet they went into dip on difficult um missionary endeavors and I think to the herd of their family. Just to give you an example, C. T. Studd, who was a great man of God, um, but he left his family to take the gospel to difficult places. He kind of left his family alone. And one writer said that C. T. Studd and his wife, who was too ill to go to Africa, were together only a couple of weeks during her last 11 years of her life. During the last 11 years of her life, they were only together a couple of weeks. David Livingston left his wife and children for years. in order to mit to to pioneer in the interior of Africa. Now again, David Livingston is a greater great man of God. I don't think I could be as great as he ever was, but we can't Ignore the fact that he had wife and children and he left them for years at a time. While he was over in Africa doing those things, they suffered, and it was very difficult for them while he was gone. Now again, I don't want to in any way um you know uh you know cause you to think badly of these great men of God because they were great, and while they accomplished much good for God I think that at the same time their families suffered. And I don't believe that's what God would have for us. And I think that their witness in a way was marred by their the way that their families suffered. And so the apostle is not saying that all single people are totally devoted to Jesus Christ and married people are not either throwing that qualification there. You know, just because you're single and a Christian, don't mean you're devoted to the Lord, because there's a lot of single Christians that are not devoted to the Lord at all. And there's a lot of married Christians that are completely devoted to the Lord And they're able to do great things for God, them and their family. I need to make that qualification. But Paul's basically saying, in general, the principle is, again, remember he's fighting against this idea that everybody needs to be married. And Paul's saying, no, that's not true. There's an advantage of being single and one of them is you have the opportunity to give your time and resources to the Lord. But just because you're single and a Christian, don't mean you're going to do it. You know. I'm not going to go there. But anyway, and then distracted interest, look at verse number 34. There's a difference also between a wife and a virgin. To the unmarried woman that careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit, but she that is married careth for the things of the world, how she may please her husband. And so likewise it's easier for a woman to be devoted to the Lord, where it says holy in both body and spirit. The word holy here basically means separated. It's in contrast to being divided. She can completely holy give herself to the things of the Lord. That's what he's saying. Now Paul again is not saying that people are more holy, single people are more holy than married people. Again, he's not saying that. Because again, remember the context of this. But again, he's saying there is an advantage. There's no question an advantage. If you can be single. And you can devote yourself to the Lord, there's great opportunity there, is what he's saying. And again, it that's if this is God's will for your life. So consider the dangers of the times, consider the dysfunction of the flesh, the discontinuation of the system, the distractions of the relationship, but also let me throw this in here, the decision of the parents Decision of the parents. Look down at verse 36. But if any man think that he behaveth himself uncomely towards his virgin, that is his daughter. If she passed the flower of her age and needs so require, let him do what he will. He sinneth not, let them marry. Nevertheless, he that standeth steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but hath power of his own will, and hath so decreed in his heart that he will keep his virgin doeth well. You see, now what's going on here Well, Paul's giving advice to parents here, specifically to the father, about the marriage of uh his daughter. You see, in the first century culture, the father had a lot of decision-making authority in matters of the family. Isn't that great? In fact, he had absolute authority over his daughter's marriage, and normally it was the father that arranged the marriage For example, in the Old Testament time, marriages were arranged. Adam found a brick Abraham found a bride for Isaac. Hagar selected a bride for Ishmael. Judah selected a wife for his son. Caleb selected a husband for his daughter. And this was also true in the first century. The fathers basically had this authority to say who their daughter would marry. Now apparently what had happened in Corinth with this idea of singleness going around that there were some fathers in the church that decided for their daughter that their daughter was going to remain single and devoted to the Lord all of their life. They made that decision for their daughter. They didn't ask her. They just said, you know what? I'm giving my daughter to the Lord. And she's going to remain single and she's going to be devoted to the Lord all the days of her life. However, the daughter didn't necessarily agree with that, because what happened? Look in verse 36 again where it says, But if any man think that he behaveth himself uncomely toward his daughter, If she passed the flower of her age, that means to say if she reaches her feminine maturity, she comes of age. And verse 36, and if she passed the fiber age and needs so require, that is, she doesn't agree with her father. She wants to be married. Let him do what he willeth. He sinneth not, let them marry. In other words, if the daughter gets to the stage where now she's able to really know herself and know whether or not she has this gift of being single If she says, no, Dad, I don't want to stay single. I'd like Jacob over there. I want to get married. And Paul says basically to the father, look, if that happens. You know, you're not, you know, reneging on God. Just let her do that. Your heart was was pure, your motives were innocent, you wanted to devote her to the Lord, but that's not what she wanted. So just let her get married. That's nothing wrong with that You know, sometimes, parents are you ready for this, sometimes we can, if we're not careful, enforce our will upon our children about what we want them to do. And we have the right to do that, but we also have to be discerning, is this what the Lord wants for them? And I by the way, I've been guilty of that, I have to confess. All right. I'm not this holy great father you have, you know, standing up here preaching down to you all. I've been guilty of a lot of these things. I remember My daughter Annie, who's married now and has two beautiful babies, little baby girls that I adore, um, you know, basically when she graduated from high school, I had a I had it all set out for her what she was going to do I remember one time out to eat, we were at Chili's. Carolyn, you remember this? We were at Chili's and I said, now Annie, here's what you're gonna do. You're gonna go to college for one year. You're gonna go to a nice Bible college. I want you to meet a nice Christian young man. And then After you've been to Bible college for one year and you know, you can you know you'll be free to do whatever you want. And she looked at me straight in the eye and she said, No dad. I said, What? What? She said, No, I already got planned out what I'm gonna do. And I said, Really? I said, No, I already told you what you're gonna do. She said, No, Dad, I already got it planned out what I'm gonna do. I said, no, Annie, I want you to go to Bible college for one year and learn, you know. And she said, Dad, I'm going to move down to Tennessee. I'm going to marry Jonathan and I'm going to be a mom. a stay at home mom and we have children, and I believe that's what God's will is for me. I said, does Jonathan know this yet? He didn't know it at the time. But guess what? She's down in Memphis, Tennessee. She married Jonathan. She's a stay-at-home mom and she has children. And you know what? She's happy. You know, and by the way, she won that argument at that. Well, you know how she won it? She said, Dad. And she's so wise the way she did that. She said, Dad, what could a Bible college possibly teach me that you haven't already taught me? She won the argument. I had nowhere to go from there. And I fell right into it. I said, Well, you're right, honey. Um There's nothing possibly they could teach you that I haven't already taught you, you know. Anyway, you y I don't want to lose the point here. The point is we have to be discerning as parents. And knowing what the will of the Lord is. And Paul said basically to this father here, look, if your daughter gets to the age of where she can be married and she wants to be married and you're not able to fulfill this original vow, that's okay You're not sinning. Let her get married here. But look in verse 7. Nevertheless, he that standeth steadfast What does he mean by that? That is, he's he's still determined with this in his heart, and having no necessity, but hath power over his own will, and has so decreed in his heart, In other words, if the daughter gets of that age and she has no problem remaining single And it it's good to her and the father's, you know, he's deeply committed. That is, he has so decreed in his heart, he's totally committed to this original vow that he made. then it's okay to allow her to remain single. That's a good thing because she can be devoted to the Lord and do the Lord's work as long as she has that gifting and she's able to do that. It's okay to allow that, and that's what he's saying here. And so Paul is basically saying here, take into consideration the decision and the discernment of your parents. when you're when you're making this decision. But finally, let me give you the last point here. Now again, we talk about the danger of the times, the dysfunction of the flesh. The discontinuation of the system, distractions of the relationship, decision of the parents. Here's the last thing. Paul's saying, consider this, consider the duration of the marriage. Look at verse 39, where he says this. Um the husband is bound, or excuse me, the wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth But if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to make to be married to whom she will, only in the Lord. But she is happier if she so abide after my judgment. I think also that I have the Spirit of God. And so Paul is saying, you know, look, just remember that marriage is what? It's till death of your part. That once you get into this relationship, it's to remain. It's till death do you part. And if a spouse dies, then you're free to marry again. Only in the Lord, Paul says. But Paul says, you know, but I still think, and I think he's using a little bit of sarcasm here at the end, you know, he goes, you know, I think I have the spirit of God. And there's always people criticizing Paul about whether he was a real apostle a real apostle. And Paul says, you know what? I think I have the Spirit of God I think I know a little bit here. I think if a person decides to abide as they are after that point, Paul says, I think that that is a better place to be, in my opinion. That's what Paul is saying here. And so that's Paul talking to singles about Marriage. Now let me just give you three summary statements. I'm going to make three statements and then we're going to be done. I mean I'm going to try to kind of tie all this together because really this you can do a whole series on chapter seven here I kind of went through this in a summary fashion. I kind of hit the highlights on it just to give you the general things of what Paul's saying. You can dig down deeper into this, obviously. But then can so let me give you these summary statements. So what are we saying here? Number one, if you can remain single and be devoted to the Lord in purity, then stay single if you're able to do that. That's what Paul's saying. If you don't have the gift of singleness, Pray and look for a godly spouse. Just pray and trust the Lord that in his providence he will bring a godly spouse for you. But remember to to Paul emphasized this several times when he had time to look at it. But marry marrying the Lord. I would just say to you singles, don't date someone that you can't marry. Don't date someone that doesn't know the Lord, that's not a believer. Marry in the Lord, Paul says. All right. Be patient, be prayerful. Trust God. He'll bring the right person. But then here's number three. Just remember marriage is not the final solution to your problems. God is. God is. And be completely Devoted to the Lord. Focus on him and his kingdom. And you know what? If this is God's will for you, he will bring the person to you. He'll make it happen And you'll see the hand of God work there for you. I hope that this was helpful in some way to you tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we thank you that your word is uh just so very practical for us and that there's so much wisdom in it. I I thank you for the Apostle Paul and how much of the Spirit of God was on him, Lord, as he wrote these inspired authoritative words regarding this one issue. And I pray that, Lord, this will be a measure of of instruction and help to maybe some believers that are single and they're wondering, you know, how should I proceed in life? I pray that this will give them perhaps some answers to some of the questions that maybe they had in their heart. And Lord, for those that are praying for a spouse, a godly spouse, I pray, Lord, that you would keep them resolute and to wait until, Lord, you bring the right person along. A person that would be a perfect spouse, a helper, someone that loves Christ and the kingdom of God as much as they do. So that they could be a team serving the Lord together. How wonderful That is when Lord, that happens in a marriage relationship, and there are godly families that serve the Lord together. What a blessing that is. And I pray, Lord, that you'll give them patience. And Lord, for those that are just trying to learn their own calling, give them discernment to know, Lord, what their calling is. And lead them and guide them. But Lord, help us as a church to not put any undue pressure on people about any of these things. But to pray for our precious singles, Lord, knowing that they're seeking to do your will and to please you in all things. So bless them, guide them, lead them. Help us to be supportive of them and be grateful. And thank you, Lord, for all the blessings of life that you give us. May we enjoy all of these things freely, knowing they are gifts from you. And we can actually worship you in the way that we enjoy these gifts that you give us. But not to be so obsessive with the things of this world that it diverts our attention from you. And they become idols to us. Give us the right eternal perspective when it comes to the things of this world. And Lord, we pray for your grace to be able to do all these things because Lord we're human. We can't do this of ourself. Lord, we need your help. We need your grace. And we ask you for that. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful and precious name. Amen.