All right, thank you. May take your Bibles tonight and open to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 7. 1 Corinthians chapter 7. You remember that I uh started a series called Family Matters and we're dealing with family issues. And tonight I want to speak about this issue of re really to singles. A lot of times when you do family a series on families, it seems like sometimes those that are single kind of get neglected. And so I want to kind of deal with the issue of some biblical principles about being single and what the Bible has to say about it. And uh so 1 Corinthians chapter 7, we're going to look at verses 25 on down. A story is told of a woman approaching 35 without a husband, and late one afternoon she went into the woods to pray for a husband, and it was growing really late at night, and she kept praying, Lord, give me a husband, give me a husband, and there was an owl close by that said, Who? And uh she said, just anybody will do, Lord. Um she was kind of startled by that sound, just anybody. Well it you know, God doesn't want you to marry just anyone. Uh He has a perfect will for your life And uh the question is, how do you know um if marriage is for you or if uh if God wants you to marry and then who to marry? These are issues that our our children struggle with when they come of age and our grandchildren Also, maybe there's some folks here tonight that are single and you're kind of just looking for God's will in this matter. What is God's will for you? How do you know what the will of the Lord is? And so I want to preach tonight on to marry or not to marry. This is one of the biggest decisions a person will ever face in their life. And this is the issue really that Paul is addressing here in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. In this section, Paul is answering questions that have been sent to him in a letter. We see this in chapter 7, verse number 1, where he says, Now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, So evidently there was a letter that went out to Paul having a lot of questions on it on issues relating to marriage, divorce, singleness, a lot of questions that come up, and Paul basically is going through that list of questions and answering them And here is one question, and it's the it's the matter of singleness in the home. Now you remember that the city of Corinth had a reputation for being extremely immoral. It was a very uh wicked city and much of the culture of uh of that time there was all kind of loose living going on. And so p because of that It affected the way Christians thought about the issues of marriage and singleness and how a person is to conduct themselves. And what it basically led to is two opposing views. There were some in the church that became convinced that singleness is their way to go, just remain single, and they exalted celibacy up to some kind of spiritual level. to where it was uh you know the the the way to dwell. Now of course if you're single you should be celibate, but there were some that were teaching that celibacy is right even in marriage. They were thinking it was some kind of high spiritual form. And so they looked upon sexual intimacy as degrading, unspiritual, unnecessary, even inside the bounds of matrimony. And so Paul had to correct a lot of this thinking here, and he does that in the early part of 1 Corinthians chapter 7, but they had gotten to the point where they also said that singleness is superior to any other position in which to dwell. And so there was this prevailing view at the church that singleness and celibacy had the highest form of the Christian life. And there were people that were even condemning marriage, saying that you shouldn't get married. And so again, Paul deals with that issue. But then there was an opposing view, and this is the other extreme that says everybody should get married. In fact, the Jewish leaders were presuming that people should get married, and if they were not married or didn't get married, that that was a sin. And that's what they were teaching. They would say that a man who does not have a wife and a child has slain his posterity and lessened the image of God in the world. According to Jewish leaders, there were seven kinds of people that couldn't get to heaven. Number one on the list was a Jew who had no wife, and the second was a wife who could not have children. That was according to their view. The reasoning behind this was God gave a command to all mankind that to be fruitful and multiply. And if you didn't obey that command, then you were disobeying God's word. And the Bible also says that at creation it's not good that man should be alone, and that I will make a help me for him. So in their thinking, then everybody should be married, everybody should be involved then in procreation Now all of these things were confusing for a lot of people there at the Church of Corinth, which is why they were asking Paul questions in this matter of singleness and marriage. And Paul basically comes out and says, and let me just give you the overall point that he makes here, and that is, neither is more spiritual than the other. You're not more spiritual than another person because you remain single and you're not more spiritual because you got married. Neither state is spiritually better than the other. And so the bottom line is for some it's God's will to marry. That would be the majority. And then for others, it's God's will to be single. And if that's God's will for your life, when that's the best thing that could happen to you. And so the question is, what is God's will for you? And so um Paul upholds marriage. We can talk about the grace of marriage. There's nothing unspiritual or unholy about the marriage relationship as some in Corinth were saying. In fact, it's called in the Bible in 1 Peter 3, 7, marriage is called the grace of life. It's also a beautiful symbol of Christ's relationship to his church. And we understand for the vast majority of people, it is God's will for them to indeed get married, but it's not God's will for everyone. And then the second thing I would like to point out is the goodness of singleness. And this is what Paul does here in 1 Corinthians chapter 7. He speaks about singleness as being good. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 7, back up to verse 1. Now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman, and that's a euphemism which means Talking about intimacy. Uh and Paul is saying, you know, it's good not to be married. Basically what he could could be saying there Paul's saying for someone to remain single, it's okay, and it's it's got some advantage. In fact, he calls it a gift. Look at verse number seven. He says this, for I would I would that all men were even as I myself, but that every man has his proper gift of God, one after this matter and another after after that manner. Paul says, you know, I would that everyone were just like me And what was Paul referring to there? He's referring to being single. Now that doesn't mean it was God's will for everyone to be single, because if that happened, humanity would stop, right? The population would be done. It's obviously Paul's not saying this is God's will for everyone. By the way, uh there when Paul writes in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 through 14 talking about tongues, and he said, I would that all speak in tongues like me. There are some people who say, well, that there it is. Everyone's supposed to speak in tongues. No, that's not what he's saying. He's using hyperbole to get across the point. There's nothing wrong with being single. In fact, I wish that everyone were just like me. Now he again he's not just prescribing that as God's will. He's just saying there's nothing wrong with being single. I'm single. And and it's good. And that's the whole point that he's making there. And that's the same point he's making in 1 Corinthians 14. So the the real gift of tongues when it's used, there's nothing wrong with it. In fact I wish everyone would be like me in that. But you know, that's another subject for another day. But you understand the point. And the fact that Paul uses the word gift in verse number seven is to me very instructive. But every man hath his proper gift of God. The word for gift there is the same word used to describe spiritual gifts. And so I can refer to this then Biblically as the gift of singleness. For some people, God gives them the gift of remaining single. Uh and and a reason I bring that up is because sometimes we look at singleness as if as if it's abnormal. You know, if a person remains single for a long time, there's got to be something wrong with that person You know, what's what's going on? You know, we then start trying to play matchmaker sometimes with people well meaning, you know, trying to get 'em hooked up, trying to get them married because after all, you know, you can't stay single. There's something wrong with that. And Paul debunks that whole idea. No. There's nothing wrong with singleness. It's good, is what he's saying here. And don't force people to do something that might not be God's will for them. And so Paul really here is writing to encourage single believers. If you're a believer tonight and you're single, don't feel like in any way you're a second-class citizen in the kingdom of God. There's something strange or abnormal about you. No, not at all. We have to do what God's will is for us and it's again it may not be God's will for everyone to be married. Now there are four qu categories of being single. First of all, they're single by delay. There are some people that are single just because they're waiting for the right person to come along. And there's wisdom in that. You know, don't jump into a relationship just because you don't want to remain single. Make sure that you're doing the will of God. There are some people that are patiently waiting on the Lord to reveal his will to them, and again, that is wise. And then there are some people that are single. by design. Some people are single by delay, others are single by design. That is the person, this kind of person is likely to remain single all their life because this is the way that God has designed it for them For for them, singleness is better than marriage. Now why do I say that? Well again, because Paul talks about the gift of singleness here. Paul says uses himself in several places in this chapter as an example of singleness. But also there are words of our Lord Jesus about this. So look in Matthew chapter 19 real quick. Hold your place here in 1 Corinthians, and we'll come back to that. But I want you to look in Matthew chapter 19 and look at what Jesus says in relation to this as well. Uh and let me give you the context of this. Jesus is teaching on divorce and marriage In verse three, it says the Pharisees came to him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And he answered, and he said unto him, Have you not read that he which made them At the beginning made them male and female. The Lord says there's two genders, okay? That's important to understand today. There's two genders, all right? And then it says this, and he said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, shall cleave unto his wife, and they twin shall be one Wherefore there are no more twain but one flesh, what therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder. And so Jesus is giving a strong view of marriage here. And the reason he does that is because in this setting, divorce was bad. Now we might say that the divorce rate in our day is pretty bad, but it was really worse, I think, in Jesus' day. It was an epidemic. According to one scholar, William Barclay, he says this, there is no time in history when the marriage bond stood in greater peril of destruction than in the days when Christianity first came into the world. He's saying back in that first century time it was m it was it was horrible, it was bad, it was an epidemic. He goes on to say at that time the world was in danger of witnessing the almost total breakup of marriage and the collapse of the home And that's how epidemic it was. It was epidemic in the Roman, Greco-Roman culture. You say, well, surely in the Jewish culture it was different. No, it wasn't. Because in just 20 years before Jesus came along, there was a famous Jewish rabbi named Rabbi Hillel, and he basically taught that a man could get a divorce for any reason he wanted to. For anything that he wanted to, he could get a divorce. And so that was the prevailing view in Jesus' day. This was a view that was very, very popular. And so this was the reason that they brought this question to Jesus because they could sense that Jesus didn't follow the prevailing view of this famous rabbi. So they asked him, can a man get a divorce for any reason? That's why Jesus kind of gives a strong view here of marriage, what God has joined together, let not men put asunder. But notice the verse number seven of Matthew chapter nineteen. They said unto him, they followed up Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement and put away and put her away? Okay, Jesus, well, then why did Moses in the Old Testament command a bill of divorce? Well, there's a problem with that, first of all. What they're referring to is Deuteronomy 24. And if you read that section, what you'll find is that nowhere in that chapter is God or Moses commanding a divorce. They are twisting the scripture. They're making it say something that God never intended. That passage simply recognizes that divorce was going on, and what Moses sought to do was to regulate it. Divorce had already been on the scene a long time before Moses and the Jews. J. Addams wrote this: the origins of divorce lie somewhere back in the dusty past of human history. We don't know when the war started. We don't know when it's it took place on the human stage. We just know it had been around for a long time and it was pervading even in of Israelite life and it was going on all around and Moses was seeking to regulate it. That's what was going on here. And so, but here's the thing I want you to see that divorce was not a divine institution. Marriage is a divine institution. Divorce was created by men By man, not by God. You can find no place in Scripture where God institutes divorce. And so Jesus his comments on divorce kind of uh reinforce this conclusion. Look at verse number eight. And he said unto them, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart suffered or permitted you to put away your wives, but from the beginning it was not what? It was not so. That's not the way it was from the beginning. Moses may have allowed that But that's not what God intended from the very beginning. And then Jesus goes on to give one allowance. Look at verse number nine. I say unto you, whoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, shall marry another and and committeth adultery, and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. And this is one allowance Jesus says that God will allow for divorce, and that is if you have a partner that is continually Unfaithful, with no repentance, no desire to do what is right, no desire to fulfill that marriage vow to be loyal to their spouse. If a person just is could continue to live that way. And and by the way, the word here for fornication is a very general word for Neo, which is all kind of different kind of sexual sin. If a person has a lifestyle of that and will not repent, will not break off, no matter how they are being entreated to do so, if they just continue on, well then God says on th under that Condition, Jesus says, there's an allowance. Because let me ask you a question. If that was happening in the Old Testament and they followed the letter of the law in the Old Testament, what would happen to that sinning spouse? They would be what Stone. Done. Over with. Now you're free to marry again because that person's dead. So I can't imagine God would keep a person under bondage under grace if they were free under law. And so Jesus says there's one allowance, and that's it. And so you have to remember that in the minds of the Jewish men that were listening back then, that greatly minimized this divorce epidemic. You mean there's only one cause? That's right, just one. That's it. One allowance that God will allow here. And notice the response of the disciples And his disciples said unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry. Can you believe that response? Well, if that's the case, it's better off not to marry. I mean, if we can't get a divorce for anything we want, then we may as well not marry at all. And notice how Jesus responded to that. And he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, say they to whom it is given. What does he mean by that? Well, not every man can remain single. Not everyone can can can live that way. And notice what he says in verse 12, for there are some eunuchs which were so born from their mother's womb, and there are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of men. And there be eunuchs which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake, he that is able to receive it, let him receive it. Now here Jesus is addressing this issue of singleness. And what he's saying is, you know, not everyone has this ability to be single and to be celibate There's some that are have this gift. And by the way, what we see here are just three different types of singleness. And by the way, look at the word eunuch there in verse number 12. This is the word that Jesus uses here. The Greek word literally means uh um to be alone in bed. That's that's literally the word the Greek word there, alone in bed. That's the word eunuch here. And I think that when we normally think of the word eunuch, we normally think of you know the physical surgery where a man is castrated and we call that a eunuch. But the Bible doesn't always Limited to just that. When the Bible uses this term, it could be referring to someone who just has the ability to be single It's not talking about any physical uh change that has been made. It's talking about a spiritual heart or the way that person is made up And what we see here are three different types of eunuchs. One is man-made, Jesus said. Some were made eunuchs by of man, it says in verse number twelve. And normally when armies would come in and take away captives, they would do this process with some of the prisoners, and they had to serve as servants and households or slaves, and they were made eunuchs by men as prisoners of war. There are others that are self-made in verse number twelve. He says, For the kingdom of heaven's sake Those are those who make themselves eunuchs, so that is to say, they remain single because they are so consumed with the work of the kingdom of God that there's no desire in their heart to be married. They've kind of made themselves single or eunuchs in that sense, in a spiritual sense, because they're consumed with the kingdom of God. Now this could also refer to some who take religious vows and maybe have that physical surgery, but I think it's really referring to uh the the first the the heart of the person but then here's the other thing There are some, back up to verse number 12, look at the very first, for there are some eunuchs which were what? So born from their mother's womb. That is, this is the way God made them. From their mother's womb, created by God with no desire for marriage, with no desire towards the opposite sex. And that's simply the way that they're wired. That's simply the way that they're made. There's nothing wrong with them. That's just the way God made them. Now, let me just read to you what a few people wrote in this section. For instance, Calvin wrote this, the gift of born celibacy is a special gift. For when Christ says that all were not capable of receiving it, but those to whom it is given, he plainly shows that it was not given to all. And then Spurgeon writes this. Some have but feeble desires concerning marriage relations, and they were so born, they will find it good to s remain as they are. And then there are others. I don't have to I don't want to weary you by reading all these different commentaries, but that that's kind of the prevailing view here. That what the Lord is saying here, that God gives some this gift of singleness, and by the way, this can apply to both men and women. You just have this gift. You have this ability. And because of this gift that God's given you, you're able to focus more of your time on the things of God. You're more devoted to the things of the Lord If you look closely in scripture, you'll find there are many people in the Bible that fit this category where they remain single and they were greatly used of God. I think of Jeremiah the prophet. God told Jeremiah, don't marry. I think of Daniel. I think of Elijah and Elisha. I think of John the Baptist. We don't read anywhere of James or John ever. being married uh in in scripture. I don't think they were because you remember uh their their mother came to Jesus and said, you know, my son should have special place in the kingdom. You know, if they were married, it would have been their wife that would have came and asked Jesus that I'm kidding. I don't have any proof of that. But um But now you might ask the question, how do I know if I have the gift of singleness? Well, the that One way to answer that question is, would you be able to control your life? Because if you remain single and you're not you don't have the gift of singleness, you may open yourself up to sexual temptation. Look at first Corinthians chapter seven again, go back there. First Corinthians chapter seven, look down at verse number nine, what he says here 1 Corinthians 7. 9, where it says, but if they cannot contain, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to what? And that idea there is just to burn in lust. If you're constantly having to deal with this kind of temptation in your life and it kind of consumes you where it's a a da daily struggle and battle, then That's a pretty good indicator that you don't have the gift of singleness. And that was never God's intention for you. And so the Bible says it's better to marry in that condition. Every Christian should be pure in thought and indeed. And if all you're doing is giving all of your energy to fight this battle again of purity in your life, then perhaps that's an indication that you need a uh someone in your life. And so that's one indicator. Another is this, are you constantly lonely in spite of close relationships with the Lord and with other believers? It might be that you're, you know, you have people in your life and yet you and you're walking with the Lord and all of that, and yet there's still this sense of loneliness in your life. Now I'm kind of going back to Genesis for this point, where we find Adam. Adam's in a perfect environment. He's in unbroken fellowship with his creator, God, and yet even in that situation, what does God say? It's not good for man to be alone. You know, he's got God, he's got fellowship, he's got the perfect environment, and yet there seems to be something missing here for Adam. And God said it's not good for him to be alone. So what does God do? God meet makes him a helpmeet. Adam was lonely. Even in that perfect condition, you could say, perfect environment, he was still lonely. And so to be lonely when you're single, that's not necessarily a sign of a spiritual problem. That doesn't mean that you are You know, you're not uh walking with the Lord. It just simply means that you don't have the gift of singleness, and God it's not God's will for you to remain in that And just like God provided a help meet for Adam, if you pray and look to the Lord, he will provide a spouse for you as well. And so some are single by delay, some are single by design, because they're just wired that way, they're made that way, they have the gift of singleness. And then number three, some are single by divorce. There are some who suffer the heartbreak of a divorce. And as we said, you know, the scripture allows uh for divorce in the case of continual um sexual sin. Paul adds another allowance I think here in 1 Corinthians chapter seven verse fifteen. Look at that where it says, But if the unbeliever depart, let him depart, a brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. If you're a believer, you got saved, and now because you are saved, your unsaved spouse doesn't like your Jesus, doesn't like your your your your new life. Uh go ahead and stay with that person because maybe you can bring them to Jesus. You sanctify them by bringing Jesus into the home. But if they say, you know what, I don't want your Jesus, I don't want you. Because you're a Christian, now I'm out of here. And they, of their own initiative, decide to leave and move on. What does the Bible say? If the unbelieving mate wants to depart, you let them go. You're not under bondage there. It's not your fault there. Not saying that you were a perfect spouse, but it also is not your fault, Paul's saying. And so you're free. And I think that what it means there is you're when it says you're not under bondage, I think it's meaning that you're free to find a believer and marry again in the Lord in that condition. Because again, if you don't have the gift of singleness in your life and you have a a d a person that divorces you, no fault of your own, God's not going to give you that burden of remaining single all the rest of your life Because it wasn't your fault. And so God will bring someone else into your life. Now you might not take that position on divorce and you have your right to be wrong if you want to. There's not everyone who has that, but but you you and you have the freedom to come and show me where I'm wrong. What am I not seeing here? I mean this is what Paul said. He's pretty clear to me. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart, a brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. God has called us to peace. God doesn't want you in a relationship where you're constantly in warfare And if that person just says, I'm out of here, then you just, it's grieving, it may hurt, but you're not it's not your fault. You're free to move on with your life. There's life after divorce in that case there. Single by delay, single by design, single by divorce, and then single by death. There were some widows and widowers in the church wondering if they should remarry If they are the or should they remain single. And again, this all goes back to do you have that ability to be single because you know some people after they've been married once they maybe after that there's no more desire for them to be married They don't feel the need for it. They feel that they have divine resources. They had a good relationship once and now that's over. And so they're going to remain single, and that's God's will for them. And that's okay. That's good. That's fine. Again, we're talking about singleness under the Lord being a good thing, and that's what Paul points out here. And so that's all introduction. I have six factors in considering whether or not one should marry. Six. And there's no way I'm going to get this done here tonight. So we'll just do part two. after you know I get however many points here across. So should I marry or should I stay single? And so Paul's saying, okay, I'm going to answer that question, but there's some things that you need to think about. There's some factors that you need to think about in answering this question or pursuing God's will. Here's the first one. Consider this, Paul says, the dangers of the time. The dangers of the time. Look at verse number 25. Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord. Yet I give my judgment as one that hath obtained mercy, O the Lord, to be faithful. Now, in verse 25, when he says virgins here, who is he talking to? This is referring to someone that's on marriage. It's Parthenmao. This is used with the feminine article, so it's referring to unmarried girls. Paul is speaking to virgin daughters who are unmarried. And Paul says, look, I have no command of the Lord. What does that mean? Paul points out that Jesus doesn't really give any direct teaching on singleness. But now Paul under inspiration of the Holy Spirit is going to g give some of this instruction. There are some people that read a verse like this and say, oh, you see there? Paul's not as authoritative in what he writes as what Jesus says. You know, Jesus isn't inspiration is here, Paul's here. That's not at all what that means. means. All Paul's saying here is, look, we don't really have anything from the Lord on this issue, but I'm going to give you something, and this is going to be just as authoritative because this is the word of God. The Holy Spirit is speaking on this matter that I'm going to give you right here. And so he gives this by authority. When he says, I give my judgment, this term refers to a a decision deliberately formed by knowledge. This verse doesn't disavow inspiration. It really affirms it Paul says, you know, in verse number 25 that he obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful. Paul said, you know, uh God has uh given me mercy, he's called me to be an apostle, I can speak authoritatively on these matters. And so what he's about to give is divine instruction. Look at verse 26. I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I say, that it is good for a man to be so. And what is he saying? You know, he's talking again about singleness. And he says, you know, it's good under the present distress. And the word here means Calamity, sometimes it can refer to persecution, it's used in the Bible to refer to torture or violence. And some feel that Paul's referring to the dangerous time of persecution that the church was experiencing at time at that time and was going to experience. And Paul's saying, look, when you're considering this issue of whether you should be married or be single, just remember this. Consider the time, how dangerous it is. You know, Christians were being arrested. Christians were being imprisoned. Christians were being killed because of the gospel. Jesus warned his disciples that this would happen. uh that the people would kill you. And so some feel that Paul is sensing this persecution that is coming. And in fact, ten years after Paul wrote this letter of 1 Corinthians, Nero, the infamous Roman Emperor, began his vicious persecution of Christians. And so Paul says, you know, you should consider the time. Because all over it was open season on Christians. And the emperor had these diabolical ways of torturing Christians and all of that and persecuting Christians. And so persecution is difficult. If you're single, but can you imagine how much harder it would be if you're married and you're going through that? And not only do you have to worry about your life, but now There's it's a life of your your spouse and your children and all of that. That that only compounds the persecution, it compounds the suffering because I know you're probably like me. I would rather me suffer than to see my loved one suffer. I would rather me suffer than my wife suffer. I would rather me suffer than my children suffer. If I had a choice, I would say put it on me. And evil men know that to persecute good people sometimes the way the best way to do that is to persecute the ones that you love. Go after the ones that you love. And so Paul says you should consider the seasons and the times around you. And I guess the best way we could Apply that is practically look at your own situation and is it a good practical thing in your present situation that you remain single? Consider all the factors in your present circumstance when you make this decision. Look at verse 27. Art thou bound unto a wife? Seek not to be loosed. Art thou loose from a wife? Seek not a wife. However, Paul says, if you're already married, don't seek to be loosed. Don't use what I say as an excuse to get out of a relationship now. Oh honey, we're going through persecution. I'm going to have to divorce you. That's not what he means. If you're bound to a wife, then you stay with that wife. And so, in other words, don't use it as an excuse. despite the dangerous situation for believers, don't seek a divorce. And here Paul is pointing back to the principle that we um I may have referred to that You know, believers are to remain in a state of of marriage. Whatever place salvation finds you, you stay in that state. You don't seek to change it. The dangerous times is no excuse for a divorce. Difficulty is not an excuse for divorce. And so he says, if you're free from a wife, and then he says, if you're free from a wife, don't seek to be married in verse 27. Art thou bound in a wife? Seek not to be loose. Art thou loose from a wife? Seek not a wife. And so he's saying here, you should value your singleness as a blessing from God and take advantage of its many advantages. There are some situations and circumstances and callings and ministries and things that God might call you to that are not conducive to being married or having children. For instance, if you sense God has called you to be a missionary to a part of the world that might likely cause you to suffer persecution or hardship, you should consider remaining single. Don't put your family through that. You know, consider that. Some countries are not conducive to raising a family because of the situation that they would present. Many missionaries uh you know, out on the field there they they face this challenge. And so there are some missionaries that send their children to a boarding school in another country. And and I you know That's a difficult thing to do. I don't think I could ever do that because if I have children, I want them around me, right? I want them with me. So you should consider all of that, Paul is saying. Consider the the the the dangerous situation that you might put your your family in or put yourself in and even your death could bring uh unneeded sorrow and hardship on them. And Paul says, you know, you don't want to do that. And so consider the circumstances there, the danger of the seasons, but here's number two, the dysfunction of the flesh. Look at verse number two. But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned, and if a virgin marry, she has not sinned. Nevertheless such shall have trouble in the flesh, but I spare you And Paul's here, again, he's making it clear that it's not a sin for a single Christian woman to get married, as long as you marry in the Lord, marry a Christian. Even those with the gift of singleness, you know, even if you have the gift of singleness, you don't sin if you get married. That's what you want to do. So if you marry for whatever reason you have not sinned because marriage is the legitimate option. But Paul says, just know this. It's not going to be easy. That's what he's saying here. You know, it's just not going to be easy. You're going to have challenges. You're going to have trouble in this flesh. You know, but I would like to spare you that. Some will have trouble. Anybody here have a marriage that didn't have you have absolutely no trouble in your marriage? Don't raise your hand, please. Because we know that you would be lying. Alright? We all have trouble in our marriage. You know why? Because marriage is two sinners trying to work it out. Marriage are two sinners trying to live together. Marriage are two sinners trying to put the other ahead of them, trying to do what's best for the other, and we all bring our own problems and baggage into a marriage relationship and marriage is learning how to work it all out and learning how to love one another the way God has called us to do it and you know what? It's a lifelong process And you know what? We don't perfect it. Uh, you know, you're gonna have arguments, you're gonna have challenges, you know, it's just gonna be that way. And it's just gonna you just need to expect that. You know, it's all part of the marriage relationship. You're gonna have trouble, and the word here actually means it's under pressure. Why? Because of our flesh, Paul says, have tr trouble in the flesh. What is that? That refers to the sin nature. Again, marriage is where two sinners are learning to love one another. And even in the best marriages, there's going to be trouble. But thank God we have the Holy Spirit. Thank God we have the Word of God that teaches us how we can work through that and to love our wives the way God has called us to love our wives and for the wives to uh to be the the wife that God has called you to be. We have the Holy Spirit to help us with that. So I don't want to present marriage as as if it's in a negative light. But just know this, Paul says you're going to have trouble Uh just understand that. And this is especially true of a person's been single for a long time, independent, free, unaccustomed to yielding their way or rice to another, they're going to have some trouble there Because how many of you know that marriage is all about putting that other person ahead of you? And I I've told you this before, but to me, when I do marriage counseling, the number one problem that really I had to deal with in marriage when I'm counseling. You can put it all under this one umbrella, selfishness. It's selfishness that destroys relationships. It's selfishness that makes marriages not work. Marriage is all about being selfless, about putting that person ahead of you about doing what's best for that individual, being those sacrificial, selfless acts of service on behalf of that other person, that's what love is. And it doesn't come easy. And so We should have to we we need to understand that. And also let me just say this, and it looks like we just got through one point here. Um we'll have to do the other five the next time, but Some people look at marriage as a cure for many of the problems they have in life. Oh, I have all these problems. If I just get married, they'll all go away. Sorry, that's not work doesn't work that way. In fact, what you do is you bring you you bring those problems into your relationship. And so don't look at marriage as a cure of problems. It's not a cure-all. And so you need to understand that. And so when you're thinking about whether or not you should marry, number one, think about the danger of the times. Think about your circumstances. Think about the obligations that you would have as a marriage partner and what you would put your family through, you know, if that you know, if you're not in the right kind of uh place. And then the other thing is the dysfunction of the flesh Just remember that marriage is a challenge, and if you're ready to be selfless and to put that person first in your life and to be devoted to that one person, that's fine. But just remember it's going to be a challenge. And there's gonna be trouble. Just know that up front. Okay? I feel like I'm ending on a bad note here. But come, how many of you are gonna come and hear the rest of these points? Promise me this, all right? Promise me. Alright, we're gonna finish this next time. So uh we'll we'll we'll do that. Mary's is good All right, it's good. Singleness is good, but marriage is good too. And again, we're trying to figure out what God's will is for our life. Let's let's let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for your word. It's so very instructive for us. And Lord, I pray for um Your children, I pray for people here that are want to do your will, that are seeking to please you Father, I pray that you'll give them guidance. Thank you for the word of God. Thank you for what Paul writes here, how it's so instructive, helpful for us. I pray for those singles that Uh believe it's your will for them to be married and they're patiently waiting for you to give them great grace and patience and providentially send into their life the person you would have at that right time. And for others who may be single and they're contemplating what they should do, Lord, just give them instruction and give them wisdom. But help us to realize, Lord, the thing that you want out of all of us more than anything is for us to live holy lives. is to pursue you in the kingdom of God. That should be our priority. And every decision we make is under that one priority. What is best for the kingdom? What is best in pursuing you and doing your will. So Father, give us guidance in this. Again, thank you for your word. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen