I want you to go to the book of Ruth. Now on Wednesday night we started into Ruth and I want to look at it again tonight. And this is really an Old Testament story about Christmas. It's really how God and His redemptive plan prepared things in the past This is just one part of the puzzle. God did so much to prepare for the coming of his son. All of the Old Testament tells us about that. But here's one part of the story here. And the story of Ruth is really a story of grace. It's a love story. Some have called it the romance of redemption, and that's certainly true. But it's a picture of God's redeeming love. And in this story, we can see the grace of God as he saves sinners. Now what I'd like to do is just kind of give you the big picture, give you the whole picture, and then go back and look at a few of the details tonight, and then we'll be done. Now you remember if you were with us before that the story starts out in chapter one. There's a man by the name of Elimelech And his name means God is my king. And he marries Naomi, and her name means pleasantness. And they live in Bethlehem. That's the same place where Jesus was born. But because of a famine, they leave Bethlehem and they go to a place of Moab. Moab is not God's land in the sense that the people don't worship God there It's a land really with a curse on it. It's a land where the enemies of God dwelt. Uh a land one could say uh the devil's land, we could say, I guess. And so in a time of famine, rather than trusting God in the house of bread, which that's what Bethlehem means, house of bread, Elimelech moves his family to this place where God calls it my washpot, kind of a term of disdain in Psalm 60 verse number 8. Now while Elimelech is there in Moab, he dies. And Naomi is left as a widow. And then her sons die. Melon dies. And Chileon dies. And so Naomi is left not only a widow, but she's left motherless. And she changes her name from Naomi, which means pleasantness, to Myrah, which means bitterness. And she decides to go back home, back to Bethlehem. However, if you remember, her two sons married Moabite women. Malon married Ruth and Chileon married Oprah, or Oprah, excuse me. Sorry I got that slip of the tongue there. Not Oprah, Orprah. You know what I mean. And so when Naomi decides to go back to Bethlehem, Ruth says, I'm going to go with you. Look in chapter 1. Look again in verse number 16 of chapter 1. And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, nor return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go, and whither thou lodgest, I will lodge Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. And where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. And the Lord do so to me, more also, if ought be death, if death depart thee and me And so here Ruth decides to turn her back on the gods that she knew growing up, the gods of Moab, those pagan gods. She turns her back on her homeland and she decides to serve the Lord God only. She said, I'm going with the God of Israel. And this is really a declaration of faith. And she says to Naomi, don't tell me to go back to Moab, I'm going with you to Bethlehem. And she goes with her. And when she goes back to Bethlehem, she's going to meet a man by the name of Boaz, and his name means in him is strength. And he is a mighty man, a man of valor. In fact, the word is Ishkibor Hayel, a man of standing, a man of might and valor, a man of nobility. And so this is an incredible story here. Here the maid from Moab meets the bachelor from Bethlehem. He's the most eligible bachelor there, the most desirable bachelor in the land. And they get married. And Boaz loves Ruth so much that he buys back the estate of her former husband and family And sh as they're married, she has a child, and she is in the ancestry of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you were here this morning. You saw that Ruth is one of the women mentioned in that genealogy, the rural genealogy of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is really just an incredible story of the grace of God in the life of this young woman. Now, I want you to see some things about this, however. You know, there's some types, I think, in this story. For example, Elimelech can be seen as a type of the nation of Israel. His name means God is my king, as we said, he marries Naomi pleasantness, but he turns his back on his faith. He turns his back on the Lord, on the land and the law. Totally turns his back on the Lord, and then he goes into exile, as it were. Just like the nation of Israel. What did the nation of Israel do? They turned their back on God. They went into exile. And when they did and when Naem or excuse me, when Elimelech did that, uh my God as King dies And we also see where pleasantness is turned to bitterness, she returns to Bethlehem. So really in this type Naomi represents a remnant coming back home in bitterness, just like Israel. And also Ruth represents a Gentile bride. Do you know that the Gentile bride is here in the Old Testament? Who does the Gentile bride represent? The church, right? The church with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's the bride of Christ. And so we are the Gentile bride of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have been grafted into the Commonwealth of Israel. Now, there's another type here, and that is Boaz is a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you need to understand these things. You say, why does God put typology in the Bible? Well, I think several reasons. First of all, I think he wants to give us the joy of discovering these things. Isn't it wonderful when you study the Bible, when you see some of these? patterns of history that God sovereignly worked out and how all of that points to the Lord Jesus Christ. I think there's joy in that. Remember Jesus on the road to Emmaus where he he talked about the things in the Old Testament concerning himself and he pointed those things out. I I wonder if Jesus pointed these things out in the story of Ruth. But I think another reason why God does this is to show us that he's in absolute control. You see, Old Testament scholars call this the uh a correspondence uh in history or the the correspondence uh a pattern of history. In other words what they're saying is what God has done is what God is going to do God works in patterns, and only God in His sovereignty and providence can work out these events in such a way that they point to what God is ultimately going to do. And that's just an incredible thing about God that we see in these types in the Old Testament. Now with that in mind, the theme of chapter 2 is grace. I want you to look in chapter 2, verse 2, and notice what it says. And Ruth the Moabite has said unto Naomi, Let me now go into the field, and glean ears of corn after him, in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. Underscore the word grace there. It's a beautiful word. She said, I'm going to go and see if I can find grace. Look in verse number ten, same thing. And she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes that thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger. Again, see the word grace there. And so this is a story of grace. The story of how Ruth, the Moabitus, became the bride of Boaz, and it all happens by Grace. Now, friend, that's how we're saved today. That's how we become part of the bride of Christ. It's all by the grace of Almighty God. For by grace are you saved through faith Now, with all that in mind, I want you to see five characteristics of this grace that we see here in this story. If you're taking notes, write down. Number one, saving grace. Saving grace, because the grace of God is a saving grace. You say, how do we see that? Well, again, because Boaz is a type of Christ because he is a kinsman. Look in chapter 2, verse 1. And Naomi had a kinsman. Of her husbands, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of the Limelech, and his name was Boaz. He's of the family of Elimelech. And Ruth is about to meet this man who's going to become really her redeemer, her savior. And if ever a woman needed a redeemer and a savior in the physical realm, it was this woman, Ruth. She was a pagan, she was in a weakened condition And what I mean by weaken conditions, she was in a there was a famine, she was famished. I'm sure when she got to Bethlehem, she was a very hungry person. She's under a curse. She's a Moabite. The Bible says that the Moabites are under a curse of God. They're excluded from the law. And on top of that, she is a widow. She has nothing to commend her. So when you think of Ruth, think of weakness. But when you think of Boaz, think of strength. Because his name actually means that. Boaz means in him is strength. And again, he is a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's a mighty man here in the story. Now here's Ruth. She's crushed She's condemned because she's outside the law. While the law excludes her, Grace is about to include her. Because there is a law in Israel called the Kinsman Redeemer. Now let me tell you what this was. If a man were to die And he did not have children, and perhaps his land, his estate, had gone into bankruptcy, uh, and he lost his estate. According to a law in the Old Testament, a near kinsman uh the nearest of kin, someone related to him, could come and he could redeem that estate gone into bankruptcy. He could buy back that estate And not only that, uh it would it would then become his, but then he would marry the widow of his brother And then raise up children for his brother, and so that estate would become his estate, he would marry his brother's widow, and he would raise up children for his brother, and that was the law then. And you can find that law in Leviticus chapter 25. It is a principle of redemption because he redeems the man's lost estate. Now Naomi She wasn't uh wealthy enough to redeem it, Naomi Roos's mother-in-law. She couldn't buy it back, but Boaz could He is introduced in verse 1 as the kinsman and a wealthy man. And again, he has a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, how is he a picture of Christ? Well, there's a few things. First of all, he was from Bethlehem Our Savior Jesus was born in Bethlehem. He was a near kinsman. Our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, was our near kinsman. You say, how can that be? Well, just write down Hebrews 2, verse 11. Listen to this. For both he that sanctifies and they who are sanctified are one, for which cause he's not ashamed to call them brethren. Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. You know what Jesus calls us? He calls us his brothers, his sisters. He is our kinsmen. Again in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 16, for verily he took not on him of the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham Wherefore in all things it behooves him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. In other words, this is why Jesus came to earth. He came in the flesh of the seed of Abraham to be our Kinsman. This is why he came to earth. This is why Jesus came out of the ivory palaces of heaven into this world of woe. He came by way of the Virgin Mary. He came to Bethlehem to be our Kinsman. So just as Boaz was from Bethlehem, Jesus is from Bethlehem. Just as Boaz was a near kinsman, even so Jesus is a near kinsman. And also, you had to be wealthy I mean you couldn't redeem uh a land unless you had wealth enough to do it. You couldn't be in in debt yourself. You couldn't have any debts against you If you were going to buy back the land, and Boaz is a wealthy man, the Bible tells us again in verse 1 of chapter 2, a mighty man of wealth. He had the wealth to do it. And friend, that's just like Jesus. Jesus had the wealth to redeem us. Listen again to Hebrews 1 verse 2. Hath in these last days spoken to us by his son whom he hath appointed heir of all things. You say, how wealthy is Jesus? He owns it all. He owns everything. That's pretty wealthy. To own it all God the Father gave it all to Jesus. All the riches of heaven reside in Jesus. All the gold of righteousness resides in Jesus. All of the divine resources of God reside in Jesus. And so just as Boaz was from Bethlehem, even so Jesus. Just as Boaz was a near kinsman, even so was Jesus. Just as Boaz was wealthy, even so our Lord Jesus. But here's another thing. The kinsman redeemer had to be willing to redeem. He had to want to do it. Thank God Jesus wanted to redeem us. And again, that's the whole purpose for his coming. He came to where Ruth was. He came into the fields. Where Ruth was. That's what Jesus said. He came down to where we are. All of this speaks to us about the saving grace of God. Now write down number two, not only saving grace, but write down number two sovereign grace. God's grace is a sovereign grace. Look again in verse two. And Ruth the Moabite has said unto Naomi, Let me now go into the field And glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. And she went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And her hap was to lay on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech. Now what I want you to see is God's hand moving in all of this. God's sovereign hand moving behind the scenes, working all these things out so that God's plan would be fulfilled, God's purpose would be fulfilled. Now again, they had a law on that day When you were harvesting your fields, you were to harvest the field, but you were to pick up all the grain. In fact, Leviticus says, the corners of the field you were to leave unharvested. And in fact, write down Leviticus 19, verse 9. And when you reap the harvest of your land, ye shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. And you shall not glean your vineyard, you shall not glean every grape of your vineyard, you shall leave them for the poor and the stranger. I, the Lord, uh I am the Lord your God. And so God said, look, when you glean your fields, leave the corners. And when some falls onto the ground, don't pick it up, just leave it there. And and and then don't don't go back through the field a second time and get what you left behind. Just leave it all there. I was reading uh an article about Uh reapers nowadays they have these technic these really big machines and and nowadays they don't leave anything in the field. If anything is left behind, they have this giant mechanical arm that sweeps back and grabs it all and and brings it all Nothing is left. That's not the way it was in the Old Testament. God said, when you reap a field, don't go back a second time. Leave the corners of the field. Why did God say to do this? This was God's way of taking care of the poor. This was really God's welfare system, but really it's not even fair to call it a welfare system because the people really had a dignity in the way that they could get food for themselves. They went out and they worked. They went behind the harvesters and they gleaned after the reapers, and so the poor could go into a field and they could work for themselves and get food for themselves. And this was a very beautiful law Now apply this to Naomi and Ruth. They were poor. They just came from Moab. They needed food. And Naomi is too old to go into the fields. And she's struggling with bitterness over all the things that have happened in her life. And so Ruth says in verse 2, let me now go to the field. And glean ears of corn, after him, in whose sight I shall find grace. Ruth says, Perhaps I can go into a field. Perhaps someone will show me grace And one of these fields around here. Why did she put it like that? Because you have to remember she's a Moabite in the land of Israel. And and she probably wouldn't be looked upon very well because she the law excluded her In fact, we're told in the book of Deuteronomy that if you're a Moabite, you were excluded from the temple down to the tenth generation. And so some would look down upon her. Listen, her only hope was with is if someone would extend to her grace. That was her only hope. And so she goes into the field of Bethlehem looking for grace. Oh, what a picture, friend. You know, many years later. There would be people going to Bethlehem looking for grace, and they would find grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. He was the grace of God. And so, but I want to hear, but I want you to see this I want you to see the hand of God in all of this. God sovereignly guiding all the things that happened here. Because let me ask you a question. When did they get back to the land of Bethlehem? Just in time for the barley harvest. just at that right time. That's not an accident. If they got there a little later, they would have missed a great opportunity. So they get there at the right time. Whose field did she happen to come to There are no signs in that day that say this field belongs to this family. There were many fields in Bethlehem that were being harvested and reaped. And that day, no signs of demarcation. And so the Bible says she just simply happens to go into the field of Boaz. And notice what it says again in verse 3. And she went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and her hat was to land upon the part of the field belonging unto Boaz, who was of the kindred of the Limelech. This was the man who was the near Kinsman. So she got the right field. You say, oh, she was lucky. No, friend. There's no such thing as luck. This is the providential hand of God. We have a little bit of a crisis happening here Because if she doesn't go to the right field, she doesn't meet Doaz. If she doesn't meet Doaz, she doesn't get married, if she doesn't get married, she doesn' The child Who will later be the grandfather of David, no David, no Messiah, no Messiah, no salvation. And so you see how salvation history kind of hinges On all these things happening just the way they're supposed to happen. And we see the providence of God. Friend, I believe in the providence of God. I believe that all things work together for good to those that love God. And so of our own free agency and choice She decides that she's going to reap in a certain field, but yet the field that she chooses to reap in just happens to be the field that God wants her to reap in. the one that God chose that she should reap in at just the right time. And by the way, just who happens to be there at the right time. Look at verse 4. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said unto the reapers, the Lord be with you. And they answered him, the Lord bless thee. I love that little detail that the writer gives in here. Boaz must have been a gracious man. He he just He greets the workers, the Lord be with you, and they greet them back, the Lord be with you. And so he's a gracious man But he comes at just the right time. And in verse five, then said Boaz unto his servants that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this? He happens to go into the field, he greets his men, he's a very gracious man, by the way. My master is a very gracious master. And he greets the men and he happens to see Ruth And he said, Who is that? Now Ruth was a very beautiful woman, and uh Boaz was a man like any man. He's a bachelor. And he sees her, and uh it may have been love at first sight, I'm not sure. But he sees her and he says, Who is this? Now think about all it took to get Ruth there at the right place, at the right time, with the right heart spirit. Here she is working in this field and she's working hard She has been broken. She has been bankrupt. She has been bruised and beaten. She is condemned. She's crushed. All these things had to be in order for God to get her to that place. Let me ask you a question. Did God do all that out of cruelty, out of cruelness? No, because when you go back and you see the bigger picture, God broke her that he might bless her. God had a bigger purpose in mind. And friend, we need to remember that sometimes when we go through a difficult time, sometimes God will break us that he might bless us. Sometimes God has to prepare our heart to receive his grace. Because the heart of man is such that it needs to be broken. The fallow ground of the heart needs to be broken up in order for the seed of grace to be received into the heart. And God has to do all this to get root at the right place at the right time So that God could fulfill his plan. Samuel Rutherford was a man who wrote letters to a woman in his church who had gone through just a very difficult time of suffering. And he wrote about the hammer, the file, and the furnace. And let me just read you a little what he said here. He said, the hammer is a useful tool, but the nail, if it had feeling and intelligence, could present another side of the story. For the nail knows the hammer Only as an opponent, a brutal, merciless enemy who lives to pound it into submission, to beat it down out of sight and to clinch it into a place That is the nail's view of the hammer. And it's accurate except for one thing. The nail forgets that both it and the hammer are servants of the same workmen. He writes, Let the nail but remember that the hammer is held by the workman, and all resentment towards it will disappear. The carpenter decides whose head will be beaten next, and what hammer shall be used in the beating. That is his sovereign right. And when the nail has surrendered to the will of the workman and has gotten a glimpse of his benign plans for its future, it will yield. to the hammer without complaint. Well friend, let me ask you a question. You ever feel like you've been hammered by circumstances? Hammered by things in your life? Well friend, God holds the hammer and God has a purpose in mind and all that he does and and God wants you to remember that he's got a big picture in mind. He's doing something in your life that you can't see, but later on you'll look back and you'll bless the Lord for what he has done and is doing. And so here's Ruth And she goes to the field and she's there just at the right time. God put her through all of that to get her there at the right time. She had to lose her husband. She had to know Naomi. She had to be willing to turn her back on her family and go to Bethlehem, and she's there at the right place at the right time, and had not all these things happened, she would never be part of God's great redemptive plan. Friend, think about all that God had to do to save you. Think about all the circumstances in your life that God had to do so that He could get you to the place where He wanted you. That's the sovereign grace of God working in our life. You see, God's grace is a saving grace. And God's grace is a sovereign grace But I want you to write down number three, God's grace is a seeking grace. Look at verse number four. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem. And said unto the reapers, The Lord be with you now. What do we see here? He he comes to them. Though as came from Bethlehem And again, he's gracious. Must have been a real privilege to work for him. He came down to Bethlehem. Let me tell you something about Jesus. He came to us. He came down to us in the form of a man. And notice he looks and he sees Ruth in verse number five. He says, Who is this? Now Ruth doesn't know Boaz is seeking her. She doesn't know who Boaz is She doesn't know that he's looking her over. You know what, friend? We love him because he first loved us. He saw us first. We didn't see him. He saw us. And he knows who she is because notice the answer. Oh, the workman, verse 6. And the servant that was sent over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab. She's a Moabite, she's under a curse, she's in poverty, and yet he still loves her. And friend, that's true of God. God saw us as poor, impoverished, under the curse of the law, sinners, and you know what? He still loved us. He still loved us. And then he takes the initiative. Look at verse 8. Then said, Boaz under Ruth, hearest thou not my daughter? Go not to glean in another field. Neither go from hence, but abide here fast by my maidens. I want you to see Boaz takes the initiative. Ruth couldn't take the initiative. First of all, she doesn't know who he is. And he speaks to her first. In this culture, a woman couldn't speak to a man first. So he speaks to her first. He talks to her, she's bankrupt, he's wealthy, she's a pagan, he's an Israelite, she's low caste, he's a mighty man of wealth He's the owner of it all the whole thing. She is gleaning. She didn't have a prayer unless he spoke to her first. So he takes the initiative. Friend, that's the way it is. God speaks to us first You say, how does God speak? He speaks through the scripture. He speaks through sermons, through suffering. He speaks through his servants. He speaks through songs. He speaks through other saints that might talk to you. But God is the one who takes the initiative. God speaks first. You know how God's speaking today through Jesus, through his son. Again, Hebrews 1-2, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son. God is speaking through the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why we just try to lift up Jesus here. We just try to lift up Jesus Christ. You know why? Because God speaks through his son. When you see the Lord Jesus Christ, God speaks. And so his grace is a seeking grace But then also write down his grace as a satisfying grace. It's satisfying. Look again. Where he says to Ruth, and Boaz said unto Ruth, Hearst thou not, my daughter, go not to glean in another field Neither go from hence, but abide here fast. That is, stay in my field. He says to Ruth, Ruth, there's no need for you to go to another field. Because sometimes when they were gleaning after reapers, they would try one field, then go to another and go to another in order to get enough. And Boaz says to her, You don't need to go to any other field. You just stay right Here, what was he saying to her? I'm going to make sure that you're satisfied right here. You don't need to go anywhere else. Stay in my field. If you're thirsty, just get something to drink Look down again, look in verse number seven. And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the seeds. So she came, and hath continued even from the morning until now, as she tarried a little in the house. And verse 8, then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearst thou not my daughter, go not to glean in another field, neither go from thence But abide here fast by my maidens. Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou after them. Have I not charged the young men? They shall not touch thee. And when thou art a thirst, go unto the vessels and drink of that which the young men have drawn. Ruth, are you thirsty? Drink all you want. The water has already been drawn. Just drink. You don't need to go anywhere else. You'll have all that you need in this field right here. If you're thirsty, just drink. You know what? I don't understand Christians who come to Jesus and feel like they got to go anywhere else to find wisdom Or find what they need for their soul. We need to stay in the same field of Boaz, because the Lord has given us all that we need. And then he invites her to a meal. Look in verse 14. And Boaz said unto her at mealtime, Come thou hither, and eat of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar And she sat beside the reapers, and she reached her parched corn, and she did eat and was sufficed. And that just underscore that where it says she was sufficed. She was satisfied. Stay here in my field, Ruth. Drink if you're thirsty. Eat. Come and eat the meal. You don't have to eat it over there on the corner of the field by other revers. Come here at the table. And sit here at the table and eat. And eat until you're full. And then he says to his young men, Let her glean among the sheaves. Look at verse 15. And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not. Ruth, you don't have to go back to the field to glean. Just go over here by the cheese, where the grain is already stored. And you can glean among the sheaves. Now let me ask you a question, how much grain should you get gleaning among the grain that's already been harvested? In other words, you can take as much as you can carry right over here. This is all that you need. Let me tell you something about God's grace, friend. It is sufficient. It is all that you need. You say, I need more grace. Well, that's okay. God's got it. He's got as much grace as you need. Just take whatever you need. That's the way God is. It's already stored up It's all ready, ready. If you need it, it's there. And then he says to the young men, drop some handfuls on purpose. Look at verse 16. And let her fall and let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and let them that she may glean them and rebuke her not. That is, he says to the young men, when you're gathering Let some fall on the ground on purpose. Let her have some handfuls on purpose. Remember the Old Testament law when they were to read. And some fell on the ground. They don't pick it back up And so Boaz says, just drop some there in our path. Drop some on purpose. You know, every once in a while God just leaves handfuls of purpose for us. He just gives us grace. Just because he's a wonderful God. And he just keeps giving and giving. You ever feel overloaded with just blessing? God just blesses and he blesses. And you know what? Ruth is satisfied. She's satisfied. So think about this. He says, Ruth, you don't need to go anywhere else. If you're thirsty, drink all you want. If you're hungry, eat all you want. You don't have to go out into the corner and just stay here at my table and reap among the sheaves. And here's some handfuls on purpose. By the end of the day, she's carrying back to Naomi about 60 pounds of grain. I mean he just loads her down. That all speaks to us about the grace of God. And he tells, and and notice in verse 21, Ruth tells Naomi, this is the way it's going to be all the time. That's what he said. And Ruth the Moabite said, He said unto me also, thou shalt keep fast by my young men until they have ended all my harvest. In other words, just keep coming back day after day. You'll be able to glean like this all the time. You know, her biggest challenge was going to be how to get all that home. That was going to be her biggest challenge. You see, friend, you know what this is a picture of? You say, oh, we're root, she's a sinner. Yeah, but we're sin abounded. Grace did much more abound. God just keeps pouring out grace and grace, grace. Friend, that's the way our God is. His grace is a satisfying grace. Don't tell me that Jesus doesn't satisfy, he does. He does satisfy. But let me tell you something really interesting. Something even better. She's gleaning in that field right now, but one day she's going to own that field. Because she's going to marry the owner. And one day it's all going to be hers. You see That's the way it is for us. Right now, you say, man, I have blessings. We all have blessings. But you know what? This is only the first fruits. One day, we're going to own it all. Because we are the bride. We are married to the kinsman redeemer. And we have some blessings now, but friend, that's nothing compared to what we're going to have. You know, I I know there's some folks here, your loved ones, some of your loved ones are already in heaven. Well friend, I want you to tell you tell you they're they're good. Do you know why? Because they're seeing the full blessings of God. Right down here, we get the first fruits Thank God for the handfuls of purpose that He gives us day by day, but one day all of it is going to be ours. All of the blessing will be ours. The Bible says the meek will inherit the earth. God didn't give all this to the devil's crowd. He's going to give it to his people. So God's grace is a saving grace. His grace is a sovereign grace. His grace is a seeking grace. His grace is a satisfying grace. But let me give you the last thing. His grace is a securing grace. Because I want you to see that Belaz was very concerned that Ruth be safe and secure. Look again in verse 9. Let thine eyes Be on the field that they do reap, and go thou after them. Have I not charged the young men, they shall not touch thee And when that or thirst go into the vessels, he said to the young man, You make sure you keep your hands off of her. You don't touch her, you don't harm her, you don't make her feel unsafe in any way You know, you he wanted Ruth to feel safe and secure. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, when you come to Jesus, you know what? You're secure. Satan can't touch you. Sin can't harm you. You're secure because of Jesus Christ. Write down 1 John 5. 18. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. That is, they don't continue in a pattern of sin. But he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. And he says to the young men, Don't touch her. You protect her in verse 21 That's the grace of God. The grace that saves us, that satisfies us, is the grace that secures us. And keeps us safe. Now why all this? Because Ruth took refuge under the shadow of his wings. Look in verse 12, and we're done. Look in verse 12. It says, The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee, O the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust. That's why she's safe, she's secure, she's satisfied, she has a kinsman redeemer, she is safe, she has taken refuge under the wings of the one she has come to trust, and that is our Lord. Friend, that's the story of grace. God's grace. His abundant grace. Now friend, it was no accident. That Ruth was in that field at that time. And it's no accident that you're here, because God wants to continue to bring grace to you. And if you're here and you don't know for sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you're here because God brought you here. And you can find refuge under the shadow of his wings. If you'll just come to Him. If you want grace, you can get it. If you want forgiveness, you can have it. If you want the grace of God in your life, He has sufficient grace, He has abundant grace, and He's ready to share it. In front again, that's the whole story of Christmas. That's why Jesus came. He was the grace of God in a Bethlehem field. Ruth went to Bethlehem looking for grace and she found it. And friend, if you come to Bethlehem looking for grace, you know what you'll find? You'll find Jesus. And he'll give you all the grace that you need, all that you want. Dr. J. A. McDougal tells about a young woman who was dying from tuberculosis. This is what he wrote. He said, every day her condition grew worse. Yet she clung to life. Toward the end of February, she became nauseous, and I was stumped. A senior medical consultant asked me, could she be pregnant? To my astonishment, it was true. A chest x-ray showed the growth of the TB cavity. It had stopped. The reason, he writes, her diaphragm was pushing up against her diseased lung. to make room for the child that she bore. And then he says, the child saved her. The child saved her. And let me tell you something. That child, Jesus, he saved us. That's the grace of God. It came in Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed And so I want to ask you, friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? Do you know him? Because he wants to save you. And if you're not absolutely certain, would you be willing to pray right here and now? Would you be willing to say, Lord, I'm weak, but you're strong? Lord, I'm poor, but you're wealthy. I'm under the curse of the law, but you can redeem me from that curse. You're my kinsman redeemer, and right now I call upon you. I ask you to save me, Lord Jesus. By your grace, if you'll put your hand of faith and his hand of grace, friend, he will save you right now if you're willing to do it. Father, take these words and use them for your glory. Thank you for your wonderful grace. Thank you for the grace that we find. It starts in Bethlehem, when our Savior was born. And Lord, through all the years, you've poured out your grace on us abundantly. It is a sovereign grace, a satisfying grace, a securing grace, and Lord, we praise you for it. May we revel in it. May we depend upon it every day of our life. Your wonderful love. for us. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen.