Turn to Philippians chapter one this morning. Philippians chapter one. This morning I want to preach on finding joy in adversity. Joy in your adversity. One of my favorite Baptist preachers was John is John Bunyan. He lived back in the uh 1700s, and his preaching was so powerful and so popular that the uh Church of England uh demanded that he not preach unless they get a license uh he get a license from them. There was a a desire from the king that all the men be licensed and John Bunyan refused that license. He refused to be silenced and they threw him in jail. But that didn't stop him because there in the jail in the courtyard he would preach to the prisoners. And he had such a crowd of prisoners, and then people from the town would come and they would listen And so that's the first time. Bid him to preach it all, where no one there could see him or hear him. But it was in that inner part of the prison that he spoke the loudest of all. Because it was that time in his life that he wrote uh a book that is called Pilgrim's Progress. Perhaps you've heard of that book. It's one of the most widely read English books other than the Bible. It's a classic. And that book has ministered to And so in that confinement, uh for John Bunyan, uh what others saw as a confined uh He later said that hit his prison was a hill from which you could see great things Well, I think the Apostle Paul could perhaps say the same thing. As we come here to Philippians chapter 1, God had Paul in a Roman prison. But Paul was And the reason Paul had joy was because he could see the hand of God even in his confinement and prison he could see what the Lord was doing there. In fact what God was doing now others when they looked at Paul in that prison they thought that you know it was he was confined it was just a bad thing. But Paul Saw that God was actually advancing the gospel. And so uh he was filled with joy. Now kind of that's kind of the best Background of the letter. The Philippian church, they heard that Paul was in prison, and uh they received news that he was waiting trial in Rome. Now, how did Paul get into prison there? Well the Bible explains it in the book of Acts, chapter twenty to twenty-eight. Basically, after his third missionary journey, he went back to Jerusalem and he w wanted to affirm that he was still living in obedience to the law. So he went to participate Participate in a temple ritual, but while he was there he was accused by a mob of violating the law. And uh Paul would have died perhaps had it not then from some for some Roman soldiers that basically took him into custody. And then he stayed in Caesarea and imprisoned there for two years while they were debating what to do with him. And finally Paul appealed to Rome, so they shipped him to Rome, and he stayed in a prison in Rome for two more years. Now, while that he was there, that's when the Philippians heard that Paul was in And so they were very concerned about him. They really were had two concerns. They wanted to know his state, how he was doing, and they wanted to know the state of the gospel Ministry. They could not understand why uh the greatest living preacher at that time, perhaps any time, was in a prison when there was so much work to do for the gospel. They couldn't understand Why would God allow that to happen? Why would God put his greatest preacher in a prison? He was in prison at this point for four years They just couldn't understand that. And the other thing was they were concerned that Paul might die. Because in Rome, Paul was going to have to defend the gospel before the Caesar himself, who was on the throne. At that time in Rome, it was Nero, not a very nice guy. He he loved to kill Christians. And so Paul was to go and present the gospel Before Nero. Nero was wondering whether this new message was traitorous to the empire. And so he wanted to hear for himself what the gospel is all about. And so Paul had to go and defend the gospel present it, defend it before Nero. Now two things could happen. Paul could die or he could live. And frankly Paul wasn't concerned wasn't really uh he didn't Know how it was going to turn out. He had an inkling, but he said this for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. And then he kind of thought, you know, I think the Lord's going to leave me here, for it's better for you all But you know, to depart is far better for me. And yet he knew that the Philippians were worried. And we see some of this. Look in chapter four. Look at verse number eight. He tells them, he said Actually verse six first. Be careful, that is, worry about nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Look what he says in verse eight. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are a true True, whatsoever things are honest, what sort of things are just, whatsoever things are pure, lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Paul is saying, look, don't think on negative thoughts. Think on good things. Think on what's pure and what's lovely and what's good and what's praiseworthy. And if you're worried, don't worry. Just pray. Just commit it to God. So he says, Don't worry about me. You know what Paul's teaching them that you can have joy in no matter what circumstance you're in, no matter what affliction you might be born in Bearing, no matter what adversity. You see, joy is a result of seeing things from God's perspective Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It is the quiet confidence That ultimately everything is going to be all right. And it's the determined choice to praise God in any situation. It's a choice. That's why Paul said to them, Rejoice in the Lord. And again, I I say rejoice. He commands them, rejoice. Now you can't command a feeling, it's a decision that we make. We choose to rejoice, and guess what? Our emotions catch up later. But we choose to rejoice. And so basically, he says to the Philippians, you need to change your perspective. They were all worried. They were thinking The gospel is being hindered. God's greatest servant is in jail. He's been there for four years. And they were concerned about his life. And Paul said Said, look, you're looking at it all the wrong way. You need to learn to see it from God's perspective and have a joyful attitude. From man's perspective, today You might be in a circumstance that might not seem good, but from God's perspective, it's different. You see, God's ways are not man's ways. You may be here this morning and you may be going through some affliction in your life Some adversity. And you might say, man, I don't understand why God would allow this, why God would do this. What's he doing? Well, friend, God's ways, again, are not our ways And God is doing great things. Maybe you might not see it now. Paul was able to see that his imprisonment was not in any way hindering the gospel. In fact, it was Doing the exact opposite. You see, you might be thinking God's doing one thing, but God's doing the exact opposite of perhaps what you might be thinking. He's doing great things So joy then is learning to see things from God's perspective. Yes, Paul was in prison, but he wasn't discouraged because he saw God. Now let me just show you four ways in which God was working through Paul's affliction. And friend, we need to apply these to our own life because again, you might be in some circumstance or affliction, and you might be Wondering, what is God doing? Or perhaps God's doing some of the same things in your life that he was doing in Paul's life. And so let's look at these things here. First of all, Paul's confinement was producing conversions. Look at verse number 12. He says, But I would you should understand, brethren, that the things which happen unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. He says, I want you to understand this. We would say it like this. Now look here. Or we would say, now listen very carefully to what I'm about to say. He's he's calling uh attention to a very important point here Paul's saying, listen, this is what God is really doing. You think that the gospel is being hindered? You think that my circumstances is causing me to be Discouraged. It's the exact opposite. The exact opposite. My imprisonment is not hindering the gospel. Look at verse 12 again. It's fallen out rather unto the further Furtherance look at that word furtherance. Procope is the word. This is a military term used with engineers who would prepare a road for an advancing army. It was a use of a pioneer who Blazes a trail. And so Paul is viewing his imprisonment as blazing a trail for the advance of the gospel. Paul's basically saying, look, the The fact that I'm here in prison means that the gospel is spreading in places where it it normally it wouldn't be able to spread. God's using this. In my life. And that was Paul's concern. In fact, the word gospel is a key word throughout this whole letter. We see it over and over again. Paul uses the word gospel because he was passionate about The gospel. God or Paul wanted the gospel of God to advance, and God was using this to do it. Now, how is it advancing? Look at verse 13. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace And in all other places. What does he mean by the palace? The word palace here is a Greek word Praeture, and it speaks of Caesar's elite guards, the Praetorian Guards. These were men, these were kind of like the Secret Service of Rome. They were men who were selected, specially chosen by Caesar himself. They were his elite Group of guards. And when Paul was put into a prison in Rome, he was put into a house prison, which meant people could come and see him. And he was free at times to go and get things, but he always had a Roman guard champ In fact, Paul says this in in Ephesians 6 20. He refers to And the word for chains here speaks of a specific kind of chain. It was 18 inches long. It had a handcuff on it. Each side one was handcuffed to the prisoner, the other to the guard. And so there was a guard that was chained to Paul. They had six-hour shifts. Each Praetorian guard took a six hour shift to be chained to the prisoners. So let me ask you a question. How would you like to be chained to the apostle Paul for six hours? You think You might learn something from that. And once a day, a six hour shift? So what was happening? There was a Roman guard chain to Paul, and they were hearing everything He said. They could probably read some of the things he was writing. And when people would come and talk to Paul, they would hear his counsel. And I imagine these guys really learn some things And I think what happened was some of these guys started to put their faith in Christ and they started to get saved. And I can just imagine them going back to their comrades in the barracks saying, you know what, you know what I just did? A six hour shift for that I mean I tell you I really learned some things from him. Well what did you learn? Well let me tell you what he said And they start sharing it. And the next thing you know, the gospel is spreading all throughout Caesar's government through these soldiers. Paul would later write in 2 Timothy 2 9, I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even under bonds, but the word of God is not bound. I might be in prison, but God's word is not. It's spreading all over the place. And so the Romans thought that they were binding Paul, instead, they were releasing Paul. And the gospel was spreading in places it would never before spread. Roman soldiers were getting saved. I'll tell you another group that was getting the gospel, that was some of the Roman officials. You know why? Because Paul again he was in Rome to present his case. This was a legal matter. This was a legal case. Verse seven where it says, Even as it is meek for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, and as much as both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace. Paul says, look, when I go and defend the gospel, I want you to know you're with me. We're all together on this. We're unified. And so when I go and make this defense, look at the word defense there. That is The word apologia, it's where we get the word apologetics, an official defense, but it was a legal term. And Paul was going to make a legal defense of the gospel Paul was hoping that after his meeting with with uh Nero that the gospel would be confirmed. It would be thought of as being something that was innocent, it wasn't a traitor. Message to the empire. He was hoping that the gospel would be confirmed. And so he was going to present his case. And so this was the case of the Apostle Paul, the Gospel, versus the Roman government And so you know what that meant? That meant that Roman government officials had to prepare for the case, just like a lawyer would prepare for their case. They had to get prepared. And you know what that meant? That meant they had to Study Paul's gospel. They had to figure out what it was all about. And do you know what that means? They had to learn the gospel, and when they learned the gospel, you know what happened? Some of them started to think, hmm This is true. And some of them began to get saved. You say, how do we know that? Go to Philippians chapter 1. 4. And look at verse 22, where Paul's giving his salutation people at the end, a salutation. All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's what? Household. We could say Caesar's government. Some of those guys are getting saved. And some of those saints are saying, Hey, tell those Philippians we said hi. We're saved now too. So the gospel was spreading. Sometimes God might put you in a certain circumstance, a certain place. You might not particularly think That place is a good place at that moment. And others that look at it might not think it's a t particularly good place for you to be at that time. But again, man doesn't see the way God sees And God might have you at that moment, at that place, to do a certain work that God once done, you might have to go through You might have to go see a doctor and go through tests, but all the while you're there, you're sharing Christ with others who wouldn't hear about Christ any other way you might have to go through some affliction and people see who don't know the Lord they see your peace they see your trust in the Lord and they say, man, there's something different about this person. You know what's happening? God's using all of this to advance the gospel. So the question is what happens has God confined you to? What affliction are you in this morning? God is going to use that. The chains that you bear, you some of your moms you might think, well I'm chained to this. house with all these children. Well yeah. Susannah Wesley, she had nineteen children, and that was before the days of disposable And you know what? Two of those children that came out of that family, John and Charles Wesley, shook the British For Jesus Christ. And the impact of their life and ministry is still being felt even today. Because they were, Susanna Wesley, they were chained to her. And she had an impact on them and it impacted others. You say, man, this job that I work, man, I feel like I'm chained to this job that I have. Well friend, God put you there and He wants you to be a shining light for him. I remember one time when I had the opportunity to work in a job when I was going through college, I worked in a factory and on our shift I when we had break I would read my Bible and pretty soon guys there on the shift would ask me questions about you know the Bible and and I started to get to know these guys after a while and they found out that I was called in to ministry. I was preparing And when I had to leave that job to go on, uh the shift uh manager said, Look, uh, we want to hear you preach. And I said, Really, how's that going to work? He said, We're gonna get to work early, we're gonna be in the break room. We want you to preach to us. So I remember I got there early and I was s surprised the whole break room was filled with these guys. And they said, well let's the The manager of the shift got up and said, Let's sing Amazing Grace. And uh they sang it. It was the worst Amazing Grace I ever heard in my life. And then they said, now Jerry's gonna preach And I preached to him, preached the gospel. And then the manager got out and said, We should take up a love offering. I said, Good idea. But I never forget what a joy it was to be able to share Christ in that circumstance, in that situation. Whatever situation God puts you in, remember God might be using that to get the gospel out. Whatever prison that you may be in. And her first book, Corey Tinboom, wrote about her experience in In Ravensbrook, the prison war camp in World War II. And as she reflected on her pain and her suffering, this is what she wrote. God brought me here for a specific task. I was here to lead the sorrowing and the despairing to the Savior. I was to see how the how to comfort how He comforted them. I was to point the way Way to heaven to people among whom were many that would soon be dying. She understood why the Lord put her there for that moment. And so Paul's confinement was producing conversions. That's why Paul's heart was filled with joy. He says to the Philippians, You think the Word of God is bound? You think my ministry is being hindered? It's not. It's taking Off. So he saw God producing conversions. But here's the second thing. His imprisonment provoked courage. Look at verse 14. And many of the brethren of the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak Speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, some also of good will. And so Paul's saying here that my changes not only are giving me the opportunity to have contact with those who don't know Christ and lead them to Christ, but also it's giving courage to those who don't Do know the Lord. He wasn't only winning converts, he was strengthening other Christians. He was encouraging others. Now again, remember Paul, uh he was going to appear before Caesar. And he wanted to do it with boldness. He wanted to show courage. And so Paul was showing courage all throughout what he was going through. You say, how do we know that? Look down at verse number. Paul says, look, when I stand before Caesar and defend the gospel, I want to do it with boldness, I want to have courage, I don't want to be ashamed of anything. And I want Christ to be magnified. That means if Christ will Will be magnified in my life, so be it. If Christ is more magnified by me dying as a martyr, so be it. As long as Christ is magnified. That's the point. And so he was showing great courage. And you know what? His boldness, his courage, was helping others to be bold. Others were becoming more courageous for Christ. He says again. And many of the brothers of the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Whereas before there was a church in Rome, there were Christians in Rome. They were very timid about sharing Jesus Christ with others Others, but when they saw Paul and they saw his courage, they saw his boldness, you know what they said? They said, Man, I need to do more. I need to stop being afraid. I need to share Christ more. And so others were boldly sharing Christ. You know what? When you go through a difficulty and a hardship, and others see you do that courageously, you know What it does for other believers? It helps them, it encourages them, it inspires them. That you're going through this, and you know what they say? If he can do it, by the grace of God, I can too. If the Apostle Paul can suffer imprisonment and be bold, then I need to be bold here, being free, is what the Philippians or what the Roman Christians were saying. And so that's what was happening. And Paul says, many of the brethren in verse 14, where it says many. Actually, we could say most. That's what the word there really talks about. Most were waxing confident because Paul was in prison. So when you go through a difficulty and an affliction, you Encourage others when you do it with boldness and courage. I had a man call me this week, uh a man who's a friend of mine out of state, and he said, You know, I received a report from the doctor They looked at my lungs and there's a spot on my lungs. And he said the report is not good, and I've got to go through all this chemotherapy. And uh he said Said, I'm just wondering, you know, why what I did wrong, and I said, Don't don't think that way. All of us, sometimes just because we live in a fallen world, just go through different Difficulty. It's part of being in a sin-cursed earth. And I said, furthermore, God might be allowing you to go through that so that you can encourage others who will go through it. suffering. And so if you go through it with courage and faith and trust in the Lord and make people see that, God will use you to minister to others in ways you never believe. This is what was happening here with Paul. It was giving courage to other believers. But let me give you the a third thing. Not only was his imprisonment provoking courage, but also So it caused his imprisonment, it caused others to proclaim Christ. Look down in verse number fourteen again, verse 15. Some indeed preach Christ, even of envy and strife, some of goodwill. There were some of those that were preaching Christ because Paul is in prison. And it's really interesting what's going on here. Paul is saying, look, on one hand they're preaching Christ, on the other hand, they're criticizing me, where it says they preach Christ of envy. That is the word jealous or uh where we get the word for jealousy. Um and it just simply means that they were jealous of Paul. They were jealous of his giftedness. Paul was a b Brilliant preacher of the word. There were many people that loved him, and some were jealous of his fame because he was very well known. God was using them. And so some of them were actually preaching Christ, hoping that their preaching of Christ would actually add afflictions to Paul. Can you imagine that? But one scholar thinks it was because of the envy and strife and contention among the Christians that actually pushed that process. one. Where ultimately it led to him dying. So Paul said some preach Christ of envy, some of strife, in verse number 15, and then there are some who do it out of good will Will some of contention, he says, in verse number sixteen, meaning selfish ambition. So on one hand they were preaching Christ, on the other hand, they were Taking shots at Paul, and some were trying to add affliction to Paul because they wanted what he had. And so their motives were far from right. But here's the point Paul was making The fact that I'm in prison is causing some of these other guys to preach Christ. Now they're not doing it all out of a pure motive. Some are doing it out of selfish ambition. Some are doing it out of strife and Contention. But you know what? Paul didn't care about any of that. He didn't care that they were saying that all the reason Paul's in prison is because God is chastising him, or he lacks God's approval or Favor, that's why God put him there, or he lacks God's power, or God replaced him. That's some of the criticisms they were saying. None of that mattered to Paul. He didn't care about playing politics What did he say? Look down at verse eighteen. What then? We could say it like this. So what? So what? I don't care about any of that. What did he care about? Notwithstanding Every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therein do rejoice and will rejoice. I said, look, the only thing that matters to me is that Christ is being preached That's the only thing that matters. He's being exalted, whether in pretense or in truth, whether that is whether they have a bad motive for doing it or they have a good motive for doing it. Doesn't matter about me. And so my imprisonment, I rejoice because my imprisonment Imprisonment is actually causing Christ to be exalted and preached even more by people who may not be doing it in the right way, but still Christ is being exalted. Exalted and I rejoice in that. Now there are some who understand. Look down at verse number seventeen, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense Of the gospel. Now, there are some who understand that the reason I'm here is because I have it's been appointed by God. That's what the word set means. This is an appointment from God. That's why I'm here, because I am set to deliver Defend the gospel. This is God's purpose in this whole thing. Long as Christ is preached, I rejoice. My circumstance is causing Christ to be exalted, and the gospel is being exalted The answer. Now here's the last thing. Paul's confinement was producing conversions. It was provoking courage. It was proclaiming Christ. Christ was being preached But here's the last thing, it was perfect in character. Look at verse 19. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and the supply of Of the Spirit. Paul is saying, My present circumstances are good for me. It's been good for me to be in this prison for four years, because Paul said, This is what will result in my salvation. Now what's Salvation is Paul talking about here. Several views on this. Some think this is talking about personal safety. Some think this means that he's going to be delivered. Me to go to heaven. So there's a part where Paul was wishing and longing for heaven. He wasn't concerned about his personal safety. So what does salvation here mean? It didn't mean his eternal security. Because he knew that he was saved, and he knew that he couldn't lose that. What he was talking about here is salvation is the sanctifying work that God was doing in his life You know what God does is he makes us more like the Lord Jesus. He makes us more like Christ. And so Paul says, it's going to result in my Character, being perfected, and becoming more like the Lord Jesus. And what's God going to do in verse 19? What's he going to use? Notice again where he said Through your prayer, that's one thing that he uses the prayers of the church, the prayers of God's people. Intercession is one of the Tools that God uses to release the power of God in our lives. Friend, you want to do something for me? Just pray for me. Because that's what God uses to unleash Power. The prayers. There's a mighty power in a praying church. That's why we pray for one another when someone goes through an affliction. We pray. Paul says, God's going to use those prayers It's perfecting my character. But there's another thing, the power, the supply of the spirit in verse nineteen, the prayers of the church, and the power of the spirit, look at the word supply. That's where we get the word chorus, because it was talked about a choregos is the actual word there. Because whenever there was a a drama that was put On a Greek drama where there was a stage and everything. There was always one man who funded it, he bankrolled it, and he was called a Koregos. He supplied everything. That's what the word here is. In other words, the idea is God is the one who supplies everything that we need. It is his power, it is his spirit. And Paul was convinced that the Spirit of God was going to give him everything he needed to go through this. It was his grace, it was his power. And Paul was confident in that. That was perfecting the character of Paul. And so Paul says, All of these things that are happening, it's all good. That's why he had joy in his affliction. His affliction was producing conversions. His affliction was provoking courage. His affliction was proclaiming And his affliction was perfecting character in his life. And friend, you know what? That's what God is doing with you as well. God's still working in the same way Would you be willing to say, you know, Lord, whatever it takes, I want others to see Christ in me. And I want the gospel to advance through me. And I want others to be proclaimed. Christ, and I want others to have courage because they see your work in me. Well, friend, if that's your prayer, that's what God will do. That's what God was doing with the Apostle Paul. And so that's why We can have joy. Joy is learning to see things from God's perspective. This is what He's doing in your life. And so, friend, you need to do what the Apostle Paul says: rejoice in the Lord And again I say rejoice. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, as we come before For you. We come as a very needy people, Lord. We ask for the power of your spirit to help us. As you do your work in our life, Lord, help us to see your hand. I pray, Lord, that you'll use our testimony to produce conversions. May others come to Christ as a result of what they see in us. The afflictions that we go through, Lord, may they provoke courage in other believers. May we be so trusting and courageous in our own trials That others draw strength. And Lord, may Christ be proclaimed through us. And Lord, continue to do your work of sanctifying us. Through the trial and the affliction that we endure. Lord, I know there are many people here who need you right now in their adversity and their circumstances. I pray, Lord, That they would call upon you. They would learn to have joy. Choose to have joy. Even in the trial. How many people say that with the hands raised to God, that's my prayer today For God's help, for God's power. As I go through this, keep your hand up, friend. Let me pray for you. Father, you see these, Lord. Bless these your sheep, Lord. Give them them what they need from you. We pray in Jesus' name. And my second invitation would be to those if you happen to be here today and have never Put your faith in Christ. We don't ever want to leave a service without inviting you to come to the Lord Jesus, friend. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, right now the Bible says this The accepted time. It's no accident that you're here. God brought you here, and He's inviting you right now to come to Him. The Bible says And friend, if you realize that you're a sinner like all of us, and that Christ took all of your sins upon himself and died for your sins sins. And that salvation is now a gift. You can receive that gift by reaching out in faith and trusting Jesus. And so I want to invite you right now to come to Christ. How many here will say that's My desire. I want to know Jesus as my Savior. I want to pray with you. Is anyone here like that? Would you just raise your hand and let me pray for you? Is there anyone here? Because we don't want you to leave here without knowing that you can know Jesus Jesus as your Savior. Anyone here today? And even after the service is over, just come to one of us. Come to Pastor Johnson, Pastor Earl, come to me For Pastor John, any one of us, we'd be willing to share Christ with you, friend. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use your word to strengthen your people, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen.