Well good evening. Good to see you here tonight. If you take God's word, please open to the book of Psalm 119 as we continue in our series through Psalm 119. We're going to be looking at verses 65 down to verse 72 tonight. We're dealing with the next stanza. I believe this is the eighth stanza, based on the eighth letter of the Hebrew alphabet, as you know, as we're looking through stanza by stanza. The twenty-two stanzas of Psalm 119 are based on the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And this is the letter Tate, which is our equivalent to our English letter T. And if you could read Hebrew, what you would see is that every one of these verses in the Hebrew begins with that letter T. In fact with this section here, um you'll notice in verses sixty-five down to verse seventy-two that all of the verses begin with the letter T except for verse sixty-seven. And if we change the word before till to till I was afflicted. And then in verse number uh seventy-one, and we change that to tis instead of it is tis good for me, then you have the uh a complete alliteration of that. Are you impressed the way I did that? I mean I I I think in alliteration. I mean my kids' names were alliterated for that for crying out loud But anyway, um this whole psalm is a masterpiece of alliteration. And tonight I want to talk about finding good in our afflictions Verse 65, Thou hast dealt well with thy servant according to thy word. Now we know the story of the behind the hymn of It Is Well, one of the Great hymns that we love to sing here in church. Horatio Spafford was the one who wrote that. He was a successful businessman uh in Chicago and uh around 1871 he lost everything in the Chicago fire. And then along with that he also had a four-year-old boy that tragically died of scarlet fever. And after those tragedies he thought it would be good for his family to get away. So he wanted to go to England with his wife and four daughters. He sent them ahead because he wanted to finish up some business in Chicago. Tragically the boat that they were on struck another ship and it sank beneath the waters. Two hundred people died on that shipwreck and uh tragically his four daughters died He received a a message from his wife, Anna, that said, I'm safe and alone. What should I do? And immediately uh immediately he Horatio Spafford got on a ship to go over to England to be with his wife. And while he was on that ship, the captain summons him to the deck to tell him that this was the uh uh the approximate location where the ship went down where his four daughters were lost. And uh Spafford then f upon seeing that, was inspired to write the hymn that we love to sing, It Is Well With My Soul. And knowing the story behind that hymn helps us to understand that one line in the hymn that says, When sorrows like seedlows roll. You can just imagine him looking over the side of that ship uh ship and seeing the ski billows roll away from the the the bow of that ship and then him uh comparing those seaways to his own sorrows that were constant. And yet he writes in the song, It is well It is well with my soul. And that hymn has comforted so many through the years, millions of people through the years. Well, this is the theme of this, I think, this section of Psalm 119. In the first verse, he confesses that God has done well. towards him. In verse 65, where we just read, read it again, thou hast dealt well with thy servant according to thy word. Matthew Henry said that however God has dealt with us, we must own that he has dealt well with us better than we deserve and all love with design to work for our good. And of course we would agree with that. God has dealt well with us. He's dealt well with me. He's dealt well with you. Well this psalmist makes this declaration of the goodness of God, but what's interesting is he does it in the midst of affliction. He's going through a terrible time of affliction. Now remember I told you that I think that the author, I'm pretty persuaded that I'm right on this. I know there's a lot of scholars who have different opinions, but I think that the author of Psalm 119 was a young man carried away into captivity He was one of the exiles that had to make that long trip from Jerusalem to Babylon through the desert. He had just seen the city destroyed, the city of his birth, the city of his that he loved, the city of God. He saw it pillaged by the Babylonian soldiers. He witnessed unspeakable cruelty at the hands of the Babylonians. Thousands of people were killed, women and children included. Men were tortured, the city was burned. He was taken in chains to this long journey to the city of Babylon. Two times he mentions the word afflicted. He mentions it in verse 67, and he mentions it in verse number 71. And the theme of this section is how God uses afflictions in our life to bring about good. And some of the things that we can learn from that. This is really an Old Testament, Romans 8. 28. And we know that He works, God works all things together for good to those who love God. Now the Hebrew word that he uses here over and over again is the Hebrew word tab, T-O-B is how we would transliterate that in English. But it it's the Hebrew word that actually means good, and since it begins with a T or the letter Tate, you can see why he would use this word over and over again if he's trying to alliterate this whole psalm. But again, it's the word that means good. It's used in verse 65 to translate well. It's the Hebrew word tab. It's it's verse sixty-six. It's the word good. Verse 68, God is good and does good. Two times he uses it there. Verse 71, we see the word good used that is good for me, that I've been afflicted. And then in verse seventy-two again he uses the same word, but this time he translates it better in verse seventy-two in the King James. And so this word means good, it means beneficial, it means what is precious, what is delightful, what is right. And it's the idea that God does what is good because he is good, and he does it according to his word. Now, so I want us to learn from this passage just five basic ways in which God uses affliction for our good You might be here tonight, you might be going through a time of affliction. Or maybe you're coming out of a time of affliction. But just know this that God didn't give up being sovereign when those afflictions came He is in charge of all of the things that go on in our life, and that he'll use this for our good. So let's look at a few lessons. First of all, afflictions create in us a desire for biblical discernment. Look at verse 66. Teach me good judgment and knowledge. Here he is praying for discernment in the midst of his affliction. He's saying, God, give me discernment in all of this. This is what the word judgment actually is in the Hebrew. It's a word that means discernment. And notice that it's based on God's word. In verse 66, he says, For I have believed thy commandments in order to have discernment We have to have a a standard, right? We have to have a fixed standard. We have to have an authority. We have to have a final word. And of course, for the believer, that final word is God's word, the word of God. The only way we can have discernment is to know God's standard. Therefore we can discern from that fixed standard. And he's saying here, Lord, I I believe your commandments. I hold your word. I need to learn discernment. So teach me good judgment. Discernment is the ability to think biblically about every area of life. This might help us when we go through afflictions, when we're going through a time that's very frustrating. We can see it from God's perspective. We can see what God's trying to do. Biblical discernment is so important. Let me just give you a few reasons. I'll just touch on them. I won't go into them in depth. But discernment is needed to avoid deception. You know, false teachings and deceptive people are everywhere. And even in the church. That's why John said, you know, try the spirits to see whether they are of God. Be discerning, beloved. Make sure that you be careful about what uh people s uh teach. But also for living a holy life. Discernment helps Christians understand what God teaches about holiness so that we can live in accordance to God's principles. But also for spiritual growth. We discern truth from error, and we hold to the truth. We can grow in our understanding of God's word, but we also need discernment for making wise decisions. The sermon helps us to make sound decisions in various areas of our life, personal relationships or professional decisions. God's Word helps us to make wise decisions, but also in recognizing God's will. We need discernment to see the will of God, to see God's providence, what is he leading, what is he doing, and how we can follow in that. We know God's will, Paul said in Colossians 1. 9, because we're filled with knowledge and wisdom and spiritual understanding, but also for spiritual maturity. If you want to grow spiritually, you need to be discerning in the Word of God and become skillful in handling God's Word. Write down Hebrews 5, verse 11 to 14. The writer is saying, Look, I have a lot of things I want to teach you, but many of you are dull of hearing. You know, uh you might have heard me say before, there's no such thing as dull preaching, only dull hearing. That's what the writer says. You're dull of hearing. I want to teach you more, but you're dull of hearing. People say, well, you know, preacher, you're boring. I'm not boring, you're boring. The preachers aren't boring. You are. You hear dull of hearing. And the writer says, Look, I want to teach you more. But Everyone who uses milk is unskillful, he says, in the word of righteousness. But strong meat belongs to those who are mature or of full age, because their sense their senses are exercised to discern good and evil. And so discernment helps us to grow and understand some of the deeper things of God's word that God wants us to have. But also finally in protecting from evil. Discermon helps Christians discern between right and wrong, between good and evil. We use discernment to identify the enemy's deceptive tactics. Now the psalmist certainly saw his enemies. Look at verse 69. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. The proud are, of course, his captors. They have contrived false charges against him. In this situation, false charges could bring torture for him or even death. What is he going to do to protect himself? Well, there's only one thing he can do. He says he's going to trust in the Word of God He has the discernment to know that he cannot allow himself to be distracted by trying to vindicate himself, so he determines to keep the word of God. And notice he says, with my whole heart, we've seen that expression several times in this psalm. But also notice how he characterizes his enemies. Look at verse 70. He kind of gives a contrast between their heart and his heart. Look at verse 70. Their heart is as fat as grease. So evidently the Babylonians ate too much fast food. Is that what that means there? What does that mean? Their heart is as fat as Greece. Well, another way we can translate that is this. Their heart is covered with fat, or their hearts are thick like fat And that all it means simply that their heart is insensitive like that. That's what he's trying to say. This is kind of, he's using this metaphorically to talk about a heart that is dull or a heart that is insensitive. To spiritual truth. He's saying they lack understanding, they lack discernment, they lack insight into God's Word. This would be the opposite of a discerning heart. That would be a dull heart. And the Psalmist again is contrasting the heart of his enemies with his own heart, because look at what he says in the latter part of verse 70, but I delight The word delight here, Sha'a, means to embrace something, to hold it close, to hold it tightly. And so he's saying, while they, their hearts are fat, they're dull concerning your word. They don't have any discernment with your word. I delight in it. I hold it tightly to myself. I embrace your word. While they are embracing ungodly ideas, I'm holding tightly to the scripture. And this is true, of course, of any godly Christian. While the world might embrace the empty, man-made philosophies of this whole system, what do we do as believers? We hold tightly to the truth of God's word. We hold fast to the scripture. So affliction will help us to do this. Affliction will cause us to hold to God's word. It will create in us a desire for biblical discernment. But here's number two. Afflictions discipline us to practice a greater level of obedience. Look at verse 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. Afflictions make us aware of our sin. Afflictions can expose us to our pride, our hidden struggles, makes us more dependent on the Lord. Now, evidently the psalmists in some area had disobeyed God's word and he would had gone astray. And all of us are prone to do that I think if we look at our own life, we can see that's happened to us. We've gone astray from God's word, sometimes out of carelessness, sometimes out of rebellion, sometimes out of ignorance. The Bible says all we like sheep have gone what? We've gone astray. And when this happens, what does God do? Well, God will send affliction your way. God will get your attention. This is a form of discipline, of course. He wants to bring us back unto the path of obedience to him and to his word. So really we could say that this is really an Old Testament illustration of the New Testament idea in Hebrews 12, whom the Lord loves, he what? He disciplined. He chastens. Why does he do that? Well, because he loves us, the writer says, but also because he wants to bring about the fruit of righteousness in our life. He wants to bring us back. Remember Jonah in the Bible? God said to Jonah, a very clear command, go to Nineveh. And he stubbornly refused. The Bible says he went down to Joppa to get on a ship to go to Tarshus. And if you read that story in Jonah 1, what you find out is that things went downhill for him from there really quick. In fact, in chapter 1, you see the word down used over and over again. I don't think that's an accident. I think that's a literary device by the writer to communicate Jonah went downhill from here. The Bible says in verse 3 he went down the Japah, and then he went down into the ship, and then in verse 5, he went down into the sides of the ship, and then it says he laid down, and the Hebrew literally reads, um He lay down deep in this ship. And then what happened from there? He was thrown overboard and he went down into the ocean. And then the whale was there and swallowed him. He went down into the whale's belly. I mean, things went down for Jonah. That was his whole direction. Whenever you run from the Lord, whenever you disobey the Lord, that will be your direction. And what did God do? God sent affliction to Jonah. God sent a storm. And then God sent a whale. Some people say the whale was God's chastisement. Well, actually the whale was God's mercy in chastisement. Because if it wasn't for the whale, what would have happened to Jonah? He would have drowned, right? So he's in the belly of the whale, but he prays. And listen to what he says, Jonah 2. 2, and said, I cried by reason of mine affliction. I cried unto the Lord, and he heard me. And what happened? Well, the whale, who was much more obedient than Jonah, took them to the shores near Nineveh and spit them out. And God gave Jonah a second chance. Aren't you grateful the Lord does that for us? And this time Jonah wasted no time. I can just when I read the story, I just picture Jonah running. to Nineveh from there, seaweed wrapped around his head, running into the city, crying out, Forty days Nineveh will be destroyed. But Jonah could probably say, like the psalmist, look in verse 67. Before I was afflicted I went astray. But now have I kept thy word. God will use affliction to discipline us, to get us to a greater level of obedience in our life. But here's number three. Afflictions give us a greater appreciation of the character of God. Look at verse 68. Thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes. Again, afflictions open our eyes to see the goodness of God. Now we know that God is good, period, but sometimes we don't recognize God's goodness the way we should Afflictions have a way of opening our eyes to that. As ironic as that might seem, we see the goodness of God in affliction Wayne Grudum defines the goodness of God like this. He says the goodness of God means that God is the final standard of good, and that all that God is and does is worthy of approval. I love that definition. The psalmist recognizes the goodness of God. First of all, in his nature, he said, Lord, you are good. Thou art good. And of course, this is one of the attributes of God, one of his perfections. Jesus said, no one is good except God. 1 John 1:5 says that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. Goodness is just simply part of God's nature. That's just who he is. He's a good God. But then also in his activities. Thou art good and doest good. Everything that God does is good. Since it is God's nature to be good, that's his goodness, then that means that he can't do anything that is not good. All of the actions of God are goodness. In other words, we can say it like this. God doesn't do a thing because it is right. A thing is right because God does it. Because God is good. Everything that comes from God. is good. And the psalmist recognizes this, the goodness of God, even in his afflictions. He can see the good things that God is doing. And this reminds me of Paul. We've been studying Philippians on Sunday night. Remember Paul was in prison. The Philippians were really concerned about him. They were wondering why Paul had been in prison two years at Caesarea by the sea and then two years in Rome. And they were really concerned, and Paul wrote to them and said, Look, uh, don't worry about me. He said, I want you to understand, brethren, the things that have happened to me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. The gospel is increasing increasing. In other words, what God is doing is good. I can see the good hand of God in all of this We remember the story of Joseph, all the trials that Joseph went through, being thrown into a pit, sold into slavery, falsely accused, forgotten in a prison, all of that. Served to accomplish a good purpose. And later on, many years later, Joseph recognized that. He said to his brothers, You meant it for evil against me, but God, He meant it for good. God was doing good in all of this. And so the psalmist, like Joseph, was able to see God's goodness in his afflictions. Again, look at verse 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn thy statutes. And then in verse 75, that's in the other section, but it really kind of echoes the same principle in verse 75. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, that thou unfaithfulness hast afflicted thee. So God's goodness should lead to thankfulness on our part. Affliction is created in us with a desire for discernment. It helps us to practice a greater level of obedience, gives us an appreciation for the goodness of God. But here's number four. Afflictions give us a greater capacity to understand spiritual truth. Again in verse 71, we just read it, but go back to it. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. Why? That I might learn thy statutes. And again, afflictions, while painful, can actually help us understand and appreciate God's word more deeply. Afflictions teach us to rely more on the promises of God. We run to God's word with a greater passion during times of affliction. Spurgeon said that the promises of God shine the brightest in the furnace of affliction. You know, a life preserver doesn't mean much to you if you're on the deck of a ship, reading a book, enjoying the sunshine, but you let that ship falter and go down and you're in the ocean, that life preserver is the thing that is a that that you are uh holding on to more than anything at that time. And so it is with the promises of God during times of affliction. We run to God's word and we see things in Scripture that we will often overlook. Martin Luther said this: I never knew the meaning of God's word until I came into affliction. I've always found it to be one of my best schoolmasters. Job, who was a man of many afflictions, wrote this in Job 35, excuse me, 36, 15. He delivers the afflicted by their afflictions. and opens their ear by adversity. That's a very interesting word, verse. He says, you know, our afflictions deliver us from something that might be worse than the affliction itself. If you're going through an affliction right now, you need to remember that God might be putting you through that because He's using that affliction to deliver you from a worse affliction down the road. This affliction itself is your deliverance from something that is much worse. And in that affliction, Job saw that God was good And so afflictions will, here's number four, number five, cause us to treasure God's word above earthly riches as well. Look at verse 72. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. Now, armies in the ancient world, just like many armies today, didn't simply leave the city after the battle was over. What they would do is they would go into a city and they would take all of the spoil and the treasure out. They would pillage the city. And this was especially true of ancient soldiers and ancient armies. That's how they earned their living, was through the spoils of war. And the Babylonians, when they went into Jerusalem, you can just imagine all the soldiers there going to town, taking all that they could as they conquered the city, they conquered the land. They looted Solomon's temple. They took all the valuable items there from the temple. They looted every house. They took gold and valuables from every place that they could find. I mean the prospect of getting rich from all of this is what really motivated them, this greed motivated them. Maybe the psalmist is thinking about all of that. When he's thinking about all the treasure that was stolen, that was pillaged. By the Babylonians when they came in and they took it all. And he's thinking about that. But he realizes that there's no earthly treasure that can come close to being compared to the treasure of God's Word. And that's one thing the Babylonians could not take from him. And he says in verse 72, the law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. In 1799, Conrad Reed discovered a 17-pound rock. It was an unusual rock, but he discovered it while fishing in a little meadow creek. Not knowing what it was made of, he just thought it was interesting. He took he brought the rock back to his house and they used it for a doorstop for three years. In eighteen oh two, his father John Reed finally took that rock to a jeweler because he had a hunch and they identified it as a lump of gold. Worth about in 1802 it was worth about $3,600. You kind of, you know, it's ten times the amount in our day, I guess. But can you imagine here they had this lump of gold. just a a treasure. They were using it as a doorstop. They did not realize what they had. When I read that story, I think, you know, I can't help but think that a lot of Christians are that way with the Bible. People are using the Bible as a doorstop. They're using it for other things. Sitting in their house, gathering dust. Spurgeon one time wrote he said there's enough dust on the covers of some people's Bible that you can write in the word damnation I mean, some people don't really understand the treasure that they have in the Word of God. They don't grasp the value of God's Word until they go through an affliction. And then they realize what a treasure the Word of God is. That the Word of God can literally carry you through those difficult days, those dark days, those hard times. What a treasure it is. God's word is worth more than all the gold in Fort Knox. Write down Psalm 19, verse 10. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. I was reading about, kind of did a little research on gold. Not that I have a lot of it. I don't have a lot of it, but there are met you know there are different kinds of gold, and the word translated pure gold here speaks of the finest, most pure gold of all. Now listen to this. Today we met we measure gold in carats. Okay, you some of you know this. Nine carat gold is about 37. 5% pure gold. And that's affordable for a lot of people. But then 18 karat gold has twice the gold content. It is 75% gold And obviously it's much more expensive. And then there's 22 karat gold. That gets you up to 91. 6%. And then of course there's 24 karat gold. This is the purest and most expensive of all gold. It is 99. 9% gold. And that's as high as the scale goes. It's as high as you can get. Pure gold. Think about Psalm 19 that we just read, verse number 10. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. In other words, the purest of gold. God's word, I mean, you can you can find the most pure gold there is. And God's word is much, much better than that. It's much more valuable than that. It's purer than much fine gold, sweeter also than the honey from the honeycomb. And so it's so valuable. God's word still comes out on top. of the purest gold. I hear a lot of advertisement. Now is the time to buy gold. You ever hear those? Always wonder if it's the time to buy, why are you selling? You know? You don't sell when it's time to buy People are always attracted to gold. And I love the stories about the West, you know, part of the stories of the Lore of Gold, people leaving all they have, going out there in the West to try to strike it rich with gold. And it causes me to ask the question, what are you willing to give up for God's word? How precious is God's word to you? How desirable is God's word to you? Well, affliction helps us to rightly assess true riches, the true value of Scripture. The psalmist was going through a time of great affliction. And yet he was able to see the good things that God was doing through all of that. He was able to say, he didn't have the hymn back then, but He would probably sing it if he did. It is well with my soul. It's well. God's doing good. I know I'm going through a lot right now. I know there's a lot of affliction, but you know what? It's created in me a heart for discernment, biblical discernment. I've practiced a new level of obedience in my life. I have a greater appreciation for the character of God, the goodness of God. I have a greater capacity to understand truth. And you know what? It's caused me to see that God's word is a treasure, that we should value above any earthly possession And that's what Psalm 119 teaches us here in this stanza. God does the greatest good from afflictions in our life. The greatest affliction that ever took place took place on the cross when God put the sins of the world on his son. And the greatest good came out of that greatest affliction. Salvation is now available to us because of what God did when He put His Son on the cross. And those who put their faith in Jesus can say, truly, it is well with my soul. Well, let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for this wonderful encouragement. May we remember this, Lord, in times of affliction. I pray for those tonight who may be going through affliction in their own life. Lord, that you will remind them of This psalm, this stanza, so they can say it's well. Lord, you've done what you've done well with me. Even in these afflictions, Lord, you you are good, and you do good, Lord. And you do what is well. Thank you, Father. Thank you for carrying us through. Thank you for using these afflictions to do good in our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.