Would you take God's word today? Would you open to the book of Matthew, chapter thirteen? Matthew chapter thirteen. And God's Word. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? I just want to read it. Just two verses, verse 44, actually three verses, Matthew 13, starting at verse 44. Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field, the which when the man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who when he hath found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he hath and bought it. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless us in the understanding of his word today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the privilege of worshiping you here today and what our ears have already heard, the encouraging word of God and to song. And now Father, I pray that you would Bless us here today and give us understanding into your word and open our eyes and our hearts to receive truth for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In 2013, a couple living in California stumbled upon a hidden treasure. They happened to be out walking their dog, and the man looked down in his yard and he saw a can that was partially buried. Uh he investigated a little closer and he found out that the the metal container was filled with twenty dollar gold coins He continued to look there at that spot and he found several more cans that were filled with coins. The coins were minted from 1847 to 1894. And much to his surprise, what he found were fourteen hundred coins. They were twenty dollar coins. They discovered additional fifty ten dollar coins and four or five dollar pieces. Now that alone would have been incredible, but what he found out as he had these things evaluated was that each coin, because it was so rare, was estimated to be worth one million dollars. Yeah, do the math yourself. Fifteen hundred coins at about a million dollars apiece. One expert described this discovery as unheard of in North America. Well, I guess so. Well, today what I want to talk to you about is a hidden treasure that was discovered. In this parable, Jesus teaches about a man who unexpectedly stumbles upon a treasure. And the treasure had more than just our earthly value. This treasure had an eternal value. It's far more valuable than anything that this world can offer. You might say, well, what does this have to do with me? Well, this same treasure is available to you, if in case you don't know that, and that's what I want you to know today. Let's think about the context of this. Here in Matthew 13, Jesus is beginning to teach him parables. In Matthew 12, they accuse Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. And because of that, Jesus then began to turn away from many of the people and began to speak in parables to those who understood they were blessed. And what Jesus was doing was he was really talking about the kingdom of God. And how the gospel works. And you can actually divide these parables that Jesus gives in Matthew 13 into four categories. The origin of the kingdom, the opposition against the kingdom, the obtaining of the kingdom, and the outcome of the kingdom. Now, the parables that Jesus gives us here in verse 44 down to verse 46 have to do with obtaining the kingdom. How does one become a part of the kingdom of God? The value of the kingdom of God is seen here in this parable, or these two parables, I should say. And really it answers the question: how can I become a part of the kingdom? Now, so what I want to do then this morning is to show you, first of all, the parables, and then to talk about the principles from this. Look at the first parable in verse 44. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden a field, the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof go and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth a field. Now in this first parable here, we see a man who's in a field. We don't know why he's there. Perhaps he's plowing the field. Maybe he's working for his employer. But as he's out there in the field, the Bible says he finds a treasure. And he's so incredible incredibly surprised by this treasure. And the Bible says he he covers it up. And then he goes and he sells all that he has that he might purchase this field and get the treasure Now back in this day, it was not unusual for a person to find a treasure in a field uh or to bury their treasures in a field. You know, in our day today, we take our money and we put it in a bank or we put it in a savings and loan or a stocks and bonds or something like that. But in those days, there was no real safety deposit boxes, and banks were not available for common people. They were available if you were wealthy. But even if you could go to a bank, the banks still were not really safe places to put your money. So if someone had something of value, what they would do is they would bury it in a field with the idea of going back one day and recollecting that valuable treasure. Now, this practice was especially true in Palestine because it was a land that was given to war. Its history is filled with battles. And archaeologists have found, digging in Israel, they have found treasures like this. They found coins in jars So the earth then was a storehouse for valuables back in this day. Josephus, the Jewish historian, speaks about the gold and the silver. which the owners treasured up under against the uncertain fortunes of war. In other words, they would bury these things in a time of war to keep it from getting into enemy hands. So here's this man, he's out in the field. And he stumbles upon this treasure and he's filled with joy. I guess so. I mean you ever see someone that won the lottery? Here's a man who, when he discovers this treasure, he is just filled with such joy. And he does something that we would maybe think was unusual. He kind of covers it up. And then he goes and he goes to his house and he sells all that he has that he might purchase a field so that he could get the treasure. Now the question comes, was it legal to do what this man did? Sometimes people question the legality of this parable. Let me ask you a question, is Jesus teaching here a man doing something that is illegal? I don't think so. You see, um You know, people when they read this think that maybe this man was doing something wrong. But Jewish law said, quote, I'm quoting here from Barclay. Talking about Jewish law. If a man finds scattered fruit, scattered money, these belong to the finder. So that was the law. That was also part of the Roman law. So we could say that the law back then was finders, keepers, losers, weepers, right? And so here's this man. He finds this treasure. And um the people listening to this parable, they would not think that what he was about to do was unethical. In fact, what they would think that what he did was going above and beyond what was right and what was fair Because uh really the treasure did not belong to the owner of the field because he buys the field from the owner. If the owner knew the treasure is there, why would he sell the field? He didn't know that it was there. Apparently this treasure belonged to a previous owner, or maybe someone just came by and decided to haphazard haphazardly bury the treasure here in this certain place. But Jewish law said that this man had the right to claim what was in this field. But this man basically goes above and beyond. He does what is right and what is fair. He sells all that he has and he buys the field so that the treasure is his. Now if if he was not an honest man, you know, he could have just taken the treasure and left. Or he could have just taken part of it, liquidated that, and then uh uh basically bought the field with part of the money that was there at the field, but he doesn't do any of that. Even though Jewish law gave him the right to just possess it, what does he do? He sells everything that he owns. He's probably a poor peasant farmer. But he sells everything that he owns that he might buy the field. He knew that that was the right way, that was the the legal way, going above and beyond to get that field in order that he might have the treasure But the point is this. He saw something that was so incredibly valuable that he was willing to sell everything he had that he might purchase that treasure. That's the whole point of the parable. But here's the second parable. He gives another one. Look at verse 45. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls. Who when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Notice the word again in verse forty-six. Or verse 45 rather. This kind of links these two parables together. Now the central character here in this parable is not a poor peasant farmer. He is a rich merchant. A jewelry merchant, perhaps. The word merchant here, merchant man, is from the Greek word emporos. This is someone who would go out and he would buy things wholesale and sell them retail. And so, you know, merchants at that day, they would just go around, they would buy huge quantities of things, and then they would sell it back. Here, this man happens to be a seeker of fine pearls. Now it was common in this day to uh to buy pearls. In fact, they were a good investment in that day. Pearls were equivalent to what we would uh to diamonds today that would be pretty much the same value uh back in that day pearls would be. And so um And so this was a very, very uh good sound investment if you were a person who was given to seeking pearls. And by the way, did you know how they get these pearls? I mean, pearl hunting was very dangerous in that day. Now today we have all kind of scuba gear. It's not hard to go underwater with all the inventions we have today. But back then they didn't have that. And you found pearls in the in the Red Sea or in the uh Persian Gulf or in the Indian Ocean And many people died from pearl hunting. You know what they would do? They would go out in the boat and a guy would go down and he would tie rocks around himself in order to sink all the way down to the bottom. He had to hold his breath the whole time while he was looking in the mud for these pearls. And so you would just you can imagine how dangerous this is. I mean the guy would have to hold his breath. He would hope that his lungs would not burst and die during this whole process. And so when he retrieved these pearls, you can imagine how valuable it was to have these jewels with how dangerous it was to get them. The Talmud says basically this pearls are beyond price. I mean, people, the Egyptians worshipped pearls back then, as strange as that might sound. And people would love who wealthy people would love to show these pearls off when they had them. Now, here's this man, this jewel merchant. who went around looking to buy pearls because that was his investment. Some of the pearls he would sell back retail, but others he would keep it for himself. And here he finds a pearl that had such great value to it that what does the Bible say again in verse number 40? Six, who when he found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Now think about that. This is not a poor man, this is a rich man. And this is what he did for a living. He found a pearl that was so valuable. That he sold everything he had to buy this one pearl. That must have been some pearl. I mean, for this wealthy man to sell everything that he might have this pearl? I mean he cashed in all of his investments, and he put it in that one pearl of great price. Now these are the parables. Now what is Jesus teaching us here? So I want you to see number two. I want you to see the principles that we learn from these parables. What is Jesus teaching about here? He's teaching about the kingdom of God. Do you understand how valuable it is to be a part of the kingdom of God? I think sometimes we lose sight of that How wonderful it is to know that you're saved, to know that you're going to heaven, that you're part of the kingdom of God. Have you any idea how valuable that is? This is the whole point of these parables here. So let me give you some lessons here. First of all, number one, the kingdom is extremely valuable That's what we see here. Both men in these parables understand the immeasurable value of the kingdom. Now those who invest will tell you it's not wise to invest in one investment. They tell you diversify your investments. Don't invest everything into one thing. But that's exactly what both of these men did. They found something that was so valuable, they cast aside all the rules when they understood the value of the thing that they purchased. The hid treasure, the pearl of great price, represents the kingdom of God. And being a part of the kingdom of God is priceless. It's priceless. You know, I value being a an American. I'm a flag-waving American. I'm I thank God for our country. We have our problems, but I still thank God that I'm an American and I'm part of this country. But I want to tell you something, even more valuable than being an American and having the privileges that go with that. Even far more valuable is to be a member of the kingdom of God You know why? Because this kingdom, America, will go the way of all the other kingdoms of the earth. But you know what? The kingdom of God is eternal. It would be here forever. Being a part of the kingdom of God is to have eternal life. Now what if these men saw these treasures? And they just simply decided to walk away and do nothing about it. Anyone who finds a treasure just decides to leave it where it is. We would say that they are foolish. But you know what? That is precisely what people do every day when they hear the gospel being preached, they walk away from it and they don't value it at all. They don't count it being valuable at all. The gospel answers all our needs for life and for eternity. And yet people walk away from that. They invest in other things. They invest in temporal things. People think more of the riches of this world than they do the incredible value of the kingdom of God. I remember one time many years ago, I was out soul winning on a Saturday, and uh it was one of those days when I was getting a lot of doors slammed in my face. And I came to one came up to one man, he was already outside, and as I came up to him, he a he said, are you an insurance salesman? And for some reason I played along. I said, Yes, that's exactly what I am. He said, Really? I said yes. He said, What kind of insurance? I said, Life insurance. I said uh fire insurance, home insurance, you know. He said really uh he said what's your c he said your company been around for a long time? I said it's been around for a long time He said um d he's he said uh you know is it a is it a company that's um nationwide? I said oh it's worldwide He said, Well how much are the premiums? I said, Well actually the premiums don't cost you anything. He said, How can that be? I said, Well the owner of the company has a son and he paid for all the premiums. He said, well, how did how is that? I said he said who what's the name of this guy? I said his name is Jesus. He said, I knew you were a Bible thumper And I began to share the gospel with him and told him how he can have Jesus Christ as his Savior. And you know what? He wasn't interested. He wasn't interested. You know, he was interested in having insurance to insure and guard all of his earthly valuables, but he did not see the incredible value of the kingdom of God. And there are many people in this world that are exactly like that. They do not see the value of the kingdom. You see, someone who sees the value of the kingdom, you know what their response is going to be? They're going to be like David who said this in Psalm 84 verse 10. For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of the wicked. That's someone who values Being a part of the kingdom of God. You see, when God opens your eyes to see the incredible value of the kingdom, you know what? You're going to be willing to sell everything that you have. You're going to be willing to make a full commitment that you might be a part of that kingdom. And so that's, first of all, the extreme value. But secondly, there's another lesson here. The kingdom is externally hidden What we see here in this parable is that the treasure was hidden in a field, when the word crypto kept secret. In the first parable, the treasure was hidden in the ground. It was buried. It was beneath the surface. It had to be dug up. And in the second parable, the pearl was underneath the water. A diver had to go get it. And in neither parable was the treasure on the surface. You know, there's a sense in which the kingdom of God is somewhat hidden from this world. In the same way, the value of salvation is really not apparent to people, it's not apparent to men. The lost world does not understand why we come here on Sunday and why we worship God. They don't understand that They don't understand why we would give our lives to Christ. They don't understand why a person would would would surrender completely to the Lord and go live on a foreign field and share the gospel with other people in that country. They don't see the value of the kingdom. The Bible says this, for the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. And so the kingdom is somewhat hidden. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 4, 4, in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. You see, a person who is saved understands the incredible value of the kingdom of God. And the problem is, however, there are some people that just don't see it. You know what? We need to pray and ask God to make us witnesses, to share with others this incredible gospel, this value of the kingdom of God. Pray that God uncovers the treasures so that the lost person can see the value of it and thus go after it. The kingdom is externally hidden, but also here's another lesson. The kingdom is explicitly personal. What we see in each of these parables. The individual obtains it. The idea is that you have to come on a case-by-case basis. I can't obtain the kingdom for you. You can't obtain it for me. It's something that you have to do yourself. It is personal. Why is this important? Well, because you have to remember the original audience that Jesus was speaking to were Jewish listeners And they believed that simply because they were of the seed of Abraham, they were destined to have eternal life. In fact, a common tradition claimed that Abraham sat at the gate of hell to keep out all Jews regardless of their deeds. That's what they believe. Simply because you were Jewish, or simply because you were the seed of Abraham, that you were a part of the kingdom. Now there are many that think like this today. Just because you grew up in church, or maybe because your parents are very religious, you think somehow that that also reflects on you. That yet just because your parents are a part of the kingdom of God, or you grew up in a Christian home, that you also by default are also part of the kingdom of God. But I want to tell you, friend, that's not how it works. That's not how it works. I warn my children all the time, just because you're uh grew up in a preacher's home doesn't mean you're automatically part of the kingdom of God. You've got to make sure yourself It is something personal. No one gets in automatically. That's the gist of these parables. There must be a personal application. Are you in the kingdom? Now what we see here is how these men got into the kingdom. First of all, in the first parable, this man he stumbles upon it. He wasn't looking for it He just happened to stumble upon it. Again in verse 44, when a man hath found, he wasn't looking for it, he just happened to find it. It came upon him. He was just working in the field. That's how it happens for some. They're not looking for salvation. They're not looking for the kingdom of God. But God in His mercy allows them to come upon it and they see it. You know, that's how some people come into the kingdom of God, like the Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus. He what he thought he was already a part of the kingdom. And when he realized that he was not, when he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, he repented of his sin, and he became a true part of the kingdom of God. A woman of Samaria, she was just thirsty one day and she went to the well to get water. She wasn't looking to be a part of the kingdom of God, but there at the well She met the Lord Jesus Christ, and she became a part of the kingdom of God. I remember Pastor Johnson telling the story of his salvation Some of you might remember how he was a soldier in the army. He was in stationed in the Tacoma, Washington. And one day he was walking down the street and a little girl standing out in front of a storefront church invited him to come in and be a part of the church. He wasn't looking to go to church. He was just a lonely soldier. And this little girl invited him in. And Pastor Johnson heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he found the hid treasure there that day. He became part of the kingdom of God. That's the way it happens for some people. But then in the second parable, look again at verse 45 where it says, this man was seeking goodly pearls. Some are seeking. They may not know specifically what they're seeking for, but they sense the emptiness that is in their hearts And perhaps maybe God has worked in their hearts some to the point where they they know that there's something in their life that is missing, and they're looking. They're not exactly sure what they're looking for, but they're seeking And suddenly they come upon the pearl of great price. Suddenly God opens their eyes so that they see the beauty of salvation in Jesus Christ. It is the pearl of great price. And so we see then how people come into the kingdom. It is personal. Some stumble upon it, some have a thirst in them, and they are seeking for something, and suddenly they see the pearl of great price But then here's number four. The kingdom of is eagerly entered. Is eagerly entered. It's extremely valuable. Is externally hidden, explicitly personal, but then it's eagerly entered. You know, another common element in both of these parables is the eagerness that each of these men show in trying to get That value, that treasure. The man who finds the hidden treasure is willing to sell everything that he might have it. The man who finds the pearl great price, he again likewise is willing to sell everything that he might be a part of the kingdom of God. You see, when God opens a person's eyes to see the value of salvation, the beauty of the gospel in Jesus Christ, there's going to be an eagerness on their part to enter in. They're going to want to be a part of that kingdom. You know, I think of in Matthew eleven, in fact, go back there to Matthew eleven just for a minute, where Jesus is talking about some of the Jewish people and how that they are rejecting the gospel. And they are they rejected John the Baptist, they rejected Jesus. But there were some, however, That were actually eager to get into the kingdom of God. Look at chapter 11, look at verse 12. For from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violence take it by force. What does he mean by that? Even though there were many that rejected John the Baptist and his message, and many that rejected Jesus, there were some who saw the value of the kingdom of God, and it was so valuable to them That they were trying to enter into the kingdom of God violently. What does that mean? They were pushing, they were striving to make sure that they were a part of that kingdom You know, it's like uh I would kind of compare it to you know Black Friday. You know, when the stores open up and they got these huge sales and people line up around the block in the freezing cold in order to be the first one to get into the door That they might purchase something in there that they they think is incredibly valuable. I want to tell you this, I'm not lining up early in the morning for nothing. But there are some people that value those things so much they're willing to be the first one in line. And when the door is open, they're trampling people to get in there. But you know what? That's the way it ought to be in salvation. There should be people lined up around this church waiting to get in to hear the message of the gospel. You see, for people, however, who see the value of the kingdom, that's the way it is, there is this incredible excitement. There's this earnestness To want to make sure that they are a part of the kingdom of God. It is eagerly entered when a person sees the beauty and the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the kingdom of God. But then there's another thing. The kingdom is exceedingly joyful. Look in verse 44, where it says, When the man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he has. This man is filled with joy. That's what the kingdom of God does. It gives you true joy. True joy You know the greatest joy you can ever have, listen, beloved, is knowing absolutely certain for sure that your name is written in the Lamb's book of life and you're going to heaven. That's the greatest joy you can ever have Are you certain of that today? Do you know that? That in itself gives us a joy, a deep inward joy to know that you know Christ, to know that you're on your way to heaven. You've got the pearl of great price. There's a joy that comes with that. And then let me give you the last thing. The kingdom of God is extremely valuable. It's externally hidden. It's explicitly personal, eagerly entered, exceedingly joyful. But the kingdom of God is expensively obtained. What we see is in each parable the kingdom treasure was obtained, but it was very costly. There's a transaction that takes place in each of these parables. And the first parable we see the word buyeth is used, the second word, second parable, the word bought is used. Now, some of you might get nervous and say, well, wait a minute. You can't buy salvation. Do these parables teach that you have to buy salvation? No. We know that salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing else. It's by faith. But remember, parables are symbolic. The buying of the treasure is symbolic for something. Again, we know that the Bible says you are saved by putting your faith in Jesus Christ, by repenting of your sin, turning from your sin, turning to Christ, putting your full faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But what this is telling us here is that this is the character of true repentance and faith. The characteristic of true saving faith is there's a transaction. You give up all that you are for all that he is. You turn from all of that past life, from all of what the world offered. And you repent and you turn to Jesus Christ with all of your heart, fully committed to Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord. That's what it's telling us to do. You see, the gospel is not about self-fulfillment, it's about self-denial. We Jesus said, if you want to be my disciple, you have to deny yourself. Pick up your cross and follow me. That's the transaction. You turn from what all the what the world has offered. And you turn and you receive all of whom Christ is, the Lord Jesus Christ. You give up all that you are, and you receive all that He is. That is true faith. That is true salvation. And so the basic principle in salvation is that a person gives himself up to make Christ the ruler of his life. And so the kingdom of God is extremely valuable, externally hidden, explicitly personal, eagerly entered, exceedingly joyful. Expensively obtained. You have to have true faith and repentance and turn to Jesus with all your heart to be a part of that kingdom. Are you a part of the kingdom? Now let me just close. You know, this week will be a year since my father passed away and went to heaven. He passed away on a Sunday, Sunday afternoon. Some of you might remember that. And rarely a day goes by that I don't think of my dad. I miss him a lot. But the joy in knowing where he is overcomes any sorrow that I have. I know he's with the Lord Jesus. I know that he's at perfect rest. You know, my dad Before hit salvation, I just remember certain things about my father. Now my father worked hard all his life. He worked on the BNO Railroad almost 40 years. He worked hard to take care of his his family, sometimes two or two jobs, sometimes three jobs. It wasn't uh easy in those days to make ends meet for a man trying to feed four hungry boys in the family. But it seems like my dad during those days when he didn't know the Lord he was always looking for something. He he wanted to land a payday, you know. He played the lottery. You guys ever play no don't raise your hand But back in those days my dad played the lottery. And and I I know in his heart he always wanted to hit it big, you know. A few times we won those little prizes, you know. But he never hit it big in the lottery. But I'll tell you what, one day he he found the hidden treasure. You know how it happened? He was invited here to Grace Bible Baptist Church, and he heard Pastor Johnson preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you know what? He repented of his sin, put his faith in Christ, and he was a different man. You know what? He found the pearl of great price. He found the hidden treasure. And he became rich. Rich. And in fact, I became rich. My father shared the gospel with me. He showed me the incredible value of the kingdom. That's why I'm here. And you know what I want to do with the rest of my life? I want to be committed to showing people the incredible treasure of the kingdom of God. So that they would be willing to turn from all of what the world offers, sell all that they have, so to speak, and turn to Jesus Christ in true repentance and faith. That is the greatest treasure you could ever have. My father did win the lottery, but it was with Jesus Christ. What can you compare to Jesus The value of knowing Christ is so much more than anything you can imagine. And I pray that you're a part of this wonderful kingdom. Let's bow in prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I just want you to ask yourself: have I found the pearl of great price? Have I have my eyes been opened to see the the treasure of the kingdom? And if so, your life will never be the same. If God opens your eyes to see the treasure and you see the pearl great price, you know what? You'll be willing to sell all that you have. That you might be a part of it. The greatest thing that could ever happen to you is that you become part of this wonderful kingdom of God. Through faith in Jesus Christ. If that's never happened, I'm inviting you right now. Right now. Reach out. Do you see it? Do you see the treasure? Just reach out for it. It's right there. You receive it by faith By faith, just put your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, who died for your sins on the cross, that you might go to heaven, that you might have eternal life. Would you just say this prayer? Just mean in your heart, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. I see now the beauty of the kingdom, the beauty of Jesus Christ, the Savior who died for my sins on the cross. And today I turn from my sin, I turn from the world, I put my faith in Christ, in Christ alone. And friend, if you'll do that, you know what? Let me give you a wonderful promise. Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Isn't that wonderful? Would you come? Would you put your faith in Christ? And if you're already saved, and you say, I I've seen the Pearl Great Price, it's mine, I I know the value of the kingdom, are you Sharing that treasure with others. Are you trying to tell others of the greatest thing that could ever happen to them? Being a part of the kingdom. Father, use your word to speak to our hearts today. Save souls and bring people into the kingdom of God for your honor and for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.