I invite you to take God's word tonight and open to the book of Judges. As you know, we are studying Judges on Wednesday night. And tonight we're in chapter 8. And we're going to look in chapter 8, 35 verses here in this narrative. And I want to talk tonight on finishing well matters. Finishing well matters from Judges chapter 8. In uh 2007, the New England Patriots had a perfect regular season. They went sixteen and oh during the sixteen game season. They were the first NFL team to be undefeated in a sixteen game season. I mean they set records. They uh tr they basically dominated all their opponents. They looked unstoppable and they went into the playoffs, won all the playoff games, went into the Super Bowl, and uh some of you who were NFL uh historians may remember that they they played in the Super Bowl against the underdog New York Giants and the Giants won. Had the Patriots won that game, they would have had a perfect 19-0 season, but they lost to the Giants And uh so suddenly the undefeated season was overshadowed. And to this day, when you talk about the two thousand and seven Patriots, you don't talk about the team that had a perfect regular season. You talk about the team that lost in the Super Bowl. They lost to the Giants and I kinda like talking about that anyway. They beat up on the Ravens all the time. But anyway So and and uh so here's a team that uh is really noted in that season for their loss. And why is that? Well, because in sports and in life, finishing well matters more than how you start. May you may be here tonight and say, well, in my Christian life I didn't really start out very well. That's okay Finishing well matters more than how you started. You can you can dominate most of the season, you can win most of the battles, you can build an extraordinary record, but if you stumble at the end That's the defining moment. That's what people remember the most. And as we look at the life of Gideon, what we're going to find out is that tragically, Gideon, he starts out well, but he doesn't finish well. In chapter 6 and 7, we see his kind of undefeated season. I mean, he tears down the altars of Baal. He obeys God against impossible odds. He leads 300 men against over 150,000 of the enemy. And he trusts God and God gives him victory. This is one of the most dramatic triumphs in the history of Israel. But then you come to Judges chapter 8. And you could say that Judges chapter 8 is the Super Bowl game that he lost. Because right at the end, he he uh he doesn't end well, he loses. And what we see here is a man who once re who uh once refused the crown, begins to enjoy honor. He's a man who uh Once destroyed idols, and he fashions an ephod. What's an ephod? That is a kind of a a a breastplate that a king would wear, or sometimes a priest in the Old Testament would wear And he kind of fashions this and this this uh Ephod becomes an idol that the children of Israel ultimately use as an idol and it becomes a snare. And so he starts well, but he doesn't finish well. And the sobering truth is this, early faithfulness has to be matched by a lifetime of obedience to the Lord. If you had early faithfulness in your Christian life, that's great. But again, it matters how you end your Christian life. The Apostle Paul could say this in Acts chapter 20, verse 20. 4. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. He wanted to finish his race well. He wanted to finish with joy. And Gideon teaches us that Uh we need to be careful because you can be successful and yet you can falter in the end. So the question tonight is not simply did you start well, but the question tonight for all of us is, will we finish well? And what I want you to see here in this chapter are some reasons why Gideon did not finish well. Now remember the overall theme of the book of Judges that we have to understand is this, the failure of the judges. A lot of times when people study the book of judges, they kind of look at it like, oh man, here are these flawless heroes. And we d we we have a tendency to exalt these men as if they were uh if that they were perfect or the kind of people that uh, you know uh had no fault in them and what we what really the is the point of all these judges is is that they are all men who failed in the end. I mean you look at the judges And when they during their time of deliverance, yes, they had a time of success when they trusted in God, but ultimately at the end they all they all failed. They didn't do well in the end. And you know, when when we study Gideon, we're gonna find the same thing here. We all know Samson, how he messed up kind of in the end. Of course God gave him victory, but It wasn't what he could have been. And then there's the life of Jephthah. We're going to see the mistake he made after a great victory. And and so all of these men fall short. And again, this is this is the overarching theme of the book of Judges. What is the one phrase that we see repeated throughout the book. Every man uh there was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was right in his own eyes. So the book of Judges really sets the stage for the need of a king in Israel because everybody was doing their own thing And what we find out from these judges is they they ultimately started doing what was right in their own eyes in the end as well. And that's no different here with Gideon But also the book of Judges points us to the ultimate judge who is perfect in every way. And you know what? He never failed, and that is Jesus Christ He's the judge who never fails. He's the deliverer who delivers his people. And he's also the perfect savior and king. So notice four reasons why Gideon didn't finish well, and we can learn from them. Number one, he was distracted by pride. We see this in the first three verses. Look at verse one. And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus that thou callest us not when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply. Right on the heels of the victory that Gideon's three hundred had against the Midianites, the men of Ephraim come to Gideon, and the Bible says that they did chive. This has the idea of a fierce contention The tribe of Ephraim felt slighted. They felt overlooked or dishonored. When the battle was over, they wanted some recognition. They wanted some inclusion. And so the the the the big test that Gideon faces now is not weakness like we saw before. He was constantly battling his own fear. Now he has to battle with pride. Pride from other men, but also we're going to see even his own pride. Now he has to deal with the pride that could divide the the nation of Israel. And there's a principle here, we're always vulnerable after a great victory. So we see the pride of Ephraim and they basically come to him and say, Why didn't you call us into this battle? Why didn't you call us sooner Now, Ephraim was one of the most prominent tribes in Israel. In fact, Joshua, the great leader of Israel, came from Ephraim And that territory of Ephraim was right in the center of Israel. So they had a big influence, this tribe of Ephraim. And they wanted to share in the glory. And this reveals a truth that's pretty much timeless, and that is that when God grants victory, human pride wants to come in and compete for the attention and the credit. Ephraim, they didn't volunteer at the beginning. They only joined the battle after it was pretty much over at the end, when victory was already evident. And however, now they come to Gideon and they want to share in the glory with Gideon. So the question here for Gideon is, will he defend God's glory? Or what he stroked the egos of these men. So we see here what I call the pride of Gideon. And notice how he answers them. Look in verse number two. And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison to you? Is not the gleanings of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abbey Ezer? What did he mean by that? He's using the imagery of a harvest, a grape harvest. A grape harvest is the the great harvest is when they the main harvest I should say is when they take down the the the the the uh majority of the grapes, the primary cutting of the grapes The gleaning is what's left over afterwards. So Gideon is basically saying this to these men, your leftover gleanings are better than my entire harvest. In other words, your small contribution was greater than my whole effort. And what's he doing here? Well, is this wisdom or is this pride on the part of Gideon. There's a lot of division over comment by commentators over this. A lot of people say, well, he was very diplomatic in his response. In fact, in fact, Matthew Henry writes that Gideon made a modest and humble answer, and the soft answer turns away wrath. Dale Davis said this, Gideon's response is a masterpiece of tact. And then there are others. Daniel Bloch says that Gideon's words are diplomatically brilliant. And his answer seems to work. It was a very political answer, it was a very diplomatic answer, because look at verse number three, where it says at the end that their anger was abated towards him when he had said that In other words, that seemed to stroke their egos, and they were satisfied after he gave them that answer. So, now the problem I have with this whole answer is notice what Gideon doesn't say. He doesn't say, well, it was actually the Lord that delivered Midian into our hands. It was God who did it. The battle was the Lord's. And if you were able to contribute to that, it's because God used you. God was able to do that through you. I mean, it was very clear in chapter 7 that God was going to give victory in a way where no man could take the credit, right? I mean that was the whole point of why God withered down the army to three hundred. So they can know that only God is the one who gave the victory here. But this is absent now. from Gideon's speech. I think it's Gideon's pride that reveals his self-preservation. And there's kind of an inkling in here of of him being political, wanting to have influence among this powerful tribe. And the other problem I have with this is that his answer, although diplomatic and tactful, is just really a lie. The truth of the matter is their contribution didn't matter much at all. Gideon and the 300 are the ones that really did the main work, and that was by the help of God. But he's basically trying to avoid conflict. But ultimately what he ultimately what he's trying to do is he's trying to secure his own leadership He doesn't rebuke Ephraim for their pride, which is what he should have done. Say, hey, w why are you guys coming at the end of the battle wanting glory? The only one who gets the glory for this battle is Almighty God Because well, he didn't do that because the tribe of Ephraim was powerful and they were influential. And their criticism of Gideon could really hurt his standing. So instead of directing the glory to God, he redirects the praise to Ephraim that really didn't deserve any at all. He redirects it to them. And so Gideon subtly positions himself as this gracious leader And uh puts himself in good standing with these men and it works. It works. But it's really the pride of Gideon. Pride doesn't always shout Sometimes it whispers. Sometimes it'll whisper to you, protect your influence. Maintain unity at any cost. Let's just keep everyone happy. And in doing it that way, you move the spotlight from God to yourself. The glory belongs to God. And so this really is something we need to learn from. And by the way, because of this, the seeds of later failure are really planted right here early in Gideon's pride. Listen, when God uses you to do something, remember Who gets the glory for that? Remember that you have to be careful. Don't look over your shoulder when you win the victory. Just give God the glory here But here's the second thing that caused Gideon not to end well. First of all, he was distracted by pride. But here's number two, he was driven by vengeance. He was driven by vengeance. And we see this from verse four on down to verse number twenty-one. And Gideon came to Jordan and passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with them, faint and yet pursuing them So Gideon is still pursuing Midian. There's unfinished business. Oh yes, they smashed this army, but they're in pursuit of them now. And then the job is not done. And in this pursuit, he is uh we see first of all what I call the retreat of Midian. In this pursuit, uh he is really trying to f to grab hold of and capture the two Midianite kings, Ziva and and Zalmuna. And his men are pursuing and they're exhausted. Look at verse number four. And Gideon came to Jordan and passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him. Faint yet pursuing. This is physically, they're depleted, they're running on flu fumes, and yet they're still going after these guys. This is a noble picture. Gideon's men are tired, but they keep going. And here's the next test. They need help from others. And so Gideon is going to make a request to the town of Sukkot. Look at verse number five. And he said unto the men of Sukkot, Give I pray you loaves of bread unto the people that follow me, for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Zeba and Zalmuna, kings of Midian. They're exhausted, they're famished They're in desperate need of support. And they say to this town, please help us. Please give us bread. The enemy's not fully defeated. We need to capture these two kings. And what we're going to see here is the refusal of Sukkot. And not only that, the refusal of Sukkot, but also another town that he's going to come to, and he's also going to ask for help from that other town, and they're going to refuse him as well. But look at the refusal of the men of this town. Look at verse six. And the princes of Secote said, Are the hands of Zeba and Zalmuna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thine army? I mean this question is dripping with sarcasm. And in plain speech we say it like this, have you already captured them? I mean you already got these guys wrapped up? Can you guarantee victory? I mean, if we risk helping you, it could really backfire on us. So we're not going to help you until we know that you've already won. That's basically what they're telling them here. And this really angers Gideon It was their refusal was more about their self-preservation. And it m undermines the whole pursuit and it discourages these weary soldiers. And it shows that they're more concerned about their own self-protection than the honor of God and the victory for the whole nation of Israel. And it says in verse number 15 that they even taunted Gideon. They mocked him, they insulted him They sided with the enemy. And so Gideon is angry about this. And look at verse number seventeen. Gideon said, Therefore when the Lord hath delivered Zeba and Zalmuna into mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briars. In other words, wait till I'm coming back. I'm going to get back at you guys. I'm going to tear your flesh. And so he's really, really angry here. And then he he goes to the next town, and he asks for help from them. Look at verse eight. And he went up thence to Pen Penuel And spake unto them likewise, and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Secot had answered him, and he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower So he threatens these men as well. Evidently there was a tower there that was in that city, that was a place that really was a a tower of security and defense and something they had pride in and they took confidence in. And he said, okay, you trust in that tower more than the Lord's deliverance. When I come back, I'm gonna tear down that tower Gideon just feels betrayed by these towns, by these men. And then we see the next thing, the revenge of Gideon. Because in verses ten on down to verse twelve God does grant Gideon victory. He does catch these two Midianite kings, these powerful kings. We see this in verses 11 and 12. And also Gideon starts to come back. He's on his way back. We could call this the payback tour because now he's going to come back. And he's going to pay back these guys. And so look at verse 13. And Gideon, the son of Joash, returned from the battle before the sun was up And so before the end of that day he comes back from the battle. In verse 14, he catches a young man, one of the young men of Sukkot. He inquires of him and he described unto him the princes of Sukkot and the elders thereof. So Gideon interrogates this young man and he goes, I want you to describe for me the princes of your town. These are the guys that said no to him. Give me a good, accurate description of these guys. guys. Seventy-seven of them. And then he comes back, and look at verse 15. And he came unto the men of Sukkot and said, Behold Ziba and Zelmuna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zeba and Zelmuna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary? And so he he basically reminds them of their early words. Remember what you said to me? And so what happens in verse 16? And he took the elders of the city and the thorns of the wilderness and briars with them, and he taught the men of Zakot. That's a really, really that's a gripping with irony. I'm going to teach you with these thorns here. I'm going to teach you a lesson. You ever brings back memories of my childhood where my father says, I'm going to teach you something. Uses a leather strap to teach it. And Gideon basically says, I got it, I'm going to teach you something here So what does he do? He he had them dragged under heavy weights over these thorns and briars, which painfully tore their bodies. This was a cruel torture to which ancient captains were often subjective. And he says, I'm going to instruct you. I'm going to instruct you by pain. Pain can be a great instructor. Some some of the lessons you learn very well, you learn through pain. And so and then in verse number 17 we see that he destroys uh Penuel and kills the men there. It says in verse 17, and he beat down the tower of Penuel and slew the men of the city. So he's really on a vengeful tour against these men who refused to help him. But what stands out here in the text is the contrast between Gideon's impatience with these men, his ruthlessness with the Israelites. Versus God's patience and grace with his people. God's had to put up with a lot a lot as well. And thank God God is not vengeful the way Gideon is. God is patient, but Gideon is not here And uh to to quote another his uh commentator, he said this Gideon's behavior could be justified if Penuel were a Canaanite city, but these were fellow Israelites. His character has been transformed. He's acting like a general out of control, no longer bound by rules of civility, let alone national loyalty. He's acting all out in vengeance. And in anger, he's acting out against these people. And we see this in verses 18 and 19 as well. Notice he captures these two kings, and notice what he says to them. Then he said unto in verse 18, then he said unto Zeba and Zalmunah, what manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, as thou art, they were each one resembled the children of a king. They remind us of you. Gideon says, Hey, can you describe to me the guys that you killed at Tabor? And they say, Oh, you you know, come to think of it, they kind of look like you Well there's a reason for that. They were my brothers. Look at verse 20. And he said unto or verse 19 rather, and he said, They were my brethren Even the sons of my mother, as the Lord liveth, if he had saved them alive, I would not slay you. So it's it's you killed my brothers. And now it's payback time. And now it's revenge. So he's going to he's going to kill them. But he's going to do it in a way that humiliates them. He doesn't want to just, he's not asking for justice now. This is not just judgment on them. He wants to humiliate them. He wants to pay back. This is now becoming more personal for Gideon. And he's gonna k he wants to have them die in a way that is humiliating for them. And in the ancient Near East, what is one of the most humiliating ways that a king could die? Well, we already saw one way that a king or a general could die that's very humiliating. Remember JL and she drove she drove a ten peg through a guy's skull? To be killed by a woman in battle is kind of humiliating for a strong warrior But another way to be humiliated to death is for a child to kill you. So look at verse number 20. And he said unto Jether, his firstborn, Up and slay them. But the youth drew not his sword, for he feared, because he was yet a youth. So he says to his firstborn son, Son, I have a job for you. I want you to kill these two guys. And Jether is described as a youth. The text emphasizes his immaturity, he's afraid. But Gideon says to his firstborn, I want you to do the job. I want you to kill them. Now, not only would this humiliate these two kings, but also you think about it, a child with a sword in his hand, he probably wasn't that experienced on how to use that sword. And if he were going to chop their heads off, he wasn't going to be able to get it done in one blow. I can promise you that as a young man. He was going to butcher them, trying to get the head cut off. And that's really what Gideon had in mind. Here, practice on these guys. And so this isn't a very pretty picture. Again, this is Gideon. acting in a way that is vengeful. This is less about justice and more about personal payback and humiliating these kings. And so that his young son he he he didn't want to do it. He he wouldn't do it. And so Gideon in verse 21, then Zeba and Zomunah said, Rise thou and fall upon us, for as the man is, so is his strength. Now these these two kings knew exactly what Gideon was trying to do, and he said, No, you do it. You're a man, you have strength. And basically they're kind of taunting him because they want to die quick. And uh and almost they're saying, you man up, you do it. If you're a man, you go ahead and kill us. And so in verse number twenty-one, Gideon then uh he The Bible says Gideon arose and slew Ziva and Zalmuna and took away the ornaments that were on the camel's necks. And so Gideon kills them. And again the problem is not that he executed the king these kings, but that this execution is saturated with personal vengeance. Somewhere along the line he forgot that he was doing the Lord's work and all of it became personal. This was a personal vengeance. And then he takes the ornaments that were on the necks of the camels. These would be trophies for his victory. You know another reason why we may not finish well at times in our Christian life is because of bitterness, revenge, rather than God's honor. If you live long enough, you're going to be hurt and humiliated by other people. You're going to have other people do bad things against you while you're serving the Lord, while you're trying to do the Lord's will. And if you allow yourself to be eaten up with vengeance and bitterness, I promise you you're not going to end well. Bitterness is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die. It will eat you up. And we see this here in Gideon. Gideon's poison of vengeance distorts all the good leadership that he had done up until this point. It all gets spoiled now by this personal vendetta. and this vengeance that he shows. So he was distracted by pride. He was driven by vengeance. But here's the third thing. He was deceived by prosperity. Look down in chapter 8, look at verse 22. After his great victory, the people want Gideon to be the king. Look at verse 22. And the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both thou and thy son, and thy son's son also, for thou hast delivered us. from the hand of Midian. And again, notice Gideon, you did this. Thou, thou, thou, thou. Gideon doesn't redirect and say, no, no. You know. He may say the right things, but his actions will will uh basically betray what he says. So they say, you be our king. They didn't use the word king in verse 22, but it's obvious what they wanted. You rule over us and then your son and then his son's son. Build a dynasty right here. Start your dynasty. Start your kingdom right here. You be our king. And Gideon says in verse twenty-three, he answers this is Gideon's answer. He answers correctly. And Gideon said unto him, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you. The Lord shall rule over you. That all sounded good. That's exactly the right answer. God is the one who is your king. But then there's Gideon's actions. And even though his words were right, his actions didn't back up his words. Because what's the first thing that he does right after that, on the heels of that? Look at verse twenty-four. And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you that you would give me every man the earrings of his prey. For they had golden earrings because they were Ishmaelites. So what does he do? He asks for a kingly reward for or a tax, we could say. He tells every one of the men to give him a gold earring from their share of the spoils of war. Share with me some of the spoils. Give me a tribute. On one hand, this is a gesture of submission. You submit to me, you give me a percentage of what you took in battle. And and the and the men are glad to do that. Look at verse 25. And he answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and he did and did cast therein every man the earring of his prey. And verse twenty six, and the weighing of the gold earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides ornaments and collars and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains that were about their camels Next. So the so the 1700 shekels of gold. That amounts to about 50 pounds of gold. 50 pounds of gold that he got there at the end. Even though Gideon verbally rejected being the king, he behaves in a manner that is very kingly. He keeps all the symbols of royalty. That that we speaks about there in verse number twenty-five. He keeps the amulets worn by the camels, the purple robes worn by the Midianite kings, the Neckbands worn by their camels. All these are symbols of royalty. He keeps all of this for himself. And then also he does something that's really, really uh bizarre. You have to say, he centralizes worship in his own city. Look down at verse number 27. And Gideon made an ephod thereof. And put it in his city, even of Orphrah, and all Israel went thither a whoring after it, which thing became a snare unto Gideon and unto his house. So he he sets up this golden ephod, which uh as I said before, it's kind of like a breastplate that the priest would wear. And in the Old Testament, it was worn by the high priests in Exodus chapter 28. It was associated with um with revelation, with God's with mediatoral authority in God's revelation. So in a sense what he's doing here, he's not following Old Testament laws by doing this. He sets up a shrine there in his own town. Where was the place to worship God? It was at the tabernacle in Shiloh. Why is he doing this? Why is he setting up another place of worship? He centralizes worship in his own city. He places this religious object there, as if to say, God's giving me revelation through this ephod here. And eventually what happens is the children of Israel begin to worship this thing and they commit idolatry. With this golden ephod that he sets up there in the city. And so basically he assumes priestly function. I mean, Gideon's not from the priestly tribe of Levi. He's from the tribe of Manasseh. But by doing this, he blurs the boundaries between being a judge, a king, and a priest. He's acting like all of them. He's the judge of Israel. He's the king now, and he's also the priest. If you want revelation from God, you come through me to get it. This is a power gone out of control here with Gideon. And he was he was he was blinded by this allure of prestige and prosperity. You know one of the greatest tests that you'll ever face in your Christian life is when God grants you victory and then he grants you prosperity from that victory. What will you do then? And what we find here with Gideon is, rather, again, than giving all the glory to God, humbling himself before the Lord, he grabs at the prosperity, he grabs at this opportunity. And he's deceived into idolatry. The greatest danger to God's servants is not failure, but success. What happens on the heels of success? He was distracted by pride. He was driven by vengeance. He was deceived by prosperity. And here's the last thing. He was diminished by compromise. He was diminished by compromise. Now everything seemed to work, even though he sets up this Ephi. Look at verse 28. And thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon. So even though they had peace there for forty years, the seeds of decline were already sown. Gideon is building a dynasty there. He's acting like a king. He's got this Ephod that becomes an idol. He lives like a king even though he denies the title. Look at verse number 30. And Gideon had three score and ten sons. That was the ideal number for a king to have 70 sons. 70 sons. And it says uh that his body had begotten, for he had many wives. That's another thing that a king would do, multiply wives to themselves. Remember Deuteronomy 17, God commanded In the future, when you have kings, they should not multiply wives to himself. That was all part of the ancient Near Eastern culture. He multiplies wives, he has many wives, and in verse 31 His concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech. So Gideon has another son, and guess what he names his son? Abimelech. You know what Abimelech means in Hebrew? Ab-I is my father. Melech is means is king. My father is king. So Gideon has a son. Oh, I think I'll name him Abimelech. Really? What's that name in? My father is king. I mean this guy's on a real ego trip here. You know, if I ever have a son in name of Abimelech, you need to rebuke me. You're not king. What do you mean by that name? You're not the king. And by the way, Abimelech will grow up and he'll think he's the king. Later on in chapter 9, he'll act like the king, a tyrant, and it'll have to be put down But here's here's Gideon, and he's acting as if he's a king, and he has a son, and he names him Abimelech. So He dwelt in his own house, it says in verse 29, which again is the idea of having a a throne, a palace, a place to rule. He had many wives, verse thirty, he had seventy sons, he had a concubine, verse thirty-one, he names them Abimelech and he dies at good old age, that is kind of a d a dynastic expression that they used about kings. So all of this, the writer's kind of saying, well, even though he denied uh being a king verbally, he lived as if he were a king all of that time in his life. And we see also the downfall, however, of Israel. Look at verse number 33. And it came to pass as soon as Gideon was dead. That the children of Israel turned again and went ahooring after Balim and made Baal Bareth their God. So right after Gideon dies, the Israelites play the harlot, spiritual harlot, we could say, and they committed themselves specifically to, and when it says Baalim, that's many Baals, they worship many false gods. But there was one God in particular that Israel chooses as their God. You remember that Israel made a covenant with Yahweh in Exodus that they would be their that he would be their God and and they would be his people. But here, Israel chooses to make Baal Barit, and literally in the Hebrew that is Baal of the Covenant. It's almost like a swipe against God. We have a new covenant now with another God, Baal Barit. This is the new God that we're going to worship. So they officially replace The worship of Yahweh with the worship of Baal and and honestly, things are now worse in Israel than they ever were. Because officially they adopt Baal Barit as their God of the covenant, Lord of the Covenant. And so it's worse after Gideon's death than at any time. And so basically Gideon did not finish well. He left behind confusion, he left behind compromise, he left behind corruption. The man who once destroyed idols left idols standing in his own household. You know what finishing well is about? It's about lifelong obedience. Day by day, lifelong obedience. Gideon teaches us that it's not enough to trust God in your youth. or just in moments of crisis, you have to walk with God faithfully all the way up until the end. All the way to the end. You don't take the pedal off the metal at all. You keep walking with God. If anything, your faithfulness should not diminish. It should increase the older you get in the Lord. But Gideon, he began in weakness, but he learned to trust God. He won a great victory, but he was distracted by pride. He was driven by vengeance. He was deceived by prosperity. He was diminished by compromise. And he didn't end well. But brethren, finishing well matters. It matters to God. This should be the goal of every believer. We should be willing to say like Paul I fought a good fight. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. That is our goal. And again, the book of Judge points us to the ultimate, perfect judge. And leader and King Jesus Christ who started out perfectly, and you know what? He finished perfectly. He finished well. So much so that on the cross, Jesus said, it is finished. It is finished. He paid the price for our sins. He fully accomplished everything he needed to do to bring salvation to all of us. And because he finished well. We can also finish well, not in our own strength, but in the strength which our Lord Jesus gives us. Let's all bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, just take a moment and just talk to the Lord there Pray your own prayer to the Lord and ask him to help you to finish well in the Christian life. Starting well is good, but finishing well is essential. And Gideon's failures warns us that a life of continual obedience, that's what brings lasting honor to God. Father, help us all to learn from this story that you have here in Scripture. That's why, Lord, you've given these stories to us. That we could have hope, that we could see these things and realize the mistakes that others have made. We don't have to make those same mistakes. So Lord, guide us and help us. To be faithful every day of our life and help us to finish strong in this race that you've given us. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.