Take your Bibles tonight, turn to Psalm 119. And we are in a journey through Psalm 119 and we're going stanza by stanza. And tonight we're going to look at verse 41 down to verse number 48. This is the Vav section under the Hebrew letter vav. And tonight I want to talk about five proper responses to the mercies of God. Now, if you've been a believer for any length of time, you perhaps know the name Matthew Henry. Matthew Henry is well known simply because he wrote a commentary on the Bible. Perhaps it's the most well-known commentary ever written, and it's been a blessing to millions of people. Matthew Henry was the son of a minister and he was saved and fell in got fell in love with God's word at an early age. And uh when he was just thirteen years old, he made this entry into his journal. This was on October 18, 1675. He called it a catalogue of the mercies of God. And he was writing about his uh conversion three years earlier, and this is what he wrote For spiritual mercies for the Lord Jesus Christ, his incarnation, life, and death. Lord Jesus, I bless thee for thy word, and I give thee thanks. that I am thine and will be thine. And it was because of the mercies of God in the life of Matthew Henry that he would write this commentary on the whole Bible. It took him many years to write it Uh he died in 1714 when he was fifty-two years old. But because of the Matthew Henry commentary, he has influenced millions of Christian Christians uh uh a span of of many centuries. over three centuries of influencing people, helping them to understand the Bible. Now his monumental work then was a response to the mercies of God and his life And that's our key thought here tonight. How do you respond to the mercies of God in your life? Now as we read this danza of Psalm 119, verses 41 down to verse 40. you kind of get the idea that uh he is this is his response to the mercies of God. This whole section of Psalm 119 reminds me of Romans 12, 1 and 2. Romans 12, 1. You know this verse, right? I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto the Lord, which is your reasonable service. And the word present there in verse 1 is peristemai. It's a temple term, and it's a technical term used of the Levitical system to speak of bringing an offering to the altar. A person would come and they would officially present their sacrifice to the Lord. And they would bring it uh to the holy place, facing the holy place. And so really this was kind of an official presentation of their sacrifice. to the Lord. Now Paul says that we present our bodies a living sacrifice. And when he says bodies there, he's talking, that's really one word that stands for all of us. All parts of us. Every part of our being, body, soul, and spirit. God wants all of you. He wants your mind. He wants your heart. He wants your hands. He wants your feet. He wants your tongue. He wants every fiber of you. All of you. Your soul, body, soul, and spirit. So we are we are to present ourselves. This body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, right? And he says, as a living sacrifice. Now that's a oxymoron, because sacrifices in the Old Testament were always dead. But Paul here means that we die to ourself. We are alive physically, but we die to our own will. We're living, but all of our being belongs to God. 24-7. And the verb was an airest tense verb. That is, you present this once for all. You do it once, and that's it. You don't keep, well I gotta rededicate my life. No, you already did that. You give yourself once to the Lord holy for all time. You see, in the Old Testament a sacrifice couldn't say, Well, I'm going to be a sacrifice today, but later on Uh maybe I'll come back and be a sacrifice again. No, you're a sacrifice one time. Because you are you're dead, you're a dead sacrifice in the Old Testament. We're a living sacrifice. We can't crawl off the altar. We gotta stay there. We gotta be completely dedicated to the Lord. And this is what Matthew Henry demonstrated when he wrote the words, I am thine. And will be thine when we give our whole self to the Lord. The great missionary David Brainerd missionary to the North American Indians, wrote in his journal, O Lord, to thee I dedicate myself. O accept of me to be thine forever. I desire nothing else or nothing more. And beloved, that's real worship. Real worship is when you give yourself completely to God. And Paul calls it in Romans 12. 1, your reasonable service. And the word service there is later in the Greek, where we get our word liturgy, a worship term. And again, it's used for priestly activities. Our worship to God is not just music and singing. Thank God for the wonderful songs tonight. I love them. And thank God for the other things that we do when we participate in worship. But Worship is more than attending a service and singing. Worship is living every day as a living sacrifice unto God, giving our whole self over to the Lord and everything that we do. And why do we do that? Why does Paul say it's your reasonable service? It's based on what? The mercies of God. It's because of his mercies. And Paul is referring to everything that he had previously written in the book of Romans. Notice the word is m plural, mercies of God. It's everything that God has given to us in His mercy. It's eternal love, eternal grace, the Holy Spirit, everlasting peace, everlasting joy, saving faith, comfort, strength, wisdom, hope, patience, kindness, honor, glory. Righteousness, security, eternal life, forgiveness, reconciliation, justification, sanctification, freedom, resurrection, sonship, and on we could go. All of that is of the mercies of God. And it's because of those mercies that we respond. the right way, the proper response to the mercies of God. The psalmist said it like this in Psalm 116, verse number two. What shall I render unto the Lord for all of his benefits towards me? That's a good question What can I give to God? Because of all that he's given to me, because of all of his mercies, what shall I give to the Lord? Now this stanza of Psalm 119, I think, follows the same basic pattern that we see in Romans 12, 1 and verse 2. The psalmist starts out rejoicing in the mercies of God. Verse 41, let thy mercies come also unto me, O Lord. And then he clarifies the mercies of God in the next line. Even thy salvation according to thy word. And the rest of this stanza is his response to God's mercies in his life. We see the expression, so shall I. Because of your mercies, God, so shall I. We see that in verse number 42. We see it in verse 44. We see the phrase, I will, seven times. Because of your mercies, O God, I will. I will walk at liberty. I will speak of thy testimonies. I will delight myself in thy commandments. I will lift up my hands. I will meditate in thy statutes. It's as if the psalmist is presenting himself as a living sacrifice to God because of God's mercies in his life. This stanza of Psalm 119 is an Old Testament illustration of what Paul meant in Romans 12, 1 and 2. So what I want you to see from this stanza then are what I call five proper responses to the mercy of God in our life. Here's number one. Because of God's mercies, we defend God's word. Look at verse 42, verse 43, act. Yeah, verse 42, sorry. So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproaches me, for I trust in thy word Now remember the writer of Psalm 119 was a young man that was taken captive after Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the city of Jerusalem. And he's being led away into captivity. He's in going to be in exile in Babylon. And you remember I told you that the Babylonians persecuted their exiles as they made that long journey. They would taunt them about uh their belief in Yahweh. They would ridicule them over their worship and then perhaps the now ruined temple. One can almost hear them saying, where's your God now? This God that you sing about. Why would your God allow his temple to be destroyed? Psalm 137 records the exiles weeping as they were taunted by the Babylonians. You ever notice how the world loves to ridicule God's people whenever they get a chance? Especially when God's people are down, or perhaps something bad happens, or maybe one of God's servants falls and shame, and the world jumps on that back bandwagon, and they love to ridicule the people of God And it's during these times that we need to give a clear answer about our faith. And so notice his defense. He says in verse 42, So shall I have wherewith to answer Him that them that reproach me. Him that reproaches me. The psalmist desires to provide a bold and intelligent answer to those who would attack his belief and his faith Now let me just tell you that as Christians, all of us are called to be apologists. You say, what's an apologist? Well, it's not someone who goes around apologizing to everybody that they're a Christian. Or apologizing for their faith, or apologizing for believing in the truth of the Bible. The word apologist comes from the Greek word apologia, and it means a defense. Peter uses this word in 1 Peter 3. 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer. There's the word, a defense to every man. That ask if you are the reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. We're always to be ready to give an answer, a defense, an apologia, an apology, if you will, about our faith in Jesus Christ. And again, this word apologia, this was a technical term. This was used in the law courts when you would mount a defense. An intelligent, well-thought-out, skillful answer for what you believe. And as Christians, God calls all of us to be an apologist. You're either everyone's an apologist. You're either a good one or you're a bad one. When someone comes to you and asks you about your faith, you need to be able to give a good answer. Because the verse that Peter I quoted you from 1 Peter, that's not a verse quoted just to pastors or seminary professors. This is to the church. You're to be ready to give an answer. Now remember, Peter, when he wrote that, he was writing to believers that were under fierce persecution under the Romans and the Roman Empire And Peter says, you know what? You always have to be ready to give an answer. You always have to be ready to defend the truth claims of Christianity. That's part of your calling. And by the way, when bad things happen, when suffering and persecution and affliction come upon you and the world is watching you, that's the best time to give an intelligent answer about your faith. Because now they're really listening. So we're all called to be an apologist. Paul was our example in the New Testament. We always see Paul. Whenever he would go to a town he would first go to the synagogue and then he would go to the Gentiles, he would go to the Agora, the marketplace. Some of you know recently we were over in Greece and we had the opportunity to go to Athens and went to the Acropolis there on the Hilltop where there is the Parthenon. And if you're at that Parthenon and you're kind of coming out of it, you're standing on that stair stairway there, you look out uh just over the way there and there's this little mesa that's uh uh the the Mars Hill that was the place where Paul mounted a defense against the Stoics and the Epicureans When he was defending Christianity, when he was preaching the gospel, you can almost, if you close your eyes, you can see the Apostle Paul there on that hill just defending the faith speaking the gospel, the word of God. And Paul's our example. But before there was Paul, there was the writer of Psalm 119 who says I want to have an answer to them that reproaches me. We see his defense, but then we see his determination. Look again at verse 42, the latter part where it says, For I trust in thy word. This answer that we give has to be based upon the Word of God. Not our own reason, not our own intelligence, not our own philosophy. The Word of God. The best way to give an answer to the world is to know God's Word and simply give them the truth of God's Word. I'm not responsible for the results. I'm just responsible for giving them the proof. To give them the scripture, the word. The proof is my responsibility. The persuasion is the responsibility of the Holy Spirit. So I lay out the truth claims. I lay out what the Bible says. And notice that the psalmist says, I trust in thy word. I'm going to speak your word. That is our weapon against these attacks. It is the word of God. Now I teach an apologetics class, one of the classes I teach at our seminary here, and you know I've learned more and more about apologetics, and there's different ways that Christians approach defending the faith. There's different methods in which they do that. The classical method is just using reason and philosophy. There's evidentialism where you try to point to evidences, and there's certainly a place for that. There is uh what is called fideism where you basically say, you know, you have to believe before you r really ever understand. But there's one method that I think is the most biblical method of defending the faith, and and that is what some people call presuppositionalism. And you say, what is that? That is just simply starting with the Bible. A presuppositionist will say, look, I don't have to uh I don't have to convince you that there is a God. You already believe that. You know that, even though you might lie about it, because God has put that knowledge in every man's heart. And I don't have to convince you that the Bible is true and that the Bible is the Word of God. What I have to do is just simply unleash it and let it do its work. It's like Spurgeon said, you don't have to defend a lion. All you have to do is open the cage. And when you open the cage, the lion will defend himself. That's kind of like a presuppositional approach. Look, I all I have to do is just give the word of God. That is the instrument that the Holy Spirit uses, right? It's not my philosophy, not my brilliance. It's the power is in the word itself. So we need to trust in the word of God, just like the psalmist here said, For I trust in thy word. Paul said it like this: for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, they're not man-made. But mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. And strongholds were those fortresses that held people prison and uh captive People were captive back in that day in these strongholds. And today the strongholds that keep people in prison are ideas, philosophies, sins. uh the lies of the world. All that is keeping people in bondage. And the only thing strong enough to tear down those strongholds is not your man-made weapons, your man-made intellect. The only thing strong enough to tear down those strongholds is the power of God's word. So you have to give them the word of God. But because of the mercies of God, we descend God But here's number two. Because of God's mercies, we depend on God's word. Look at verse 43. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I have hoped in thy judgments. What does he mean when he says, take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth? He means, let me not resort to placing my trust in other things. Let me not resort to worldly arguments or means. Let me not trust in the wisdom of the world and the false ideas of men. Matthew Henry, that I talked about, said this: quote: We have need to pray to God that we may never be afraid or ashamed to own his truths and ways, nor deny him before men. We should never be ashamed of God's word. We must never replace it with other things. Sadly, there are churches and ministries today that have replaced the preaching of God's Word. God's word has been utterly taken out of their mouth. They place their hope in entertainment or programs or philosophy or pragmatism. They're no longer depending on God's word. The psalmist here, we need to have the attitude of the psalmist where he said, I have hoped in thy judgment. The word hope means absolute, total confidence. I have absolute total dependence and confidence in your word, Father, in your word. I read an incredible story a few weeks ago. It was about a the story of a blind football player. And a little boy by the name of Jason Bracey wanted to be a football player, but he developed an eye disease, which sadly left him blind. But he still had a dream in his heart to play football. And as he got older, he began calling around different youth leagues and asking anyone that would be willing to take a chance on a gu at a kid who's blind, but would listen to directions to play football. So he called around all these youth leagues and finally he found one team that's were willing to take a chance on him. They said, look, come on out to practice. We'll figure it out. And so the cake the coach whose name was Dave Nichols said to him, you know, we'll give you a chance at least. And they started him out. They started him out in the position of running back. And then eventually they moved him up to another position. You want to guess what it is? Quarterback. Quarterback. Blind quarterback. Now we may have had some of them on our teams in years past, but A blind quarterback. I mean, that's incredible. And and they asked Jason, they said, Look, how do you do this? And he said, it's trusting in the players all around me. And he also wore a helmet where he had a receiver in the helmet where on the sideline his father was giving him directions from a walkie-talkie. And he said, what I do is I listen to everything that my father says, and I have total confidence in what he says, and I just do what he tells me. And the reporter that was reporting on this says they won that day 33 to 6. I mean that's amazing when you think about it. And I read that, I thought, wow, what a picture of the Christian life We're absolutely blind in this hostile world unless we listen to the directions of our Father. We have to have total confidence in what God tells us. We don't have to try to figure it all out. We just need to listen to what God says and have total confidence and hope in His Word. Because of the mercies of God, we defend God's word. We depend on God's word. But here's number three. Because of God's mercies, we demonstrate God's word. Look at verse number 44. So shall I keep thy law continually forever and ever. And I will walk at liberty, for I seek thy precepts. Because of God's mercy and salvation, the psalmist makes two promises in these verses here. He says he's going to keep God's word in verse number 44. The word keep here means to observe or obey. It's just simply obedience, which is a mark of being a true believer. Remember in 1 John, John hammers on this, 1 John 2, 3. This is how we know that we know him if we keep his commandments Present tense, continually keeping. This is the pattern of our life. This is how you know that you're a true believer because you're constantly keeping the commandments of God. It is a life of obedience And this is what the psalmist desires, because look at verse number 44. So shall I keep thy law continually. Look at the word continually there I don't want to just keep your law every now and then here and there. And just to make sure there's no doubt, notice the next line. Forever and ever He's saying, I just want to obey you, Lord, for the rest of my life. I want to obey you forever and ever. All the rest of my days. That again is the heart of a true child of God, the attitude of a true child of God. They don't obey God occasionally and then pat themselves on the back and say, Wow, what a great Christian I am. I happen to obey a few times today. Now, the the pattern of a true Christian is they desire to obey God forever. That is their whole overwhelming desire. But he makes a promise about not only keeping, but also living God's Word. Again, verse 45, and I will walk at liberty, for I seek thy Precepts. Even though he's a captive, he feels he's a free man. Why? Well, because he lives God's word. And the Psalmist is determined to live out God's word before his enemies. The best defense of the faith is demonstrating a transformed life. There's no argument against a transformed life Many times Christians are ineffective in their witness because of their walk. They'll say one thing and they'll do another or live another. I was witnessing to a man at our last men's prayer breakfast. He had come, someone had invited him. He was not a believer. He was really searching, and he had a lot of questions, and I stayed after and and just really talked to him and answered all his questions. And uh one thing he said that I remember, he said, you know, the problem I have with some Christians is that they say they believe in Jesus, but they're no better than me in the way they live. So why should I believe? I mean if it's not going to change who I am. He said, in fact, some Christians I know who claim to be people who claim to be Christians, they're worse off than me. And that's a problem. True believers will demonstrate the truth to the world by how they live their life. By how we walk in God's way. And notice he says, I will walk at liberty, for I seek thy precepts. The word liber liberty, literally, a wide place. It's an idiom for freedom. It's a picture of one who is free from restrictions and limitations. And the freedom was a result of obedience to the Word of God Many people think: well, if I commit to live an obedient life before God, it's going to confine me, it's going to restrict me, it's going to enslave me. But the opposite is true. Living according to God's word is real freedom. Martin Luther said that the Christian man is the most free Lord of all. The servant of sin is slavery. The service of sin, I should say, is slavery. The service of God is perfect liberty, so said again Matthew Henry. Now, all of God's commandments that he gives us are for our protection. And for our pleasure. God wants us to have real joy and happiness, and that's why He gives commandments because He is protecting us from things. Not holding back on us as Satan would have some people to believe. No, he is protecting us. And so he wants us to experience this real joy. And so obedience is freedom. Jesus said again Uh in John 8, verse 31, then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. And then in verse 34 of John 8, he says, This Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever committed sin is the servant or slave of sin. Sin is slavery, obedience is freedom. Obedience is freedom. But let me give you the fourth one quickly. Because of the mercies of God, we defend God's Word, we depend on God's Word, we demonstrate God's Word. But here's number four. Because of the mercies of God, we declare God's word. Look at verse 46. I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed. Each day the Lord presents us with opportunities to share his word, to declare his word. But the sad reality is that many of those who profess to be Christians don't take advantage of those opportunities. Because they may be ashamed to speak up for Christ. We should never be ashamed to declare God's word, no matter who the audience is, whether it be children, whether it be kings. We should never be ashamed to speak God's word. Daniel was one of those exiles carried away into captivity to Babylon, and he had the opportunity to stand before Nebuchadnezzar, and you know what? He was not ashamed to speak God's word. He told the king exactly what God told him. He spoke the word of God, and I believe it ultimately led to the conversion of Nebuchadnezzar. The three Hebrew children there in that pagan land, they stood and spoke the word of God. They said to the king, You know, we're not careful to answer in this matter, we're not ashamed. We're gonna tell you exactly what Our God dictates to us that we're people of conviction. And so you may be given an opportunity to speak the word of God to someone in some place. Just remember, these are all divine appointments. It's not an accident. Don't be ashamed to speak up for the Lord at that moment. You never know how God is going to use that in someone's life. To speak God's word. And so that's part of defending the faith. It was Martin Luther that was inspired by this verse. Remember this story where he was going to appear be uh to defend his writings at uh the deed of worms and uh many of his friends told him, you know, don't go But he determined, saying, I will surely go. Though there be many devils in Worms to resist me, yet I will go. And of course, we know the story, how he stood for God's Word. It kind of sparked the Reformation. But today, this verse, Psalm 119, verse 46, is at the top of the charter of the Lutheran Church. I will speak of thy testimony also before kings and will not be ashamed. I remember when I was in England years ago, I was in Cambridge, there's a church there that's a thousand years old. And uh The uh the janitor, I guess you call him, or the sexton or whatever they call him over there. Uh he let me in to look around. And and in that old church was still the pulpit of one of the English reformers A man by the name of Hugh Lattimore, who later was burned at the stake. But he's very famous for being a bold witness for the Lord. Uh he's one of the English reformers and There's a story of him when he had the opportunity to preach before King Henry VIII and how they all his friends and others came and warned him, look, don't be careful because you don't know How you know you something you say might anger him and you know how he is. You never know what he's going to do, so you better be careful. And Hugh Latimer stood up and he preached specifically against the sins of King Henry VIII. He was not afraid to speak God's word before kings. And I remembered that when I was there looking at his pulpit. What a bold servant of the Lord. May God give us all that kind of boldness. But because of the mercies of God, we defend God's word. We depend on God's word. We demonstrate God's word. We declare God's word. But here's the last one. Because of God's mercies, we delight in God's word. Look at verse 47. I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved. My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved. And I will meditate in thy statutes. So here we see the psalmist just delighting in God's word. And there's three ways in which he delighted in it. First of all, just love it. Two times he said, Which I have loved. There are at least ten words for love in Hebrew here. He uses the word here that speaks of great tenderness. I will delight myself. This is a word which means to hold on to, to embrace. That's the idea. He delighted so much in God's word. It was such a delight to him, not a drudgery. When's the last time you said, you know, I want to do something that really delights myself? I'm just going to read the Bible. I'm just going to delight myself in the in the Word of God. I want to read it just out of love for it. Love for what God wrote. I was reading about Elizabeth Barrett Browning. She married a man that her parents disapproved of, a man named Robert, and they disowned her And almost weekly, Elizabeth would write a letter back to her parents expressing her profound love and asking for reconciliation. And after ten years of writing these letters every week, one day she received in the mail a box, and in that box were all these letters that she wrote unopened envelopes. Her parents didn't even open them up to read them. And of course those letters became uh a classic in English literature because they're so beautiful. But those unopened letters demonstrated a lack of love that pierced her heart. And friend, God's written a love letter to all of us, and when we don't open it It expresses a lack of love. And we need to love God by loving his word. So he loved it, but also of reverence. Again, verse 48: My hands will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved And this word is associated with worship and it's an attitude of reverence. It's one of the postures of a worshiper at the temple. We're lifting up the hands, and it speaks of a great reverence. And beloved, we need to have a reverence for God. That's why on Sunday morning when we read it we stand for the reading of God's word. That's not by accident. It's expressing of reverence. There should be a reverence when the Word of God is preached, not because I'm preaching it, because whoever's preaching it, it is the Word of God And we should express a reverence for God's word. But also meditate in it. And verse 48, and I will meditate in thy statutes. Thinking about it all the time. Delighting in God's Word is meditating on it. Thinking about it all the time. You allow God's Word to dominate your mind. That's where the victory comes. When you roll the Word of God over in your mind again and again, the psalmist said in Psalm 1 verse 2, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law will he meditate day and night. It should be the first thing that we think about when we get up. It should be on our mind all day long. It should be the last thing that we think about before we we go to sleep. Dawson Troutman, founder of the Navigators, believed that the last prevailing thought in one's conscious mind before going to sleep should be the Word of God. He called this the HWLW principle. His word, the last word. His word the last word. And his friends and associates that travel with him would say, you know, you know, he would basically You know, when when it was time to go to sleep, lights out, he would just, before that, he would just begin to quote Scripture and speak it out loud. Because he wanted that to be the last thought in his mind. And the theory was that this last the last dominating idea would kind of simmer in your mind. You know, psychologists tell us that the subconscious mind works while we sleep. And he wanted it to be in his mind, the last thing that he thought about. So it's delighting in God's word. So because of the mercies of God, we defend God's word, we depend on it, we demonstrate it, we declare God's word, we delight in it. And that's all because of the mercies of God. And and in Romans twelve verse two. It kind of completes the thought because what does he say? What does Paul say in verse number two? And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the what? Renew of your mind. That's all part of offering yourself as a living sacrifice. That's all part of your response to the mercies of God. We want to have our mind constantly renewed. And we need that because we're constantly be b being bombarded with all the ideas of the world, with all the thinking of this ungodly world. So we constantly need to renew our mind. And this is what the psalmist is doing here. Someone said the only way to keep a broken vessel full is by keeping the fossa turned on. And so we need to keep God's word flowing through us. To keep it in us constantly. That's the best way to respond to the mercies of God and salvation is being constantly sanctified by God's word. Let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. Ask yourself, how am I responding to the mercies of God in my life? Am I presenting myself as a living sacrifice? Am I being renewed in my mind? Am I allowing God's word to be the dominant influence in my life? Am I depending on it? Am I defending it? Do I demonstrate God's Word in my life? Do I declare it when I'm given the opportunity? Do I delight in it? May God give us the heart of this psalmist here to respond rightly to the mercies of God. Father, bless your word to our heart. Thank you, Lord, for this precious stanza. Lord, help us to apply it to our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.