Now open to Hebrews chapter two, and of course that was a passage that we read uh for our scripture reading this morning. And as you know on Sunday morning I've been doing a series why Christ came, and we've gone to several places. In the New Testament, they kind of spell out the reason for the incarnation. Of course, the word incarnation from the Latin really means just in the flesh. God became a man The greatest miracle I think that has ever this world has ever seen is when God became a man, the mystery of the incarnation. Now there are many reasons that the New Testament gives for the coming of Christ. I I've kind of counted out thirty-five reasons and uh like I said last week we won't go over all of 'em. You know, this the last Sunday I'm gonna do it. We're gonna try to mop up and get all the rest This is Christmas according to the writer in the book of Hebrews. I think it was Spurgeon that said the Christian faith has three great pillars. It is the incarnation, the crucifixion, and the resurrection. The manger, the cross, and the empty grave should all draw us in to wonder, love, and praise to who our Lord Jesus is. Now here in uh Hebrews chapter two, let me give you a little The writer of Hebrews starts out in chapter one talking about the superiority of Christ. He was seeking to persuade uh Hebrews to come to know Jesus. Someone said the writer of Hebrews was writing two Hebrews to tell Hebrews to stop acting like Hebrews. He was trying to tell them to come to Jesus, and some of them were kind of on the fence They were considering the claims of Christ. But many of them were looking back into the Old Testament, to the Old Covenant under mediated by Moses. And the writer of Hebrews was pointing to something better. And he was basically saying Jesus is so much better. In fact, better is a key word that you find throughout this whole letter. Christ offers better things. It says in chapter 6, verse 9. In chapter 7, verse 7, Christ offers a better priesthood than is offered in the Old Testament. In chapter 7, verse 19, Christ gives a better hope He offers a better covenant. And this covenant is established upon better promises, chapter 8, verse 6. Chapter 9, verse 23, Christ is a better sacrifice. And because you're a child of God, in chapter ten, verse thirty-four, we have a better possession. What is that, heaven? With better substance. In chapter eleven, verse sixteen, we look for a better country called heaven. And so the writer is constantly pointing to Jesus and the things of Christ and saying, it is so much better. And let me just say right here that I know the world around this time is looking at all the things, the material things of the world and gifts. And there's nothing wrong with gifts are wonderful, but friend, I want to tell you That Christ is better than anything you can get as far as material things in this world. Christ is so much better. And so that's what the writer is saying. Now, the Hebrews Now I think he's kind of putting them himself in the mind of the Hebrews. Perhaps he was a Jew, and I think he was who got saved. And he knows how the Jewish mind thinks. And then we're thinking, well, you know, we have The prophets and they would love to glory and boast about the prophets, but the writer was basically saying Jesus is better than the prophets, and why is that? Well in chapter one he goes on to show that while prophets had a piece of the truth, Christ was the full truth. He was the embodiment of truth. And then in the Jewish mind there were thinking, well we have angels in our old covenant uh under Moses. We glory in angels and the writer of Hebrews is saying we know Christ is better than the angels Why is that? Well because the angels are only God's servants, but Christ is God's Son. In fact, look at chapter one verse five, kind of setting the context. For under which of The angel said he at any time thou art my son. God never said that to any angel. You are my son. But he said that to Christ. Look at chapter one one verse thirteen. But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. And again the writer says, did he ever say that to an angel? You sit and the ex Exalted place on my right hand. Never said that to any angel, but he said it to his son, Jesus. So Jesus is so much better than the angels. And then the argument kind of goes like this This again he's inside the mind of a thinker and they're probably thinking, Well, if Christ became a man in God's economy there's God, there's angels and then there's man, he became lower than angel Angels when he became a man. So in that sense, does that make the angels better than Christ there? Because Christ was made lower than the angels when he became a man. Does that make angels better then Good answer good answer to that question? No. Why? Because of the reasons why God became a man. And the reasons show That the the uh why Christ became a man, those reasons reveal that even though he became lower than angels, he's still so much better than angels. And so with that in mind, this is the argument of the writer. Let me just show you five reasons why Christ came into this world. Five reasons why God became a man. Look at the first one. It's in chapter two. Look in verse number seven. Thou madeest them a little lower than the angels. In fact, why don't you back up to verse six But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? Thou madeest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownest him with glory and honor, and did it set him Here's the first reason the writer gives why God became a man, and that's to regain man's lost dominion. To regain man's lost dominion. Jesus came to earth And that's exactly what he's saying here in verses 6 to 8. And he really he quotes from Psalm 8 here And if you read Psalm very closely, you're going to find that it exalts man because God gave man dominion. When God put Adam and Eve in the garden, God made man as it were kind of a king King over creation. He was God's co-regent. He was to mediate the reign of God on earth. You know, around this time of year we we sing about three kings, we three kings. You know, the Bible speaks About three kings, but they're not the ones that we sing about. There are three kings that the Bible mentions. First of all, there's King Adam. And again, God made Adam a king. He was created lower than angels, but he was given privileges that were higher than the angels. Because God gave Adam dominion over all of his creation. Did you know when God originally created And that's hard for us to imagine here in this age, in this world, what the world was like before The fall and the kind of dominion that Adam had over all of God's creation. It's hard for us to conceive, but we know that the Bible says that God had given man at that time total Dominion. In verse 7, it uses the word crown. Thou crownest him with glory and honor. This is the idea of authority. And notice It's the extension of his dominion in verse 8. It says, all things. He put all things in subjection under him. Think about that. As a king, he had total dominion Over all things, animals and ecology and the climate, all things were in subjection to men. And the earth was a perfect place, and man was a king But there was a problem. If you look at the end of verse eight, you notice where where he says, but now we see not yet all things put under him. Well that's not the way it is today, is it? Man's not Reigning over all things today. In fact, we live in a rebellious earth. Man is not in dominion. Well, what happened was Satan entered into the pitcher. God intended, and this is really the second king, King Satan, Satan came and he stole away man's dominion because when he tempted Adam in the garden And Adam's sin. Sin brought a curse. Adam's disobedience brought sorrow and death. And all of creation went into rebellion against man. Man lost his crown. Whereas before Where whereas before the earth would freely give all of its uh all of its resources to man for him to live, now the earth has to be sub Dude, now the earth gives grudgingly, and man by the sweat of his brow has to pull resources from the earth. And now he lives in a cursed world And there's toilsome effort. There's there's all kinds of difficulty and sorrow. Man doesn't rule the world now, it rules him. And it takes everything that man has to bring this world into subjection and to subdue the curse of the earth because we're subject to destructive powers all around. It takes everything man has to subdue this curse because that dominion was lost. We have hurricanes and tornadoes and tidal waves and floods and earthquakes and Extremes of heat and cold and poisonous plants and reptiles and all these things, the animals that were before in submission to us, they're not in submission to us anymore. I tell her to do. We live in a rebellious world. Man is dying, and the earth with him. And in the end, he's conquered by death. And it's a terrible story. The Bible says in Romans 8 22, for we know the whole earth groans, the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain until now One commentator wrote it like this. Man is in subjection to the earth. He builds, but he's not sure who will reap. He builds cities and houses and dams and monuments. But they all are subject to destruction by lightning or earthquake or flood or fire or erosion or simple aging. Man lives in jeopardy every hour. And that's so Very true. Why? Because this earth is under the dominion, the control we could say, of Satan. He stole the crown. The Bible says in 1 John 5, 19, but the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. You say, what's the solution to all this? Well, this is why we celebrate Christmas, because The solution is Jesus. Jesus came to this earth. This is the third King, King Jesus. And when he came, he came to restore all of the dominion that man lost, all of that glory that man lost. Jesus Came to restore all of it. And he came to bring us back to glory. He came to give us back that dominion. It says in verse number 10 that he might bring many sons unto us Unto glory. You see, through Jesus Christ, we're restored when we believe on him. And everything that the first Adam lost, the last Adam Christ is going to You see, we're redeemed now, but the the ultimate full measure of that salvation that we have is not fully realized just yet. It's gonna happen, guess what? Jesus is coming again. And when he comes again, we're going to be glorified. We're going to get a brand new body. And by the way, the earth will also be glorified with us. That's why the earth groans with us. Because when we when when we fell, the earth fell, and the earth received the curse, and the earth has been groaning in rebellion. But when Jesus Christ comes back, not only will he completely Our salvation, and we will be glorified, but all of creation will also get a brand new body. He's going to redo all of it and everything that the first Adam lost The last Adam, our Lord Jesus Christ, he's going to bring it back. He's going to give it all back. The curse is removed. When we receive Jesus as our Savior, one of the carols we sing at this This time, second Adam from above, reinstate us with thy love. That's exactly right. That's why he comes. Did you know that one day in heaven, if you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus, you're gonna reign in glory as a king King, we're queen as a child of God? We get to heaven, we're not going to be floating around on clouds all for eternity. We're going to be serving in his new kingdom We're going to reign as kings. Listen to this. In Revelation 5 9, and they sang a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seal thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of the With every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Then here's the next verse. And has made us unto our God kings. He made us kings. And we shall reign on We got a lot of things in store for us because of the Lord Jesus Christ. During the millennial reign of Christ, the pre-fall conditions of the earth will return. The curse will be removed. Jesus came to regain men's loss Let's go to number two. He came to regain that lost dominion, but number two, he came to die for every man. Look at verse 9. But we see Jesus who was made a little lower than the angels for the Suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. So why Christmas? Why was Christ born? For the suffering of death Death to taste death for every man. In Christmas we celebrate the birth of Christ. But friend, don't get so focused on the birth of Jesus that you forget the reason. Thank God for his birth. Thank God for his incarnation. But beloved, he came to die. He came in humility to die on the cross. For our sins. He came as our substitute to die for our sins. Notice where it says that he will he will taste death for every man Look at the word in verse ten where it says Captain for it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons on the earth That word captain means pioneer or leader. It has the idea of someone who does something that others enter into the benefits of what they've done. They pioneer something, they build something. It's used of a man who founds a city And others are born into it. It's used of a man who um has a family and others benefit from this man who has this family. It's used of a pioneer who trays a bl uh uh blazed a training I should say, and others follow in that trail, and they receive the benefits of what he has done. That's the idea. And the idea is that Christ blazed a trail To heaven for us. And we enter into it. He came to die for us so that we would have eternal life in heaven. He tasted death for us So the sting of death has been removed. And he had to die because of the curse of sin. And you've heard me say this a lot, but sin brings death, right? The cause of sin of death is sin, right? And the cure for death is salvation through Christ. God who is holy must judge sin. Brings death. Someone had to die. And God, who's a God of love, didn't want you to perish. So he sent his son Jesus as a substitute to die for our sin. But here's the third thing. He came to regain man's lost dominion. He came to die for every man. But here's the next one to be our elder brother. Look at verse number. Number ten. For it became him for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. Look at verse eleven. For both he that sanctified And they who are sanctified are all one, for which cause he's not ashamed to call them brethren. Did you know that when we're saved, we're adopted into the family of God? And we become one with Christ. Think about that. Look again verse eleven. He who sancti he that sanctifies, or we could say the one who saves, and they who are sanctified, or that is the ones who are saved Are all one. There's a oneness that you have with the Lord Jesus Christ. There's an incredible identification that you have with Jesus. Once you get saved, you're one One with him. And again, this is one of those truths in the Bible that for me it's hard to even comprehend. That's why theologians call this the mystical union of the believer, mystical in the sense that not not that it's A m mystery, but it's mystical in the sense that it's it's beyond our comprehension, it's beyond our reason to grasp, that we're so one with Christ that in the mind of God you went Jesus Died, I died with him on the cross. When he was buried, I was buried with him. When he rose, I rose with him. And now that he's in heaven, I'm already seated there in heaven. Well, he says, Hope you're going to heaven. I said, Well, it's up to you because I'm already there. I'm already seated with them. He said, Now wait a minute, you're here. I know. I'm here. But the Bible says I'm seated with Christ in heavenly places because we're so one that wherever Jesus is, I am, wherever I am, He is. And this is the argument the Apostle Paul uses in Romans six to tell believers that you shouldn't continue in sin. Why? Because you're so one with Christ that wherever you go and whatever you do, you bring Jesus with you. How shall we continue in sin? Understanding, don't you know that you're identified with Jesus? Don't you understand that you're so one with him? And what a blessing to know that. And you know what? Here's something. He's not ashamed to call us brethren. That's what it says there. In verse 11, for he is not ashamed to call the brethren them brethren. That's incredible. You ever have a brother that you were embarrassed to say, that's my brother. Jesus is not ashamed. I I you know, there may be some Christians that are ashamed to be identified with Christ. There may be some Christians that don't say grace in public restaurants. They won't witness to their neighbor Or their friends, they won't let their co-workers know that they're Christians because they don't want to bear the reproach of being identified with Christ. And I want to just say that's It's a shame for any Christian who names the name of Christ to be unwilling to be identified with Christ. There may be a Christian like that, but I want to tell you something, Jesus isn't ashamed to call it And what does he do as our brother? Well, Jesus proclaims God's name to us. Look at verse 2. Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. This is Jesus talking in verse 12. I will declare thy name, the name of the Father, unto my brethren. That's what Jesus does. You know what he does to us? He's constantly telling us about the Father. He's constantly declaring God's name. I remember years ago when my Children were small. We would have family devotions and one night I had family devotions and we put the boys in bed and uh a little bit later here come Jeremiah and Josiah up. I think uh just Josiah was probably about six years old at the time. And uh he he was he was kind of moved. You can tell he had some tears in his eyes, and Jeremiah said, Dad, you need to talk to Josiah about how to get saved. I said, really? He said, yeah. And what I didn't know is that after family devotions, they would go down to their room and Jeremiah would begin to expound the scripture to his little brother. Begin to tell him about eternity and hell and eternal punishment. And all those things, and then tell him about Jesus and all of that. And so he brought his little brother to me, saying, Dad, you need to you know tie the knot here. I already did the work of evangelism. You know, just pray with him That's that sort of thing. Well, of course it's a blessing to know that, right? We want our children to know Jesus. But I think about that when I read this verse where Jesus says, I'm gonna declare Thy name to my brethren. He was just telling his brother about the Lord. That's what Jesus does for us. He tells us, he teaches us. I want you to know that we can't learn anything unless Jesus Teaches us. The Bible says, and they shall all be taught of him. And did you note also Jesus sings in the church? Sometimes I look around on Sunday morning and some people aren't singing. But I want to remind you, friend, that Jesus is here and he's singing. You say, how do you know that? Look in verse number twelve where it says Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. It's a great, great verse there And this really is a quotation from Psalm twenty-two, and it pictures Jesus in his post-resurrection joy with his brothers, and notice what they're doing. They're singing together. We're here in church and we're singing praise unto Christ, that his presence is here, and he joins with us in singing praise. In the midst of the church. I know on the Last Supper, Jesus with his disciples, the Bible says they sang a hymn before they went out on the Mount of Olives. And so this is a beautiful passage. He declares the name of God. But I'll tell you something else Jesus does as our brother. He shows us how to trust God. During times of trial. Look in verse 13. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children which God has given me. In other words, here is Jesus, and he He's teaching us how to trust the Father in times of trial. That's a lesson we all need to learn. He's an example in trusting God the Father. And again The writer of Hebrews is he he quotes from so many passages in the Old Testament. You can just really go along in this whole book and just see where he quotes from one verse after another. Together like pearls. And here he's quoting from Isaiah 8, 17, and 18. And it's really a passage about the Messiah who will learn to live by faith and lead his brothers to do the same. When Jesus came to this world, he was God and man, but in his humanity, he learned faith and dependence on the Father as a man. He learned that That's why Jesus prayed. He spent hours in prayer, learning things, the Bible says. He the Bible says he learned obedience by the things which Which he suffered. And he did all those things perfectly, and now he teaches us how to trust the Father in difficult times and trials. It's good to have an older brother to look to To show you how to do things. And that's what Jesus is for us. And he's there to help us in the most difficult, trying times of life. He's there to help us. I remember when I was growing up, I was first saved, a new believer. I read the verse, Proverbs 17:17: A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. Now I had three brothers I grew up with. I love all of them. There was one brother in particular that was a bit difficult to live with. His name was Jeff. Some of you know Jeff. Jeff. I'll go ahead and give his name. He doesn't give me anything for Christmas anyway. No, I'm teasing. You know, I when we were little growing up, he was boy, he was a handful. I remember that he would do all these practical jokes all the time and and uh you know and I I just would read this verse in Proverbs, a brother's born for adversity and I go, That's right. Brothers, it causes me a lot of adversity God why'd you do that? Why'd you give me a brother to bring adversity? And then later on as I grew older you know when I went through difficult trials, guess who was right there? Jeff, first one to my side, first one to help me, would give him to the sheriff's back. And then I reread that verse, a friend loveth at all times But if you're really going through a tough time, a brother is born to help you through adversity. That's why God gives you brothers, not to cause you adversity, but to help you through adversity. Friend, that's what Jesus is to us. He's our older brother who helps us through adversity. Let me give you the third reason why Christ became a man. Not only to regain man's lost dominion, to die for every man, to be our elder. brother, but here's number four to defeat the devil. Look at verse fourteen. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also uh partakers of Of flesh and blood. That is, the devil. And you see the moment Adam sinned in the garden, man became Satan's prisoner. And Satan was able to chain man. You say what's the chains that he used? What's the chain that keeps the chains that keeps man in slavery even to this day Day, and the Bible tells us in verse 15 it's the fear of death. You know, that's the chain that Satan uses to keep mankind today in his bondage, the fear of death. That's how he keeps those people enslaved. But you know what You can overcome someone. If they have a weapon, you overcome them by giving them a greater a giving yours or getting a greater weapon for yourself. And we have a greater weapon now against Satan's weapon. Life, eternal life. Now that you're saved, you don't have to be afraid of death. That's what the Bible says here. He Delivered us from Satan's chain, which is the fear of death. And how did Christ do that? Very simply, he conquered death. He came and he died and he resurrected us From the dead, and he overcame sin, hell, and the grave. And now we as his children, we enter into that victory. And now therefore, Satan, he no longer can keep us in bondage with the fear of God. Death. Friend, as a believer, we we don't we're not afraid to die. We know what happens when we die. We go to heaven. Now we might have a little anxiety about how all that takes place. You know, about ha I might get anxious about the chilly waters of Jordan, but I'm not anxious about what's about on the other side. I know what's on the other side, I know it's heaven, I know it's beautiful beyond words. We're not afraid of death because of that. And notice where it says in verse fourteen, Satan was rendered ineffective. Where it says that he might destroy him that had the power And the word destroy doesn't mean to annihilate. Satan's still around. It just means to render him ineffective. He's just not effective. You know, Satan's only effective if you let him be effective in your life. life. He's like a snake that has been defanged. He can rattle, but he can't bite you. Now if you want to be afraid of his rattle, go ahead But a rattle never killed anybody. We don't have to be afraid of him. He's been rendered ineffective. And so we no longer face that fear because Jesus took that fear away. Let me Give you the last one quickly. Why did Jesus become a man to regain man's lost dominion, to die for every man, to be our elder brother, to defeat the devil? But here's the last one, to be a sympathetic high priest. Look at verse 16. For verily he He took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him of the seed of Abraham. Verse 17 Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be Be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God to make rec to make reconciliation for the sins. That is, he was of the seed of Abraham. That is, he was a Jew. He didn't come as an angel. God God didn't give him a body of an angel, he gave him the body of a man, uh of the seed of Abraham, so that he could experience in the body some of the things that we have to experience Experience, some of the difficulties that we experience in this body, some of the weaknesses and limitations. Christ wore all that. That he he understands all that. He slept, he grew, he loved, he was astonished, he marveled, he was glad, he got angry at sin He exercised faith, he read scripture, he prayed all night, he grieved, he wept. All of these things. And he understands the trials and Even the temptations that we face. The Bible says that he was tempted in all points, like us, yet without sin. What does it mean when it's It means that he was tempted in the full measure. I don't think any of us have probably been tempted that way. Maybe some. What does it mean when It says the full measure. Let's give you an illustration. Let's just say that I had some weights up here. And uh, you know, I had a weightlifter. And let's just say there was something on the weight that I could manage, you know, uh like five hundred pounds. No, I'm just kidding. Uh just teasing. Let's just weightlifter. He's got five hundred pounds and he takes it and he he jerks it up here and he struggles and then he puts it down. Well he bore that weight but he didn't bear the full measure of it. You know why Because he failed. Halfway through it, he he dropped the load. He dropped the weight. But let's just say here's another weightlifter. He's much stronger. He takes that weight He picks it up and he presses it all the way up and he stays under it and he successfully cleans and jerks this whole weight. He is now bearing the full measure of That. You see, that's what happened with Christ. Christ never failed. Bearing those loads, he experienced the full measure of it. A lot of times we don't bear the full measure because we fail. But Christ, he bore the full measure Full measure of all of the sorrows, all of the trials, all the weaknesses that we experience here. And so therefore, dear friend, when you go through something, you can rest assured one thing Jesus knows how you're feeling. He knows fully. He became a man so that he could relate to us in that manner. So that he listen, when you get on your knees and you pray, You can rest assured that Jesus knows what you're going through. I might not know. Others might not know. But friend, Jesus knows. And you know what? He's your sympathetic high priest. And you know what the Bible says? He will, verse 18 uses the word uh succor, which means to run to the aid of. He'll run to the side. When you need his help, guess what? He will run to you to help you That's why he became a man. He'll sympathize with you and friend, when you get on your knees and you call upon him, he will run to your aid. People here today, and you may be experiencing a loneliness this season that you've never experienced before. It might be perhaps because you lost a loved one, and maybe the Christmas season this year isn't as bright And as cheerful as it has been in seasons past. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, you have a Savior. And He knows how you feel. And He will run to your aid. And you know what he's able to do? He's able to fill that loneliness in his heart, in your heart, with his own dear presence. You ever notice that when you get a sense through the Holy Spirit of the presence of Christ, there's like nothing else like it And you want to bask in that, friend, that's what Jesus is for us. He will run to your aid. He will be your help. He is a sympathetic high priest. And friend, those are just some of the reasons why Christ became a man. Aren't you glad Jesus came? He came for us. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord we are again just in lost In wonder and love and worship of you for coming to this earth for us to restore our lost dominion To give us back the glory that was stolen, that was taken, to die for us, to be our substitute, to take the curse that was Placed on us to bear that curse yourself, to be made sin, to bear our sins and die, to be one with us, so much so, Lord, that you're not ashamed to call us Your brethren to defeat Satan on our behalf. And Lord, so that you can be our sympathetic high priest And you'll run to our aid whenever we need you. Lord, these are blessings beyond our comprehension. And yet, Lord, we thank you with all our heart. And we glory in this. And we we pray Praise you for this. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here today that just needs you in a very special way, they need a savior to save them, or they need a brother that will help them. Through the difficulties and adversities. They need a sympathizer, someone that will be there for them. Or whatever that need is, I pray that you will bless them today. And give them what they need. And how many with heads bowed and eyes closed with a hand lifted up will say, I I am reaching out to Christ today for one of these things. I need him in a special way in my life today. And I'm calling upon Would you just lift your hand and say, That's me? That's me. I need a sympathizer. I need a brother. Maybe you're here today, you say, I need a savior. And friend, if you need to trust Christ, would you just pray in your heart? Just reach out in faith and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Make me your child. Forgive me for my sin. How many say that's my prayer today? Can I pray for you, anyone here? Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Thank you again for what you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' precious, wonderful name. Amen.