Well thank you all for being here. It's messy weather out there. It really is. But it's good to see God's people being faithful. And also I heard there's a big game on tonight. But we're not going to tell Talk too much about that. Except let me just kind of introduce the sermon by saying, you know, uh there'll be a winner of the game and then there'll be all the praise and all the honor to the most valuable player. And uh you know they'll talk about it for you know one day and uh especially if the they'll probably talk about little bit more if uh the the Patriots win and Tom Brady, all the glory that's gonna come with that. But let me remind you that that's a very short lived glory. It's very fleeting. And it's very f And what I want to talk about tonight is something so much more important. You know why? Because I want to talk about the glorification of the believer that will never fade away. That's an eternal glory. Remember I've told you before that there's something in the heart of man that kind of wants some kind of recognition, that wants some kind of glory. And the good news is for the people of God is there is a glory and a glorification That awaits all the children of God who know the Lord Jesus Christ. That's so much greater than any other earthly glory that man could ever bestow. about tonight something that's so far greater so far m uh and more important and so turn to first corinthians chapter 15 we're going to end up uh uh the our study in chapter 15 There's so much more that could be said in here. This really is a summary view of it. You could spend uh weeks and weeks and weeks uh just going through these verses. Uh this is one of the greatest chapters in the Bible. And I I've told you before that this is kind of like a systematic theology of the resurrection. This is Paul just using reason and logic and arguments and scripture and Talking about uh the the beauty of the resurrection and how this is so important for us as Christians to understand and know this important truth. And so he's dealing with This in this whole entire chapter, there are fifty-eight verses in this chapter, and so it's very exhaustive in the way that the Apostle Paul deals with it. And let me just start off tonight by just giving a quick review of what we've already Now remember part of the problem that Paul is dealing with here is that there were some in the church at Corinth that were denying any future resurrection. And why were they doing that? kind of getting into people's minds and even some of the people that went to the church at Corinth began to believe some of these ideas uh that were taught by Greek philosophers. Greeks looked upon the human body as a source of weakness and wickedness. They couldn't conceive of a person that had a body that would continue to exist after death, that you would get your body back and that you would live uh somehow in the afterlife with the body being resurrected. This was something that was foreign from their mind. In fact when Paul at Morris Hill spoke about the resurrection, there were some who And so Paul comes to the church by way of this letter, and he wants to remind them how important this whole doctrine is. This is so foundational to our faith. And so he what he does here in this chapter, as we've already seen, is he piles on one argument after another. He's he kind of argues like a lawyer giving a compelling case about why the resurrection is so important and why it is absolutely true. And he gives different types of argument. First of all he he gave us the historical And basically what he said is that the whole gospel that you have learned that you believed in is based on historical facts about Christ's death, his burial, and his resurrection Resurrection. The whole gospel is based on the truth of a bodily resurrection. And verse one, look again what he says. When he says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel Which I preached unto you, which you have received and wherein you stand. You stand in the gospel which is based upon the resurrection of Christ. He talks about how the Christ died And was raised again according to the scriptures, verse number four. This was something that was prophesied in the Old Testament. And then he also speaks about the many witnesses to the resurrection of Christ in the Old Testament. Testament, you only need two or three witnesses to establish a fact. How many witnesses were there to the resurrection? Well, there was Peter in verse five. There was the twelve with Thomas absent verse Then five hundred at once, then to James, then to the apostles with Thomas present, and then finally to Paul himself. That's more than enough eyewitness account. More than enough Evidence about Christ's resurrection. And then he gives not only historical argument but then theological arguments from verses twelve to nineteen, and then we already saw that. Christ be preached that he rose from the dead. How say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? And if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not And so Paul then gives us what I called last week the big if if Christ didn't uh if there's no re Resurrection, then Christ didn't come out of that grave. And if Christ didn't come out of that grave, there are monstrous consequences and things that Paul was saying to the Corinthians, you have not thought through. If Christ did not come out of that grave, if there is no resurrection. And so he compiles all of these arguments. But look at verse twenty. But now is Christ risen from the dead. And remember, this is what I call the doctrine Doxological argument. He just breaks forth in a doxology and he begins to praise God that Christ did come out of that grave, just like the first Adam brought death, the second Adam or the last And then Paul talks about the illustration of the Jewish harvest in three stages. There's the first fruits, there's the main harvest Harvest, and then there's the gleanings. The first fruits was Christ. The main harvest is going to be when Christ returns again, and there's going to be a great resurrection day for all those who know the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. And the whole point that Paul's making there is that Christ's resurrection and our future resurrection is something that is inseparably linked. You can't pull those apart. They're together. The fact that Christ rose means that we also will have a resurrection day. And then we saw that Paul gives really a practical argument in verse 29 to verse 34. And the whole point that Paul makes here is that the truth of the resurrection is a great incentive for godly living. That's why some people were getting saved. They saw Christians die victoriously And they were baptized because of those believers who suffered and died triumphantly. They saw their life. It's also look at what look what Paul said In verse 33, be not deceived. Evil communications corrupt good manners. And we could say it like this bad theology leads to bad behavior. If you don't believe in the resurrection, that's going to affect Affect your sanctification, it's going to affect your behavior because uh Paul says, Why not eat, drink, and be merry? Because we're going to die tomorrow if there's no resurrection. Go out Now that's kind of a just a little review of what we talked about talked about. But now as we come to verse thirty-five, Paul is going to deal with another issue. Now he's going to deal with the issue of how this is going to happen. He's proven in this first part That there is going to be a resurrection. Christ rose, and we also will have a resurrection day. So I can just imagine the Corinthians saying something like this: okay Let's just say there is going to be a physical bodily resurrection. Let's concede that point. How is God going to do it? How is this going to happen? Look at verse 30 thirty five. But some men will say how are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? And this is the key question here. And Paul's going to spend the rest of the chapter answering that one key question right there because the people in the church at Corinth were wondering how is this going to happen? How's the res how's this all going to take place. They could not imagine the power uh to resurrect humanity. Uh how's God gonna do this? And by the way It's not just people in that day in the church of Corinth that have questions about the resurrection. People still have questions about it today. For example, uh some people will ask, what about a b Body that's been in the ground and that is turned to dirt. How's God going to resurrect that person? What about somebody whose body was cremated? How's God gonna resurrect that That person. What about if their body was dumped into the sea and the fish came and ate that body? How's that body going to be resurrected? What if they were dissolved in acid? Someone died and they donated their organs to science or to someone else. And the illustration I like to give about this is the story of Roger Williams. You probably heard me give this before Uh Roger Williams was the founder of Rhode Island. He was a Baptist preacher. He wasn't liked very much when he died, like some Baptist preachers. But and so when he when he died The he was buried outside of the city of Providence, and uh later on, years later, people would come and want to visit the grave of Roger Williams. Well, the uh Elders of the town decided to dig him up and move his body inside the city limits to get all that business and trade from all these visitors. And so when they dug the up the grave of Roger Williams They found out that he had been buried in a wooden box and there was a uh a apple tree close by and spreading its roots, seeking nourishment, the roots of the That tree broke into the wooden coffin of Roger Williams and used his decaying body as a nutrient to make apples. And then people would come along and eat apples off that tree you ever hear the song I Wish I Were Apple Just Hanging on a Tree? That literally happened to Roger Williams. And so the question is then how Well, is he going to be resurrected? Who's going to claim the various elements? And so there were questions like this circulating. And so Paul wants to clarify He wants to answer this. He wants people to understand resurrection truth. And so what Paul does, being a master teacher, what he's going to do here is he's going to give several illustrations. To help us understand resurrection truth. How is God going to do all of this? Well, so what I want you to notice then, what I see here are five, really just five key illustrations That Paul gives us to help us understand resurrection truth. And the first thing he's going to give us is an agricultural illustration, and he's going to talk about seeds. Look again in verse uh 35. But some men will say, How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? Verse 36, Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. When Paul says you fool, that was kind of a a a derisive term. I think Paul was using that to humble some of the uh Corinthians that had embraced some of this pagan philosophy And Paul says, You fool, don't you understand that a seed And what basically what he's saying is if you've ever planted a seed into the ground You have seen the power of the resurrection there. It's seen in a seed. Look at verse 37. And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not Not that body that shall be, but bear grain, it may chance of wheat or some other grain, but God giveth it a body as it pleased him to every seed his own And so Paul was saying that when you think about the resurrection, don't think in terms of reconstruction or remodeling When God gives you a brand new, glorified body, He's not going to take your old body and remodel it and reconstruct it. He's not a uh heavenly plastic surgeon he's the great creator and so what he's going to do is he's going to give you a brand new body not the old one it's not going to be the same body uh There'll be a continuation. We'll continue to be the person that we are, but we're going to be that person with a brand new body, is what the Paul is saying here. And he's saying basically anything Farmer that has planted a seed into the ground has seen the resurrection. It's all around us. The truth of the resurrection is all around us. Jesus said this. Jesus said, Accept a corner wheat Fall into the ground and die, it abides alone. So what happens? The seed is put into the ground, that seed, the outer shell of that seed, decays, it splits open And dies, we could say, and out of that sea comes life more glorious, more magnificent. Uh what happens is the sea doesn't really die, it's really just Just the outer shell. Because in that seed there's a germ of life. There is what we could could call a continuing life principle that is in that seed. And when the seed die Dies it releases that life principle. There's a little genetic blueprint that God put in there in that seed, and what God does is he organizes matter around that little blueprint. And there's more More life there, there's it's it's more glorious than it was before. And whatever fruit, whatever blueprint that God put inside that seed, it's released, and there's And so Paul is basically saying this is what's going to happen to us at the resurrection. Did you know that in inside of you, every believer, there's a continuing life principle? It's inside of every believer. Jesus said, Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. So if and when I die, it's It's not me, it's just my outer shell that dies. Not me. Someone said there was a man named Mr. Pease, he died, and somebody wrote on his tombstone this There's a sense in which that's true. When we are resurrected, it will not be this body this hide this hair this skin and bones we will receive a brand new glorified body organized around this this DNA code this genetic code that God has put in every one of us, that new glorified body will be organized and re and created around that that Did you know scientists tell us that every seven years we get a brand new body anyway? Years, biologists tell us that we have a brand new body. It's not the body that we had seven years ago. How many can say amen to that? I'm not the same person. I don't have the same body I had seven years ago But but write down Psalm one thirty nine verse sixteen. It speaks, I think, a little bit about this. It says In your body all my members were written Uh I think there's an implication there of God putting that blueprint in us. All of our members were written, and so the body will die and release my blueprint Of my resurrected body, and God will give me that body. But notice again in verse 38: But God giveth it a body as it has pleased him to every seed his own body. And so it will be for us. God will give us another body. When you put a seed into the ground, you don't get the same seed back You get something different, something better, something more beautiful. So that so Paul uses an agricultural illustration and he talks about seeds. Secondly, he uses a biological Illustration and he talks about flesh or skin, we could say. Look at verse number 39. All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is One kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another flesh of fishes, another of birds. Celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. Now, again, part of the problem that the Greeks had, and probably some of the Corinthians had, and even some of the Jews had was that when they thought about the resurrection, they thought they were going to get this same body back somehow. In fact, I I think this is because some of the rabbis misinterpreted passages And they concluded from that that um will So there was one rabbi that said this the earth shall then at the resurrection assuredly restore the dead And so because of teaching like that, people couldn't fathom in their mind Getting back the same body that they already had. I gotta tell you, that's not an appealing thought to me either. Doesn't appeal to me to think that I'm gonna have this same body throughout eternity. I don't want the same body I want a brand new body. And so there was this misunderstanding. So again, Paul again is going to clarify. He explains here that the resurrection body, again, is not going to be be the same body but it'll be a body that will be designed to live in a new place it'll be a celestial body not a terrestrial body In verse 40, there are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial. What does celestial mean? That's a heavenly body, or we could say a body designed to live in heaven. What we are living in And now is a what the Bible calls a terrestrial body, or we could say an earthly body, a body that is designed to live here on earth. In this environment. This is Paul's whole point. There are different bodies that God has created to live in different environments. All flesh is not the same flesh. There's one kind of flesh of men, another of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. See, when God created a bird, he Gave that bird a body and flesh that was suitable to live and fly in the trees. It could fly in the sky, live in the trees. And so the body and the flesh Of a bird is not the same as that of a fish. A fish has a totally different skin, totally different body. That was designed by God to live under the water And so again the whole point is there are different bodies that God has given in creation, designed to live in different environments. One day when we get this brand new glorified body, it'll be a body that is different, designed to live in the environment that we're going to have one day when we're there in heaven. I want to know a little bit more about that. Well just look at Jesus in the scripture. When Jesus came out of that grave, he had a glorified body. Look at all the things he could do. Uh he could travel uh uh very Very quickly. He could appear and disappear, he could walk through walls, he could ascend to heaven and descend down to earth. Uh he could he could eat and and you know, they could recognize says it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that we're going to be like him. We can't answer all of your questions, but one thing is is for sure, we're going to be like the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what he's saying here. And there's going to be a greater glory in verse number 40. He says, the glory of the celestial is one, the glory of the terrestrial is another. If you think this terrestrial body that God has given mankind is a marvel, and indeed it is, when you think about the science of it, and it's beautiful, that's that's There's a certain beauty that our body does have, however, that'll be nothing compared to our glorified body. The glory, the beauty, the marvel of that body is going to be so So there's an agricultural illustration, he talks about seeds. There's a biological illustration, he talks about skin. Then there is a astrological illustration we could say and he talks about stars. Look at verse forty one. There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory Of the stars, for one star differs from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in in corruption. And so Paul says if you want to understand resurrection truth, also just think about the stars. How many of you ever been Camping. My father used to take us camping a lot, and sometimes we would lay out under the stars and look up and see the beauty of the stars at night. Uh I I think I'll I've never seen the stars clearer, more with more beauty than the one time when I was in uh the Grand Canyon. We were kind of rafting through the Grand Canyon there seven days with answers in Genesis and we would Sleep out in that canyon. And I I don't know what it was, but the stars were just so incredibly beautiful and bright. And you can just look up there. It's almost like you could reach out and touch them them. It was so clear. And it was very obvious when we look up into a sky like that, that there are some stars that are much brighter than others, some are somewhat dim, some are So very bright. And that's what Paul's talking about here. If you look up into the sky, you're going to see stars at different levels of brightness, different levels of glory. And then he says that's the way it's going to be in the resurrection. There's going to be different levels of glory. There's one glory of the sun, there's another glory of the moon, another glory of the star Stars for one star differeth from another in glory. And so he's saying that there's gonna be when with our resurrection body a glory that we have, and there's gonna be be some that will shine with a brighter glory than others. You say what determines the level of glory? Now I think what it's going to determine that will be our faithfulness to God here on earth as we serve him. Uh again, I was mentioning how that you know men kind of want this earthly glory, and they'll be talking about a lot this game tomorrow. It means nothing. That glory is so fading. But I want to tell you right now, somewhere in the world tonight, there's a missionary that's been laboring that in obscurity nobody has knows who this missionary is. They're just Faithfully serving the Lord, they're being doing what God told them to do, perhaps in a very difficult area, and they perhaps have sacrificed so much and have gone through so many trials and hardships and And yet they continue to serve the Lord faithfully. You know what's going to happen one day? One day in heaven, that person will be given great glory by God Because of their faithfulness. And it won't be a temporal glory, a fleeting glory of man that means nothing. It will be an eternal glory that that person will have for the rest of their life because they've been so faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ while here on earth. Just write down Daniel twelve three. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever. You want us to have a lot of glory in heaven? Then you turn others to righteousness. You Point others to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible says that you'll shine like the stars forever and ever. And so according to your faithfulness You know what, we've never really seen what God intended man to be We've never really seen that. Um what if what if uh you've never seen a train before? And I said to you, I want to show you a train, so I take you down to the railroad track and just But just suppose there was a train wreck and we get down there and their cars piled up on each other. And I say, well that's a train. There it is right there. And you look and you see a train. However, that's not what a train is supposed to look like That's not what a train was intended to be. And so when we see man today, what we see, although there are vestiges of the image of God in man, what we see is the fallen image of God We've never really seen uh what God intended man to be. And I think that in originally when God created Adam and Eve and put them in the garden, that man was clothed, I think, with With a kind of a uh a celestial glory, but when he sinned, he lost that glory. But one day that glory will be restored. So let me give you the fourth illustration that Paul gives He gives an agricultural illustration, he talks about sea seeds, he gives a biological illustration, he talks about skin, he gives a astrological illustration, he talks about stars. But then he gives us a scriptural illustration, and he talks about sons. Look in verse forty-five. And so it is written The first man, Adam, was made a living soul, and the last Last Adam was made a quickening spirit, how be it that which was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural, and afterwards that which is spiritual Spiritual The first man is of the earth earthy, the second man is the Lord from heaven. And as the earthy, such are they also that are earthy And as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly. Now when Paul says it, so it is written here, he's quoting Scripture. And uh Paul's argument here is that just like we now bear the image of the first Adam, which was from the earth and earthy, even so we're gonna bear with our glorified body, the image of the last Adam, which is Christ. By the way, both of these uh both the first Adam is called a son of God because he was a a product of God Direct creation. So in the Old Testament, Adam is called uh a a son of God. And even so we see the Son of God Jesus in the New Testament. Both were uh called the Adam, the first And Paul's logic is very simple here. He's basically quoting from Genesis, and he's saying that the you know we now bear the image of the first Adam who That's the first body that we receive. We bear that image. And then After that, we will receive a spiritual body because the first Adam is tied to the earth. The last Adam, Christ, is tied to heaven because he's the Lord of heaven Heaven, he came from heaven, and so he will have a heavenly body. Adam was the prototype of our natural body, whereas Christ will be the prototype of our of our spiritual body. And Paul makes an obvious point in verse 46. He says the order, as far as order is concerned, first there's a natural body And then the spiritual body comes along. And that was the way it was with Jesus. When God gave his son a body at the incarnation, it was an earthy body, just like All of us have he was a normal man, he became flesh, but his glorified body became a spiritual body. And so Paul says that's the order that also we are going to Follow. We will have we have now a earthy body because we are a natural descendant of Adam, but one day we will have a heavenly body Just as now we bear the image of the first Adam, one day we're going to bear the image of the last Adam. Look at verse 49. As we have borne the image of the earthy We shall also bear the image of the heavenly. And then look in verse 50. Now, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God Neither does corruption inherit in corruption. So just as we will exchange Adam's natural body for Christ's spiritual body, we will also exchange Adam's image for Christ's image. And why is that true? Because flesh and blood, the corruption of this body, cannot inherit the kingdom of God. That's what Paul says down here. He's dealing with this idea that was in the mind of the Greeks, somehow they believe that they're going to have the same body and they're going to carry that body through eternity and the kingdom of God. And Paul says No, this flesh and blood, this corruption, cannot inherit the kingdom of God. We will follow the same pattern as Christ who had first announced And again, if you want to know what it will be like, look at Christ as He could walk through the And so his point is the resurrection body completes the work of redemption. Now let me give you the last illustration. The last illustration is a martial illustration, we could say, and really he's referring here to the military or soldiers. Look at verse 51. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not also Sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed Changed. For when this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality, so when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on Mortality Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And I think this imagery that Paul's using here is kind of from the military world. And the idea is of the trumpet, the military trumpet sounding, and then a change of uniforms. And it's almost like this when the trumpet sounds, we're gonna put off this old uniform, which is uh a uniform of corruption, and we're gonna And sometimes the trumpet sound was give And they would hear the trumpet sound and immediately the men would begin to put their armor on. out to battle. But one day we're gonna hear a sound of a trumpet when Christ comes at the rapture. But we won't be putting on our military uniform. We're gonna be putting On the robes of victory. We're going to be putting on incorruption. This corruptible, Paul said, must put on incorruption. This mortal must put on Immortality. So one day when the Lord Jesus Christ comes and there's a trumpet sound, we all are going to change uniforms. You know, right now we're kind of wearing our battle fatigues right now We got our battle uniform on right now because we're in this battle. But when Christ comes, the trumpet sounds. We're gonna be changing we're gonna change. We're gonna wear That uniform of victory, that beautiful, glorified body when the Lord comes. And Paul says, you know, we're not gonna all Sleep. That is not everybody's going to be dead. Look again in verse fifty one. Behold, I show you mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. every church. We cannot all sleep, but we shall all be changed. You'll think about that, get it later, you know. Every baby, you know, you got it? Okay. Um one day You know, when we when it says we shall not all sleep, when Christ comes, there are going to be some believers that will already be asleep in Jesus, but not all of us will be asleep. And when Jesus comes those that are asleep will be resurrected. They'll get a brand new glorified body. And we who are alive, we will be transformed. The word change there, metamorphosis, we're going to be completely transformed and we'll have a glorified body. We're not all going to be dead when Christ comes back, but we all are going to get a new uniform. We all will And so when that day comes, the Bible says death is swallowed up in victory. And then there in is in verse 55, the twofold song of the redeemed. Those who are alive when Jesus comes when the trumpet sounds, you know what we're going to say? O death, where is thy sting? And those who are asleep in Jesus that come out of the grave You know what they're going to sing? O grave, where is thy victory? That's the twofold anthem of the redeemed. But now look down in verse 57, but thanks be to God, which giveth Us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, I don't know of a truth in the Bible more encouraging that gives greater hope than this truth Truth of the resurrection. Thanks be to God, which gives us the victory. Folks, we have victory over death. Thank God for the truth. Of the resurrection. And so how should this affect us? How should we respond to this? Remember, we said the truth of the resurrection is an incentive to live God Look at the last verse. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your The practical implication and application of what Paul is saying is that the labor that we do for the Lord Lord, none of that is in vain. Everything we do matters when we do it for the Lord and for his kingdom. And so this truth should have that kind of an impact on us. We should be steadfast Unmovable, abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? Because we know our glorification is coming one day. We're all going to be glorified, and we'll shine with the glory of God. according to the faithfulness that we give to the Lord here on earth. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Lord, I I I just rejoice Rejoice over this truth. I pray, Father, that this would give great comfort and encouragement to believers here, Lord, that have stood at the grave and have suffered great sorrow when they've laid into the grave a loved one that is in Christ Lord, I pray that we would just be comforted by this truth that there will be a resurrection day, there will be a great reunion, that one day all of us will And we'll be able to say, O death, where is thy sting? And O grave, where is thy victory? And we thank you, Lord, that you we You have given us the victory. And so, Lord, may this truth indeed be an incentive to us just to be faithful to you, just to keep on serving you Sometimes, Lord, it uh the things that we hear in the news, sometimes the physical illness that we have to bear, sometimes it can weigh us down And it may cause us, Lord, at times to want to wonder, is it worth it? But Lord, because of these things, we know that it is. So, Lord, may we take encouragement from this. May it bless our hearts And we pray all this in Jesus' precious, wonderful name, Amen.