And I invite you this morning to take your Bibles, please, and open to the New Testament book of 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 1, and we're going to be looking at verse 13 down to verse 21. 1 Peter chapter 1. Would you stand for the reading of God's word this morning? 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 13. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts and your ignorance. But as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourn here in fear For as much as you know you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver or gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as the Lamb without blemish and without spot who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifesting these last times for you, who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory That your faith and hope might be in God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's inspired word. May we be attentive to it this morning. Will you pray with me today? Our Heavenly Father, we again thank you for your word. Speak to our hearts today through this passage of Scripture. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I read about a California driver instructor who talked about a teenager who had driven an almost perfect driver's test. The teacher said that the only mistake that he made is when he stopped to let me out of the car, he said, after breathing a sigh of relief, the boy said, I'm sure glad I don't have to drive that way all the time. Well, that boy was a lot like a lot of Christians who go to church in America. They kind of put on a good front when people are watching, but the rest of the time they kind of let down the standards. And really there's not much difference between those kind of Christians and people who are lost, except they go to church a little more often. I read a disturbing statistic. It said that the divorce rate among Christians is about the same as in society at large. And listen to this. In fact, the third highest divorce rate occupationally after doctors and police goes to pastors. Christian youth are involved in immorality. To the same extent as those who don't know the Lord. Many Christian businessmen have a bad reputation. It would seem that our Christianity doesn't seem to have an effect on the way that we live But it should. And so I know of no text in the Bible that we need any more than the passage that we just read here in First Peter. Peter is writing to people who were saved out of a pagan background. They're living in a pagan society, and they're feeling great pressure to conform. But Peter is calling his readers to a life of holiness. What does the word holy mean? The word holy actually means to be set apart. It means to be distinct. When we apply this word to God, it actually means his transcendence, that he's way above us, way above his creation, in such a way as to be so very distinct from it. But also contained in that word is this idea of purity. God is totally separated from all sin. So when God calls us to holiness, he's calling us to be different from the world. He's calling us to be separated unto himself. Away from the world, away from the sin, separated from the sin that is in the world. Actually, there's a sense in which holiness comes in three modes. We could say it like this. First of all, there's positional holiness, positionally, if you know Jesus Christ, you're already holy. That is to say that the moment you got saved, God declared you holy. He declared you righteous. And there's a sense in which you're already a saint. That's what the word saint means. It means one who is set apart on the God, one who is holy or the holy ones. So it's like one country preacher said, you're either a saint or you ain't. You're either saved or you're not. And if you're saved, God has set you apart, and you have been given the holiness of Christ. So when God looks at you and he looks at me, what he sees is the righteousness of Christ. He sees the holiness of Jesus. That's what we are positionally. You don't have to work for that holiness. God has already given that to you. He's already declared that of you legally. Just like a minister will say to a hus a couple getting married, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Legally, in the eyes of God, now they're one. But now they have to live out that oneness. And it's the same way with us when you get saved. God says, I now declare you holy. I declare you righteous. But we haven't lived out that righteousness yet. So that's really the second mode of this holiness. We could call it progressive or becoming more progressively holy. And this is something that we do have to work for. In fact, spiritual growth, you know what spiritual growth is? It's bringing our practice up to our position. What God has declared of us, we need to live it out. And that's spiritual growth. This is something that we're all striving for, we're all pushing for. We want to be holy. But then there's a third mode, and that's perfectly. That is one day when the Lord returns, or if you go to heaven before that, that you know that at that moment you'll be perfectly holy. No more striving against sin. Oh, glorious day that will be, right? That moment you'll be completely glorified. And your salvation would be made complete. But now all of us are in this middle stage. We're all progressively being made holy. At least that's what should be happening in the life of every believer. Write down 2 Corinthians 7:1. Listen to this verse. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. The word perfecting there, epiteleo, it means to move towards the completion of a goal. If you've been with us on Wednesday night, we've been going through James where it talks about being mature, being complete. That's the word teleos. This is the same Greek word here, except it puts on a prefix that intensifies it, epitelaos. Epiteleo. And it means you're earnestly pushing forward for this. You are pursuing holiness as a Christian. And I would say this, if there's some part of you that's not trying to pursue righteous living or holy living, then I would wonder about your salvation. Because if you're a Christian, you're going to want that. But I want to tell you it's not easy. We live in a sinfully corrupt world. We live in a world that's anti-God. We live in an X-rated society. And it's forcing us to be like it. The world is constantly putting pressure on the church to be like it. It's putting pressure on the Christian to be just like them. And so this is a war. This is something that's not easy. This is why we have to perfect holiness. We have to push towards this goal. Now, what Peter does is he gives us some motivation here. He gives us some incentives that will help us as we pursue holiness. So let me give you, there's five of them here. Let me just hopefully we can get through all five. Here's number one. What's the first incentive, the glory of God? Look at verse thirteen again. Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, hope to the end For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I want you to notice that last phrase, the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's refer referring to the time when Jesus returns in glory. In fact, the word revelation comes from the Greek word apocalypso, which means the unveiling or the uncovering. Literally the unveiling of Jesus Christ. When he is unveiled in all of his glory to the world. This same phrase is used in a lot of places in the New Testament. 1 Corinthians 1:7 says, we are waiting eagerly for the apocalypsis, the unveiling of Jesus Christ. In 2 Thessalonians 1 7 it says the Lord Jesus shall be revealed, same word. He will be unveiled And Peter uses it. In fact, go back to chapter one of First Peter and verse number seven in chapter one, where it says that the trial of your faith be much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found under the praise and honor and Glory at the appearing of Jesus. Same word as an appearing there. The revelation of Jesus Christ. All of his second coming. At his second coming, his glory will be revealed. Now you might be thinking, now wait a minute, I thought when Jesus was here during his first advent That he did reveal God. Well, he did reveal God. He was God in the flesh, but there's a sense in which his glory was hidden. It was hidden in a human body. And from time to time in his earthly ministry we saw glimpses of that glory when he would do a miracle or on the Mount of Transfiguration when the glory on the inside came shining on the outside, and the Bible says he shone brighter than the sun. But for the most part, his glory was veiled. But when he comes back again, beloved, his glory will be revealed The first time he came in humiliation, the second time Jesus comes, it'll be in exaltation. The first time Jesus came as the Savior, the next time he'll come as the King, the judge who will judge the world. And this is the hope that we have. And all of our actions today should reflect that hope that Christ is coming again. Because when he comes, I don't want him to find me acting shamefully. I don't want him to find me living in a way that is less than what he has called me to be. I don't wanna want to find him or for him to find me living in a sinful way. I want when he comes back To have what we read in 1 Peter 1, verse 7, to be found unto the praise and honor and glory That's talking about our praise, our honor, our glory. When Jesus comes back in his glory, he wants to give us honor. He wants to give us praise. But he can't do that if we're not living up to our potential in Christ. So this is what we long for. And Peter says, you better get serious about it. Look again in verse 13. Wherefore burn up the loins of your mind. That is, be serious. What does he mean by gird up the loins of your mind? This is the image of a man who was lived in that day in the first century. You know, they wore long robes. And when it was time to uh to do some serious work, they would take the bottom of the robes and they would tuck it up under their belt. If they had to run somewhere They would girt up their loins. If they had to do something hard, work, some kind of hard work, they would girt up their loins. We would use the expression today, roll up your sleeves. Roll up your sleeves. Get ready. That's the idea. Just be serious about this. A lot of people talk about the second coming, but they're living like he'll never come. We ought to live as if Jesus died yesterday, rose today, and is coming back tomorrow. We ought to be serious about this, and it should be reflected in the way that we live. And then he says, This: be sober. Again, look at verse 13. Wherefore guard up the loins of your minds. Be sober and hope to the end. So what is sober? This is another favorite word of Peter's, and it has the idea of uh being uh not drunk but uh self-controlled being on the alert. For example, it's used look in first Peter chapter five, look at verse eight This same word is used here, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. How serious should you be? Well, how serious would you be if I told you that at the end of the service there's going to be a lion out there on the on the parking lot? He's kind of hungry, so be careful going home. How many of you would lead church the same way you always did? Think you would be a little different in the way you did that. Remember one time I took a safari in Africa. We came upon two lions with a big furry manes. They were laying taking a nap under a tree. I wanted to get a good picture, so we stopped. We were about twenty-five yards away. I got out. I kept the door open. Very carefully, I don't want to wake him up. Took a picture of it. I want to tell you though, I wasn't acting as if I was just walking in the park. And these guys were asleep. The Bible says the devil's not asleep. He's like a roaring lion. He's walking around looking to see who he might devour. And Peter says, you better be sober. You know what this tells us? That holiness begins in your mind. It begins in your thoughts. One of the most practical things I can tell you about living a Christian life is deal with sin on a thought level. The moment that thought of sin goes into your mind, don't let it stay there. Deal with it immediately. Get it out. Replace it with the Word of God. Judge that thought And put it away. Like Paul said in 2 Corinthians 10:5, casting down every imagination, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. That's the where the war is, it's right there in the mind. So you have to judge that thought, get rid of it. You have to win the battle on the thought level. Because if you don't win it there you're not going to win. So there's number one the glory of God. But here's the second incentive. Number two, the nature of God. Look at verse 14. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your Now Peter is saying we need to reflect the nature of God in our life. And he's giving really two basic arguments here. The first one we see in verse 14, and that's simply this, holiness must be cultivated. We have to cultivate obedience. We have to learn to say no to our former lusts. Say no to our sinful habits. Now that you're saved, the pattern of your life is different. It is a pattern of obedience. Notice where it says not fashioning yourselves. That comes from one Greek word. uh schismatizo. It's where we get the word scheme and it has the idea of a pattern or a mold. It's very simple. We don't live according to the same pattern anymore. Now that you're saved, You give up those old sinful patterns and you develop new godly patterns. You know what holiness is a lot of it? It is developing godly habits. in your life. A godly pattern. That's why you should read your Bible every day. That's why you should pray every day. Meditate on the scripture that you read and pray. This is where spiritual disciplines come into your life. I'm not talking about legalism. I'm talking about spiritual disciplines. I'm talking about developing godly habits in your life. That's why it's so important. On Sunday morning, you shouldn't have to make a decision whether or not you're going to go to church. That should be ingrained in you already. That's a godly pattern. That's one of the fears I have about all this COVID stuff. I understand why people have to be careful. I totally get that. But my fear is that people will get out of the godly habit of public worship and being in God's house. We we have to have these spiritual disciplines. Why? These are godly patterns. We don't want to fall back into the same patterns that we had before we knew the Lord. We don't want to do that. The Bible says, as obedient children, obedience should mark us. This is the pattern of our life now. Habitual Obedience that includes godly habits, spiritual disciplines in our life. But then holiness is a call. Look in verse 15. But as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. And the argument here is very logical, very simple. Children inherit the nature of their parents. Right? Now that you're saved, guess who your father is? God. Guess what kind of nature he has? He's holy. And now that you're his child, do you know what happened at salvation? The Bible says you became partakers of a divine nature. 2 Peter 1 4. So you have that planted in you. You say, man, this battle against holiness is so hard. Yeah, it's hard. It's hard because we have a sin nature, but uh but don't forget that God has also planted inside you the divine nature. So there's a sense in which the seed of holiness is in you. And so we have help from God. We have his nature. God is holy and he lives in us. And so therefore we can live a practically holy life. In fact, I would say that this is the chief attribute of God. You realize in Scripture there's no other attribute that's given this that's elevated to the third level. I mean God is eternal, but we don't read a verse that says God is eternal, eternal, eternal. Or God is love, love, love. But we do read where it says God is holy, holy, holy So this is, I would say, one of the chief attributes of God. And we have to reflect the nature of our Father in our own life. And let me give you the third incentive. Not only the glory of God and the nature of God, but here's the third thing: the word of God. The word of God. Look at verse 6. Because as it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. What's Peter doing? He's quoting from Leviticus. Recently, a megachurch pastor said we need to unhitch from the Old Testament. He said that the Old Testament can't help us New Testament believers. Well, Peter didn't get that memo here. Because Peter's quoting right from Leviticus 1144, and he's quoting the verse, Be ye holy, for I am holy. You know, the early Christians, the only canon of scripture they had at that time was the Old Testament. That's all they had at that time. No, we can benefit from the Old Testament as well as the New. And that we see the character and nature of God so clearly revealed in the narratives there in the Old Testament. But also this, one of God's key instruments in sanctifying his people is the Word of God. You understand that? If you want to be holy, you cannot divorce yourself from the scripture. You have to be in it all the time. Because that's God's chief instrument for making you and me holy It's his word. In fact, let me just show you this real quick. Look in John chapter 17. I just want to read a few verses there. Go back to John 17. Hold your place, we're going to come back. This is the prayer of Jesus. Right before he uh goes to the Garden of Gethsemane and he's uh right before he is uh betrayed. Look in John 17, look down at verse 13. Here's Jesus praying, and now come I to thee, and these things I speak in the world. That they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. Verse 14, I have given them thy word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. You say, well, Jesus is praying for his twelve disciples there. Well, yeah, look in verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. That's you. That's me. This prayer goes to all of us. What's Jesus praying for? He's praying that we would be holy in this world. That we would be sanctified. And by the way, the two key words in that whole passage are world and word. These are the two influences. You're either being influenced by the world. Or you're being influenced by the word. And your degree of holiness is in direct proportion to which one of these things influence you the most. Are you being influenced more by the world? And the world is constantly trying to do that. That's why Paul said, Be not conform to this world. Don't let the world squeeze you into its mold. Because that's what the world is trying to do. From the outside, the world is trying to conform you. But from the inside, the word is trying to transform you That's why Paul said, but be ye transformed by what? The renewing of your mind. When you get into the scripture, God renews your mind. Inwardly, you are being transformed to the image of Christ, while the world on the outside is trying to conform you to the image of itself. That's the battle. That's why Jesus said, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So the question is which one of these influences has dominance in your life? Which one of those things? And again, the battle is on the inside. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Look at verse 18 real quick. Let me show you this Notice what it says, but we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. You know what that's saying? When we look into the glass, that is the Word of God, you know what you see as you're looking into this Word, this mirror, this glass, you're seeing the glory of Jesus. And you know what happens when you focus on that? The Holy Spirit begins to change you into that image. And from one level of glory to the next. even as by the Spirit of God. So when you're in the Word of God and you're focusing on Jesus in the Word, the Spirit of God is conforming you. That's why I make no apology for preaching through the gospels. You know why? Because you'll see Jesus, you'll see the glory of Christ, and you know what? The Holy Spirit will begin to change you into that image. That's that's the process that he's describing here. But it comes through the Word of God. Let me give you the fourth thing One incentive is the glory of God, another the nature of God, number three, the word of God, but also the judgment of God. Look in verse, uh go back to 1 Peter chapter 1, look again in verse number seventeen And if ye call on the Father, who without respect a person to judge his According to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourn here in fear. Now, Peter's point is this: God is not only your father, but he's also your judge. You have to remember that. And he's no respecter of persons. He's holy, and he will not compromise with sin. And so the judgment of God should provoke us. And a measure of fear. What is this judgment that Peter's talking about? Well, there's there's God's judgment on people as sinners. That's for those who don't know the Lord. One day they'll be judged as a sinner. The Bible says they'll stand before the great white throne judgment. You've heard me say before, sometimes I've heard people in church pray, Lord, grant that I stand before thy great white throne judgment. Don't pray that for me, please Because if you're there, that means you're going to the lake of fire. That means you don't know the Lord. That's a judgment for sinners. But then the Bible says he judges us as sons. Because we are his children, God will chastise us. Why? He's producing holiness through his chastisement. But then there's also a judgment as servants. This is what the Bible means when it says we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And here the Lord will judge us, not our sins, but he'll judge our service. What kind of service did you give to God? You see, you can't lose your salvation, but you can lose your reward. And you can certainly have no praise from God. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 3 13, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. What's Paul talking about? That's the day when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ. The Bible says we all have to be there as God's children. And God will examine our works. And it'll be tried with fire. Everything that's not burnt up in the fire, everything that's left, that will prove to be pure works before God. That will be the reward. If there's anything left there, you know, I don't fear the fire of hell. I fear the fire of heaven. Will there be anything left when God judges my works to prove to be acceptable in his sight? Some Christians will have the sad duty of picking up charred remains and handing them to the Lord. There will not be very little left. And so it matters how we serve God now. It matters how we live our life now. You know, we like to say, you know, when people pass on, God will say, Well done, good and faithful servant. Not everyone is going to earn that. Only those who serve him faithfully. Some people will hear that you've been an unprofitable servant. But I've invested my grace in your life, I've given you all these blessings, and there was nothing in return. Very little in return. That's what we should fear. That's why Peter says, look at verse 17. It says that if you call on the Father who without respect of persons judges, according to every man's work Pass the time of your sojourn here in fear. You better be in fear, and the kind of fear here is not a paralyzing dread or terror. It's the fear of knowing that one day you're going to have to give an account for everything you do. That's the fear he's talking about. And notice he says your sojourn here. You know we're pilgrims. This world is not our home. That's what the word sojourn means. Look, this is your pilgrimage here. You're going through this earth. Your home is heaven. One day you'll go there. You'll stand before the Lord. He will judge your works. You better be careful of that And that day you have a reward. You should be fearful for that final exam that's going to come before God. Let me give you the last incentive. The glory of God is an incentive for us, the nature of God, the word of God, the judgment of God. But here's number five, the Lamb of God If this doesn't really give you any incentive, I wonder if you're saved. The Lamb of God, look at verse 18. For as much as ye know that you were redeemed. Not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as a land without blemish and without spot. This incentive here is just simply the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. And we consider the price that He paid for our redemption. Did you know that Paul's referring to the fact that in that day, excuse me, Peter's referring to the fact that in that day a slave could actually buy their freedom if they could get enough money, if they could garner enough money Somehow, with silver and gold, they could redeem themselves or pay for their freedom It wasn't often, but it happened. And Peter's reminding us that all of us, we were slaves to sin. We were too poor to purchase our own redemption. But your redemption was purchased. It wasn't with silver or gold. It was with something far more valuable than that. It was with the blood of Christ. This infinite cost that Jesus paid to redeem us out of slavery, the slavery of sin. He didn't use perishable things to do that, but his own precious blood. And it says in verse 19, as a lamb without blemish and without spot, the sinless Son of God who laid down his life for us On the cross, shed his blood. It says verse twenty, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. This was his purpose. This was a plan of salvation before the foundation of the world. He was to be the Lamb of God that would be slain for our sins. And it was manifest to us in these last days, the Bible says. So Peter's saying, consider the price that was paid. for your redemption. The next time you're tempted to sin, the next time you are tempted to think or sin lightly, just remember the blood of Christ. Remember that precious blood that was shed for you on the cross. A seminary student told how when he was a boy he fell in love with golf. And his parents gave him a club and a harmless little white kind of golf ball, you know, it's kinda like a little wiffle ball type. It's not very hard. And uh he would go out in the backyard and practice with that, but one day his parents weren't home. He thought they weren't home. And he wanted to feel what it would was like to connect with a real golf ball. So he got a real golf ball, put it down in his yard. Teed it up, and he took a real hard whack at the ball. And when he did, the ball was not hit properly, and it hooked from its intended flight. It went right through The window of his house into the living room. He heard the crash, but even worse, after that, he heard a piercing scream. And he ran into the house, and to his horror, he saw that the golf ball had hit his mother in the head, and she was bleeding from that golf ball. And the student was crushed. He began to apologize, Mom, I'm so sorry. I could have really, really hurt you bad. And she said, I'm fine, I'm alright But that student said after that he could never pick up another golf club ever again. Because every time he would grow go to grab a golf club, he would see the blood coming out of his mother's head. And he said, I can't do that anymore. And what Peter is trying to remind us here is to say, look, when you're tempted to do something you shouldn't, just think about the blood that was shed by Jesus on the cross. Think about that. Think about the price that was paid for you at Calvary. Leonard Ravenhill said this: the greatest miracle that God could do today is to take an unholy man. out of an unholy world to make that man holy, put him back into that unholy world, and keep him holy. But that's what God does for us. And you know what? He does it as we focus on the glory of God. And the nature of God and the Word of God and the judgment of God and the Lamb of God These are incentives for us to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. I want you to just allow what was said to sink in for a minute before we pray. And ask yourself, am I in this Progressive stage in my life, am I really pursuing godly living, holy living? It doesn't happen automatically. Peter told us, you know, we have to we have to put godly habits in our life. We have to make some decisions. About how we're going to live in light of the fact that God has saved us. And would you ask God just to remind you of these things, these incentives? Remember that Jesus is coming. How do you want to be found when He comes? Remember the nature of God has been placed inside of you. You are partakers of that divine nature. You can live it out. Remember that God's given you a tool called the Word of God to help you. Remember one day we have to stand before Him and give an account And friend, remember the great price that was paid for your salvation. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, you've never put your faith in Jesus and what He's done for you. This is the very first thing you must do. You can never be holy without Christ. Some people think that they have to do good works in order to find Christ. No Holiness is not the way to Christ. Christ is the way to holiness. And you must come to Him as a sinner. Turn from your sin. Ask Jesus to save you. He will forgive you for your sins. He will cleanse you. He will place in you the divine nature. He'll give you eternal life if you'll just put your faith in him. And would you be willing to pray right where you are, Lord, save me, make me holy, cleanse me from my sin. And friend, if you pray that, he'll do it. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We thank you again for your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. I love you and I lift my voice to Worship you oh my soul be joy Take joy my king in what To live and may be a sweet sweet sound in your Let's bow for prayer together. Father, again, thank you for the joy of worship and being here together in your house. Lord, may we we remember all that you've taught us from your word today. As we leave here, Lord, remind us that wherever we go We are to be a light in a dark world, a witness for you. Bless your people, Lord, as we leave. Bring us back again, ready to worship you at the appointed hour. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.