Take your Bibles now. Open to 1 John chapter 5. And we are going to finish up the book of 1 John today. This last section, verses 13 down to verse 21. And I want to talk today about five truths that God wants every child of God to know. Five truths that God wants every child of God to know. I heard about a little boy who was standing by the side of a road. A man who uh was lost came by. And the man said to the little boy, hey Sonny, do you know where this road goes? And the little boy said, No, sir. He said, Well, do you know how to get to town? The little boy said, no, sir. He said, well you know where's Route 20? Do you know where that is? The little boy said, I I don't know. He said, well what is the name of this street The little boy said, I don't know. Well, finally in exasperation, the man said, You really don't know much for sure, do you? The little boy said, Well, I know I'm not lost. Ask your question, do you know for sure that you're not lost That's really the question that we deal with when we come to 1 John. He wants you to know for sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I want you to look in 1 John chapter 5, look at verse 13, and actually verse 13 down to verse 21, what you're going to see here is the word no used over and over again. You'll see at you seven times. In verse 13, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. Look at verse 15. If we know That he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of him. Look at verse 18, and we know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. And verse 19, and we know That we are of God. And verse 20, and we know that the Son of God has come and have given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. Get the message seven times. And this paragraph, John uses that powerful little four-letter word, no. He uses it over and over again. John is the apostle of assurance. Contrary to the agnostic who says we really can't know if there is a God, John says we can know. There is a God. He is the true God. He is Jesus Christ. And contrary to this world of uncertainty, this postmodern era in which we're living, where people say you can't know anything For sure. John says you can know. In fact, this has been the major theme throughout 1 John. You can know. Over and over again, we see this whole idea all throughout the letter. Certainty, knowing is the major theme of the letter. Christianity is not a hope-so Faith. It is a it's not a think-so faith. It is I I know so faith because what has been revealed to us has been revealed in the Word of God about uh uh uh uh about God and we can know. So with that in mind, I want you to see five things that God wants you to know this morning. Five truths, God wants every child of God to know. And here's the first one. Number one, and it's very basic. We can know that we have eternal life. Again in verse 13. This is the major theme and thesis of the letter. And I pointed this out to you before. Look at it again. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. There are some people out there that say, well no one can know for sure that they can go to heaven. And the Bible tells us that that's right. You can know. You can have that assurance, that certainty. And this is the reason why John is writing us this letter. He wants you to have that assurance. I hope that as a result of studying 1 John, that you know with greater certainty, you have a greater assurance. You're a hundred percent sure that if you die today Day, you'd go to heaven because that's the goal of this writing here. Now, there's a lot of people out there that believe in God and they believe in heaven, but just because they believe it here doesn't mean that they're going to heaven John wants you to have that certainty. He wants you to know that. And that's why John, throughout this letter, has given us these spiritual tasks. One test after another, so that we can evaluate our own heart, so that we can have this absolute assurance. Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ? Do you have a new sensitivity to sin in your life where you confess your sins continually to God? Do you have a desire to obey Jesus and to do what he says? Do you love God's people? Do you experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit? Can you discern truth from error? These are all the tests that John has given us in this letter. so that we can know we can evaluate our life next to these things and say, I know for sure that I know that I'm a Christian. that I'm going to go to heaven. So you can know that you have eternal life. When Sir James Simpson, he was the man that discovered chloroform. And he was a Christian man. But when he was on his deathbed, a friend asked him, he said, Sir, what are you what are your speculations? And Simpson said, Speculations? I have no speculations. I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. I know that I'm going to heaven. Friend, God wants you to have that kind of assurance Do you have it? Now here's the second thing. We can know that we have eternal life, but here's the second thing. We can know that God answers prayer. Look at verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of him. See is the logical progression that John has in his writing here. First of all, he says he wants you to know that you're a child of God. You have to have that assurance. Someone says, why is that assurance so important? Because that assurance gives you this confidence. confidence that you can go to God in prayer. That's what he's saying here in verse 14. And this is the confidence. You see, when you know that you're God's child, you can have confidence in prayer. You know why? Because we're going to our Heavenly Father, and we know that our Father is going to hear us because we're His Let me ask you a question. How many fathers, I mean good, decent fathers, would ignore their children if they came to them with a need? Here's a father that has all riches and he has the ability to get his child whatever he needed, and yet here's a child that goes to this father and says, This is what I need, and that father just not listened to him. Would that happen? Not a good father, it wouldn't Well let me tell you something. Our Father is a great heavenly father. And if you have a need, he has all resources at his disposal. Do you think that when you go to God that he's going to ignore you? No, you're his child. He's going to hear you. And this is what John is saying. You can go to God with confidence. Look at the word confidence there. It really is a word that means to speak openly. Literally, it means freedom of speech You can go before Him and speak openly about what you need. That's the confidence that you have. And where does that confidence come from? It comes from knowing that you are His child. When you have that absolute Assurance. One of the benefits is this confidence in prayer. In fact, where it says before him, that's really the same word that's used in John 1. 1, where it says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. Literally, before God. And it what it suggests there is an intimacy. And so what he's saying is that you can have an intimacy with the Father, so much so that you just go before him and you just tell him what you This is a privilege of being a child of God. It's called access. And Romans 5 talks about this: by whom also we have access by faith into this grace. Do you realize this morning, child of God, that you have access before the throne of grace? You understand what a privilege that is? I mean after church, let me give you a little experiment. Go down to Washington, D. C. Go to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, knock on the door of the White House, and ask if you can see the President. See what kind of response you get. You think you're gonna get in there? No way. You don't have access. What if when I was over in England, uh I went to Buckingham Palace, knocked on the door and said, Hey I want to talk to the Queen, I'd like to talk to her. I really have some things I want to share with her on from my heart. You think they would let me in there? They would probably lock me up for trying to get in there I don't have access to important people like that, but you know what? I got really good news for you and me. You have access to someone greater. It's called the King of He's called the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And you know what? You have access as a child of God. You can go to the throne of grace and you can speak openly. God will hear you. That's what we know. We know that when we pray, God will hear us. Now, there are two things that John mentions about prayer, though. Look at verse 14 He says, and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything, and notice this qualification here, according to his will, he hears us. So prayer has to be according to God's will Now John has addressed prayer before in chapter three, verse twenty two, and there he informed us that God answers our prayers when we are keeping his commandments and doing those things And now here in this verse he adds kind of a third requirement. We have to ask according to God's will. Now someone would say, well, now what does it mean to ask according to the will of God? Let's pray according to what God desires. What God wants. You see, I believe, and I'm sure you do too, that God's will is always best. And we're living in a world where God's will is not done. Jesus taught us to pray, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I'm looking around, you know what? I don't see God's will being done all over. And when we pray this way, we're actually praying in rebellion against this world and against the fallenness of this world. And we're saying, God, your will is not being done, and we want your will to be done. And by the way, this is the real purpose of prayer, is to get God's will. Because when God's will is done, that's when things are good. That's when it's right. That's when it's best. Some people have this idea, well if I pray according to the God's will, that means that's gonna limit my prayers. That means I only have to ask For things that he wants, not what I want. Let me tell you something, friend. You know what God's will is? God's will is what you would ask for if you had enough sense to ask for it. It's what's best for you. It's what's best for others. God's will, praying according to God's will, doesn't limit us. It actually frees us. Let me read to you what George Mueller, this great man of prayer, and some of you know the story of George Mueller. He never took a salary. He basically had orphanages that he prayed that God would support. He never told people what his need was. He just told God what it was. And millions of dollars came in And this is what George Mueller said. He said, prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance, it is laying hold of his willingness. That's exactly right. Friend, when we pray, we're not bending God's will to to fit into our will. We're not praying that God will do something that He normally wouldn't do. No, no, no. That's not Prayer. Prayer is asking God to do the things that He wants to do. And those things are what are good, it's what's perfect, it's what's right. for us. So we pray according to the will of God, but also we pray for those outside of God's will. Look at verse 16. Notice what he says And if any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death There is a sin unto death. I do not say that he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. Now verses sixteen and seventeen, John gets very specific. Regarding prayer. Now in verses 14 and 15, he's telling us to pray about petitions. But here he's telling us to pray about people. Now it went from supplication to intercession. You know what intercession is? Intercessory prayer is when we pray for other people. That have gone astray, that need a touch from God. And this is what John is saying right here. Now, let me just tell you in fairness, verse 16 is probably one of the most difficult verses to interpret in all of Scripture But let me try to make it simple for us here today. I'll do my best. And if I don't, you can let me know on the way out. If you still don't understand, very kindly you can let me know. What is John saying here? And actually, I want you to think about this. There are two kinds of sins that he refers to in these verses specifically here. Sins that lead to death And sins that do not lead to death. We saw that there is a sin unto death, and then we also saw in verse 15 Verse seventeen, there is a sin not unto death. Now John's not saying all sin is uh is not bad. All sin is bad. All sin is unrighteousness But there are some sins that are worse. So the question really that we have to answer when we come to these verses is this: what is a sin unto death? What is he talking about here? There are several interpretations, as you can imagine, that are out there. Some people say that this is referring to suicide. A sin unto death is suicide. I've read that, but that's not really what I think John's talking about here. There's nothing in the context that supports that. Some people say, well, this sin unto death is some particularly hand Sin that really angers God, and they base that on Numbers chapter 18, where it uses the phrase sin unto death. That's another interpretation of that There's a third interpretation, which is this that the sin unto death is really the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit that's spoken about in Matthew chapter twelve, where a person can blaspheme against Christ and the Holy Spirit, and that sin is unforgivable. And that's a sin that can't be committed by a believer. That's a sin that's committed by an unbeliever. And it's really just rejecting all of the evidence of Christ. Some people think it's that. Then there's another view that says, well, this is simply apostasy. This is someone who has come close to receiving the gospel, close to receiving the truth, but ultimately they turn away, they reject the truth. It's apostasy. Again, this is not talking about a Christian because a Christian can't commit the sin of apostasy. This is someone who comes close to being saved, but ultimately rejects it all. It's like the writer says in Hebrews chapter six, for those who have were once enlightened, they've tasted of the heavenly gift, and so on, they were experienced in a way the convicting ministry of the Holy Spirit, but ultimately they turned away From Christ, and they committed apostasy. And there are some that say that's what John's talking about here. It's apostasy. Well then there's a fifth view. And this view says that this is speaking about a Christian A Christian can sin, and God can punish them with physical death. Now let me just say I think this is the correct view here. When John's talking about a sin unto death, he's referring to a Christian that can commit this sin. Now, there are several reasons why I believe this. First of all, in the context, John is talking about believers Look again in verse 16. If any man see his what? His brother. He's talking about a Christian here. And by the way, a Christian can't commit the sin of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit A Christian can't apostatize from the faith because if a person walks away from the faith, what does that reveal? They were never truly saved to begin with. So it can't be talking about those two things John never calls an unbeliever a brother, and the whole entire scheme of 1 John, he's writing to believers here And so I think he's talking to believers. And those who say this passage refers to an unbeliever say they he's committed a sin causing spiritual death. Well that doesn't make sense because unbelievers are already spiritually dead. They're already there. John, when he says there is a sin unto death, he's very emphatic. And this implies to me that he's talking to believers And he's letting them know that you know what? A believer can commit a sin unto death. And obviously, this is not spiritual death. Why? Because believers will never die spiritually We're not under condemnation. If you're a child of God, guess what? You're going to heaven. You can't lose your salvation. You can't die spiritually, so he has to be talking here about physical death It is possible for a believer to sin continually, stubbornly against God, to the point to where God says that's enough. That's enough. I'm done. I'm going to take you home. You see, when God begins to punish a believer, really there are three stages I think the scripture teaches of punishment. First of all, there's speaking The Bible says in Hebrews that whom the Lord loves, he rebukes, and then he chastises. So the first level is speaking. When you get out of line and you disobey God, what is God going to do? He's going to speak to you from his word. He's going to remind you to get back where you need to be. He'll use the Preaching of God's word, he'll use a servant of the Lord, maybe to come and say something. He'll use someone to speak to you. He'll use his word to speak to you. But if a person ignores that, then there's a second level. There's spanking. Speaking and then spanking. And that means God will do some providential act in your life where He is rebuking you. He'll do some physical thing in your life. To try to get your attention. It is God chastising you to get you back to where you need to be as a believer because you know what the Bible says, whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and God will spank his children when they act up. God won't spank unbelievers. He'll let them go because they have a greater judgment coming. But if you're God's child, he's going to spank you. But let's just say a person ignores that. They're speaking, they're spanking, then they're scourging. The Bible says whom the Lord will scourge. This is even a more severe form of punishment where God is more severe in the way he will deal with a child of God. Well let's just say that doesn't work. What's the next thing? There can come a point where God says, well, you know what? That's enough. Enough. I'm going to call you home early. You're not going to embarrass me. If I take my child to a birthday party and my child misbehaves and I speak to them and say, You better behave. And they still misbehave and I spank them and they are still misbehaving and they are doing all these wild things and they stick their fingers in the cake and they pull the girl's hair. I'm going to say to him, you know what? You're not going to embarrass me like this. I'm going to take you home early. God might say that to a Christian. There is a sin unto death. And I think this is what John is referring to here. And John is saying, look, if you happen to see a Christian that's going down that road, if you see a brother which is sinning, and it hasn't yet led unto death What do you do for them? You know what most people do in churches nowadays, which is very sad, is they gossip. But John says the first response that you should have when you see a brother that's gone out of the way And they're no longer obeying the Lord, what should you do? You should pray for them. Look in verse number 16. If any man see his brother In a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask. And he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. In other words, if they're going down that road and they haven't yet been To the point where God says, I'm I'm done with you, enough. You pray for them. What are you praying for? You're praying for their restoration. Remember the context? We're praying according According to the will of God, it is always God's will to pray for an erring brother. God will restore them, the Bible says. You can be sure That if you pray for a straying brother, God will hear that prayer. Let me ask you a question. Don't raise your hand, but how many of you have ever done this? How many have ever seen a Christian going astray? Have you ever just got on your knees and you prayed? The word ask there, by the way, very strong word, to beg, to agonize. Have you ever agonized over a straying brother? So much so that you've seen God move and bring them back. You know what the good news is? When when you when a Christian prays like that, God hears their prayer. And God will bring that person back. And so we can know that God answers prayers. We can know that we have eternal life We can know that God answers prayer. Look at the third thing here quickly. We can know victory over sin. Look at verse eighteen. We know that whatsoever is born of Or whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one touches him not. We can know victory over Now we've dealt with this before, but John again is he's coming back to the same thing that he's talked about before as he's closing the letter. When he says In verse 18, Whosoever is born of God sinneth not. He's re using the word sinneth there in a present tense. Remember what I told you about That continual action. He's not saying that if you're a Christian, you're never gonna sin. He's saying that if you're a Christian, you're not gonna live in a con unbroken pattern of sin. It's not gonna be your lifestyle where you're continually living as if you're lost. And this unbroken pattern of sinfulness. You're not going to do that. You're no longer living that way because if you're a Christian, there will be a broken pattern. Why? Because if you're a Christian and you sin again Against God, you're going to be convicted, and you know what you're going to want to do. You're going to want to confess that sin, 1 John 1:9. That breaks the pattern there. If you're a real child of God and you sin, you're going to want to confess it to God. That's what John is saying here. You do not practice sin. That pattern is broken by confession, and as we just talked about, that pattern is broken by the chastisement. Of God. You're not going to live in this unbroken pattern. You're going to have victory over sin. What's another reason for that? Well, because you're kept by Jesus. Look at the end of verse 18. But he that is begotten of God Keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. Christian or Jesus. And I think what it's referring to here when it says that he that is begotten of God, that's referring to Jesus, the one who came from God, the only begotten of God, he keeps him that is the believer. You know why you're never going to lose your salvation? Because Jesus Christ is keeping you. That's why. He's the one who keeps you safe Alright? And that's what this is referring to here. And Jesus said this in John 10, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they shall follow me, and I give up unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. That means that you're safe because Jesus Is watching over you. You are in his hands. No one's going to pluck you out of the hand of Christ. He is keeping you. He is watching over you. And that's what the Bible teaches us. Now someone might say, well, now wait a minute. I thought we were to keep ourselves. Well, that's true because look at the end, look at verse 21. Little children, keep yourselves from idols Someone says, well now wait a minute. Is Jesus keeping me or am I supposed to keep myself? Which one is true? And the answer is they're both true. Jesus is keeping you, he's watching over you, but also, friend, you are to keep yourself. You see, it's not either or, it's both and And that's the way it is in the Bible, with our sanctification, uh it's God who works in you both to will and to do his good pleasure, but you're to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And so it is in this area of keeping yourself From sin, you're to do everything you know to do as a Christian, but also realize Jesus is watching over you and He's keeping you And so we can have victory, we can know victory over sin. Let me give you the fourth thing. We can know that we belong to God. Look at verse 19. And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. That's our position is we belong to God. We have this certainty that we are His. And all the rest of the world lies in wickedness. Look at the word wickedness there. It's the same word used in verse eighteen where it's transfer Translated wicked one. And we could say it like this: all of the world lies in the lap of the wicked one. You, however, as a Christian It's different for you. You belong to God. He's the one who watches over and keeps you In contrast to the world where they're watched over, they lie in the lap of the wicked one. God says, You belong to me. I love that hymn that we sing. Now I belong to Jesus. Jesus belongs to me Not for the years of time alone, but for all eternity, you belong to Christ. And you can know that. Let me give you the fifth thing. We can know that we have eternal life. We can know that God answers prayer. We can know victory over sin. We can know that we belong to God. But here's the last thing. We can know what is true. Look at verse Verse 20, and we know that the Son of God has come and have given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. That we are in him that is true. Even in his son, Jesus Christ, this is the true God and eternal life. And so John's point here is that believers are certain that indeed Jesus is God. Remember, again, this is the doctrinal test that he has referred to. He's coming back to it at the very end of the book You can know that Jesus is God. Why? Because God has given you an understanding. The Greek word here is daya, which means through knowia, the mind, or to think through. If you think through this, you have an understanding, you have a deep understanding that Jesus is God, and you can know him. That's the whole point here. A child of God is someone who has been given an understanding of who Jesus is. They see the beauty of Jesus Christ. And that's why you're here today, friend, because you know Jesus, you see the beauty of Christ. Who gave you that understanding? It was God who did it God gave you that ability to see Jesus, to know him factually, to know that he is come in the flesh. He's given you this understanding spiritually, to know that he really is the Son of God. He's given you this understanding. And to know him experientially, you can get to know him in a very intimate, close way because of God. He has opened your eyes And you have this understanding, and you can know Jesus. You can know what is true because of God. That's what you can know Five things God wants every child of God to know. Let me close with this. There was an elderly man that one day came to the great preacher, H. A. Ironside. And he said, I want to know that I'm saved. I want some token of assurance from God. I want to know. And H. J. Arnside said, well, what if an angel from heaven came down? And told you that you are going to heaven. Would that be enough? And the man said, Oh yes, that would be enough. If an angel came, it's gotta be true. And then A. C. Ironside said this, well, what if on your deathbed the angel appeared and said, I'm Satan and I told you that, but I lied to you. What would you say to that? And the man was speechless. And then H. Ironside said this, God has given us something better than that. He has given us his son, Jesus Christ. And he's given us his word so that we can we can know who he is. We can know what he has done. We can know that he is the Son Savior of the world, God's Son come in the flesh, who is the sacrifice for sin. And then he turned to 1 John 5. 13 and he read them this verse: These things have I written on you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know. You have something better. You have the word of God that can give you that assurance, that certainty. Again, this is the whole reason for this letter. And again, you need to ask yourself, do I have that assurance before God? Do I know? Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for this letter of First John and then and the certainty That we have in Christ, that we can have this assurance, that we can know these things. We can know that we have eternal life That you hear our prayers. We can know that we can have victory over sin, Lord. That we belong to you. We can know what is true. And I pray, Lord, that if there's anyone here that doesn't have that certainty, that today they would nail it down That today, Lord, they would, as they examine their own life according to the Scripture, that they would come to the point to where they truly have an understanding and know Jesus Christ, if they haven't had it before, that you would give them that assurance of eternal life. And again, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask this question again Do you know that you know Christ, friend? Are you certain of it? How many can say with your hands raised? I know that. Would you raise your hand? I have that in I have that knowledge. I know him. Keep your hands up. I'm looking around and I see hands up all over it. It's wonderful. You may put your hands down. Maybe you couldn't raise your hands just then But friend, God wants you to have that assurance in your heart. And if you couldn't raise your hand just now, would you be willing just to pray a prayer? Asking Jesus right there where you are To be your Savior, your Lord. It would be a shame to go through this whole letter of 1 John and for you to walk away and still not have that assurance That you know Christ. So would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner and I need to be saved. Please come into my heart Please save me today, Lord Jesus. Save me right now. I call upon you by faith. I know that you are the Son of God. The Savior, save me. And friend, if you'll pray that, he'll save you today. How many here say that's my prayer? Can I pray for you right now? I'm just looking around. Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand and say That's my prayer. I want to know Jesus. Anyone here? Anyone here? All right. Father, thank you again for the assurance That you've given us in Christ. Lord, may this assurance make us bold in our prayers, bold for Christ in every area of our life. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.