Would you take God's word this morning and I want you to open to the book of Ephesians? I know we have been studying Second Corinthians lately, but I want to do something a little different this morning. Go to the book of Ephesians, chapter 2 Ephesians chapter 2, and we're going to look at verses 1 down to verse 8. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among among whom also we had we all had our conversation in times past in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we're by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that is not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today as we study it. Would you bow in prayer with me this morning? Father, I recognize my insufficiency and Lord I come to you and ask that you'd help me to communicate your word clearly, that the Spirit of God would take your word and That we use it in the heart of every person here today for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Don't answer this question out loud that I'm going to ask you. Answer it in your mind. Uh again, don't say it out loud. Do you know what tomorrow is? Now if you answered in your mind Halloween, you just broke my heart. Because it is in truth Halloween, I guess you could say. But I want to retrain your thinking. Did you know that tomorrow is another special day in the history of the church? Uh they call it church Reformation Day. That was on October the 31st. And basically what we do, those that are lovers of church history and are understanding of this, we celebrate the purity of the gospel. We celebrate the gospel. Because on this day in 1517, that's when Martin Luther nailed his 95 thesis to the church door in Wittenberg. And uh those ninety-five theses were protesting the corruptions of the teaching of the church back then, and Martin Luther was used by God. um to rediscover the purity of the gospel. And that was a very momentous day, not only just in church history, but also in history itself. It launched what we now know as the Protestant Reformation. And so when October 31st comes around, we remember how important that event was in recovering the gospel Now, out of that came what is called five solas. Now you say, what are five solas? We could call these battle cries. that came out of the Reformation. These are really non-negotiable pillars of our doctrine or our theology. These are central to the gospel. The word sola is a Latin word and it simply means alone or only And uh and and so what I want to do here this morning is I want to just kind of quickly go through these five solas and talk about why they're important and then I want to make an application in the gospel to them. So here's the first sola I want you to see. Number one, that came out of that time in church history, out of the Reformation, was Sola Scriptura, which simply means scripture alone. Now why was this important? It's important because the Roman Catholic Church taught that the foundation for faith and practice was a combination of Scripture and the teachings of the Pope and the teachings of the magisterium and sacred tr tradition. In other words, they basically said the foundation of our faith, the authority, comes not just from the Bible, but from the Pope. and the teaching of the priests and the magisterium and the scripture. But they go beyond that. They say that really when it comes down to it, it is the teaching of the Pope that is more authoritative than the Bible. Now the reformers stood up and said, no, we believe in sola scriptura, the Bible alone, scripture alone. Now, Sola Scriptura recognizes that there are other authorities in our life other than the Bible. There are other authorities we must submit to. Sola Scriptura basically says, but the Bible is the ultimate authority Or another way to say that is all the other authorities are under and are subservient to this one great authority, which is the authority of the Word of God. And so, why is this important? Well, again, this is important because for centuries the Roman Catholic Church up until that point had made traditions superior to the authority of Scripture. Now, another reason that this was so important is because it speaks to and affirms what the Bible says about the inspiration of Scripture. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine and for reproof. The word, uh three words in that verse are very important. All. That means everything in the scripture. Scripture is a Greek word. Graphae is where we get the word graphite. That's what we use to make pencils. And the word actually means the actual writings, the actual words. of the Bible are what are inspired. The word inspired, theonustos, from the very mouth of God. When I speak here, breath is coming out of my mouth, over my tongue, through the teeth, and I'm forming words It's coming out of my mouth. When we say scripture is God-breathed, we're saying that the scripture, the written words themselves, came out of the mouth of God Therefore, they were inspired by God. And if God is the one that wrote the scripture, that means the scriptures have to be infallible. They have to be inerrant. You know why? Because God is perfect. And if God is perfect, that means anything that He would say or write would be perfect. And so we affirm therefore The infallibility of Scripture, the inerrancy of Scripture, and those terms are sometimes used synonymously. The Bible says of the Scripture itself, the law of the Lord is perfect. It's perfect because it came from God. We say the scripture is perfect. In the original writings of Scripture, they were infallible. They were Without error. Now we know that copying parts of the Bible by handwritten copies later on mistakes got in there, but we know what the scripture says by holding those Those manuscripts together we get back to what the originals said. The word of God in the originals is the infallible and errant word of God. And that also assumes another thing, authority. If God spoke and he gave us the Word, inspired Word, the infallible word, that means that God, this book here has all authority. I have no authority, but the word of God has all authority. Now you have to remember back in that time, the tradition of the Catholic Church was that the Pope was infallible, not the Bible And that the Pope was over the Scripture rather than being subservient to the Scripture. They said the Pope was infallible, and to deny his infallibility was an error. In fact, let me just read you what one Catholic scholar wrote. He said concerning the power of the Pope. He who does not accept the doctrine of the Church of Rome and Pontiff of Rome as an infallible rule of faith from which the holy scriptures too draw their strength and authority is a heretic. You hear what he said? That the Pope is infallible. And that the Pope reigns over Scripture, and we get all of our practice, all of our doctrine from him, and anyone who doesn't believe that is a heretic. Now, Martin Luther was one of the reformers that stood up and said, you know what? That's not true. The Word of God is the final authority And the word of God is infallible, not the Pope. Martin Luther stood up and said, I reject the Pope. I deny that he is above Scripture. It is the word of God that is infallible. In fact, he would challenge and debate some of the Catholic scholars of his day over this one issue. And this, of course, as you know, cut kind of got him into hot water, but he held on to the idea that the Bible alone is the supreme authority. This is our foundation for faith and practice. Scripture has authority, not men, not councils, not priests, the word of God alone. And so out of that came the cry, sola scriptura, the scripture alone. But here's number two, another one. Number two, sola gracia, grace alone. Grace alone. Now the principle of solar grace means that all the Christian life is by grace from beginning to end. That is to say that all of salvation is a gift. Now the Catholic Church taught that salvation is a gift, but it's a combination not only of God's grace, but also of the merits and the works of the sinner. It was not just God alone or grace alone, but also it included the the work of the sinner. But we see here, we just read, go back to Ephesians 2, where in verse number um eight where it says this, it says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and then not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works. lest any man should boast. And back up in verse number one of chapter two, it says this, and you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. The Apostle Paul says, look, we as sinners, we're dead in our trespasses and sins. It's not us, it's all of God, it's all of grace. Dead, what can a dead man do? Now, we would say this to be more specific, what physical work can a physically dead man do? And we would say none. If a man is dead, if you go to a casket and you say to that person, the casket, please get up. Please help me move these flowers. You're not going to get any response because that person is dead. There's no physical works. They can't hear. They can't move. There's nothing that a dead man can do. But then we would say when we when the Bible says that we're spiritually dead, the question would be: what spiritual works can a spiritually dead man do. And the same response is, we can do no spiritual works because we're spiritually dead. Before we can do anything spiritual, God first has to work on us. It has to be first of God. What does the Bible say in 1 John 4. 19? We love him because he first loved us. us. Salvation is all of God from beginning to end. Salvation is God's grace without any contribution to man. And that is the cry that came out of the Reformation. Soligia, grace alone. It's all of the grace of God. Now, your view of this will also be dependent upon how you understand what took place in the garden. The fall of man, your doctrine of sin. When man fell in the garden, did he die spiritually or was he just wounded? Well the Bible makes it very clear. That when Adam fell in the garden, uh spiritually he died. And there was no spiritual work that he could do on his own. And that w and because of that, man is now depraved. His whole nature is to praise. Sin affected every part of his being, so much so that his desires are corrupt. And his desires will never cause him to want to go after God unless God first acts. Let me show you a passage. Go to Psalm 14 real quick. I want you to I want you to see this. Look in Psalm 14 in the Old Testament. I would never forget when I was a seminary student. I was uh I was studying Hebrew. I was reading in the Hebrew and I was reading this psalm specifically, and it really showed me something. In verse number one, it says, If the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. That is that's a rebellious spirit. The fool says no to God. This shows the heart of the depraved man. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There's none that doeth good. And the Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men. Now I was reading this in Hebrew, and I'm not trying to impress you when I say that. I just want you to understand how it came across to me, because in the Hebrew it literally reads like this. The Lord looked down from heaven upon Kal Bene Adam, which is all the sons of Adam. Who does that leave out? Nobody. If you're born of Adam, that's you. So God is looking down upon all the sons of Adam. And what is he looking for? It says here in verse number two, he looked down to see if there were any that did understand, and any that did what? Seek God. He's looking to see if there's anyone that's seeking God. And what does he find out in verse number three? They're all gone aside. They are all together become filthy. There is none that doeth good. No not one. There's no one that in and of themselves will seek after God and do good. Again, this all gets back to the fact that it has to be God who first works on our heart. And by the way, the Apostle Paul later in Romans chapter 3, when he's describing the depravity of man, says this in Romans three ten. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. Verse eleven, there's none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. What's he doing there? He's quoting from Psalm 14, right? And then he goes on to describe depravity. They're all gone out of the way. They're altogether become unprofitable. There's none that doeth that doeth good. No, not one. And on he goes to describe the depraved heart of man. You see, the doctrine of total depravity teaches us that man positionally is as bad as he can be before Almighty God. He might not always live out the full measure of his depravity, but he's in and of himself, he's unable to do anything. f uh to help himself, that even his desires will keep him from seeking God on his own, you see. Now some people will say, well, what about man's free will? And the Apostle Paul would probably answer that by saying this, yes, but your free will is in bondage Your free will is limited. I'd like to give this illustration. Here's a man in prison. He has a lot of freedom inside that prison, jail. He might read, he might exercise, he might sing. Uh, you know, he can do a whole lot of things inside that jail cell, but there's one thing that he's not free to do, and that's leave the cell. He's not free to do that. Why? Because his freedom is limited And he has no ability to get out of that jail cell unless somebody on the outside opens up the door and then he's able to get out of the prison. You see, man is in a prison of sin. And that prison bars that hold him are his own depravity. And it's the desires, the sinful desires of man that does not seek God. That's holding man in this prison. And unless God from the outside works on that man, he will never seek God. And so it has to be the Lord that does it. That's why we say grace alone. God came and he opened up the prison door for me. It was God that did it. Again, it says this, for by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It's like Lazarus. Remember when Lazarus is in the grave and Jesus came forth, and Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth. And what did he do? He came forth. Until that time, until there was nothing he could do in of himself. Jesus called his name and he came forth. I love the the the hymn that we sing that describes this grace. There's a line in the hymn that says, This long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin in nature's night, thine eye diffused a quickening ray I rose, the dungeon flamed with light, my chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose and went forth and followed thee. You see, all of us were in a prison of sin until God diffused his grace to us. And we were able to rise up and follow him. Grace alone. Solo scriptura, scripture alone, sola gracia, grace alone. Solo fidae is faith alone. Again, the Roman Church taught that a person was justified when they were baptized. That's why they would baptize infants. They basically taught at this time that this is the first step in justification. You need to be baptized And when an infant is baptized, what they said is grace is infused into that into that child, into that person And what does that mean? That just simply means they treat kind of grace kind of like a substance. You know, when you're baptized, your heart is infused with grace. At that time you're justified. It's baptism that gives you that grace and that justification at that time. And according to the teachings of the church back then, you continued to be saved. You continued to be justified just so long as you didn't sin. And when you sinned, you could lose. That's why they divided up into venal sins and mortal sins. Mortal sins were the sins that killed the grace that was infused into you. Thus they were called mortal sins. And if you lost your salvation by committing a mortal sin, the question is how do you get that salvation back? And you would think, well, if I got it by being baptized, I think I can get it back by being baptized again, right? Well that's not what the Roman Catholic Church said They said, you know, once you've been baptized once, that's it. It left an indelible mark. Whatever the indelible mark is, I can't figure that out what it is. But they said, you know, once happens you can't do it again, well then how do you get your salvation back? Well, they said since the uh sacred mortal sin killed the grace that is in you And that you need more than just faith for salvation. You know, faith is a necessary part of salvation, but it's not sufficient for salvation. In other words, you need more than just faith And so you have to add to your faith all these works. What are the works that you have to add? Well, you have to add uh confession you have to go to the priests and you have to get attrition and that is you have to confess your sins uh you know Uh sincerely, it can't be attrition, which they said was just an insincere confession, you know, based on a fear of punishment. It has to be true contrition. You truly confess your sins, and when that happens the priest will say absolvo Gone, my son, your sins are forgiven. And then not only that, but works of satisfaction. You have to do all these other kind of works. What kind of works? Well, saying so many Hail Marys. And then giving alms to the poor. And then there was also the treasury of merits. What's that? These are good works that the previous saints uh did, and they're in a treasury in heaven somewhere that you can have added to your account. I'm not sure how all that works. But there's a treasury of merits that can help you as well. But they said sola fide, faith alone, the church said, that's heresy That's heresy. You have to have works. In fact, the Council of Trent reject rejected the idea of sola fide, saying that it was a heresy But it was Martin Luther, the tortured monk, Catholic priest at that time, who was trying to find peace with God. And studying the book of Romans, he stumbled across the expression in Romans, the just shall live by faith. And suddenly it dawned on him that faith was sufficient. It was all that he needed. Just faith. And later he wrote of this experience, he said, Then I grasped that the justice of God is that righteousness by which through grace And sheer mercy, God justifies us through faith. Thereupon I felt I must have been reborn and to have gone through the open doors to paradise. And he said the scripture took on a whole new meaning. And this passage of Paul, he said, became a gateway of heaven for me. He had discovered the purity of the gospel, which says, For by grace are you saved through faith. And when once you put your faith in Jesus Christ, what happens? You're justified. You're declared righteous. Justification is the act whereby God declares the sinner righteous in Christ. The moment you put your faith in the finished work of Christ, God judicially, legally declares you righteous. And in the sight of God, you're you're a saint. You're holy. You know, that's your legal standing. You say, well, that's not why I am practically. Yeah, I know. That's why we say, you know, we're we're at the same time, we're righteous and we're sinners at the same time. We've been declared righteous by God because of what Christ is. So my faith is in the finished work of Christ. My faith is not in faith itself. Faith is a channel, it's not the ground. Faith is the channel. Faith has to be based on someone or something My faith is based on what? What Christ did. The finished work of Christ. That's where my faith is. And because of that, I'm declared righteous. I'm given the righteousness of Christ. I'm seen as righteous in God's eyes. Now, I have to live up to that as a believer in my life with the help of the Holy Spirit. But it's faith and faith alone. And that's what the reformers began to declare. You don't need to add works to faith Sola fide, faith alone, sola scriptura, scripture alone, sola gracia, grace alone, sola fide, faith alone, but then also solus Christus Christ alone. It's just Christ, nothing else. You see, by that time, the popes and the priests became the mediators between the people and God. And the Roman Catholic Church taught, and if you want grace, it's the Church that dispenses that grace. The Church is the one that has the authority to do that. That's called sacerdotalism. from the Latin word sassar which means priests. In other words, the church had the authority to give priests, to make a person a priest. And once you became a priest, you had all this authority, supposedly, from the Pope, to be able to dispense grace as a priest. That's why they wielded such control Under this system, it's the church that wielded the ability to give grace. Only the priest could bestow the Holy Spirit And confirmation. Only the priests could turn the elements from just bread and and wine into the body and blood of Christ, which is another heresy, by the way. The priest thought he had the power to do that. Only the priest could hear confession and forgive sin. Only the priest could rightly marry you. uh with the authority of the church. Only the priest could give you the last rites. In other words, it was the priest that dispensed grace. The church and the priest was the mediator between the people and God. And the reformers said no. No. There's one God, and there's one mediator between God and man. That's the man, Christ Jesus. Jesus is our only mediator. And so they rejected that whole doctrine. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father except through me. Jesus is our only mediator. And finally, the last sola is this. Sola scriptura, scripture alone, sola grace, the grace alone. Sola Fide, faith alone, solus Christus Christ and Christ alone. He's our mediator. But then here's the last one. Sole Deo Gloria. Glory to God alone. And that is simply this. If God is the one who does all the saving, then God is the one who gets all the glory. We don't deserve any glory. None. It's all of Him. It's His Word. It's His grace. Even the faith, God gives that to us. For by grace we say through faith, and that's not of ourselves. That's a gift of God. We need help in our depravity, even for God to help us have faith. It's all of God, and then that means therefore God gets all the glory. That's why it says, lest any man should boast. There's nothing I can boast about Absolutely nothing I can boast about. God gets all the glory. If I boast about anything, I boast about the cross of Jesus Christ. That's why Paul said, God forbid that I should glory, that I should boast, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. God gets all the glory. Now, let me apply this because the title of this sermon, I titled it, I was trying to be a little bit clever here, I titled it Five Solas and a Thief at the Cross. You say, what's the thief at the cross have to do with the five souls? Well, I'm glad you asked that question. Go to Luke chapter 23. Let me show you this. And we'll be done. But look in Luke chapter 23, look at verse number 39. If you ask me, this is one of the most incredible conversions of all the New Testament. And it's a paradigm for true salvation. What happens here in this story is Jesus is there on the cross. He's between two thieves. The Bible tells us in Matthew 27, 44, that the robbers who were crucified with him reviled him. Both of them were reviling Jesus hanging there on the cross. But suddenly something happened to one of the thieves. He was given a revelation. His eyes were opened. He saw Jesus as a Savior. He saw them. Suddenly he saw that this man was not like any other man That this man, he had done nothing wrong. And God opened his eyes to see who Jesus was. And he realized that Jesus was sinned. Let's look in verse number forty one of Luke twenty three. But the other answer rebuked him, saying, Doth not Thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation. Now he's rebuking his friend, saying, look, don't you fear God? And verse 41, for we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man hath done nothing amiss. Suddenly he sees that Jesus It was blameless that he was sinless. He he realizes that he's Lord because in verse number forty-two and he said unto him, Jesus, said unto Jesus, Lord Remember me. He calls him Lord. Lord means master. If Jesus is his master, what does that make him? Makes him his servant, his slave. By the way, that's salvation when you recognize Jesus as Lord, you believe in him as Lord. And then he confesses, he realizes that Jesus has the power to forgive sin because in verse 42 he says Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. What's he asking for there? Forgiveness. He's saying, Lord, forgive me for my sin. And when you come into your kingdom, remember me. What's he asking for? He's asking for mercy He's asking for forgiveness. Remember, when you're hanging on a cross, you can barely breathe. You're in agony. That's why these words are very short. He just says, remember me, Lord, when you come into your kingdom. Now suddenly he's asking for forgiveness. Let me ask you, who has the power to forgive sin? Only God. So suddenly he realizes that Jesus is God. He's the Savior. He has the power to save. He has the power to determine where I will spend my eternity. Why pray to him if he doesn't have the power? to determine where I spend eternity. Suddenly he realizes he's he's sinless. He's God. He's has the power to forgive sin. He's sovereign to determine my destiny. And if you have a kingdom, that means you must be a what? King. Remember when you come into your kingdom, not if, but when. That's faith. Faith doesn't say if, faith says when. When you come into your kingdom, remember me. Now he realizes that he is a king, and one day he will set up his kingdom. He has a spiritual kingdom and he has a literal kingdom. He received Jesus as the king. He also realized that Jesus will conquer death. Why? Because if if death conquers Jesus, Jesus won't be able to do any of these things. He realizes that this man has will have victory over death. He'll conquer death. He'll come out of that grave. What an incredible prayer. This man prays. He realizes in that moment who Jesus is. He reaches out. And what is the response of Jesus? And verse 43, and Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. What do I learn from this? Solo scriptura. He believed in the Word of God. He believed the words that Jesus said of himself. Maybe he heard them somewhere earlier, but somewhere along he comes to believe it Sola gracious by grace alone. He didn't deserve anything. He got the unmerited love and favor of God. God opened his eyes to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. Suddenly he opened his eyes and he could see Christ. This was all the grace of God. Solophide, this was all by faith. There was nothing he could do for his salvation. He couldn't do any works of absolution or any penance. He didn't have time to obey any of the commandments. He didn't have time. He didn't pray to Mary. By the way, she was there. He didn't say anything to her. She wasn't even in the picture here. None of that. I hear different denominations telling all these things you have to do in order to be saved. Look, this man could do nothing, nothing except simply this, put his faith in what Christ was doing. His full faith in Jesus Christ. Scripture alone, Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. He talked to Christ and nobody else. He didn't appeal to anybody else there. It was just Christ. Christ was his mediator, no one else. And you know what? Glory to God alone. Because this was an incredible conversion. I don't think anybody had as much assurance as this man did when Jesus said, Today, you're going to be with me in paradise. Today in paradise. This is the glorious gospel. This is the gospel in all of its purity. This is what we celebrate. This is the power of God unto salvation. And I want to tell you something, friend, it still works. It still works. And you know what we need to do as believers? We need to be committed to stand upon this pure gospel. to protect it, to preach it, to proclaim it. And I say like the Apostle Paul, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation for anyone who believes. Anyone. And I want to ask you something, friend. If you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ, you can do it right now. You know what? You say, anybody can do this. Are you hungry? Well the table's right here. It's fully loaded with bread. Come and eat. You thirsty? Here's the water of life. Drink freely. Just come. That's the invitation of Scripture. Come. Come. It's available if you're willing to come. If you're willing to put your faith in Christ alone, God has graciously supplied the table full of bread. Are you willing to come? Come to Christ alone. Put your faith in him and believe it. And like my father told me one day, he said, Jerry, when the light comes on and you see Christ, Embrace it with all your heart and run with it. That's what I would tell you. Embrace The beauty of the gospel, embrace Jesus Christ and run with it. Trust Him. Let's bow for prayer together. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just ask you again to please use this moment to examine your heart. And I would say, are you standing in Christ and Christ alone? Is that where your faith is? Because if it's not, friend, I want to tell you, it's empty if it's not in Christ alone. We don't need popes and priests and preachers for that matter. to be our intercessor or to be our mediator, I should say. It's Christ. Christ alone. He's the one who died for you. He's the one who paid for your sins. He's the one who calls out to you and says, Come unto me. Put your faith in what I have done for you. And you know what? You can be declared righteous in Christ. You'll have forgiveness of sins. You'll have an eternal home in heaven. If you put your faith in him. Just right there, right now, just cry out to God for mercy. I love the prayer that the publican prayed in the temple The Pharisee went in and he was so righteous, he lifted up his eyes, he bragged, he said, I'm glad I'm not like others. But the public in there, he was so broken over his sinfulness, he couldn't so much as lift up his eyes to heaven. He he he hid on his chest. And he prayed a simple prayer. He said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. You know what Jesus said? That man went away justified. He walked away justified. And I pray that if you're here today, that you too will walk away justified. If you're not already. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use it for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.