And right before the book of Revelation, you'll find that. And while you're finding that, it's been said that there are three chords that run from Genesis to Revelation. There is the black chord of satanic deception. There is the scarlet cord of blood redemption, and also there is the golden cord of Christ's second coming. Did you know that the Bible speaks often about the second coming of Jesus Christ? In fact, the Bible mentions the new birth nine times, it mentions baptism twenty times, it mentions repentance 71 times But it mentions the second coming. You ready for this? 380 times. For every one, one one out of every 25 verses, I should say, talks about the second coming. For every one prophecy about his first coming. There are eight prophecies about his second coming. And so that's what I want to talk to us about tonight. I want to talk to us about certainties about the second coming of Jesus Christ. And this should be our hope. The fact that the Bible says so much about the second coming leads me to say that God wants us to know about it He doesn't want us just to know about it, but he wants us to dwell on it, because this is what is called the blessed hope. Did you know that the early church, all the way back in their day, they looked for the coming of Jesus Christ This was their blessed hope. They lived all their days in light of his coming. It was Alexander McLaren, the great Scottish expositor. that first said that talking about the early church, he said they were not looking for a cleft in the ground called a grave. They were looking for a cleft in the sky called glory. They were not looking for the undertaker. They were looking for the what? And you've heard that so much. But it's so so very true. They were looking for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I've been to Washington, D. C. as you have and perhaps visited the Capitol building. You know you've probably visited there. I have. Did you know most people don't know that there's an inscription in the dome of the Capitol building that says this, one far-off divine event towards which the whole creation moves. One guide said that this refers to the second coming. Our founding fathers put it there because they thought it ought to be the concern of our nation. And friend, it ought to be the concern of our nation. It ought to be the concern of every nation. And it ought to be the concern of every Christian. And so this is what Jude is going to talk about. Look in Jude. Look in verse 14 and 15. And notice these verses, and Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints to execute judgment upon all And to convince all that are ungodly among all of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches, which ungodly sinners have spoken against him, that is Jesus. Look at verse 16. These are murmurs, complainers, walking after their own lusts, and their mouths speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage Now there's one word I want you to key in on with me here in verse number 14. Notice where it says, Behold, the Lord cometh. Just circle that word cometh there because that's a very important word. It's a very important verb. Now anyone who studies the Bible and does word studies as you're trying to understand a passage knows that a lot of times the weight of a passage of scripture is carried on these verbs and so many Greek verbs are expressive and they say so very much and communicate so much truth. And I want to point something out about this word cometh here. Did you know in the Greek this is a a past tense verb in the Greek. It's what is called an heiress, past tense. And yet it's speaking about a future event So we could literally translate the verse like this. Listen, the Lord came with 10,000 of his saints. Now you see, now wait a minute, preacher. The Lord didn't come yet. That's still yet in the future, that's right It's still a future event. We say, well then why does the writer use a past tense verb to speak about a future event? Now these past tense verbs can sometimes be used to speak about future events because listen when the Greeks wanted to state something That was going to happen, and they knew that it was going to happen, and it was such a certainty that this future event would happen, and it could not change When it was that certain, they would state it as if it already happened. And this is what is called a prophetic past. Or we could call this a future past. They're using a past tense verb to talk about a future event, a prophetic event that is so sure it's going to happen, it's as if it already happened. You say, how do I know Jesus is coming, friend? It's so sure it's as if he already came. And by the way, the New Testament does this often. For example, in the book of Ephesians, it says that we are seated with Christ In heavenly places. Did you know that you're seated with Christ? Now wait a minute, I'm seated right here at Grace Bible Baptist Church. Yes, I know. But how many of you know Jesus? Raise your hand. All right, now you're seated with Christ then. You say, well I'm seated here, but you're going to heaven and it's so sure. That event is so certain that friend you're already there. You're seated with Christ and heavenly places. And the truth of the matter is, if you read the book of Revelation, you see these prophetic past tense verbs All over John is seeing all the beauty and the glory that we will behold when Jesus Christ comes back. And when John looks at this and examines this and reports it, he uses all past tense verbs And so I say all that, and Jew tells us and uses this past tense verb to speak to us about the certainty of the Lord Jesus Christ's return. Now, if you doubt it, that's up to you, friend. But I want to tell you, it is a fixed event, and nothing is going to change it. Jesus Christ is coming again. Now with that in mind I want you to see five certainties in our passage tonight. Five certainties. Alright, are you ready for that? Here's number one. I want to speak about the certain prophecy that is given in this passage. The certain prophecy. Look again in verse number 14. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied Of these saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints. Notice the prophecy here. Now Jude is quoting a prophecy from a character in the Old Testament whose name is Enoch. Now you say, now what Enoch is this? Because there are several Enochs in the Old Testament. For example, Cain had a son named Enoch. Well Judah is very specific. He said this is Enoch, the seventh from who? from Adam. And so this is the Enoch that is seven generations removed from Adam, and this makes it very specific about what what Enoch he's talking about. Just write down Genesis chapter 5, write down verse number 22, and let me read it to you. And Enoch dwelt with God after he begot Methuselah 300 years, and begot sons and daughters, and all the days of Enoch were 360 and five years. And Enoch walketh God and he was not, for God took him. Here's Enoch who lived seven generations removed from Adam He lived in a society that was wicked, that was sinful, in that anti-deluvian day, that time before the flood, when the world was corrupted. Here is a godly man living in an ungodly world And yet the Bible says he walks with God, and the Bible says he walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. You say, What does that mean One time a Sunday school teacher was trying to explain this to uh their students and he kept saying, Enoch, walk with God and he was not, for God took them. He was not, for God took them, he was not, for God took them. And then he quizzed the Sunday school class. He said, What does the Bible say about Enoch? And one student said, Enoch was not what God took him for. And that's not quite what it means. What does it mean where it says Enoch was not and God took him? Well the Bible says when it says he was not, that is just one day he just he was gone. He didn't come home. Where is he not? I don't know. I haven't seen him. He's gone. And they sent out a search party. You talk about a missing person's nightmare. They looked for him, they could not find him, and the Bible says God took him. G. Campbell Morgan said he was walking with God, and God said, you know, Enoch, you're closer to heaven than you are at your home. Why don't you just come home with me? And Enoch said, All right, I will, and he never left. God just took him home. And the Bible says Enoch was a prophet who prophesied all the way back in the book of Genesis. Enoch is prophesying about the second coming of Jesus Christ. Man, the the the uh truth that God must have shared with Enoch The man who walked with him, the prophet of God. And really the only sermon that we have recorded is what we see here again in verse 14, where it says, He prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his Saints. Now, let me just touch on this. The source of this is uh some Bible scholars tell us the quotation is from the apocryphal book called the Book of Enoch. And this is a non-canonical book, however, it has historical value. And just and let me just say this, just because a writer of scripture quotes through a book doesn't mean that everything in that book is valuable, but it has historical value and God the Holy Spirit leads you to quote from this book because this is true. This prophecy that Jews gave was passed down by herbal or oral tradition all the way through the generations until one day it was recorded. And God the Holy Spirit now puts it here in the book of Jude so we can know what he said. Now, the reason, let me talk to you about why did the Spirit lead Jude to use Enoch's prophecy. Let me tell you why I think he did. I think Enoch serves as a type and a picture of the believer living in the last days. Did you know that? Enoch is a picture of that And he reminds us of how we should live and walk with God in these ungodly days. I want to tell you, friend, if you study Enoch, you're going to find there are incredible parallels between Enoch's day and the day in which we live today. And what Enoch did, we need to do, and that is walk with God. You can know Enoch was the seventh from Adam And we are living, I think, in the seventh millennia from Adam. I think we're living in the 7,000 year period from the dawn of creation. I know there are some people out there, and you may be uh old earth people and you might believe in a lot of the science that you hear that we're you know millions and billions of years old and that's okay friend you have your right to be wrong I believe the Bible I believe that if you look at the chronology of the Bible, I believe we're living in the 7,000-year period, and it's just as simple as this for me, friend. You either believe the Bible or you don't And I believe the chronology of the Bible, I'm a young earth, and I believe that we're living in that seventh millennium from the dawn of creation. Enoch lived at the end of an age And we are living at the end of an age. Enoch lived in incredible days of apostasy. You read Genesis chapter 6. You'll find that all the world was corrupt. They were walking away from truth. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, and I don't mean to be pessimistic, but we're living in days of apostasy. We're living in days when people are walking away from the truth. Enoch was a minority in his day And friend, we are a minority in our day. But Enoch, he was translated. Did he not see death? The Bible says that look in Hebrews 11, 5, by saying Enoch was translated that he should not see death and was not found, for he had this t testimony that he pleased God. And the Bible says one day God took him. You know what, dear friend? We could be the terminal generation. We could be the last generation. Jesus can come at any moment. We could be raptured. Wouldn't that be a good way to end the service? He can come, friend. That's what we call the imminent return of Jesus. There is nothing else that has to be done in order for Christ to come. All the prophecies are up to date. Jesus can come at any moment He can come before we finish this Sunday. He can come before we finish this service. He can come before I finish this sermon. He can come before I finish this sentence Jesus can come at any moment. And so Enoch then pictures the believers who were living in the last days. And and and he walked with God. And friend, that's what we must do. But I want to talk about another thing here, and that is what was his incentive? What was the thing that caused him to walk with God Well, just hold your place here. Look in Genesis 5 real quick, will you? We're going to come right back to Judy in just a minute. But I want you to see it with your own eyes. Look in Genesis 5, and look down at verse number 21 And verse 22. And the Bible says that Enoch lived 60 and 5 years. And the Bible says in Genesis 5. 21 and begot Methuselah. Verse 22. And Enoch dwelt with God after he begot Methuselah three hundred years and begot sons. Did you notice there's a distinction here? When did Enoch begin to walk with God? The Bible says in verse 22, after he begot Methuselah. Now there's something that happened in his life. That gave him an incentive to walk with God. It happened at the birth of his son. By the way, you know what the name Methuselah means? The name Methuselah means, it's the Hebrew muth which means to die, and then it's the verb uh shelah. Which means to send. And so you put that together, and this is what it means. When he is dead, it shall be sent. When he is dead, it shall be sent. And you say, now what is it talking about when it says it shall be sent? By the way, whenever that verb shala is used In the Old Testament, it's used sixty times to talk about impending judgment. A judgment that is going to come Every time it's used in the Old Testament, it's about imminent judgment that is to come. And so what is the it there? Well, think about this. Now, Enoch lived before what? Judgment, before the flood And I think what happened was this. Enoch, God came to Enoch one day and God said, Enoch, I'm going to judge this world. I'm going to judge this sinful planet. And I'm going to judge it with water from heaven. It's going to rain. I'm going to flood this earth. And Enoch said, God, when are you going to do that? And God said, Enoch, your wife, she's going to have a son. And when that son that your wife is going to have, when he is dead, it, the flood, shall be sent. And so therefore Methuselah, the name Methuselah, was a constant reminder of the judgment that was going to come. And can you imagine? Growing up there and having that name, when he is dead, it shall be sent. Every time Enoch mentioned the name Methuselah, he was reminded of a judgment, a terrible judgment that was going to come Upon the world when that young man died. And by the way, Methuselah is also a symbol of the long suffering of God. How long did Methuselah live? He lived 969 years. Any Sunday school student can answer that question And you know what? He lived longer than anyone else. You know why? Because he is a symbol of the long suffering of God. God waited in the days of Noah for people to repent. And by the way, Methuselah had a grandfather. You know what his name was? Noah. And I imagine while Noah was building that ark, he went over to see how Grandpa Methuselah was feeling a lot of times. Because when Methuselah died The judgment of God would come. And did you know that if you look at the chronology of the Bible, you can just trace back that in the year the flood came, Methuselah died. In fact, according to Jewish tradition Methuselah died just seven days before the flood. Judgment came, just like God said. And by the way, judgment is going to come again. And God is waiting. Some people say, oh, you talk about the second coming, you talk about Jesus Christ coming back. How come he hasn't come? I'll tell you why, friend, because God is waiting for you to get saved. He is long-suffering. He is patient. He is kind. But I want to tell you, one of these days, the mercy or the methusal of God's mercy is going to die, and judgment is going to die Now I think that that was the incentive that Enoch had to walk with God because he knew the judgment of God. He knew that God was the holy God, and that was an incentive for him to walk with God And I want to tell you something, dear friend, if you really believe that Jesus Christ is coming again, you know what it's going to do to you? It's going to purify your heart. The Bible says this in 1 John 3. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, but it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And listen to this. And every man that hath this hope purifies himself, even as he is pure. If you have the hope of his second coming, if you know his coming, you know what it's going to do, it's going to purify your heart and your life. You're going to want to walk with God. You're going to want to live a godly life. Enoch believed In the judgment of God. And friend, if you believe that Jesus is coming again and he's going to judge this whole world, it'll cause you to walk with the Lord. The songwriter said this, when he shall come with trumpet sound Oh, may I then in him be what? Found? Dressed in his righteousness alone. Faultless to stand before the throne. So we see, first of all, the certain prophecy. But then I want you to write down number two, write down the certain purpose. The certain purpose. Look again in verse number 14. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these Now I want you to look at that where he said he prophesied of these. This is the focal point of the prophecy. This is the purpose of the prophecy. He prophesied of these. This is the purpose of the second coming. Now who are the these that he talks about there in verse fourteen? Well he elaborates a little bit. Look down in verse sixteen. These are murmurs Complainers walking after their own lusts, their mouths speaking grace-welling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage. You know who the these are? The these are the apostates that he's been talking about. The theme of apostasy that we see here in Jude. These are the filthy dreamers he's been talking about, the brute beasts. The blasphemers, Jude called them blasphemers, he called them, as we saw last week, hidden rocks in your feast of charity, watered as clouds. that promise much and give very little. These are the twice-dead trees plucked up by the roots. These are the raging waves of the sea, foaming after own shame, wandering stars. aimless, wandering stars, to whom is reserved blackness and darkness. These are the apostates. And here's the whole point. Of what Jude is trying to say. When the Lord Jesus comes back, He will judge the unbelievers. He will judge the apostates. I want to tell you something, dear friend. No one's getting away with anything. And the more truth that a person has been given, and the more they reject and turn away, the greater, the more severe the judgment is going to be at the time when Jesus Christ returns again. And so the Bible says that the Lord Jesus is going to come and judge these. Look at verse 16. Look at the way he describes them. He calls them, these are murmurers. The word murmur here, this occurs only in the New Testament. It's used in the Septuagint to talk about the murmurings against God in the wilderness. The murmurings of Israel, apostate Israel in the wilderness. They complained about the law of God. They complained about the servants of God. They complained about the food. And friend, God finally got tired of it, and the Bible says he judged them. And Paul said in 1 Corinthians 10:10, neither murmured ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. That's characteristic of apostates. They are murmurs, also they're fault finders. Look again in verse 16. These are murmurs and complainers. The word complainer there has the idea of someone who's constantly looking to shift blame to find fault. I want to tell you something, dear friend. It's not hard to find fault in other people. It's like the hypers, critical Pharisees that Jesus talked about in Matthew seven that strand it in mat and swallow a camel. They look at the the beam and others or the moat in others' eyes, but they can't see the beam in their own, they're fault finders, the Bible says. But then also walking after their own less in verse 16. It says that they're given to their lusts. Verse 19, if you look down at that, the Bible says, these be they who separate themselves sensual, having not the Spirit. They're totally given over to their lust. Look again in verse 16, whose mouth speaketh great swelling words? That is, they speak words of vanity. That seems to reel people in, but they have absolutely nothing of substance to give people who listen. That's characteristic of apostates. And then where it says having men's persons in admiration there, that is they simply flatter people for the sake of gaining advantage. They do what politicians do. They they flatter for political advantage Someone said gossip is saying behind a person's back what you wouldn't say to their face. Flattery is saying to their face what you wouldn't say behind their back. And so they're cousins. They're related. And that's the characteristic of apostates. So we see the certain prophecy and the certain purpose. He's going to judge these, Jude says. But write down number three, the certain person. Of the second coming, a certain person. Look again. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh. The Lord cometh. Now this is the person. This is the Lord Himself who will come in judgment. I'm going to tell you something, when it comes time to judge, this is nothing that's been delegated by Jesus. He himself The Bible says in John 5. 22 that the Father has committed all judgment to the hand of the Son. The Bible says that the Lord himself shall descend. And we we are waiting actually for his second coming, what is called the revelation of Jesus Christ. When Jesus will be revealed in all of his glory, and I want to tell you, when Jesus comes again, he's not coming this time as the Savior, this time he's coming as the judge Now is the day of salvation. Now is the day of mercy. But I want to tell you, when Jesus comes again, that will be the day of judgment. And this is what the Bible calls the revelation. of Jesus Christ. You know why? Now someone say, well now wait a minute, preacher. I thought that when Jesus came, the first time he revealed God, well he was God, and he revealed God somewhat But while Jesus walked the earth during his first incarnation, during his first advent, friend, the glory of God was veiled. We saw glimpses of it. We saw it at the birth, the glory of the Lord. We saw the glory of the Lord revealed slightly at the baptism. We saw the glory of the Lord revealed on a greater degree at the Mount of Transfiguration. But I want to say something, dear friend, but that's nothing compared to the glory that will be revealed when Jesus Christ comes again. Because he's coming as the reigning king, as the judge. The first time he came, the glory was veiled. The second time he comes comes that glory will be revealed. The first time Jesus came, he came to a crucifixion. The second time when he comes, he's coming to a coronation. The first time Jesus came, he stood before Pilate The next time he comes, Pilate will stand before him. The first time Jesus came, he came in humiliation. The next time he comes, he comes in exaltation. The first time he came as a savior. The next time he comes as the judge. So friend, if you want salvation, you better get it now. I heard about a man who was standing on a street corner. This is back when they still had horses and wagons, and here came a team of horses down with a wagon loaded of barrels, and this man didn't see him, and they were thundering down the street, and just at the last minute a a stranger pulled him out of the way and saved his life. And later on that man whose life was saved, he committed a crime, and he appeared before the judge later that day And when it came time for the sentencing, the man looked up and he saw the judge. And it was the very same man that had saved his life earlier. And so he thought to himself, well, this man's, he's going to be easy on me. But he wasn't. And the man looked up and he said, Sir, don't you remember me? He said, I'm the man whose life you saved today. And the man said, Then I was your savior, now I'm your judge. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. Right now Jesus as the Savior. But one day when he comes back again, he will be the judge. And so we better be ready for his coming. Now let me give you the fourth thing. Not only the certain prophecy and the certain purpose and the certain person of his coming, but then write down number four, write down the certain program. The certain program. Look again in verse 14. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints. Now, look at the word 10,000 there. That's the word myriash where we get the word myriad. We talk, you ever talk about a myriad? Now did you know in in in that day, that was the highest numerical denomination in the Greek mind. When you wanted to go to a number that was really uh something you couldn't count Well we would say billions, zillions, or whatever. Back then they would just say myriads. And that stood for a numberless multitude. And the Bible says when Jesus comes back, myriads will come with him. Myriads of what? Look at the word saints. That's hagios. That's holy ones. So when Jesus comes, there's going to be a numberless multitude of what the Bible calls holy ones. Now there's been some who say, well, this is talking about angels. I've read some who say, well, every time we see the judgment of God in the Old Testament, angels accompany that That's in Deuteronomy 33. The Bible says in Matthew 25, 31, the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him. All the holy angels. That's a lot. Now another says, well, now wait a minute. This is talking about God's people, saints, Christians, believers who are there with the Lord. And when he comes, we will be with him. Write down Colossians 3:4, when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. First Thessalonians 3 13, to the end that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Listen with all his Saints. Now you see now which is it? Is it angels or is it saints? And the answer to that is yes. It's going to be angels and it's going to be saints, friends. It's going to be both of those groups. That numberless multitude will be the holy ones, which are not only angels, the holy angels, but it will be God's people, the saints. Now some were saying, now wait a minute, I thought that we're going to be here when Jesus comes back. His coming is going to be in two phases, right? There's the rapture When we are we meet the Lord in the air and He takes us on to heaven, then there's seven years of wrath on earth when God's wrath falls upon this earth, and then at the end of the tribulation, Jesus comes to earth That's what we call revelation. There's rapture and there's revelation. At rapture, he comes for his saints. At the revelation, he comes with his saints. At the rapture, he comes before the tribulation. At the revelation, he comes at the end of the tribulation. At the rapture, he comes in the clouds. At the revelation, he comes to the earth. At the rapture, he comes for his bride. But at the revelation, friend, he's going to come for a battle He's going to come to judge. It will be a wedding when he comes at the rapture. It will be a war when he comes at the revelation. It will be a time of joy at the rapture, a time of celebration But at the revelation it will be a time of judgment. Now I know there are some out there in their eschatology, they want to mingle the two together and they want to say it's the same thing, but friend, even Jesus himself said, you can't mix the joy of a wedding with the morning of a funeral. And at the first time at the rapture, and by the way, that's what we're waiting for, amen. Jesus will call us out. We'll have dinner in heaven. And then, friend, we will come with him when he comes back to judge. You say, I don't know how to fight. You won't have to. He's going to do all of it He's going to say to the enemies that assemble together at the return of the Lord, at the revelation of the Lord, when he comes down to the earth, and all the armies and contingent from all the armies of the earth gat gather together there at Armageddon The Bible says he will destroy them with the word of his mouth. And I don't know what it is, but I think it'll probably be something like this. Drop dead. And it's going to be over. The battle will be over. And that leads us to the four the fifth point and the final point tonight. I want you to see not only the certain prophecy, And a certain purpose and a certain person and a certain program. But here's number five, the last thing, the certain punishment. And this is a very sad thing when you think about it. Look at verse 15. He's coming back to execute judgment upon all And to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed, and all of their hard speeches. Which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. Now the all here in this verse, Jude qualifies it, these are all the all are the all the ungodly. Notice how many times he uses the word ungodly. He uses it there several times. When Jesus comes again in judgment, it will be to punish the ungodly. And there's another thing I want you to see. He seems to focus on the words here. They're hard speeches, which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. That's the time when all these false teachers that are teaching lies will be judged. I want to tell you something. It's terrible to tell a lie, but it's monstrous to tell a lie about God. And there are many people out there teaching lies and giving hard speeches. There are some people out there blaspheming. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. We live in a day and a generation when we hear more blasphemies against the Lord Jesus. than perhaps in any day. And I want to tell you, I hear some things that are said about our Lord that makes the hair on the back of my neck stand up and I cringe and I get filled with holy anger. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, all those hard things and all those blasphemies. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, he will judge righteously Now let me show you one passage, and we'll tie this up and we'll be done. But I want you to look in Revelation 19. I just want to read this with you very quickly. Because really this all summarizes exactly what Jude is talking to us about here tonight. Look at Revelation 19, look in verse 11. Here's John, and he says, and I saw heaven open. And behold, a white horse. A white horse is a symbol of victory. And he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. Isn't that good? That's Jesus. There's two of the best words to describe him. He's faithful and true. And he's true. And notice what it says: and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. The Bible says that when he comes back, there will be holy warfare. His holy nature demands justice. And notice in verse 12, his eyes are as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. The fiery eyes, I think, speak of the fact that he his penetrating vision sees all, he knows all. The Bible says he'll he'll be wearing a name that no man knew. You say, what is that name? I just said no man knew it. Don't ask me that question. I don't know what the name is. But we see his sovereign name given. Look at verse sixteen. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Amen. King of Kings and Lord of Lords Back up for a minute verse thirteen, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and the blood here is not his own blood, his blood he had already shed on the frost This is the blood of his enemies, and he is called the Word of God. And look at verse 14. And the armies which were in heaven follow him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. You say, Who is that, friend? Well, those who wear white and clean linen in the scripture, we just have to look up, you back up just a little bit and see that. That talks about it there in this very passage here uh in verse eight. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen and clean and white. This is the bride. These are the saints of God And the fine linen it says is the righteousness of the saints. These are the children of God. That's you, friend. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he comes back in rapture, he takes you to heaven. And we have joy and fellowship. And then when Jesus comes back to judge this world, he's going to bring his army of saints with him. And I hope you like horseback riding. Because we're going to be with them. And we're going to behold these things. You say, why would the Lord want to do that? You know why? Because Jesus wants us to see him in his glory. That was the prayer of Jesus in John 17. Father, you remember when Jesus was praying before he went to the cross, he knew that he would have to suffer in humiliation? And he said, Father, I pray that they would see my glory. And this is the answer to that prayer. When we are there with Jesus in heaven, we will see him take the scroll from the hand of the one on the throne. All of heaven will erupt in praise. We'll see Jesus in his glory there. And we will see him as he comes back in his glory The exalted King, the King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. Isn't that going to be a wonderful time when we're with the Lord Jesus then? Vance Habner used to give this illustration about the second coming. He said, you know, when I studied arithmetic, I remembered that the answers were in the back of a book. Can you relate to that? And he would say, no matter how I floundered among the problems that were given to me, no matter how I messed up those problems, I always knew that the answer was in the back of the book. And then he said this, I've fallen uh many times, I've had many problems in this life, and he said things I couldn't seem to figure out. And he said, Furthermore, I dwell in the midst of a people who just all around are hopelessly tangled with the problems of life. And he said, But I have this one hope, I have this one joy There is a book that gives us the answer, and it's in the back of the book. The Word of God is the answer to all of these problems To all the injustices, to all the things happening in this world, the answer is in the back of the book. And you know what the answer is? Even so, come, Lord Jesus. The last prayer of the Bible, even so come, Lord Jesus. Are you ready for that? Are you ready for that? Because I want to tell you something, friend, when Jesus comes back, for some it's going to be a new beginning, but for others, it's going to be the end. I'll close with this. Winston Churchill. He arranged his own funeral. He wanted to have his funeral at St. Paul's Cathedral there in London. And when he arranged the funeral, he arranged the hymns and a beautiful liturgy. But at the end of the service, he had an unusual event planned. When they said the benediction, there was one man with a trumpet who played taps. And when he was finished, there was a pause And another man at the other end of that cathedral played revelly, which is the wake-up call. And I want to tell you, friend, when Jesus comes back for some, it's going to be taps But for others it's going to be reveling. It's going to be a new day. And so my question to you tonight is, what will it be for you? Are you ready? Do you know Jesus? Are you certain of that? Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we take great hold from these verses and we thank you for them. We thank you that we know that this is a certainty. It's not a maybe, it's not a hope so. We know that, Lord, you're coming again. And so, Lord, may we be ready. May our hearts be right. May we, as John say, purify ourselves, having this hope. And I want to ask tonight, with heads bowed and eyes closed, do you are you certain, dear friend, that if Jesus Christ came, he could come at any moment? He can dismiss the service. If Jesus Christ came tonight, would you be ready? How would he find you? Have you trusted him? Do you know for certain in your heart that he's your Savior and He's your Lord? Friend, if you or if you're if there's any uncertainty about that, then I would encourage you tonight to give your heart to Jesus. Christ. To repent, turn from your sin and turn to Him. And friend, if you do, if you reach out to Christ in faith and say, Jesus, save me, I'm a sinner. I know that I sinned. I know that I deserve your judgment. Save me. I want to tell you something. This is the day of salvation. Today he's your savior. Today he's your savior. If you reach out and say, He'll show you mercy But I want to tell you something, friend, tomorrow he's going to be your judge. So you better reach out today. And if it's your desire to know him, would you pray this prayer in meaning? Lord Jesus, forgive me. Save me. Be merciful to me as server. Give me eternal life. I turn to you today in faith. And trust what you did for me on the cross as my only means of salvation. Satan. And friend, if you'll pray that immediately, Jesus will save you. And if you have prayed that, Tell me after the service or tell Pastor Johnson or tell Pastor Earl or tell Pastor John or Pastor Aaron any one of us let it let us know and if you're struggling in some area let us know we want we're here to help you friend Father bless these words words to the hearts of your people. May they encourage. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.