Uh will you take your Bibles this morning open please to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 11, as we continue our study in 2 Corinthians, we're going to look at Verses 16 down to the end of the chapter, rather long portion here, but this all goes together. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? And we'll look at verse 16 and I'll start reading there. 2 Corinthians 11, verse 16. I say again, let no man think me a fool, if otherwise yet as a fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little. That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting, seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also. For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise. For ye suffer if a man bring you into a bondage, if a man devour you, if a man take of you, if a man exalts himself, if a man smites you in the face I speak as concerning reproach, as though we have been weak. Howbeit, what insowever any is bold, I speak foolishly, I am also am bold also. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool I am more in labors more abundant in stripes above measure and prisons more frequent and deaths off Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes, save one. Thrice I was beat with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep and journeys often in perils of water, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen, and perils by the heathen, and perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea. and perils among false brethren, and weariness and painfulness and watchings often, and hunger and thirst, and fastings often, and cold and nakedness, and besides those things are the with are which are that are without That which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches. Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is offended and I burn not? And if I must needs glory, I will glory in the things which concern infirmities. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed forevermore. knoweth that I lie not. In Damascus the governor o under Aretus the king kept the city of Damascus with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me, and through a window and a basket I was let down by the wall and escaped by his hands. Thank you. You may be seated. May God bless us and give us understanding in His Word. This is His inspired word. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for your precious word. And the hope that we read about in it that you give us in Christ. And Lord, what a blessing it is to know that this is your inspired, authoritative word. So Lord, help us to listen and reverently, ready to apply it. Lord, help me, this feeble servant, Lord, to make the Word of God clear. That you may be honored in all. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to give you a make-believe story Once there was a frog in the cold mud of Minnesota and he saw some Canadian geese and he said, Where are you guys going? And they said, We're going south for the winter. The frog said, I want to go with you. They said, Well you can't you don't have wings, you can't fly. He said, Yeah, I have an idea. He said, Let's put one goose on one side and one on the other. Let's put a twig in between, and they can hold that twig in their mouth And I'll grab onto that twig with my mouth and you can fly me south. And they said, You think that'll work? They said, Let's try it. So here's one big old Canadian geese on one goose on one side, one on the other. Twig in between the frog grabs it with his mouth and they fly south and it's working. And they get over Indiana and a farmer looked up and he saw that and he said, That's the most amazing thing that I've ever seen He said, I wonder whose idea that was, and the frog said, M. No more frog. I want to talk about foolish boasting. Foolish boasting. What is boasting? It is to speak of one's deeds, abilities, or characteristics in a manner that shows pride or self-satisfaction. In the Bible, boasting is both presented negatively and positively. When a person boasts of self or the things that they have or their own abilities, that's in a negative sense. It's a basic attitude the Bible says of the ungodly who depend upon their own resources rather than God They boast about their riches, they boast about their strength, they boast about their beauty and their wisdom and intelligence. The expression sometimes we see in the Bible is the expression to glory in. That's the idea, to glory in. You see, boasting is used in a positive sense when we glory in who God is. And we glory in what God has done for us. The Bible teaches that we're not to glory in self. Or our own abilities, we are to glory in God and God alone and what He has done for us The Bible says in Jeremiah twenty-three, thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord, that exercises loving kindness. The psalmist said it like this. Some boast in chariots, some boast in horses. But we will boast in the name of Yahweh our God. Now, no one understood this principle better than the Apostle Paul, which is why Paul only wanted to boast in Jesus Christ. Paul wrote in Galatians 6. 14, but God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul found all boasting in self to be abhorrent. He found that kind of pride to be odious. And yet Paul feels compelled to boast in this part of the letter of 2 Corinthians. You say, why? Why does Paul make an exception here? Well, as we noted several times in our study of 2 Corinthians, Paul, his apostolic credentials were under massive assault from the false apostles at Corinth. They had slanderously accused him of so many things. They said he was a charlatan. They said he was a liar. They said he was not really one of God's apostles. They were seeking to destroy his credibility every way they could. They wanted to discredit him and they wanted to replace Paul with themselves. They wanted to be the authoritative teachers of the people there in the church at Corinth. What alarmed Paul was that the Corinthians began to believe the lies of the false apostles. And so he had to take quick action. He didn't do this for his ego sake, but for the sake of the gospel. You see, Paul would not allow these false teachers to alienate the Corinthians from divine truth, the truth of the gospel that he had been giving them. And so he had to do something. Now the false teachers there did two things to try to discredit Paul. First of all, they just tore him down. They said he's inferior. They said his gifts are below average. They said his appearance, they even attacked his physical appearance. They said his his physical appearance is weak His bodily presence is contemptible. They said his speech is of no account. That is, he wasn't a trained orator. So they tried to tear Paul down and they also tried to build themselves up. They engaged in boasting like you never heard. They were shameless about their boasting. Again they said they were superior to the Apostle Paul They boasted about their wisdom. They boasted about their speaking ability. They boasted to such an extent that the Apostle Paul sarcastically referred to them as the super apostles. These super apostles. But again, the problem was the Corinthians were being swayed by them. And Paul had no choice. He had to do something that he disliked. He had to defend himself. And in defending himself he had to do it in a way that he really hated. He's forced to demonstrate his apostolic credentials by using the boastful tactics that the false teachers at Corinth were using. He had to resort He had to resort to boasting, but he did it under protest. He calls it foolishness. Since the false apostles love to boast, then Paul will fight fire with fire, but he doesn't like it. And in fact, what he does is he begins to boast in such a way to show how ridiculous it is. Paul's way of boasting kind of parodies and mocks the self-boasting of these super apostles. And I believe that what Paul's trying to do here in this passage is follow a principle that we see in the book of Proverbs. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. And so Paul here is kind of walking a type rope a typerope of answering fools. as their folly deserves without being like them or being in their group. And so several times Paul calls all this foolishness. This this boasting is foolishness. And we read the text, we saw how many times that the word folly is used here in this text. And Paul is gonna he's gonna he's gonna pretend to be like a fool. He's gonna pretend to be like them and boast and in doing so he'll destroy them, but also uphold his own Look at verse 16. Look at the beginning of it the beginning of it. I say again, or that is, I repeat, or we could say, as I said earlier. Why does he say that? Because that points back to verse 1 of of this chapter. Look in verse 1. Would to God you would bear with me a little in my folly. Paul says, please pardon me when I do this. Please forgive me in advance what I'm doing here. Bear with me in this folly. Uh he's saying, even if you think what I'm about to do seems foolish, please bear with me. Don't be fooled by my disguise. I'm gonna kind of act a fool to make a point here. Look at verse 16. That I may boast myself a little. The false apostles boasted excessantly. Paul's only going to boast a little. And he said, surely you can receive a little bit of my foolishness, since you have received these super apostles. Look down to verse number 19. For ye suffer fools gladly. I mean, you're already listening to these super apostles. You're listening to their foolishness. You seem to tolerate it pretty well. Surely you can tolerate me a little bit. And here in verse 19, he's writing with biting sarcasm. Look what he says again, he says in verse 19, seeing ye yourselves are wise. Oh, you you're so wise, you Corinthians, you're willing to listen to these guys and their foolishness. You're wise enough to tolerate their boasting and their folly. So you can listen to me just a little. By the way, what did tolerating these false apostles do for them? Look at verse 20. For you suffer if a man bring you into bondage, you suffer that as you tolerated them. And they basically brought you into bondage. They basically enslaved you with their ideas. This is the same word Paul uses in Galatians to talk about the believers there being enslaved under the legalism of the Judaizers You're enslaved to their ideas. It's amazing to me when I hear of people who are part of part of these false cults and religions how they will allow a man to enslave them. Let me tell you something, a true servant of Jesus Christ will never take away your freedom in Christ. Will never try to enslave you. But then in verse 20 again, what he says, if a man devour you, The word devour here, the sense of plundering them financially. Paul refused to take their money. He didn't want the gospel to appear to be chargeable. On the other hand, these false apostles, they were they were stripping these people of their money. They were plundering them financially. Look at verse 20c. If a man take of you, the word take here has the idea of taking advantage of, you tolerated them and they took advantage of you. Look at verse 20 again. If a man exalts himself, exalt himself to the idea of lifting himself up proudly above others. They are obsessed with their own importance, is what Paul's saying. They boasted, they lifted themselves up. Look at verse 20 again where it says, if a man smites you on the face, literally to strike someone, that was the ultimate insult. Shockingly, the Corinthians tolerated these false apostles even to the point of intimidating them and bullying them. This could mean literally they they they smote them on the face or it could be metaphorical, but either way the idea is they bullied them If this was spiritual abuse that they were giving to them. Either way, they allowed themselves to be humiliated because of this abusive treatment. And Paul's sarcasm reaches its peak in verse 21 when he says this, I speak as concerning reproach. That is, he could say like this, I speak this to my shame. I mean if the behavior of the false apostles is the standard of a real servant of Christ, then I'm weak by that standard, because that's not what I do, he says in verse 21, as though we had been weak. If that's the standard of what is a real servant of God, you're right, I am weak. Because I don't do that. I would never do that. And so he says again in verse 21, howbeit wherein whereinsoever any is bold, I speak foolishly, I am bold also. That is, they are bold in attacking me, so I'm going to be bold in my defense. I'm going to be bold in the way that I answer them. And so then from verses 22 on down to the end of the chapter, Paul launches into what we could call his foolish boasting section of the letter. He will begin to foolishly boast. But again, he'll boast in such a way as to show the foolishness of boasting, period, and at the same time defend his own credentials. The true measure of a person's humility is the ability to boast when necessary and yet remain humble. And that's what Paul's going to do here in this section. But in doing so, he's going to give us three reasons why boasting is foolish. Here's the first one, number one. Boasting contradicts the life of Christ. Back up to verse 17. Notice what he says here. That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord. But as it were foolishly in this confidence of boasting. What does Paul mean by this? I speak it not after the Lord. Let me tell you what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that he's not writing inspired scripture, as some have fool foolishly tried to conclude Oh, Paul's saying, oh, this part that I'm going to write here, this is not inspired. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is that what I'm about to do, Jesus never did. What I'm about to do and engaging in this boasting, Jesus never did that. So I'm going to do something that the Lord never did Jesus never boasted. And that made it that much harder for Paul because the supreme goal of Paul's life was to be like Christ. Paul said, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. He said, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. That mark was Christ's likeness. That was his goal. That was his supreme goal. And by the way, that ought to be the supreme goal of all of us. That should be the thing that we are pushing for every day of our life to be like Christ. But Paul says, you know, Jesus never boasted. If anyone had the right to boast, it was Jesus. No one was as wise as he. No one was as holy as he. No one was as compassionate, more worthy of praise. No one was more mighty or powerful, full of grace and truth. No one did greater works. No one endured more suffering than Jesus. Yet nowhere in the Gospels do we ever hear of Jesus boasting. In fact, when he was reproached, he humbled himself. He didn't try to respond. He just was silent. And so Paul resents that he has to do something that Jesus never did. And that's why it's so foolish because This is this con this whole thing contradicts the life of our Lord. But secondly, another reason why boasting is foolish is because boasting celebrates the way of the world. Look at verse 18. Seeing that many glory after the flesh I will glory also. The word for glory here is the same exact Greek word for boasting that we saw in verse 16. Same exact word. Seeing that many boast after the flesh. We say after the flesh, we could say according to the way of the world, according to the manner of the world. I mean that's just the way the world is. They love to boast. You ever see a world that has more awards than we have? We love to award ourselves, boast about ourselves. That's the pattern of the world. You know what John calls it in 1 John? He calls it the pride of life. For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. It's not of the Father, it's of the world. This world is obsessed with riches. It's obsessed with recognition. It's obsessed with rewards. And this spirit of Bose is the spirit of the world. I'll tell you the sad news, however, is that this whole spirit is infiltrating the church. We're using the spirit of the world to judge servants of Christ. Some of the finest servants of Christ we don't even know about because they're laboring on mission fields. And they're doing it under the Lord. We've kind of Americanized Christianity here in America. We have this celebrity mindset that is this, I think, a shame. And I think offensive to Almighty God. A popular game that many Christians like to play is evaluating which preacher is the best, you know. All kinds of criteria used to determine who's the most successful, who's not. Well who's the most influential, who's the most gifted, who's the most effective. We even have some Christian magazines and that like to write these things up. You know, they they they take these surveys, they read up extensive reports, they carefully rank pastors according to church membership, according to how many conferences they speak at. How many books have they written? How many degrees do they have? How many are in Sunday school? How big is their staff? All of that is worldly, and all of that is exceedingly offensive to Almighty God. That's the spirit of the world. That's all it is. And that's exactly the way the super apostles were acting. They love to boast about their achievements. They love to boast about You know, all the things that they were able to do, it's the way of the world. That's why it's so foolish. You're acting just like the world. But here's the third reason and final reason. Boasting contradicts the life of Christ. Boasting celebrates the way of the world. But also, number three, boasting conceals the true weakness of humanity. In the next few verses, Paul, at last, although reluctant, he begins to defend his credentials as a true apostle. And and what the way he does it, he's going to talk about the things that he did. In verse 22, one of the slanders against Paul was that he wasn't really Jewish, like We super apostles, we have our pedigree. And Paul debunks that lie in verse 22. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I Verse 23, are they ministers of Christ? And again he says, I speak as a fool. I more. If they say their servants, I'm more. And then Paul puts up one big piece of evidence to show that he's truly an apostle of God, that he was genuinely sent by Jesus Christ. He uses one basic argument to prove it, and you know what it is? What is the one thing that shows that Paul is genuine? I'll tell you what it is, and he tells us right here. It's his perseverance in the midst of suffering. That right there is evidence. You say, how could that fact that he endured so much suffering be evidence of his apostleship? Because this is exactly what Jesus said would happen to his true servants. Remember Matthew 10? That was kind of the ordination sermon for the 12? Remember what Jesus said? You'll be sheep in the midst of wolves. You're going to be persecuted. And he went through a litany of things. You're going to be hated, you're going to be arrested, you're going to be beaten, you're going to be betrayed, you're going to be Persecuted, you're going to be slandered. That's what happens when you shine the light of the gospel into the kingdom of darkness. It generates hostility And the world's going to come against you. Specifically for Paul. When Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus, what did Jesus say to him? Paul, I will show you how many things you have to suffer for my name's sake. I'm calling you. Great. Well, you're going to suffer a lot. You're going to have to suffer a lot for my name's sake. Suffering and the perseverance through suffering. Reveals whether or not you're genuinely called by God. Suffering has a way of purging away those who are not genuine. Those who are not really of God. You see, God gives grace to his servants to endure. These false apostles, they were from the kingdom of darkness. Satan is not going to persecute his own. He doesn't attack them. And if they have to go through any suffering, they're going to quit. And Paul here in this rest of this chapter refers to two types of suffering. He refers to outward adversities and then to inward anxieties. First of all, outward adversities. Look at verse 23. Notice what he says here. He says in the end of verse 23, and labor is more abundant. And that is he's describing p working to the point of exhaustion. And stripes above measure. Stripes is a word that means to hit, to be beaten. He was beaten so often officially by the government officials and unofficially by people, he he forgot to count. He didn't he didn't he can't keep count of how many times he was beaten. In prison's more frequent, he was put in prison in Jerusalem, he was put in prison in Caesarea and Philippi and Rome twice. Those are the ones that we know about, probably other places we didn't know about. And deaths oft, he says. He constantly lived in danger of death. Verse 24, the Jews five times received I forty stripes, save one. This was a particular punishment according to the Mosaic Law. Forty stripes The fastidious illegalistic Jews wanted to make sure they didn't pass 40, so they did 39 just to make sure they didn't miscount. 39 times. Five times have received that punishment. Think about that. Five times. Five times. Notice verse 25. Faradisai was beaten with rods. Wow. Paul would later say, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. The marks are still there. Once I was stoned, this is talking about Lystra, he was left for dead. Thrice I suffered shipwreck. Acts records nine times that he was suffered shipwreck before 2 Corinthians was even written, probably some more afterwards. And then in verse number 26, he goes on down and he just gives a litany of dangers where he says, in perils, that's danger. All these dangers that he went through, robbers and my own countrymen and heathen in the city and wilderness and all these things. Verse 27 describes Things that where he was deprived. He lacked strength. He la he had many sleepless nights where it says in watchings often and hunger and thirst. He lacked pr necessary food and drink. He lacked sufficient clothes. He was cold at times. I mean if you're not really called by God, you're not going to endure this. The fake would have been gone long ago. I didn't sign up for this. It's not what I wanted. He would have been gone. Again, I received this week another one of those surveys that they send out about pastors in ministry. You know, it seems a little bit like complaining to me. I I don't want to make light of it. You know, it said basically the survey, ninety-seven percent of pastors have been betrayed, falsely accused, hurt by friends, seventy percent of pastors battled depression 1,500 pastors quit the ministry each month. 10% will retire a pastor, or only 10% will retire as a pastor. 80% feel discouraged, 94% of pastors feel pressure ministry, 90% of pastors report working 55 to 75 hours a week, and at the bottom of the survey it read, pray for these pastors, you know I don't know what you want me to do with this. This supposed to encourage me? Why are you why are you sending me this stuff? And again I don't want to make light of it, but when I compare that to this list that Paul went through, I'm like, man, stop whining. Do you think Paul went through some bad times? Do you think Paul was betrayed if falsely accused? You think he got depressed? You think he felt the pressure of the world? You think he felt overworked? Of course he did. Every servant of Christ does. We have to count the costs. And yet this is what separates those that are truly of God and those that are not. Those that are of God persevere through suffering. You know why? Because God gives you the grace to persevere through it. But then not only the outward adversity, but then there's the inward anxiety. Look at verse 28. Besides those things that are without That which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches. The word care there is the word for worry or anxiety. Same word used in Philippians 4, 6, be anxious for nothing. Paul said, I worry over all the churches. I'm anxious over all the churches. This inward burden or anxiety that is very real. You know, I was over there with London London in London, Carolyn and I with our daughter Abby because she was having her next baby. And some of you know that she she she lost an infant child in death years ago. And since that time, you know, when a woman goes for that and you women know this better than I do, there's all kinds of anxiety to come with that afterwards She's had two babies after that, and each of those next two children, she worries over them more because what's the fear that this could happen again? And so every little thing, and I watched her with little Levi, every time there was a little cough, or maybe he wasn't breathing exactly right, or maybe a little discoloration of the skin, there would be this worry and this fear. And she later told me, you know, after she lost Matilda Grace, it was it was because of Mursa, the uh infection that got in the house, that she washed the sheets and Clorox so many times that her hands got hard and blistered because she was so afraid of that infection coming back in. And and and this is constant inward anxiety of worrying over your children. You mothers know what that's like. And I think about that when I think about the Apostle Paul here, where he said, you know, I had the care, I had the anxiety over all the churches, all these Children, spiritual children. In Galatians 4. 6419, Paul said, My little children, of whom I travail in birth, until Christ be formed in you. A mother's travail doesn't end with the birth of the child. A mother is constantly travailing over her children. And when our children are not well. She bears that, right? That's what Paul means. Look down in verse number 20, verse 29, when he says, Who is weak and I am not weak? Whenever I see a believer that's weak and struggling, I'm weak. I bear that. Look what he says again. And who is offended, and I not burn, I burn not The word offended scandalizo, where we get the word to stumble. You hear the word scandal in there, but scandalizo originally meant to stumble over. And Paul said, whenever I see a believer that's caused to stumble, when someone causes another weaker believer to stumble, I burn. That is puro is the Greek word there, as the idea of just A righteous indignation, a righteous anger. Paul says, when I see these false apostles coming in and causing you to stumble, I burn with righteous indignation when I see that. And that right there is the measure of a true servant of Christ. They suffered the outward adversities. They suffer the inward anxieties like a mother worrying over her children. Now, lest you think that Paul did all of this on his own, the way Paul ends this chapter is a very unique way. Paul's like saying, you know, if you think I did all this on my own, you got another thing coming. I can't do all this. It's all Christ that's giving me the strength to endure all this. And Paul says, Let me tell you how weak I really am. Look at verse number 30. If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern my infirmities. If you really want me to boast, okay, here's where I really want to boast. I want to boast about my weakness. I want to boast about my infirmities. What Paul does here is he ends this chapter. Now, how does he do it? He ends this chapter by giving an embarrassing story about himself. And this story is designed to show how weak and cowardly he really was. You ever have anything embarrassing happen to you? I was thinking while I was preparing this sermon, maybe I should tell an illustration of something really embarrassing that happened to me, or that I did. And then I started thinking about the most embarrassing things that ever happened to me. And I thought, I'm not going to tell you that I'm not gonna say that. I mean we preachers we like to be the heroes of our own stories. I'm not going to tell anything embarrassing about myself. But Paul's a better man than I am because here in this chapter he he ends it by telling an embarrassing story. About himself. He says, you know, you want to know who I really am? You think I'm that guy that's able to do all that stuff on my own? No. I'll tell you who I really am. I want to show you how weak I really am And verse 31, he takes an oath. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed forever, knoweth that I lie not. And I kind of laugh at that because I think he's again being a little sarcastic here because normally we take an oath when we tell a story about something great that we did. I caught a fish that was I swear it was this big. We have to take an oath when we tell a story about something great we did. And here Paul's taking an oath about something that he did that was humiliating. Almost like he's kind of making fun. The Lord knows I lie not. You want to know how great I am? Look at verse 32 and verse 33. In Damascus, the governor under Ariadus. The king kept the city of Damascus with a garrison desirous to apprehend me, and through a window and a basket I was let down by the wall and escaped by his hands. The authorities were hunting for Paul. He escaped out of the city by being lowered down over the wall in a basket. This basket, this was used normally to uh for dead fish. That would be brought into the city. So he was he escaped by being lowered into a a basket that snowed like dead fish. Hiding in a basket is not something that someone with power would do, that someone with might would do This was a humiliating, undignified experience that he could take no pride in. And what Paul is doing is he's offering a parody. of an award that was given to the most courageous soldiers. Now the Corinthians would be well aware of this, but let me tell you what it was. Did you know that there was an award given to Roman soldiers when they were attacking a city The Roman soldier that was the first one to go up the wall and into the enemy city was given an award. It was called the the Wall Crown Award This is one of the highest Roman military honors to be given to a soldier. If you're the first one up the wall and into the enemy city, you were given the award. for courage, bravery. And what Paul is doing here is Paul's describing himself as the opposite of that. Paul said, I'm the first one out of the enemy city and down the wall. And the way I went down the wall was in a basket. I'm the first chicken in a basket. I came out of that city, I snuck out, most embarrassing way, lowered in a smelly basket, used for dead fish. D. A. Carson writes this, this toast of high rabbinic circles, this educated and sincere Pharisee, this man who had access to the highest officials in Jerusalem. Slunk out of Damascus like a criminal, lowered like a catch of dead fish in a basket whose smelly cargo he had displaced. And Paul tells this humiliating story on himself. Why? It is an example of his weakness. Paul said, I only want to boast in my weakness. You see, the problem with boasting is it conceals who and what we really are. Paul wanted everyone to know that apart from the strength of Jesus Christ, he was nothing. He was nothing apart from Christ. Paul said, I'd rather boast about my weaknesses. Because Paul knew that real strength is knowing your weakness and going to Jesus for his grace. That's real strength. He knew it was all the power of Christ. That's why later on, drop down to chapter 12, verses 9 and 10, we'll get there. Where he said in verse 9, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, my strength is made perfect in what? In weakness. Most gladly, therefore, would I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me I will boast in my weakness so that I can have the power of Christ resting on me. So you know why boasting is so foolish? It contradicts the life of Christ, it celebrates the way of the world, it conceals the true weakness of humanity. And so Paul said, if you don't mind, I just assume boast in my weakness. Because when I confess my weakness to Christ, that's strength. Now, friend, I'll just close by saying this. Listen, Christ is my Savior I I was weak. I couldn't save myself. I was nothing but a sinner undone. And all of my dependence is upon Christ and what he did on the cross for me. It's all there. All my hope is in Christ and His work. And Christ is my sanctification. The Bible says, He that has done a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And if you see anything good in me, I promise you it's because of the grace of Christ. Amen. And Christ is my strength. And I want to tell you something, friend, I can't do this. I don't have the strength for this. But just like I depend upon Christ as my Savior, and as I depend upon Christ as my sanctification. I depend fully upon Christ as my strength because I know how weak I am and I know how strong he is. That's why it's foolish to boast in ourselves because We're just weak. We're nothing without Christ. And so until you can get to the place where you can boast in your weakness, you won't understand what Paul meant when he said Christ's strength is made perfect in our weakness. Now it may be here that you're going through something that you can't handle, and you're right, you can't handle it. Run to Christ, friend. Run to Christ. Run to him. He is your salvation. He is your sanctification. And he is your strength. Stop boasting about yourself. Run to Christ. Run to him Let's go off a prayer together. And so, Father, we we do run to Christ today, right now. Lord Jesus, you are our strength. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never run to Christ for true salvation, that they would this very moment realize that they're weak, we can do nothing. And this matter of our salvation. Only run to the cross. Only run to Christ. And say, Christ, you are my salvation. It is what you have done on the cross that has provided me eternal life, and I put all of my faith in you, and I turn from my sin, Lord Jesus, and I turn to you and you alone. And I ask you to save me. And then sanctify me, Lord. Make me more like yourself. And there might be some Christians going through something here right now. You might be in the midst of a crisis and you And it's torn you down and you're completely weak. Well, that's exactly where God wants you to be. That you might turn to Christ, find real strength in Him, exchange your weakness for His strength. But depend upon him, friend. He will not let you down, and you will not be disappointed. So, Father, I just commit unto you this precious congregation. I pray that you'll meet the need of every heart. And that in faith, Lord, people will truly run to Christ. And we pray in his precious name. Amen.