Would you take God's word tonight, please, open to the book of Psalms, chapter one nineteen. Uh you probably know that we're in in this chapter if you've been with us on Wednesday evenings and we are now in the Lamid section of or the Lamid stanza of Psalm 119, that's verse 89 down to verse number 96. As we're in a journey going through one stanza at a time, remember there are 22 stanzas in this uh hymn we could say or in this chapter because there are twenty-two letters in the Hebrew alphabet and each stanza basically is after one of those letters we see it in the subtitle. So we come to the Lamid section And the title of our study tonight is Forever Settled. Verse 89. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. For centuries, sailors and explorers and travelers would navigate by the stars. That would seem to be a difficult thing for me to do. But they had a little instrument that they would hold up in into the sky and they would find a fixed star and they would navigate according to the star. But the problem was is that out of the countless stars that are in the sky A lot of them just seemed to be moving continually. However, there was one star that seemed to be fixed all the time. This was the star called the Polaris or the North Star. And so unlike other stars that were in the sky, this star stayed fixed. All the other stars, because of the Earth's rotation, seemed to swirl and move. But the Polaris remained fixed in the same position almost directly above the North Pole. So for those at the sea or in wilderness in the wilderness, it served as kind of a reliable reference point. It was a reliable guide. in the sky. What a beautiful picture of God's word. We just read verse 89. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. The word settled here means firm, fixed, immovable. It's reliable. God's word is not orbiting with the culture. It's not wobbling with time, but God's word is fixed. God's word does not change. It is a reliable standard. We live in a world where there's rapid change, where there's scientific theories that continue to evolve and cultural morals shift, but in all of that motion there's one fixed point that we can depend upon, and that is God's word. It is our North Star. It's our anchor that uh we can uh look to that keeps us from moving. So That's kind of the theme, the idea here in this section of Psalm 119, that God's word is the fixed point in a shifting world. And so this is what this stanza is all about. Now this stanza, we can really divide it up into two sections, verses 89 to verse 91. The psalmist is affirming the eternal character of God's word. So we see expressions like thy word and thy faithfulness and thou hast established and thine ordinances. But then the second part of this stands, verses 92 down to verse 96, the psalmist is applying this truth to his own life. So in the first part, he's establishing the character of God's word. And then in the second part, he's saying, this is how it applies to me, affirmation and then application. And so in these verses, the psalmist anchors our heart to the truth of God's eternal word. God's word is eternal. So again, first he he declares its we could say cosmic authority. And then he declares its personal sufficiency. So let's kind of look at the two different parts to this stanza. First of all, let's begin with number one. If you're taking notes, just write down, God's word sustains creation. God's word sustains creation. Again, God's word is forever in heaven. Verse 89, forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Forever highlights the enduring, timeless aspect of God's Word. It is not subject to limitations of human time or the passing of generations. And then he says, Oh Lord, notice that's all caps. That's the divine name. This is the name of Yahweh that acknowledges God's sovereignty. um as his authority as the writer of his word. And notice again it's settled in heaven. Again, it's not subject to uh change. It is Not subject to human error. It's firmly established. Settled. Jesus said it like this. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my word will not what? Not gonna It's even more firmly fixed than the stars that are in the sky. No other book, think about this, no other book in the world has been attacked like the Bible. You realize that? People have tried to stamp out the Bible. They've tried to rob the church of his word, God's word. Many years ago there was a man by the name of Voltaire. He was a famous French philosopher. Not everyone remembers him these days, which is ironic because he predicted that within 50 years of his death, people would no longer remember Jesus And they would no longer remember the Bible. That was kind of a rash prediction. That very year he said that, the British Museum bought a ancient manuscript for half a million pounds. And one of his works, Voltaire's works, which he was an atheist and he wrote pamphlets, one of them sold for about eight pennies at a London bookstore The question is, did his prediction come true? What happened fifty years after his death? Well, fifty years after Voltaire died. His very home was bought by the Geneva Bible Society, and they purchased also everything that was in the home, his presses, and so the presses that were in his home were printing copies of the Bible. And every copy of the Bible included the verse Mark 13, 31, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word will not pass away. In AD 300, there was an emperor named Diocletian. He was a great enemy of Christianity. He wanted to stamp out Christianity. He wanted to stamp out the Bible. And so he burned thousands of Bibles. And he made a law that no one is allowed to have a Bible. For any Christian to have just a portion of God's word, they could have been killed. And so he would burn every Bible that he found, and he erected a pillar over the ashes, and he wrote on that pillar in Latin, Extincto Nomine Christorium, the name of Christ or Christianity is extinguished. And so he did this all over. He did this into Spain, you know, westward of of his empire, and he can continue to put up these pillars. And announced that Christianity and that Christ was extinguished and the Bible was no more. But what he didn't realize was that while he was putting up those pillars, Christianity was growing like crazy. It was spreading all over. Diocletian died, by the way, by suicide. And we only remember his name because he tried to stamp out the Bible. It's the only reason we remember him. There's nothing else about him that is really rememberable memorable. And so uh by the way, the emperor right after him ordered fifty brand new complete Bibles to be made at the expense of the government. You know why? Because kingdoms rise and kingdoms fall, but God's word will stand forever. It'll continue to stand. Isaiah 40, verse 8. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God shall stand forever. So God's word is forever in heaven. But also write this down: God's word is faithful on earth. And we see this in verse 90 and verse 91. God's word reveals to us the faithful character of God to all generations. Notice verse 90, thy faithfulness is unto all generations. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth Now the word faithfulness, again, it just means steadiness, and really this word conveys one attribute about God that theologians like to call the immutability of God. So, what is the immutability of God? That's the idea that God does not change. It means that God is unchanging in his character, he's unchanging in his perfections. Theologian Wayne Grudum wrote it like this. He said, God is unchanging in his being, perfection, purposes, and promises. Yet God does act and feel emotions, and he acts and feels differently in response to different situations. And simply put, God is unchanging, yet still he relates to his people. So there's this the the uh you know we have to have this balanced view. We don't want to think that God is an unfeeling God who doesn't get involved in our life. No, God is unchanging in his promises and his person and his perfections, and yet he is involved in our life. AW Think about it like this, God is perpetually the same, subject to not change or to no change in his being, attributes, or determinations. Therefore, God is compared to a rock in that sense. And he went on to say, this is one of the attributes of God that is not sufficiently pondered. We don't think about the changelessness of God a lot. But it's something that really should encourage us. Think about it this way. If there's change, that implies what? Imperfection. Because if there's change, it's either changing for the worse or changing for the better. All of us here tonight, we are subject to change. I'm changing constantly. I'm getting better and better and better. We're all subject to change. But God, however, does not change. Why? Because He's absolutely perfect. And if God did change, it would have to be for the worse, not for the better. And so every part of God's character is immutable because God is perfect. His love doesn't change. His holiness doesn't change. And we can go on down the list of all of those great attributes of God. This means that God is faithful. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Again, this should be a source of comfort for all believers. You say, why? Well, two reasons. First of all, because it assures us that his promises will not change. How do we know that God's promises will come true? Well, because God doesn't change. And when God makes a promise, he keeps that promise because that promise is linked to the character of God. Remember in the book of Genesis and Genesis 15, God made a promise to Abraham. And Abraham came to God and said, God, how do I know you're going to keep that promise? And in that narrative in Genesis 15, God comes down to Abraham in person in his Shekinah glory. And he goes through this ritual with Abraham. And what was God doing? The writer of Hebrews kind of helps us understand what he was doing. It tells us in Hebrews 6. 13, for when God made a promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself. In other words, God made promises to Abraham. And what were the basis of those promises? The basis of those promises was his own character. You know, in the ancient world, when a person made an oath or a promise, it was typical that they would swear by something greater than them. If a person made an oath, they would say something like, I swear by the temple, or I swear by the heavens, or I swear by, you know, whatever. They would just find something that was greater than them. to swear by, to to bind that oath, to make it binding. But the question is, what is greater than God Himself And since there's nothing greater than God, God swore according to his own character, according to his own nature. That's what the writer of Hebrews tells us. His immutable character form the basis of that promise. The very fact that God is faithful and he does not change is the reason we know that God's promises will always come to pass. God will always keep his word. But it there's another reason it gives us comfort, and that is because it assures us that God's love for us will not change. In the book of Lamentations, this principle is taught. Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the city of Jerusalem, and Jeremiah wrote the Book of Lamentations. Well he watched the city of Jerusalem burn. It was a it's a book really that's filled with a lot of sorrow. Really it's it's five different funeral songs, we could say. And he wrote this book from a cave, a place in Israel called Jeremiah's Grotto. Sitting in that cave, he could look out and he could see Jerusalem and he could see it on fire. He could see the destruction, he could see the suffering, and with a pen in hand he writes down the book of Lamentations because he weeps over what's going on And however, in all of that darkness that is written down in the book of Lamentations, there is, however, a ray of hope And what is it? Listen to Lamentations three twenty-one. This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. Verse twenty-two. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions they fail not. In the midst of all of that suffering, in essence, Jeremiah was saying, I know that God still loves us. And I know that his compassions fail not. Verse 23, they are new every morning. What's the basis of all that, Jeremiah? Great is thy faithfulness Because God doesn't change. And therefore his love for us does not change. A man once visited a farm and noticed a weather vane on the top of the barn, and it had the words, God is love. And a person saw that and he said, Do you mean to say that God's love is as changeable as the wind? And the farmer said, No. I mean that God's love, God is love no matter which way the wind blows. And that's true. God's love does not change. Now there's one other thing I would like you to notice about verse 90 That's unique in all the other verses in Psalm 119. We know that Psalm 119 has 176 verses. All of those verses, with the exception of two, I think. Lest I read, lest I'm missing something. All those verses, with the exception of two, mention in some way God's word They either call precepts or commandments or statutes or judgments or whatever. However, if you look at verse number 90 One of those eight titles for God's Word is not used in verse 90. That's one of the two verses in Psalm 119 that doesn't mention the word of God. But instead the psalmist refers to thy faithfulness. And I think that what he's doing here is he's kind of using this expression as being synonymous. with God's Word. You know why? Because God's Word is the same as God's faithfulness. Because there's no better place that reveals the faithfulness and steadfastness of God than God's Word. God's word equals God's faithfulness. And God's faithfulness is revealed in God's Word. And the psalmist goes on to say: if you want an example of the faithfulness of God, Then look at the earth. The earth is the perfect illustration of the steadfastness and the firmness and the faithfulness of God. Because look at the latter portion of verse 90. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. Look at verse 91. They continue this day according to thine ordinances, for all are thy servants. And he's saying creation itself is an illustration of God's faithfulness. Everything is upheld and sustained by God's word and God's. Faithfulness again, thou hast established the earth and it abides. In verse 91, they continue to this day according to thine ordinances. What is the day in verse 9 or 91 referred to? The they refers primarily to the heavens and the earth, that is creation itself that was introduced in verse number 90. When he says, Thou hast established the earth and it abides. And so the they is understood as the created order. The sun, the moon, the stars, the planets, the earth, the laws of nature, all of which continue according to God's ordinances, or we could say God's word. They continue. Again, that points to the stability of creation. You know why we're here today? Because the everything continues, because it's all under God's command. It's all under God's control. The sun will rise tomorrow. Why? Because it's all according to God's ordinances. All of creation is in submission to God's word. Despite the falledness of the world, the structure of the cosmos remains because of God's Word. It is sustained by the word of God. Again, according to thy ordinances implies that God's word governs not only the moral laws, but the natural laws. All of creation operates at God's divine command. Again he says, for all are thy servants. Emphasizing that everything in creation, again, submits to God's authority. Spurgeon said it like this: the stars in their courses, the earth in its orbit, the seasons in their round, all prove that God's word is established and effectual. The Earth goes around the Sun, it orbits around the Sun every year. It goes 584 million miles each year, and yet it never veers off course. The earth never gets too close to the sun, although we may feel it these next few days here. Never gets too close to the sun. If it got too close to the sun, what would happen? We would all burn up. If it got too far away from the sun, we would all freeze to death. If it would veer off course, the course that God set in any way, life on this earth would be unsustainable. We couldn't live here. But it doesn't. You know why? Because God's ordinances are faithful. In the same way, the psalmist sees the entire created order The sunrise, the sunset, seasons, tides, planets, stars, obeying God's word. Now for the believer, this verse is a reassurance. Because if God's word can sustain the entire creation, Surely God's word can sustain me. It can sustain us, right? That's the next point. Which leads to the second part of this stanza. First, we see God's word sustains creation. But here's number two. God's word sustains Christians, sustains us. And now in the these next verses, the psalmist shifts from theology to testimony. From what God's word is to what God's word does for his life. He's saying, you know, God, I know that your word sustains creation, but it also sustains me. It helps me through my afflictions. And as we have noted in Psalm 119, the psalmist refers to afflictions and suffering a lot. He's going through a lot of difficulty. But yet it's the word of God that sustains him during these times. So notice in verse number 92: unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction. So notice the first thing. God's word, it delights our soul in dark days. You ever have a dark day? I think all of us could probably raise our hand. We've always had all have had those difficult days. The psalmist here in verse 92 kind of speaks from the heart of one who's been through the crucible of affliction. And again, we've seen this a lot in Psalm 119, his affliction. And yet he confesses without The delight that he gets from God's word, he says, I would have perished in mine affliction. I wouldn't have been able to make it if it were not for your word. Scripture can sustain our soul when everything else gives way. God's Word can sustain us in those difficult times And not only does it sustain the psalmist, but he delights in it. He said, unless thy law had been my delights, the word here conveys a deep, soul-satisfying joy. A joy that springs from daily meditation, reading God's Word. You're not going to get this kind of joy just with a casual look of Scripture. This is someone who is in God's Word every day. He's studying, he's meditating, he's reading. And from that, there comes a joy that is able to help him and sustain him in those dark days. Thomas Manson, the Puritan, wrote a man must have something extraordinary in his heart to keep him from fainting in extraordinary trials. And that That extraordinary supply is God's word. You know, next year we uh celebrate uh the five hundredth anniversary of the New Testament that was written by Tyndale, the first English New Testament translated from the original Greek And next year will be the five hundredth year anniversary of that. And um William Tyndale, of course, was the man that God used to do this. He was an incredible Man of God, translator of the Bible, and uh because of his desire to get the God's Word in the hands of people, he suffered for that The Roman Catholic authorities threw him in in a jail and uh because and the Church of England threw him in a jail um because they did not want people to have the word of God in their own um language. And yet he continued to translate the Bible to the into the language of the English speaking people. But he was imprisoned in a castle called Valvorde in Belgium. in 1535 for translating the Bible into English. And during his 16 month stay in that prison, uh he went through incredible suffering, intense physical hardship. And one of his last letters that he wrote, uh he wrote this. He's writing to the officials while he's in prison. And he writes this, I entreat your lordship. that if I am to remain here during the winter, that you will request the commissary to have the kindness to send me a warmer cap, a warmer coat also, And I ask to be allowed to have a lamp in the evening. It is indeed wearisome sitting alone in the dark. But above all, I beg and beseech your clemency to be urgent with the commissary that he will kindly permit me to have my Hebrew Bible, Hebrew grammar, and Hebrew dictionary, that I may spend my time with that study. Notice what he pries the most. Oh, he's there in that dark prison. He prized God's word. He wanted the word of God. Even in the suffering, even in the cold, even in all the deprivation that he suffered. He wanted, he delighted in God's word. Really, his life embodied the whole spirit of verse number 92. Unless the law had been my delights, I would have perished in mine affliction. So God's word delights our soul in dark days. But also it revives our spirit in difficult days. Look at verse 93. I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou hast. quicken me. And this again is the psalmist personal testimony of the spiritual revival that he received because of God's word He'd ex- he experienced the reviving power of God's word in his own heart. Have you ever felt that? Have you ever had that reviving power that comes from the scripture. And again, he uses uh one of his favorite words. We've seen this word. Many times, if you've been with us in our study of Psalm 119, quicken is one of the words that he likes to use a lot, especially in reference to God's word. And again, here he's talking about how the word of God just gives him life. It gives them strength. So let me move on here. The next thing, not only does it delight our soul in dark days, it revives our spirit in difficult days, but here's the next thing. It renews our hope in discouraging days. Look at verse 94. I am thine, save me, for I have sought thy precepts. And in this verse it's a cry of desperation. And it's just, I love the prayer there, save me. You know some of the best prayers we pray are short and intense. Don't ever get the idea that you have to have some kind of long, eloquent prayer to get God's attention. Sometimes it's not the length of your prayers, it's the strength of your prayers. that really matter. And so with desperation he cries out to God, save me. The psalmist was sinking beneath his afflictions. And so he cries out to God to save him. But notice the basis of his petition. He says, I am thine, save me. This prayer is anchored in his relationship to God. I belong to you. That's why it's so important for a Christian to have the assurance of their salvation. Because it will sustain you in trials. Because you can fall back on this one thing. I know I belong to God. And God is going to save me. He's going to keep me through this whole trial that I'm going through. And so that's his whole basis. But again, what we also see is that because he does belong to God He seeks God's precepts. Look at the latter portion of verse 94. For I have sought thy precepts. Again, it shows that the psalmist is actively pursuing God's word. And this is the kind of pursuit that fuels our hope in those difficult days. When the soul is cast down, hope arises from knowing that we are his and that he speaks to us through his word. So that's why we have hope. But let me give you the next thing. It delights our soul in dark days. It revives our spirit in difficult days. It renews our hope in discouraging days. But here's the next way God's word sustains us. It strengthens our heart in dangerous days. Look at verse 95. The wicked have waited for me to destroy me. But I will consider thy testimonies. He was living in a dangerous environment. And that's not unlike the church today, especially in some places in the world. We here in America, we're blessed. I don't think we realize how blessed we are. There are other places in the world where Christians are paying a heavy price. To name the name of Christ. But even in our own culture, biblical values are ridiculed, Christian convictions are marginalized, standing for truth uh comes increasingly with a cost to it. Don't get the idea if you stand for truth everything's gonna be alright. No friend. If you stand for truth, you're going to have to pay a price for that. And the psalmist here acknowledges this this he acknowledges all of this. He acknowledges a very dark reality. Because he says in verse 95, The wicked have waited for me to destroy me. I mean, these are real enemies. These are people who are scheming against him. They're plotting and patiently lying in wait to do him harm. Boy, I don't know about you, but that would uh that would really intimidate me. It brings me back to junior high school when the bully said, I'm gonna be waiting for you after school. These enemies were waiting for him. So this is a real danger. And again, we see this in scripture, right? We see faithful believers that were in danger all throughout Scripture. But then notice his response. I love his response. He says this, but I will consider thy testimony. Again, he's anchored to God's word. In the face of destruction, the psalmist, his mind is not fixed on his enemies, his mind is fixed on God Himself and the Word of God. This reminds me of a story I read about from about the life of a pastor from Romania named Richard Wombrandt. Wormbrandt, I think I'm sorry I mispronounced that. Wormbrandt. He was imprisoned for 14 years in a communist prison, and he was there because of his Christian faith. Now think about this, for three of those 14 years, he was in a dungeon in confinement where he had no light He had no Bible. He had no fellowship. Think about spending three years in confinement with no light. N not talking to anyone. No Bible. And you would ask the question, how in the world did he survive that? Well, this is what he writes in his book, Torture for Christ. Quote, I had memorized long passages of Scripture, and it was those words, those precious testimonies, that fed my soul and kept me sane. So even as these wicked men were trying, really they were trying to destroy him, he was just he was Thinking about the word of God that he had hidden in his heart, that he had memorized. That became the fortress for his soul in that place where all his enemies were surrounding him. And then he later writes this. He said, It was forbidden to preach. But I preach every day to myself. I had no Bible, but I had the Word of God memorized. That word was enough. Incredible. God's word strengthens us. It renews our inner man. But then let me go to the next thing. Not only does God's word sustain us because it delights our soul in dark days, revives our spirit in difficult days, renews our hope in discouraging days, strengthens our heart in dangerous days. But here's the last thing I want you to see It supplies our need in deficient days. Look at verse 96. I have seen an end of all perfection, but thy commandment is exceeding broad. And this verse here is giving us a contrast. It teaches us that while all earthly perfection eventually runs out, God's word never does. So notice the notice the contrast. First of all, the end of all earthly perfection. Again, I have seen the end to all perfection. And this verse tells us that even the best things in this world are limited, they're finite. They're tainted. Nothing in this world is perfect. I mean the psalmist has surveyed life, its systems, its philosophies, all the beauties and the accomplishments, and concluded that everything under the sun has limits to it. Derek Kidner in his commentary wrote this, quote, this verse could well be a summary of Ecclesiastes where every earthly enterprise had its day and comes to nothing, and where only in God and His commandments do we get beyond these frustrating limits. End quote. That's true. No matter how noble or how intelligent or how beautiful, all human perfection is temporary. Human wisdom, it evolves and decays. Moral systems, they shift like sands. Physical beauty and strength, it fades with time. It's kind of like on a on a winter day. You ever try to catch a snowflake when you were a kid? And a glove, you and you catch that snowflake and you look at it and it has such a beautiful design to it. It's really amazing. But how long is it there? It's gone in just a second. And that is the nature of all created glory. Our trust has to rest in something more stable. Something that's not bound by time or circumstance. So notice the contrast, the latter part of verse 96. But thy commandment is exceeding Broad. That's a beautiful, glorious contrast there. The psalmist points us to something that has no limit. No limit. And that is God's word. The Hebrew phrase here speaks of something that is vast, something that is wide, something that is inexhaustible. The Word of God is not narrow or restrictive or outdated. You know, the average per person views the Bible to be a narrow book. The psalmist says, oh no, it's not narrow. It's broad. It's very broad. It's broad enough to speak to every age. It's broad enough to speak to every heart. It's bro And so it's broad enough to guide us through confusion. It's broad enough to comfort us in our sorrow. It's broad enough to strengthen us in our weakness. It's broad enough to point us to Christ. The breath of Scripture is found in its depth of every word that points to our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, look, search the scriptures because these are they that testify about me. It testifies about me. Christ is the fulfillment of all the law. He's the fulfillment of all the word of God. And it's God's Word that points us to Christ. He is the reason why God's Word is sufficient. Because He is sufficient. So friends, we're living in deficient days. Days when it seems like strength seems to fail, clarity is hard to find, hope wears thin. So let your comfort, let your anchor be in something that is unmovable. Something that is settled. And that is God's word. God's word is forever settled. God's word sustains creation. God's word sustains Christians Let me just give you this one thing and then we're done. I was reading about the novelist Lloyd C. Douglas He lived in a boarding house during his college days, and a retired a retired music professor l uh lived on the first floor. And they kind of had this ritual that they would share every day. Douglas would come down the steps, he would open up the man's door, and he would say to the man, Well, what's the good news? And that music teacher sitting in his wheelchair would pick up a tuning fork, he would tap it on the side of his chair, and he would say, This is middle C. He said it was Middle Sea yesterday, it's Middle Sea today, it'll be Middle Sea a thousand years from today. He said that the the tenant upstairs sings flat. And he said, the piano across the hall is out of tune. But he said, my friend, this is middle C, and it'll always be middle C. Well, let me tell you something, friend. The Word of God is our middle sea. And it points us to Christ, who is the rock, the unchanging one, the person of Christ. And who we need to anchor our soul to if you haven't done that already. So the question is, what are you building your life on? The psalmist reminds us that we need to build our life on the unchanging word of God forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. So if you're weary tonight, just cling to God's word, meditate on it, delight in it, it will revive your soul. It'll give you strength. To the wandering heart, you need to come back to God's word. Come back to Scripture. Or if you're not a believer, you're not saved. You need to uh you need more than stability. You need salvation. You need Christ And he is the fulfillment of this word. And so if you turn from your sin and put your faith in Christ, then friend, you can be saved And you can have your eternity settled. You can be forever settled. I thank God that I know that I'm going to heaven because of Jesus. And we all are forever settled in that truth that we will be with the Lord Jesus Christ because we put our faith in him. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment and think about God's word, what you heard. And if you're here tonight, friend, and you're not absolutely certain of your salvation. I just encourage you right there, just reach out to the Lord in faith and pray and say, Lord, I'm asking you right now to be my Savior and my Lord. I turn from my sin, I turn to you. Save me, Lord Jesus. God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. Father, thank you for your word that is forever settled. Thank you, Lord, that it is something that we can fix our heart and our life to. It's the rock that we stand upon. It is our strength. It sustains us. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here today that is going through a difficult time, Lord, may they turn with all their heart to the strength that they can get from your word. May they meditate in your word and may they reach out to you. May they learn of you and are sustained because of what they know about you in the scripture. And may they realize, Lord, your love for us never changes. Your compassions, they fail not. They're new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.