We're going to continue the study on uh dispensationalism, or actually four views of the of the uh of the end times. with specific emphasis on the dispensational premillennial view because this is a view that I believe is the one that is true to the scripture, most true to the scripture. when you're talking about end time things. And you'll remember last week we looked in Revelation 20, so I'm going to ask you to open up there again. And Lord willing, if we have time, we're going to consider some more verses there. But I want to just lay beside you By way of picture, these four views we've been talking about in the last two weeks, and by the time I'm done, and we'll be done today, by the way, I want you to have a pretty good grasp on these four views of the end times. if you don't already have it. And just by way of review, we've already gone over this, but let me review with you. There are four basic views about the return of Christ or the end times. This is also called eschatology after the Greek word esca, which is last things, and of course the word means the study of the last things. And so we talked about, number one, the dispensational premillennial view. And this is that Christ will return. There will be a rapture. There'll be seven years of tribulation. Then he will return again. Touchdown on the top of Mount of Olives. and then he will uh there'll be the big battle at Armageddon and then he'll set up his kingdom on earth for a thousand years. That's the dispensational premillennial view. And then we also have historical premillennialism. which is the belief that Christ will come before the millennial reign, before he sets up his kingdom, but uh that there's only going to be one return in the sense that there's no rapture. Rapture and return actually happens at the same time. They would take 1 Thessalonians 4 and say, yeah, we're we're caught up together in the clouds, but we meet the Lord, then we escort him back to earth. And then, but this will all happen after the tribulation period. So a historical premillennius will say that you are going through the tribulation period if you're part of the church. And then there's the a millennial view, which is there's the the thousand year reign is not literal or excuse me, yeah, it's not a literal reign. It is more figurative and we are actually in the millennium right now. Satan is bound right now. and the gospel's going out and right now is the millennium. And then the fourthly we said there's the post-millennial view, which is that Christ returns after the millennium after the gospel has done its work and the idea is things will get better and better and better and better until finally uh the kingdom is established And Christ will come back and take up his throne after the millennium. And so those are the four basic duties. So we're going to take a closer look. than at this. And I want us to first of all consider the dispensational premillennial view. And this is the view, again, um that if we could just look at the timeline there, um how that that Christ will return, uh you'll see um and you can just see that this is the belief again that Jesus will come uh before the tribulation there will be the rapture and of course we know about we know about that. Um and then uh God will give the nation of Israel the land that He promised in Genesis 15. And so again, this is the view then that the rapture comes before the great tribulation period. And so most people who ta who interpret uh the the this this the Bible revelation to be um uh dispensational Uh look in Revelation chapter four because it it speaks about that, chapter four verses one and two, where it says, and after this I looked, and behold a door was opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard at was as it were a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And so this a lot of people interpret these verses here to speak about the rapture. John, we we see the church in Revelation chapter 2 and 3, and then there's a door opened in heaven and a voice and John is caught up to heaven. And this is interpreted as the revelation that'll take place. The revelation is in uh here in chapter 4 in chapter 4. Um, and then the church is caught up there in heaven. Okay. So um that's that's one view there. Now there are some um Dispensational premillennials that also believe that the rapture is going to take place in the middle of the tribulation period Um so they would be what we would call mid-trib rapturists. They uh they think that the first part of the tribulation period the church will be here and right in the middle of the tribulation period that's when the church will be taken out. In other words, they think before God actually pours out his real wrath upon the earth, the church will be taken out. This is also called a view called pre-wrath rapture Um that we're going to go through part of the tribulation, but just before the real wrath comes down, the church will be taking out a pre-Wrath Rapture view. So this is also a pr another uh facet of the uh dispensational premillennialism. Um but so just know that. Um and then a few other things about this view is um That during the seven years of tribulation, people who are faithful to Jesus will suffer intense persecution. Natural disasters and wars will occur. And of course, we see this in Revelation chapter 6 If you just if you just go to Revelation chapter six, and um we're just kind of doing a little survey here. Chapter six verse one and I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals and I heard as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see So we have here in chapter 6 the opening of the seals. There are six seals opened up here in chapter number six. And then the seventh seal is opened up at the end of chapter seven. And when he opens up the seventh seal, what you have is a series of trumpet judgments that open up in chapter eight. Um if you look down in in chapter eight, look down at verse number seven, the first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood. And they were cast upon the earth, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all grass was burnt up. And so um this is the continuation of God pouring out his wrath on the earth. A lot of people believe that the six or the seven seals will take place in the first part of the tribulation, but after the seal judgments when the trumpet judgments begin, we're getting close to the middle of the uh of the three of the of the tribulation period, close to the three and a half years. And somewhere in these trumpet judgments is where some mid-wrath uh rapture people believe that the church will be caught out. And so um that's the view there. But however, um I I I personally believe the scripture teaches that the church will be taken out before the tribulation period. The Bible says that we will not, God hasn't appointed his people under wrath. And I think the wrath begins with the sealed judgments that are poured out. And so, according to this pr dispensational premillennial view, there will be seven years of tribulation. People will suffer. I do believe there will be people that will come to Christ during this time. And this view emphasizes the literal interpretation of The Book of Revelation. Also, according to this view, during the Great Tribulation, many Jews will return to Jesus Christ This will be the time when um when many Jews will come. Remember we're in the kind of uh the church age right now where there's the Bible says there's blindness in Israel, but in this period There will be Jews that will be turning to the Lord. There will be a few Gentiles saved, I believe, in the tribulation period, but I think it will mostly be Jews that will turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And God promises to give the Jews the land as described in Genesis 15, 18. Those promises are still valid. in this view. Also according to this view, the establishment of the modern state of Israel in 1948 fulfilled kind of a key end time prophecy. And references to Israel in Revelation refer to the nation of Israel. And just some scriptures that seem to support this view. Of course, Genesis 15, as we pointed out. Also Revelation chapter 3, where it says that since you have kept my commandment to endure, I'll keep you from the hour of trial or tribulation. that is going to come upon the whole earth. Now um when has this view been popular? This view really emerged in the eighteen hundreds among a group called the Plymouth Brethren. And this dispensational premillennial view continued in popularity until the eighteen hundreds and it remains widespread today. Just some prominent Dispensationalists. You can see the list there. This it would include some names that we know. Perhaps Donald Gray Barnhouse would be a name that would be familiar to some. He was on the radio for a long time. Some of these names um you may not be familiar with. Leeson Archer wrote a great Old Testament survey that I had to read while I was going through seminar. Charles Ryrie, some of you might have the Ryrie Study Bible That is a Bible that takes the dispensational premillennial view. Hal Lindsay, who wrote the book, The Late Great Planet Earth, a classic book. If you haven't read, you might want to read that. Chuck Smith. And then of course John MacArthur, his ministry there in California. I'm sure you've heard him on the radio. He takes this view of dispensational premillennialism. Charles Stanley, I'm sure you've all heard that name. And then also Norman Geisler, who is a great apologist who recently went to heaven. These are just some of the men that take this view of the of premillennial dispensationalism. And so just know that. Now let's jump to historic premillennialism, which would be the next thing again. What is historic free millennialism? And again, we'll just look at the chart here. Again, the belief that Christians will remain on earth during the Great Tribulation Period. According to this view, the present church age will continue until it nears the end. The time of tribulation comes on earth, and after that, tribulation at the end of the church age Christ will return to earth to establish his millennial kingdom. So it's just as I said, no rapture. We're going to go through the uh the tribulation period. Now again I tell you I was in uh seminary and my professor, Dr. Easley, or my Greek professor wrote a commentary on Revelation that you can still pick up in the Holman commentary series, and he takes this view of the end times He is a historic free millennialist, and he tries to show and demonstrate how that the church will definitely go through the tribulation period, and at the end Christ will return. And then the tribulation will purify the church by rooting out the false believers. There's nothing that purifies a church like persecution. He said they say. And so this tribulation period will purify the church, and then when Jesus comes, he will receive a pure bride at his return. And the second coming will precede the millennium. Okay, so um when he comes believers who have died will be raised from the dead under this view, body and spirit reunited, they will re uh reign with Christ on earth for a thousand years. So a simple way to say that is that First Thessalonians chapter four, everything that we talk about in First Thessalonians four, where we interpret as a rapture, they agree with that. They just say this will happen at the end of the tribulation period. It will. And then right after that, the believers will reign with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we will go through the tribulation period according to this view. And they again this uh they take this to be a literal thousand-year reign. Others understand it to be a symbolic expression of a long time, but most historical premillennials will take this to be literal. However, there are some who believe that take the historical premillennial position that the nation of Israel the church has been replaced has replaced, I should say, the nation of Israel as God's covenant people And the thousand-year millennium reign is literal. And so during this time, Christ will be present physically on earth. The believers who have been raised from the dead and those who are on earth when Christ returns will receive glorified resurrected bodies that will never die. And in these resurrection bodies they will live on earth and reign with Christ. So also at the beginning of this time, Satan will be bound, cast into the bottomless pit, so he will have no influence on earth during the millennium. And then of course at the end of the thousand years, Satan will be loose. And so really all I'm saying here is that this view is almost like the dispensational view, except Rapture and return at the same time. Other than that, they pretty much interpret what takes place in Revelation 20 that we looked at last week. All that will take place, just like literally just like we saw. Satan will be bound, and then he will be loosed, and then there will be a great battle, and then so on. Satan will gather these rebellious people for a battle against Christ, and then they will be, of course, defeated. And then after that There will be a glorious um eternity, a recreation of the heaven and earth, and then eternity after that. And so the earliest church fathers envisioned an early millennium, a physical reign of Jesus following a time of testing. All creation would be restored to its original goodness in the millennial kingdom. Now what does this view emphasize? Historical free millennials try to balance a symbolic and literal view of Revelation. They emphasized both what the book meant to the first century readers and how it would apply to us So according to this view, God's promises of the land and blessing to Abraham and his offspring were conditional promises based on their obedience. Israel's persistent disobedience violated God's covenant with them. And again, there are some who believe that the church has replaced Israel under this view. Again, what scriptures seem to support this view do they turn to? Well again, uh they look at Second Thessalonians chapter two, verses three and four, where Paul says that When there were people there that believed they had missed the second coming, Paul says, no, there are certain things that have to happen before this second coming. And then he describes that the man of lawlessness will be revealed. and so on. And then another passage they look at is Revelation 13, 7. The saints are on earth during the tribulation. They'll point to that passage and interpret that in that way. And so let me just jump ahead here. When has this view been made popular? Historical premillennialism seems to have been the earliest view of the end times among Christians who lived just after the apostles. Justin Martyr, as you can see here in the picture, was one of the earliest church leaders to hold this view. And this view began to fade. uh later on uh as church fathers began to downplay the idea of an earthly millennium because of the Greek philosophy that viewed the physical world as evil. and uh the aftermath of some Christians false expectations of a physical millennium. Um the early church fathers were influenced by some of these Greek thoughts that all matter is evil, all spirit is evil good and so they can begin to downplay this idea of a physical millennium. Just some uh proponents. Um of the of historical premillennialism. Early church fathers that held this view, you could see is Papius, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, and then some of the modern People, um you probably haven't heard many of these names. David Dockery was president of of um of a university down in Jackson, Union University, Jackson, Tennessee. John Wart Montgomery, a great apologist. He was a um uh classical apologists and then just some other names here of men that hold to this view of historic premillennialism. Now let's let me go into the amillennial view here again and give you a little bit more detail here about this. What is amillennialism? Again, this is this is the position that holds that everything in Revelation chapter 20. is all describing this present church age. Now if you were here with us last week, we kind of went over chapter 20 in a little bit more depth, but we took a literal view of it Our millennials will take a figurative view, and again, this is all happening right now, they say. Right now, Satan is already bound. Those who said to be reigning with Christ for a thousand years are Christians who have died and are already reigning with Christ in heaven. Um Jesus' reign is not a bodily one here on earth, but a heavenly reign. So um I would just say, I hope I don't mean to sound So negative, but if this is the millennial reign, I'm really disappointed. I mean if this is it right now Now, I'm thankful for God. I'm thankful for Jesus, and I love being a Christian, and there are many blessings. But I don't see it lining up where that we're in the millennial reign right now. And again, like I said last week, if you believe this, you would have to believe that Satan is bound today. And as I said before, if he's bound, he's on an awful long chain. Because I still see him doing a whole lot of work in the world today. But again, this view, the Omillennial View, says this is happening right now The millennium is the spiritual reign of Jesus in the hearts of his followers. So he is reigning right now, but he's simply reigning in the hearts of those who are his people. And the first resurrection that is mentioned in Revelation 20, verse 5, is not a physical resurrection from the dead, but a spiritual resurrection known as regeneration. When we were saved, there was a resurrection that took place. God took us from spiritual death to spiritual life. And this is what the Amalenist will say is taking place. This is what it's talking about, he'll say, in the passage in the first resurrection. In fact, look in Revelation chapter 20, look at verse number five. Where it says, and the verse 5, and the rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. And they say that is the spiritual regeneration that took place in your heart when you got saved. And in fact, in Matthew 28, 18, when Jesus said, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me, this is what this is what Christ was talking about. That his reign in the millennium is not a bodily physical reign, but a spiritual reign. And that's what Matthew 28 is referring to. And again, so this view is called on millennial because it maintains that there's no future millennium. There's nothing really to come They believe that Revelation 20 was fulfilled and is being fulfilled again in the church age right now. Now how long will the church age last, according to a non-millennialist? They say, well, we don't really know. The expression thousand years is simply a figure of speech for a long period of time in which God's purposes will be accomplished. So it's just going to be a long period of time. We're not exactly sure when. So According to this view, we're in the millennial reign. It's going to continue until Christ returns, until the time of Christ returns. And when Christ returns, there will be a resurrection of both believers and unbelievers. And so according to this view, again, Christ's triumph over Satan through his death and resurrection took place 30 A. D. and he has restrained the power of Satan on earth, as I said before. Persecution of Christians will occur until Jesus comes again, as will the expansion of God's kingdom. And uh we can go on, but let me um let me just go down to what does this view emphasize? What does this view emphasize? Many all millennialists believe that the book of Revelation consists of seven sections. And this is the way they interpret it. These seven sections are not interpreted as successive time periods. Rather, the seven sections describe the time from Jesus' first coming until his second coming in seven different ways. And so millennials tend to emphasize the historical context of Revelation and what it meant to the first century readers back then. So then again, according to this view, the tribulation represents disasters, wars, persecutions that have occurred throughout the church history. Most references to Israel, they say in Revelation are symbolic references to the people of God on earth. Um and for example, peace and mercy to all to all who follow this rule, even to the Israel of God. And there they say that's an example of scripture when the phrase Israel of God is really referring to the church. Again, that the church is the new Israel there. Now, also, according to this view, in apocalyptic literature, numbers represent concepts, not literal statistics. For example, they'll say six symbolizes incompleteness. Seven represents completeness. Ten indicates something that is extreme but limited. Also, twelve represents the perfection of God's people. 1,000 symbolizes a great amount or a long period of time. Now, again, I think I told you already with regard to this, arguing uh that this is uh takes literal expressions and makes them figurative. If you look in the book of Revelation, the only time a number is used figuratively is in the very first chapter when it talks about the seven spirits of God. Other than that, all the numbers in Revelation are literal numbers. There are literally seven churches, literally seven ministers, there are twelve apostles, twelve tribes, and so on. Those all represent literal numbers. But an Amaranish will say that's all figurative, and they put some kind of a value to it that is figurative, as we saw right here. What scriptures seem to support this? According to a non-millennialist, the Bible frequently uses the number 1000 figuratively, like for example in 2 Peter 3. 8. Do not forget this one thing, dear friends. A day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years like a day. So they'll use that as an example. By the way, you heard about a guy who read this passage and he said, Lord, What's a million dollars to you? And the Lord said it's just a penny. He said, Lord, what's a a thousand years to you? He said, Lord, it's just a minute. And he said, Lord, can I have just a penny? And the Lord said, just a minute. So now what scripture other scriptures seem to support this view? Um again Ro Romans eleven. Um The first resurrection could refer to the spiritual resurrection or regeneration of persons who trust Christ And Romans 11 is another passage that they seem to use. I'm talking to you Gentiles, and as much as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I make much of my ministry in the hope that I may somehow arise my own people to envy and save some. For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? So um and then another um passage, the saints on earth during the uh tribula the saints are on earth during the tribulation And they cite this passage. It was given power to wage war against God's holy people and to conquer them. It was given authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation. And so there are others. But let me drop down to who has uh when has this view been popular? Who supported this view? Well, omillennialism became popular in the fifth century. It has remained widespread throughout church history. Perhaps the first person to make this view really popular was Augustine, the early church father. It goes back really to his system of theology. Now, when has this view been made popular? Again. all the way back to uh Augustine. In support of this view, Augustine cites Mark 3. 27. Again, this is the passage about binding Satan, the strong man's uh he's bound, his goods are plundered. We went over that last week and showed that that was during the earthly ministry of Jesus to prepare Israel for his coming there in that first time when they should have made Jesus king and of course they did not. Um but this is the view that they take. They say that Satan right now has been plundered, he's bound. Um and then Sat Satan is unable to deceive the nations. Since he's unable to deceive the nations, the preaching of the gospel is highly successful. Christ is reigning on earth, and Satan will be loosed at the end of this period. And now this view made sense in Augustine's day. Christianity had achieved an unprecedented political success. You might remember in church history the conversion of Constantine, the Emperor of Rome. And he made Christianity the state religion, you could say. But before Augustine, for the first 300 years of the church The premillennial view was virtually the only view to be found in the church. There was no omillennial view. It didn't happen until Augustine in that time. The one exception to this was Origen. He was a scholar from Alexandria, and he was greatly influenced by Greek philosophy and attempted to integrate Greek philosophy into Christian theology. Um and again the I it's the idea that all material things are evil. Um and why would God set up a earthly kingdom with physical um things with when all those things were would be considered to be evil. And so Origen couldn't accept premillennialism, and so he developed a spiritual, non-physical kingdom because he thought it was a better idea. And so he also, by the way, Origen was one of those early church fathers that developed a new approach to interpreting Scripture rather than interpreting Scripture literally the way we do. He used the allegorical approach to interpreting the scripture. That is to say that beneath the literal meaning, there was some spiritual hidden meaning. And only the most enlightened interpreter could find that spiritual meaning beneath that literal meaning of Scripture. So when you read the Bible, you have to go beneath Down deep into this passage, go down beyond the literal to find the real spiritual meaning. Now think about that. That's a dangerous way to interpret the Bible, beloved. You say, why? Well, because if I'm here telling you, well, I know that this is what it literally says, but behind that, this is what it really means, I can make the Bible say whatever I want it to say It becomes really subjective in my approach to scripture. And so um and so that's a dangerous way. But this was origin, and uh he was one of the part of the the school of interpretation what is what is called the Alexandrian school that took the uh the uh allegorical interpretation of scripture. But although Origen began to question the premillennial view, it was Augustine who systematized and developed. this as an alternative. So who are some prominent A-Millennialists? We'll just look at this. Augustine, of course, Martin Luther took an A-Millennial view. John Calvin, E. Y. Mullins. He was a famous Baptist on back. And these are some other names, again, some of these you might recognize, others you might not. J. I. Packer is a name perhaps you've seen in Christian bookstores. He's written several books. Um but these are some on millennialists that are there. Alright and now let me go to postmillennialism. Take a quick look at that and then if we get some time I want to take some questions from you. because I know we have uh I'm downloading a lot of material here for you. Postmillennialism. And again, this is the idea that Christ will occur that will return after the millennium. A period of great tribulation will precede the millennial reign of Christ. And you can see, again, the prefix post means after. So again, Christ will come after And again, this is a view that the gospel will continue to grow, the church will grow, it will increase, it'll get larger and larger, and A major part of the world's population will convert to Christianity. And as a result of this influence on society Society will function according to God's standards, and gradually a millennial age of peace and righteousness will occur on earth Now, interestingly, a lot of people believe that the that the pilgrims which came to America, when they came, they were post-millennial in their view. And so part of their understanding was that when they came here to America to establish a new way to worship God and to build his kingdom, that this would be part of, this is what would happen, that they would be building God's kingdom on earth. And and things would get better and better and better. That was part of their original vision when they came to America. So the postmillennial view says the millennial reign described in Revelation 20 represents a long period of time when though the preaching of the gospel through the preaching of the gospel most of the world will submit to Christ And again, Satan will have no power over the earth, and so on. So let me talk about um I think I've already talked about how that some charismatic Christians embrace this. They call it Dominion, postmillennialism, or dominion theology, where um you know the there are seven parts of society that the church will claim gain dominion over and I talked with you about that um before. Let me let me go down to um here um Let me see here. I just want to fast forward because I've got a lot here. When was this view um uh made popular? If you could find that slide, Josh, can pull that up. One up. This view was the earliest writer who uh was a premillennialist was Jehoiachim of Fiore. Um but many Christian many historians believe that the early church leaders such as Eusebius Athanasius and Augustine were also post-millennialists. This view was made popular during the 1800s. That's when it increased in popularity. Some Christians believe that the increased work of missionaries to the world represented the beginning of the millennium, you know, with the spread of the gospel. During the early 1800s, a world war and an economic depression began to raise questions about this post-millennial view. World War I came along and people began to rethink and then World War II basically Really moved people away from this idea of things getting better and better. Who were some prominent post-millennialists? There was Jonathan Edwards, I'm sure you've heard that name, B. B. Warfield. Augustus Strong was another one. Charles Hodge. Lorraine Bottner and R. C. Spro. How many of you ever heard the name R. C. Spro? He was a post-millennial in his view there. Now again, many trace the origin back to Daniel Whitby. Whitby was a Unitarian minister from England. And viewed by many in his day as a theological liberal and a heretic, some of his writings were publicly burned because they strayed so far from orthodoxy. Schaefer, Lewis Furrier Schaefer alleged that Whitney was the originator of what is known as post-millennialism. Mal Couch in his Bible notes on the Prophecy Study Bible says this, this view was first propagated by Daniel Whitby, a Unitarian. Thomas Ice, some of you might remember him, he was at our prophecy conference. Thomas Ice Also wrote this. Daniel Whitby first puts forth his view in a popular work entitled Paraphrasing Commentary on the New Testament. It was at the end of this work that he sets forth what he calls, in his own words, a new hypothesis on the millennial reign of Christ. He goes on to say, thus the system called Postmillennialism was born in the early 1700s as a hyp hypothesis. Whitney and his Whitney and his modern followers present their arguments and explanations based on Unproven assumptions, assumptions resulting from a hypothesis rather than something which is the fruit of the study of Scripture or even the voice of the Church. And so you can see that this became popular in the 1700s there. So these are the basically the four views and I've kind of again gave g tried to give you a little more detail, but those are a summary of the views. What I'd like to do now is just try to take some questions that you might have. Anyone have any questions? over some of this because again this is a lot. Now obviously we're we're premillennial. I believe that's the biblical view But what I see is there's a kind of a drift away from that here in the church, in the church in America, I could say. And some of these other views are being picked up. But if you interpret the Bible literally, the way we do, then you have to say that the premillennial view, dispensational premillennial view, is the most biblical view of the end times. All right. Let me stop and get any questions here. If no questions, I'll show you these side by side. Any questions here so far? On this. Okay, we got one over here. Actually two. John, go ahead. Ask your question. Right. The angel asked John um where these come from, and John didn't know, so the angel tells him they came out of the the tribulation. So what does it mean by out of the tribulation? Because if it's a great host by number, that would imply to me there's a lot Yeah, let me read that passage of scripture you're referring to, Revelation seven nine. Um and this is the uh This is uh referring to um the passage in Revelation chapter nine are the uh are the witnesses that went out sharing the gospel. And then right after that verse nine it says, And after this I beheld and lo a great number which no man could number, of all nations and kindred and pi and people and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands. And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb. And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders, and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God saying Amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto our God forever and ever Now verse thirteen is the question that you're referring to, it says, Whence came they? And he said, and he said unto them, Sir, thou knowest And he said to me, These are they which came out of the great tribulation, have washed their robes, and were made white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. So um this passage of scripture here is one of the ones that's debated among end time people with respect to that one question. question that you're asking. Of course, those who don't take the free millennium view will say, you see, there that that shows us that you know the church will go through the tribulation period, or at least part of it. So historic premillennials will use that verse to support their view that Christ doesn't come until the end of the tribulation. A premillennial position would basically say that there will be many people saved out of the uh in during the tribulation period. And that's what this verse goes to prove here. Multitudes of people will still yet come to Christ. People from all over that will come to Christ. But the majority of them will still be Jewish people. Yeah. If it's a post-level number, there's not that many Jews on Europe today. Well, do you have statistics on that? No, I do not. Okay. But let's say there'll be a hundred million. Seems to me like Yeah, it's just a it's a it's a large group of people obviously that that no man can number. But you have to remember that in in the Greek when this was written They didn't have the numbering system that we have today. They would use the word myriads. And myriads meant it could mean anywhere from 10,000 to 10,000s and thousands and on. I mean they didn't have the numbering system like we have right now. So they only went so high and then they used the word myriads there. So hope that helps. Good question. Yes. You had one Historical pre millennials did it in in chapter thirteen verse seven. Um you referred to the I'm I'm sorry. It w to make war with the saints to overcome them and power was given over all kinds and tongues and nations. But in verse six it also i you know, it says that um Make sure I'm in the right place. You're in chapter thirteen? Yes, I believe so. Mm-hmm. Oh, it says that they dwell in heaven So that would that would falsify would would that falsify the where the rapture took place? Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm not following your question. Can you say that again? Um You were talking about where the rapture took place as far as the historical premillennials. Um and it basically the rapture would have taken place in verse six It says that the saints dwell in heaven. So they would have already been in heaven, correct? Um well Yeah, I mean if you're saying if you b yeah, a dispensational premillennial view says the rapture will take place in Revelation 4. So the saints will be in heaven. So you're you're referring to Revelation 13 here. And so yes, the saints would have already been raptured out of the earth by the time you get here. Revelation thirteen. Okay. So all right, any other qu okay, go ahead, Dutch. Um isn't the millennium The third church by the same thing. Um Yeah, in chapter two. So do you have a question based on that? Yes. It's is in millennialism The third church prognosis if I'm pronouncing it right. Is millennialism the third church? The third church, yeah. Um I'm not really sure. Back in uh AD three hundred and fifty some on memory modulation, the third church. Uh and I was one of the first Pope, I believe. Okay. Is that correct? Yeah, go ahead. Well, I don't I don't take the view uh this might cause it. No, it's fine. I I don't take the view I know that there are those who interpret the seven churches. Yeah. Like for instance the um the the church of Ephesus there was the Ephesian church age. And then after that there was the church at Smyrna. That represented a certain age when things characterized and then the chur and the church at Pergamos represented another church age. And then all the way until the Laodicean, a lot of people say, well, we're in the Laodicean church age right now. Because if you go, if you interpret those historically and dispensationally, I just gotta tell you, I don't take that view I don't think that you can clearly say that those seven churches represent the different ages of the church age. Um what I think that these seven churches represent are the different types of churches that will be present throughout the whole church. So for instance, today do we have Laodicean churches around? Yeah, of course, of course we do. But we also have churches that are on fire for God We also have churches that we would call like an Ephesian church. We also have churches or people where there's suffer. They're like the church at Smyrna that are suffering. And so I don't take that to be the you know seven stages of the church. I think you've got to do a lot of forcing to fit all that in there. I think that and also it's to me it would be kind of it's almost pessimistic because we would say, well, we're in the layer to see in church age so we just have to accept that the church is going to be bad. No, I don't accept that. I think that in this age, before the time of the Lord Jesus Christ, we could still have revival. And I think we can still be a strong, evangelistic, Ephesian type church even now before the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I s I take the view that the seven churches represent seven types of churches. That'll be present all throughout the church age, starting at the beginning, all the way until now. Okay? So hope that helps. Let's take one more question, we'll have to wrap it up. Morning Pastor. Morning, Chris. Hey um could you just touch on the the difference between the church and Israel? And I know there's a there's a distinction there. And my question is, is one more blessed than the other? Well, um, yeah, again, this is one of the big debates with end time things. Has the church replaced Israel? Um and I would say no. I mean the church is the church. The church are those who are the redeemed, the blood washed children of God. that are that are called in the Bible, admittedly several times, spiritual Israel. A lot of times the Bible will call the church spiritual Israel But that doesn't mean that the church has replaced Israel. The Israel are people who are children of Abraham, the nation of Israel, just like we see. Uh and they're in the land now. They became a nation back in nineteen forty-eight. So the difference is very simply the church are people that are born again that know the Lord Jesus Christ. Israel are the the the the ethnically Jewish people, the Hebrews that are spread all over the world and also occupy the Holy Land right now. So that's that's the clear difference. Are we more blessed? Anyone who knows the Lord Jesus Christ is more blessed than those who don't know him. Now, there are Jewish people that are messianic Jews that have come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, but the numbers are not that many. And that fulfills what Paul said in Romans, that there's blindness in part in Israel. Until the fullness of the Gentiles. In other words, when right now God's dealing mostly with Gentiles, non-Jewish people And when the fullness of the Gentiles is over, then God's going to turn again to his people, the Jews, and they will turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And God will fulfill all the promises, the literal promises that he gave to Israel. that are listed in the Old Testament. So I would say that the church is more blessed right now because we know Jesus. But there's going to come a time when God once again is going to turn to his people. And the Bible says all Israel will be saved. So um So that would be the difference. Alright, we're out of time, folks. Let's all stand together. We'll have a word of prayer and then we'll have our service Father, thank you for your word, and I pray that you'll help us as we study it to get clarity on some of these things. Lord, that we would serve you faithfully. We know you're coming again, just as surely as you came the first time. You're going to come again. And Lord, help us to be faithful, looking for that blessed hope, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.