Turn to 1 Peter chapter 4. And this morning I want to talk about um in from this passage here how to respond to pain and suffering and trials that might come in your life. I heard about a man who described a Christian's response to pain this way. This is what he wrote. He said, We once rescued a bird from the claws of a cat. And though its wing was broken, the frightened bird struggled to escape my loving hands. Then he said, Contrast this with my daughter's recent trip to the doctor, her strep throat meant a shot was necessary. Frightened, she cried, no daddy, no daddy, no daddy, but all the all the time the while she gripped me tightly around the neck And then he said this, pain ought to make ought to make us more like that sick child than a hurting bird. Isn't that good? And that's so true. If you're going through trials, if you're going through pain, you're going through suffering, then wrap your arms around the neck of your father Don't try to struggle and get out of his loving hand, go to the Father. Now the whole point is how we respond to trials Makes a big difference in our life whether we will become better as a result of the trial or become bitter Now, Peter here in this passage is trying to teach believers the proper reaction to fiery trials so that they can be fully blessed by them instead of just simply being burned by them. Now look, if you're going to go through the trial, let's make sure that we're blessed by it. And so Peter's going to talk to us about how to respond. And really, it's all about our attitude. Someone said our attitude determines our outcome when we go through trials and pain. and suffering. And so I just want you to see what Peter wrote. I want to make clear what Peter said about four attitudes we could say or four responses to trials in our life. Now if you're taking notes, just write down here's number one. Expect it. When it comes to trials, when it comes to suffering and pain, expect it. That's not being negative, friend. That's just reality. In fact, look what he says And verse number 12 of chapter 4. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. Don't be surprised. when it comes. Uh notice he calls them beloved because Peter is a loving, warm pastor. He had the heart of a pastor. He knows these are God's people. And I know here today in this crowd of people, you are the people of God. And just know that God loves you very, very much. See, I'm going through a trial. He loves you deeply, my friend. You are the beloved of God. And he has not forsaken you. Now he speaks very lovingly, but also he's firm when he says, think it not strange. Really, Greek scholars tell us this is a prohibition imperative. That is, it's a command to stop an action that's already taking place. So get the idea, what's happening here with some of these believers is they were thinking, why me? Why is this happening to me? Why do I have to go through the trial? I mean, you know, this is a strange thing. And Peter says, stop thinking that way. It's not a strange thing if you're a child of God. The Bible tells us that in this world in which we live, we will have tribulation. We will have trials. John 1633, Jesus said, In the world ye shall have tribulation. In Acts 14, 22, Paul said to his new converts, We must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. You know, there are some people that think, well now that I'm saved, uh it's all going to be all roses and no thorns, no more problems in my life now that I'm a I'm a Christian. And friend, that's just not true. You see, we were going the same direction as the world before we knew Jesus. But once we got saved, we repented and we turned around. You know what's happening now? We're facing the world head on. That's why there's tribulation. That's why there's trials. And so Peter says, listen, stop thinking it to be a strange thing. C. S. Lewis. Said this, the problem is not why some pious, humble believing people suffer, but why some do not. And that's true. Look back in chapter 1. Peter's talked about trials before. Look at chapter 1 and look at verse number 6, what he had to say. He says, wherein ye greatly rejoice, chapter 1, verse 6, though for now for a season If need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations. Notice the trials, first of all, under this expected, they're providential. Trials are providential. It says for a season. If need be for a season. This is a season of trial or suffering that God sees fit to bring. At certain times in our life we might go through a season of all sunshine, but then there are seasons that come of trials. It's just now something about seasons. Seasons don't last forever. It's just for time that God said, I'm going to bring you through this. In fact, there are one or three people here in this room today. You're going through a trial right now. You're in the season of suffering. Or maybe you're not in that season, but it's it's ahead of you. It's ahead of you. Or you may be coming out of that season. But their providential friend, God brings them upon us. I like what Andrew Murray wrote. He said this when every trial came, he said, first He remembers, God brought me here. I'm here by his will. He said, second, he will keep me by his love during this trial. Third, he says, he will make this trial a blessing to me. And then he said, fourth, he'll bring me out. And his time. And it'll be behind me. So he says, when you go through a trial, just say, I'm here by God's appointment. I'm in his keeping. I'm under his training. And It's only for time, providential. But also notice what Peter says. They're purposeful. Look again in verse number six. He says, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season If need be, just underscore that. If need be. You see the word need here has the idea of an absolute necessity. It is inevitable. And you say, why this trial? God, why am I going through this season right now? Because God says, well, it's just needful. It's just needful. It's what medicine is to a patient. You just have to ta you have to go through it. It's not tasteful. But it's needful. You have to have it during this time. Trials are providential, trials are purposeful, trials are painful, because he says in verse 6, ye are in heaviness. You're in heaviness. That is, of course, that's the idea of sorrow. But let me tell you something, dear friend. Do you know that God uses sorrow as a great sanctifying tool in our life? Some of the most sanctifying moments in my life have been times of sorrow. You know, I don't I hate to say it, but I don't get a whole lot of sanctification when I'm if I'm always Happy. Now I didn't say always joyful because there's a difference between happiness and joy. Happiness is according to your circumstances. Joy is an inside job. It goes deeper than that. And if your happenings are good, or if your circumstances are good, then you'll be happy. You see, joy is always there. Happiness comes and goes. And if I'm always happy, I'm not always being sanctified the way God wants me to. Sometimes God has to bring me through sorrow because sorrow has a sanctifying work that happens in my life. It happens through sorrow, but no other way it could happen. I walked a mile with pleasure. He chattered all the way. But he left me none the wiser for all he had to say But I walked a mile with sorrow, and ne'er a word said he, but all the things I learned from him when sorrow walked with me. And so God uses sorrow. He just uses it. One of my favorite hymns was written by Elizabeth Prenthis. It's called More Love to Thee, and there's one line in the song that says, Let sorrow do its work. Send grief and pain. Sweet are thy messengers, sweet their refrain. And so, dear friend, they are painful. But God's using it. But then also write down their personal. Look again in verse number six. He says, If need be ye're in heaviness through manifold temptations. And the word manifold simply means diversified, multicolored, different types. And this is the idea that there are different trials out there. All different kinds of trials. They come in different forms, different shapes, different sizes, different seasons. My friend they're there. And God uses a particular trial for you. Just what he's trying to do in your life. He has just the right thing to bring out the Christ-likeness that He wants to bring out in you. And so friend, don't think them to be strange. Don't think it's strange, the Bible says. Just expect it. Just expect it. Now, if if we start thinking that it's a strange thing, we're going to think about them negatively. And God says, look, don't think it to be a strange thing. You are my child. I'm going to see you through it, and I'm going to accomplish great things in your life, if you'll trust me. Here's number two. Not only expect it, but write down, embrace it. Embrace it. Go back to chapter 4 and look at verse number 13. And notice what he says there in verse 13. But rejoice. Think it not strange. But here's the next imperative here. But rejoice. That's a strange command. How can we rejoice when suffering and pain come? How can we do that? That sounds illogical to us. It certainly doesn't seem to me sense. You want me to rejoice that I'm hurting? You want me to rejoice that my heart is crushed? That my heart is broken? I mean if we look in the Old Testament, we look at Job, we see the trials that Job went through. I don't see Job rejoicing. He's in heaviness. He's broken. Well what does Peter mean then when he says, but rejoice? You see, our rejoicing is not connected to the pain. Our rejoicing is connected to the prospect. To the product, we could say, to what the future is going to hold as a result of this trial, as a result of this pain. What is going to be in the future for me because of this? You see, let me tell you something, dear friend. If you're going through a trial right now, it's because God wants to bless you mightily in the future. He wants to do something in your life And so the rejoicing is not with respect to the pain that I'm going through now, but with the prospect of what God wants to do in the future. Just a few weeks ago, we dedicated my first grandson to the Lord. We went over to London, my daughter Abby, was going to have this baby, and she went through birth pains. She went through birth pains for three days. God bless some of you women. I'm telling you, I don't see how you women are stronger than us men. Guys, let's just admit it, alright? They're stronger than us. She went through three days of pain. And they found out the reason it took so long was the umbilical cord was wrapped around his neck. And they had to do a C-section, but three days of pain. Now I'm going to tell you, while my daughter was going through those birth pains, I had a mixture of joy and pain with her. I was in pain with her, uh, but I also had a sense of joy. You know why? Because I knew what was coming. I knew what the end was going to produce. The end was going to produce a beautiful little grandson that looked like his papa. I wasn't rejoicing over the pain. I was rejoicing over the product. And that's what Peter's talking about right here. You say, well, what is my trials going to produce? What are they going to do? Well, purity. Just write down purity. You say, what is it producing? Purity. Look at verse 12 again where it says Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial. Just circle that word fiery there. That is the Greek word purosos. You can almost hear the word purity in it. Purity. And that's what it means. This is a word that's used to talk about a a refiner when he puts m metal in that refiner and uh Heats up that that refining oven, that impurity's come to the top, and what's he doing? He just skims it off. Skims it off. You know, that's what God's doing in our life. And only sorrow and pain and trials can do that. He puts us in the oven of trials. He heats it up for us. And you know what starts to happen? All the impurities come to the top and he's scraping them away, scraping them away. You know what they say about a refiner? He's constantly watching that metal, that precious metal And he doesn't want to overdo it. He knows how much temperature to apply. He knows how long to keep the metal in that refiner. And he keeps skimming it off. How long until he sees his own image reflected in the metal And friend, that's exactly what the Lord is doing with you. He's got you in that refinery, he's got you in that oven, he's got his hand on the thermostat, he has his eye on the clock. He knows exactly how long to keep you there, and he's skimming away the impurities. Say how long? Until he sees the reflection of his son in you. That's how long But purity, that's one thing. What's another thing? By the way, write this verse down, Job 23, 10. But he knows the way that I take. And when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. You see, gold is precious. My friend, you're precious to God. And God's not going to do anything to hurt you or harm you any more than a A person who puts precious metal into an oven wants to hurt that precious metal. God has a great purpose. Now, also write down partnership. Not only purity, but write down partnership. Look again in verse 12, where it says Inasmuch, look I'm sorry, yeah, verse 13, I should say, but rejoice in as much as you are partakers of Christ's suffering. Partnership. Do you know there's a wonderful intimacy that takes place when you're in trials with Jesus? It happens no other way. I'm not saying you can't have closeness with Jesus. You can have it all the time. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. There's something about it when you're going through a trial. There's a closeness there that's unlike anything else. There's an intimacy that you have with the Lord during a time of trial that is unlike anything else, a grace that God gives, a fellowship that Jesus gives. That's unlike anything else. And he wants you to experience this. You remember the three Hebrew children put in the fiery furnace? Nebuchadnezzar just put them in that furnace. He was mad. He told him, bow down, they wouldn't bow down. They say we might burn, but we're not going to bow. He said, fine, I'm going to heat this oven up. Shows you how irrational he was. If you wanted him to suffer, you'd heat it up, you'd cool it down But he heated it up and he threw them in and he looked in and what did he see? He said, I didn't we throw three in there? There's a fourth in there. It looks like the image of the Son of God. You see, friend, when you go through the trials, he's going to be with you. Jesus was with them there in the furnace. Write down Isaiah 43, 2. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned. God said, I'm going to be there with you. You know, something about those three Hebrew children, the only thing burned off of them was what the world put on them. And they came out without the smell of smoke. And that's what the Lord is saying about you. Let me tell you something. When you go through the fiery trial, the only thing the Lord's going to burn off of you is what the world put on you. And you'll come out of there without the smell of smoke on you. Why? Because he will be with you. And that's what Paul wanted. He wanted that fellowship. That's why he said that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his Paul couldn't get close enough to Jesus for him to be satisfied. He wanted to be closer. And Paul said, even if that means me suffering. I'll do it. So what does it bring? It brings purity. It brings partnership. But also write down praise. Praise. Look at verse 13 again. But rejoice in as much as you're partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad with exceeding joy. Praise is a product. You say, what is this praise? This is not this is the Lord's praise to us. For being faithful in the trial. That's the phrase he's talking about. And notice it says when his glory will be revealed. When is that going to be? Let me ask you a question. When will the glory of Jesus be revealed? You know when it's going to be revealed? When Jesus Christ comes again. When he comes back, the Bible says he'll be coming in clouds of glory. His own glory. And friend, during the time of Jesus' earthly ministry, his glory was veiled, but when he comes again, his glory will be revealed. And the Bible says that when he comes back, he's coming in glory And those who have suffered through trials and persevered will join him in that glory and honor. And you'll be praised from the from the Lord Himself. That's what it's talking about. Let me tell you something, friend, when Jesus Christ comes again There's going to be some Christians who are going to be ashamed. And you know why? They haven't persevered. They go through a trial, they quit on God. They go through some heartache, they all they do is complain. And I'm going to tell you something, friend. One day when Jesus comes back, you realize you're going to have to look at him one day. But for those Christians who have gone through trials, And you've persevered. Oh, you you've wept and you've cried. God, there's no problem with having a human response and being broken and having tears. And yet through all of that, you've maintained your faith You held on to the Lord, you know he has a purpose, and you have persevered. I want to tell you something. When Jesus comes again, the Bible says there's going to be great glory for you. There's going to be great praise for you. Look again in 1 Peter chapter 1 and look at verse number 7 because he mentioned this earlier. He said that the trial of your faith Being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire. Listen, this might be found under praise and honor and glory At the appearing of Jesus. You say, what's going to happen to the one who faithfully perseveres through the trial and maintains their faith? There's going to be for you praise and honor and glory. And that's going to be to the whole world. Might be found. Notice that phrase. People are going to find out the suffering you've been through. They don't know it now. But one day they're going to know. There are people here today you've suffered. There are people here today you're going through pain. Nobody else here knows about it. You don't go around, you don't broadcast it. You just you're faithful, you just persevere. You just endure it. You endure it with a smile, but behind that smile there's a broken heart. And yet you maintain your faith and you say, oh, God has a purpose. The greater the groan, friend, the greater the glory. And one day when Jesus comes back, you know what he's going to say? Let me tell you something about my servant here. They have persevered and that that day, although you suffered quietly, the Bible says that it might be found unto praise And honor and glory. You know why? Because Jesus is going to single you out and he's going to give you praise. And friend, everyone will know how faithful you have been. That will be the day of praise. Now I'm a football fan, so I'm going to use this illustration. I apologize to you if you're not But in 1967, the Green Bay Packers were pre- were playing the Dallas Cowboys at Lambeau Field and Green Bay, a frozen field. It's now called the Ice Bowl. Green Bay was pressing. They were on the one-yard line of the Dallas Cowboys. They needed to score to win. There was 13 seconds left on the clock. This was the last play of the game. Either they punch it in and win or they get held out and they lose. And Bart Starr, the quarterback of the Green Bay Packers, took the ball and went straight up the middle and scored for the winning touchdown. The crowd shouted, the players jumped. Star, Bart Star was called the hero of the game. That's what everyone saw, but later on in the locker room The coach of the Green Bay Packers, Vince L Vince Lombardi, looked at the film of that play and he saw what the cameras picked up what no one else saw. You know what the camera picked up? The camera picked up that Bart Starr wasn't really the hero The hero of the game was the guard, that big old guard. They don't ever get any glory. The ones that are in the trenches And and Jerry Kramer, I like that first name, Jerry Kramer, pushed the defensive guy back and opened up the hole so that all that Bart Starr had to do is fall down. And the camera picked up, but the crowd did not. You know what the camera showed? Jerry Kramer was the hero of that game. I want to tell you something, dear friend, heaven's camera is on you. And one day the game film is going to be replayed. And you know what the world will see? You've been faithful in the trenches. And that's what that's what he's talking about here might be unto the praise and the honor and the glory at the appearing of Jesus. You say, what do trials produce? Purity. Partnership. Praise. But also write down number four. Power. Power. Look again in verse 14. Again in 1 Peter chapter 4, verse number 14. Notice what it says. It says, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happier ye, for the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Do you realize that? Rest on you. That is the power of the Holy Spirit. The spirit of glory and of God is going to come upon you. Now, friend, he's talking already to Christians. All of us have the Holy Spirit. But I want to tell you something, friend. When a person goes through a trial and they go through it faithfully, there's a sense in which you have a new work of the Holy Spirit on you. You'll have the spirit of glory and of God. And I think the image that Peter is using here is in the Old Testament, the tabernacle was constantly, there was the cloud of glory that was hovering above that tabernacle Resting on that tabernacle, you know when the glory cloud would pick up and move, then they would fold up the tabernacle and they would move. But wherever that tabernacle was, that's where the spirit of glory and of God hovered And there's a sense in which, dear friend, when you go through the trial and you're faithful, the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Now Not in the same way that it did in the Old Testament, but friend, there is a power, there's a might, there is a blessing that the Holy Spirit gives when you're going through that time. There is power in your life. So Peter says, number one, just expect it. Just expect it. Number two, just embrace it. Embrace it because of the purity that God's producing, the partnership, the praise, the power, all those things. But then here's number three. When you're going through a trial, evaluate it. Evaluate it. Look at verse 15. But let none of us But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. Now, when we're suffering, we have to evaluate it to make sure that we're not suffering because of the wrong that we have committed. And so there's times that we have to discern the suffering that we're going through because there's different kinds of suffering, you know. There's common suffering. You say, what's that? That's just because we live in this world. We live in a sinful world. There are some people here today, you're suffering just because you you live in a sin-cursed earth like all of us. And bad things happen in this sinful world. And friend, though and really there's a sense in which uh living in a sinful world is is kind of good. The worst thing that could ever happen to us is after the fall of man we still live in an Eden. We would never know that there's anything wrong. There's there's things wrong with this world because this world is not our home. There's common suffering, then there's carnal suffering. You say, what's that? That's suffering I bring on myself because of the wrongs that I have committed. Let me tell you something about sin. It brings its own punishment with it. The Bible says in Jeremiah 2. 19, Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backsliding shall reprove thee. Sin has its own punishment that it brings with it. And sometimes we suffer, and it's carnal suffering, not because of anything good we've done, but because of the wrongs that we've done. And then there's another kind of suffering. There is chastisement suffering. But let me back up here for just a minute. You say, what is Peter naming these sins for? Look again in verse 15, as a murderer, as a thief, as an evildoer, as a busybody. What does he mean by that? Well The believers that Peter was writing to were going through suffering because Nero was on the throne. Nero, that godless Roman emperor. who wanted to uh remodel a certain part of Rome, and he was voted down by the Senate. So he set it on fire. And when things went bad, he blamed it on the Christians. All these Christians, they're always talking about a baptism of fire. They're the ones that did it. And a fierce persecution followed, where Christians were being hunted. And you can imagine living in that kind of environment, there would be the temptation to strike back, to get angry, to be a desire for vengeance. That's why Peter says, don't suffer as a murderer Don't suffer as a thief or an evildoer. Don't do any of that. Don't let your suffering be because of the things that you have done wrong. Then there's another kind of suffering, there's Christian suffering. Look at verse 16. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. That is, there's a third category of suffering, and that is you're suffering not because you've done anything wrong, but because you've done what is right. Listen, friend, don't ever get so naive as to think that if you do right, you'll never suffer for it Sometimes we suffer for standing for the right thing. Sometimes we suffer for the truth. Sometimes we suffer just because we're living a faithful Christian life and you're under the attack. Let me tell you something. If you have people attacking you because you're a Christian, you need to rejoice because they see Jesus in you. You're not suffering for any wrong, you're suffering as a Christian And Peter says, look, if that's the kind of suffering you're enduring, rejoice. Just rejoice. But you need to ask yourself, is my suffering just common suffering? Is it just because I live in a fallen world? Is my suffering carnal suffering? Is it because of something I've done wrong? Is my suffering Christian suffering? Is it because I'm standing for what's right that I'm suffering? Then there's another kind of suffering you mentioned. I call this chastisement suffering. Look at verse 17. For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. And if a first begin at us, what shall the envy of them that obey not the gospel? In other words, here's another reason we are to evaluate suffering, because God is chastising and purifying his church. Do you know that God is concerned about the purity of his church? He's concerned about that. We are sometimes as ministers are concerned about other things other than what the Lord is concerned about. But let me tell you something. A priority with God is the holiness and purity of his church and of his people. That's why God will allow his church to go through a time of purging and purifying. Because he wants a pure, holy bride. And so Peter says judgment always begins at the house of God. We hear people say God's going to judge America. Well, yeah, but let me tell you where he's going to start. He's going to start at the church. You say, why? Well he's Peter is alluding to Ezekiel 9, when God judged Israel, you know where God's judgment began? In the sanctuary, in the temple. Started there. And then it worked its way out. And Peter says, look, if God's thorough to judge his church, what's it going to be like by the time he gets to the ungodly as that judgment spreads? If God is thorough to discipline us and to chastise us, what's he going to do to the ungodly that don't know him? And friend, that's an evangelistic appeal. You better come to know Jesus, friend. Because if he's thorough with his church, you can rest assured he's going to be thorough with the world. So there's chastisement suffering. So here's the point. I need to evaluate Why am I suffering? What is God doing? Is it because of my own sin? Is it because I'm standing for Christ? Is it because I just live in a fallen world? Is God doing some kind of purifying Work, evaluate it, Peter says. And make sure that you're not suffering for the wrongs that you have done. You say, What if I am? Repent. Tell God you're sorry. Get your heart where the Lord wants it to be. Let me give you the last thing and we're done. Expect it. Embrace it. Evaluate it. But here's number four. Entrust it. Entrust it. Look at verse 19. Wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God. Commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. Notice where it says, commit the keeping of their souls. That is, you just entrust your soul to God. And here's what Peter says. Here's the response. Just entrusted. Just deliver it over. And really this is a banking term. You just give it over like a deposit. What do you do when you deposit your money in the bank? What are you saying about that bank? Bank, I trust you to take care of this money. That's getting harder to do nowadays, isn't it? Bank, I trust you. I'm putting my I'm depositing my money to you. I'm committing it to you because I trust that you're going to take care of this. What do you do when you find a babysitter? You entrust the life of your child to a person. For a time, I'm entrusting something very precious. To you for a time. Think about that. This is what Peter means here. When you go through trials, you know what you're going to do. You say, God? I'm entrusting my soul too. Let me ask you a question, is God trustworthy? Absolutely. Notice the way Peter says it. He says, wherefore let them suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls and well-doing as unto a faithful Creator. You know who you're trying entrusting your soul to when you go through suffering? He's the one that sustains all of his creation. And friend, if he sustains creation, do you think that he can sustain you through trials? He absolutely can. So when you entrust your soul to God, friend, that's an act of faith. And by the way, that's exactly what Jesus did, and we don't have time to look at it, but if you read earlier in First Peter, when he went through trials the unjust trial before the cross, the Bible said he just committed his soul unto the Father. He committed himself to God. All the suffering, he just committed himself to the Father. And friend, that's what God wants you to do. You say, I have to be strong. God doesn't need your strength, He's all powerful. He's asking for your weakness. And you commit yourself to God, you commit your weakness to God, you know what God will give you in return? His strength. His strength. Commit your soul to a faithful, faithful Creator. We're out of time. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Lord, help these your people who may be here today going through a trial. And Lord, I pray that they'll not take it to be something strange. But Lord, this is just part of your sanctifying work. I pray, Lord, that we'll learn to embrace it, not the pain, but the product. Knowing, Lord, you're going to produce great things, power and purity, partnership, praise. When we see you face to face. May we evaluate it, Lord. And if there's anything in our lives that's displeasing to you, I pray, Lord, that we would repent of it, forsake it. And then finally, Lord, for those who are here today that are in the midst of trial right now, and they feel as if they can't go any further, may they commit their soul to you. And may Lord they commit to you their weakness that you might give them strength. Lord, use these words to strengthen your people, to bless your people. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And maybe there are some here today. And you need to do that very thing. You just need to commit yourself to a faithful Creator. So man, I'm going through trials. I don't know how I'm going to make it another week. But I'm going to give him my weakness. That he might give me his strength. How many say that's my prayer today? Would you pray for me, preacher? That's my prayer God bless you, friend. God bless you. God bless you. Commit your soul to a faithful Creator. And if you're here today and you don't know the Lord Jesus, let me encourage you, friend. To come to him. He wants to save you. He wants you to make you his child so that you have eternal life in heaven. Are you a child of God? Do you know it? And if you're not, would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner? Save me. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that, he will do that. He'll save you. He'll make you his child. Let's all stand together, dear friend. We're going to have one stance of an invitation hymn. God spoke into your heart. You need to use this altar here today. You do as the Holy Spirit leads you. And we'll see what the Spirit of God does today. Let's pray that, or let's sing rather that first stanza of just as I am together. Professor John would you come with our closing hand