Would you take God's word, please, this morning? Open to 2 Thessalonians. We're studying this wonderful epistle, 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, and we're going to look at a few verses, verses 1 through Would you stand for the reading of God's word this morning, please? Starting at verse 1. Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified, even as it is with you. And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for all men have not faith. But the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you that ye both do and will do the things which we command you. And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the patient waiting for Christ. Thank you very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for your inspired word And Lord, every time we open it, we know that you speak to us if we have ears to hear. So Lord, give us ears to hear what the Spirit says through your word to the church. Father, help me to preach the word clearly. And may Christ be exalted. May saints be edified and challenged. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been looking at 2 Thessalonians and we come to this passage of scripture today, and the title of the sermon is Four Marks of a Good Church. Several years ago, Stephen Cole, a wonderful pastor, wrote an article called The Best Show in Town. And in that article he critiqued uh the way pastors cater to the consumer mindset by trying to put on the best show in town, as if, you know, we're in a competition. You know, we're trying to get more people so if we can produce the best show, give people what they want, then um, you know, we attract more people. More people means of more offerings, we can hire more staff and we could uh make the show even more attractive to attractive to potential customers. So he says pastors basically and their staff rack their brains, they comb through ministry magazines, trying to find new ideas, things that will help them to make our show better. Um and the bottom line is, he says in the magazine or in the article, he says, you know, the the the church with the most people wins. Um he he goes on to say the result of this this approach is mega churches, churches with um you know all the amenities, everything you can think of, you know, a Starbucks in the lobby. Um, you know, uh smoke and mirrors, you know, the the the lights and the smoke and the camera and the action and you know all the things that come with, you know, big churches that way. And uh but then he says this, it's funny, he says, but then he says, with all these amenities, many millennial Christians would rather just stay home in their pajamas, sip gourmet coffee, and maybe catch their favorite preacher online or watch the live stream. Well, that's a little bit close to reality. Let me ask you a question. What is it that makes a good church? What are the ingredients of a good church? Is it the size of the church? Is it the number of people that are in the congregation? Is it the facilities? Is it the number of decisions that are made or Is it the number of programs that a church has? Is it the music program? None of these things I see mentioned in the New Testament that talk about being a good church if you have these things. Paul knew a good church when he saw it. And in fact, he commended the church at Thessalonica as being a great church. In fact, he held up this church as being the example to other churches. He wrote about this in the first letter, 1 Thessalonians 1. 6. He said, And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, have ye received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. So that ye were examples to all that believe in Macedonia and Okay, uh the word examples here, Tupas, where we get the word type. Paul said, You know, you are a type of what I want in other churches. And he held them up as a pattern for others to follow. This is the only verse in the Bible that Holds up one church to all the other churches and says, you know, you're a pattern. You're a type. This is this is what I want in a church. Now as a pastor, I want to pastor a good church. Not according to the world standards, but I want our church to be pleasing to God. I want God to be honored, and I want things done to be pleasing in his sight And what we see here in these verses is you know, it's not everything that includes a good church. These these are some things. There are other things in the New Testament, but certainly these are some things that we can shoot for if we want to be a church that is pleasing to the Lord. And let me give you four of them here. We see them in these five verses here. Four marks of a good church. First of all, a good church has people that pray. Pretty simple, right? Pretty straightforward. A good church has people that pray. Look at verse 1. Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course. A good church will have people that will pray for one another. They'll pray for their pastors, and I'll just tell you right out, I need your prayers. Paul wanted the prayers of God's people for himself. The word pray here is a present tense, continually pray. It's an imperative. That's a command he's not suggesting. He's saying that the church pray for me. We are to continually pray. If we don't do that, we're being disobedient. And Paul needed their continual prayers. He knew that in order for him to be effective in ministry, it depended on their prayers. Now Paul he was an incredibly gifted man. He had extraordinary gifts. He was brilliant, he was logical, he was persuasive He was a great communicator. He had experience as a missionary. I mean he had it all really when you talk about gifts. But he knew that he in and of himself was not sufficient for ministry. In fact, he wrote in 2 Corinthians 3. 5, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything of ourselves. Paul had absolutely no confidence in his own flesh or natural abilities to do anything. for the work of the Lord. He knew that it took God's power. And I'll tell you, if anything happens in this church or anything for the kingdom, it's not going to be me, it's going to be the power of God. It's going to be God who does that. And God takes people who may have some natural gifts and he empowers that. He kind of gives it a supernatural touch. And that's how things get done. And that's why Paul prayed. He said, Look Or he requested, pray for me. Paul ended the first letter of Thessalonians by saying, brethren, pray for us. 1 Thessalonians 5. twenty five. To the church in Rome he wrote, Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers. The word strive, agonism I agonize with me in prayer. Pray for me. I need your prayers. And Paul is going to ask two specific areas of prayer from the church. First of all, for freedom for the word. Look again in verse number one. Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free course. Seminary student came to me and said, This is the biblical reason why you should give me a free course. Says it right here in the Bible. Free course Free course and seminary. It's actually one word in the Greek treco where we get the word track and it means to run So this is an athletic term for running a race. It's the idea of a swift runner, unleashing a swift runner, running a race. Paul may be thinking about that Psalm, Psalm 147, verse 15. He sendeth forth his commandment upon the earth. His word runneth very swiftly. The fastest man in the history is a runner from Jamaica named Usain Bolt, rightly named Bolt, because this guy could bolt. He could run. Did you know he it is said that he can run twenty-seven miles per hour? Twenty-seven miles per hour, that's fast. The fastest racehorse in history is considered to be secretariat. When he set records during the Triple Crown in nineteen seventy-two, those records have never been broken. He won the Belmont by 31 lengths, fastest horse in history. But there's no track athlete or racehorse that runs swifter than the Word of God. Paul was writing from Corinth. You know, Corinth they were known for the Ithnian Games. These were like Olympic Games. All over in the ancient world they had these games that were staggered so all the elite and people could attend. And Paul used a lot of athletic metaphors in the Bible. So he may have had uh you may maybe the Ithmian games in mind when he talked about running a race. And here Paul uses this analogy about the Word of God. What is his prayer? His prayer is that the Word of God is unleashed and it begins to run, because when the Word of God runs, it runs swiftly And when the Word of God is unleashed, you know what? It does its work. Paul wants the gospel to win the hearts of those who hear it He wants the Word of God to s to go forth and to bring conviction and to bring sanctification and to bring salvation to all who hear it. And notice where he says here. To have free course and be glorified. This has the idea of being received with proper respect, that the people would receive the word of God and affirm it as the truth And I want to tell you it's not because it's me, beloved, but when the word of God is being preached, we need to give it reverence. We need to be attentive And we need to allow the Word of God to be received with respect, to be glorified. And Paul said again in verse 1, even as it is with you. The Word of God did have free course among the Thessalonians. When Paul went there, he wasn't there very long, but he was there long enough to give the word and the Thessalonians, the Bible says when they received it First Thessalonians two thirteen they received it not as the word of men, but as as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh, he said, also in you that believe. The word of God is effectual And when it's unleashed, when it runs, it does its work. And so Paul is praying that the Word of God would have free course. So we need to pray for that same thing. We need to pray that the word of God would be used and be publicized from this place all over and that it would do its work. This should be a priority in the way that we pray. But there's another request he has for protection from the wicked. Look again in verse 2. And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for all men have not faith. If the Word of God is to have freedom to advance and be glorified, then the one who preaches it must deliver it without being hindered from wicked men. He has to be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men. In other words, there is a hostility against the Word of God out there by many wicked who don't want to hear the Word, and they don't want the Word of God to have free course. I remember ten years ago I was over ten years ago I was over in Cameroon in Africa. And I come there and I was doing a uh you know, just conference with pastors and we had many pastors who came from all over the region. And while I was doing that, we received a certified letter from local Muslims that basically gave it was a death threat. They said if you continue doing what you're doing, you will die. Uh that's the first time I might have ever had anything like that. And me, I I could I could get on a plane and leave and go home. But those pastors they had to stay there. They had to continue to minister there. And that's why we need to pray for pastors like that. And also the same thing in India. When I was in India and and was with about sixty pastors, just having a conference with them, the same thing. They face hostility and persecution all the time. But I also I want to tell you that it seems like here in America there's more of a hostility rising against the Word of God. And we're going to have to be faithful in that time. According to one survey, they documented that in twenty twenty-three More than 430 incidents of hostility against churches and preachers. This doubled in 2022. It's an 800% increase. That's about a th 39 attacks every month were documented. And why is that? Well, Paul's explanation here is very simple. For all men have not faith. Unfortunately, not all people welcome the Word of God. That's why we need to pray all the more. We need to pray together as a church that this ministry here at Grace will be effective for God's glory. God did a mighty work in London under a great preacher, one of my favorites, Charles Haddon Spurgeon. His sermons are studied to this day, which is amazing to me. Preachers still refer to him often. And the story is told that one Sunday afternoon a contingent of ministers came to visit the tabernacle. They had a lot of questions about the ministry there. They saw a stout man in bib overalls. They assumed that he was a janitor, and they said, Would you please take us to the to the to the power plant, to the furnace of this church. We want to see how this big church runs. And and so the man said, sure. And so he took him down the basement. He opened up a door. The men were expecting to see some kind of furnace. Instead, what they saw were 200 believers on their knees praying for the next service. And the men they thought was a janitor was actually Spurgeon, the pastor of the church. And he basically said, You you wanted to see the power plant. Well here it is. This is the source of power for this church. It's believers that And Paul knew that. Paul knew that the source of strength and power and effectiveness for any church ministry or minister are people that pray. You want to find a good church? Find a church that prays. The church is the only army that marches forward on its knees. Pray with us. But here's the second thing. A good church has people that pray, but number two, a good church has people that trust God in trying times. Look at verse three. But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Even though not all m people have faith in God, you can rest assured that God is faithful. And what Paul's doing here is he's making a clear contrast between the faithlessness of men and the faithfulness of God. It's even more clear. In the original Greek, the last word in verse 2 is faith. The first word in verse 3 is faithful. Despite the lack of faith of men, God is always faithful. And this is what the Thessalonians needed to be assured of. And Paul was confident that God would do two things for the people in this church. First of all, he would give them an inner strength. Again in verse num number three. Excuse me. Finally get to use this. It's been up here for a year. And the and the taste of it bears witness. Anyway, look at verse three. But the Lord is faithful Hold on. Faithful, who shall establish you excuse me And keep you from evil. I need your prayers right now. No, I'm good, Gary. All right. And verse number four. Yeah, in verse three, but the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Now, the word established here is dirizo, this is the same word that is translated stand firm or stand fast in other places in this letter. And by the way, this is a key word throughout all the letters that Paul writes here to the Thessalonians, we see this word coming up again and again. Paul's desire Is that they stand strong. And what he's talking about here is an inner strength. You know what God's will is for you? He wants to give you an inner strength that comes only from God. Listen to 2 Corinthians 4. For which cause we faint not, but though our outward man perishes, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. And so God wants us to be strong inwardly. Now we're living in a day when people are obsessed with strength, physical, outward strength. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with that Nothing wrong with exercising and and you know going to the gym and planet fitness and all that sort of thing. That's all good. It has its place. But God's more concerned about your inner strength than he is your outer strength. He wants you to be strong spiritually. This um not too long ago, a man asked me if I would uh do an introduction or review review for his book He wrote a book about Samson, a very good book about the character of Samson, not too many books that focus on him. And of course we know that In the Old Testament, Samson was uh a man who was very strong. His feats of strength are incredible. But the thing about Samson, however, was even though outwardly he was strong, inwardly he was a weakling. You know why? Because he did not keep his vows to God, and morally he compromised his life. And so his strength was not really true strength. True strength according to God is an inward strength that God gives. And Paul is confident that God is going to strengthen these believers. And you know what God uses to do that? He uses trials in our life. to give us that inner strength. But also outward protection. Look in verse number three. But the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from Okay, thank you, Gary. This one's cold. Thank you. Shall establish you and keep you from evil Again, Paul is confident that God will keep them. The word keep here to watch over, to guard. Evil literally is the evil one, Satan. And Satan's always looking to trip up. godly saints. And the believers there, of course, as we know in our study, they have been facing persecution. And so Paul knows, however, that God will deliver them from the evil one. And what this means is not that Christians will never go through hard times. It doesn't mean we won't go through trials. It doesn't mean we won't have persecution. But what it does mean is that all those things will not thwart the purpose that God has for us in our life. That evil will not win, evil will not be victorious in the end. That's the whole point. God will protect us and keep us from evil, even though Satan might have bad plans for us. God will Protect us from that, and he will keep us to accomplish his purpose. Now I can't read this verse, to be honest with you, without thinking about Pastor Johnson. Because he would quote this verse often. Some of you old timers that have been here for a while, you might even remember that he had a story that went with this verse when he was a young soldier, he had newly converted. Uh this was during the Korean conflict. He saw units being sent over to Korea and as a new convert he wanted to be used of God and so he wanted to go to Korea so he went to his commanding officer and he said I want to go to Korea I want you to s I want to be sent in this next unit And the commanding officer said, Why? And Pastor Johnson said, Well I thought that maybe I can be some help. I can help save some. And the commanding officer said, Save them from what? And Pastor Johnson said, save them from sin. And the commanding officer said, get out of here. You're on orders to go to another place. That's where you're going. And Pastor Johnson, when he tells the story, said he didn't understand it. He thought God laid that on his heart. He went back and he prayed. And he asked, Lord, you know, why did that happen? And then he was reading his Bible when he came upon this verse. This verse that we just read, but the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. And then, sometime later, he was sent over to Korea. Only to find out that when he got there, the unit that he wanted to go with originally, that God wouldn't let him go with, that unit was literally wiped out by the communist Chinese. In fact, there are only two soldiers left in that unit. Had he gone with that unit, very likely he would not have survived. And God wouldn't let him go there. Why? And Pastor says this verse came back to his mind, but the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. And the point is clear. God had a purpose for Pastor Johnson. So he was going to keep him from any evil designs that Satan may have had, because God had to fulfill his purpose in his life. And that's the whole point of this verse. That God will not allow anything to happen to you that will thwart the purpose of God in your life. He will keep you safe. He will keep you protected. Because he has a purpose for you in life. And by the way, no one taught us to trust God in difficult times any better than Pastor Johnson did. So a good church has people that pray. A good church has people that trust in God in trying times. But here's number three. A good church has people that will obey what has been taught. Look at verse number four. And we have confidence in the Lord touching you that you both do and will do the things which we command you. This is the first time Paul moves into the future tense up until this time. He's praised this church for what they have done, but here he has confidence in what they will do. Total confidence in what they will do. And notice the expression, and will do the things which we command you. And what was that? That that's just simply obeying the word of God He had absolute confidence in this church that they would be obedient to the Word of God. Mark it down. A good church has people that obey the Word of God. It's not enough just to come and listen. By the way, I'm grateful that you're here. I'm grateful that you come to listen and hear the Word of God. Your presence here is a blessing to other believers. But if all you do is come and listen, it's not enough. What does the Bible say in James chapter 1? Be ye doers of the word, not hearers only. Why? Deceiving your own selves. And the whole point that James is making here, and I really believe he's really referring back to the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus talked about obedience. Remember that parable he gave? The wise man built his house on the rock, foolish man built his house upon the sand, and the rains came. And the the the the the winds came and the storm was there and the the the house that was built upon the sand fell and the Bible says great was the fall of it, but the house built upon the rock did not fall. Same storm. Why did the house built on the rock not fall? Well, because the difference is the wise man who built his house on the rock heard the word and obeyed it. The one who built his house on the sand just heard. So Jesus is making a distinction there between those who are truly believers and those who are not. True believers hear the word and then they do it. Those who just here are building their house on the sand. And I think James may be referring to that in this passage here when he says That be ye doers of the word, not hearers only. Why? Deceiving your own self. This is one of the true marks of a child of God. You don't just hear God's word, you live it out in your life. Hearing is not enough. Thank God for hearers. But we got to do more. And Paul is absolutely confident that this church will do what they have been taught. A good church has obedient people. So a good church has people that pray. A good church has people that trust God in trying times. A good church has people that will obey what has been taught. Here's the fourth and final one. A good church will continue to grow in love and patience. Look at verse number five. And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, into the patient waiting for Christ. And this is Paul's prayer for them. He shapes this next verse in the form of a prayer that God would direct their hearts, literally to make straight. To direct them into these two things here. First of all, love for God. We need to love God more. We need to grow in loving God more. I don't know about you, but I say this for my own shame. I don't love God enough. I need to grow in loving him more. My own selfishness, my own sinfulness gives gets in the way so many times that I don't love God the way I should, but I want to love him more. I want to grow in my love, and this is the key in the Christian life. In fact, this is the key to the Christian life. If you want to be faithful in difficult times and trials, you know the key to that? You just need to love God more. The love of God. And so Paul prays. That they would grow in this one area to love God all the more. One of my favorite stories is Story of the um Elizabeth Prentiss, the one who wrote the song More Love to the Ill Christ. Most people don't know that she was a woman who had terrible health issues and she was very frail. Most of her life she had pain. She suffered some type of pain throughout her whole life. But the worst thing she ever had to endure was the loss of a child. That's the worst thing a parent can ever go through. But not only did she lose one child, but on the heels of that, she lost another child. And she plunged into despair. And for a time she just she was just in darkness and she began to read the scripture, she began to pray, she began to draw near to the Lord. And during that time in her life, one evening she felt the presence of God in such a wonderful way that she felt inspired to write the words to the song, More Love to the O Christ. More love to thee. Hear thou the prayer I pray. Unbended knee. This is my earnest plea. More love, O Christ, to thee. Hear of how much we love our God. How much do you love the Lord? So Paul prays that they'll grow in love, but also patience. Patience. Again in verse 5. And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the patient waiting for. Christ. Paul prayed that this church would have patience, and it's the idea of just a steadfastness, a faithfulness, and endurance, and waiting for Christ. Now, there was a misunderstanding about Christ's second coming. You remember we talked about that, and Paul wrote part of the reason he wrote this was to clear up that idea. They that they had missed the coming of the Lord. They had not. And Paul gave a chronology of things that had to happen before the day of the Lord would arrive. But now here he's praying that they would have patience as they wait. for the coming of Christ. I said this during our first service at 945 Sunday School. The early church had a sense of eminence and an expectancy of the return of Christ. They didn't know when he was going to come. They thought he could possibly come in their lifetime. Paul thought it could be in his lifetime. He uses the word we. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together. Of course, we know that it didn't happen then, but they still had that expectancy of the coming of Christ. And beloved, you know what? We need to have it too. We need to have one eye on the coming of the Lord. You know, I read something very interesting this week. Did you know, this is a little trivia for you as we close out. Did you know that dolphins sleep with one eye open? It's true. They do so because they can only let ever let one side of their brain asleep at a time. According to biologists, when the left side of the brain sleeps, the right eye will close, and vice versa I thought that's kind of a a weird little ambidextrious thing going on there, you know, with with this, but it goes on to say that, you know, dolphins, you know, they're mammals. And uh they have to have air to to breathe. And it says for dolphins breathing is not automatic. Like for us, it's kind of reflexive. You know, we we thank God we don't uh control our breathing. I always forget to breathe and die. Our breathing is reflective. God, you know what? Your breath is in the hand of Almighty God, the Bible says. Thank God I don't have to control it. I don't have to think, breathe, Jerry. Breathe. But but for dolphins they do have to control their own breathing. And so if a dolphin ever were to go to sleep fully, and they would simply suffocate. So like so they basically have one eye open all the time and half a brain sleeping. Reminds me of some no, I'm just kidding. When I read that I thought, you know what? As believers, we need to have one eye open all the time. On the coming of Jesus Christ. We know he's going to come and receive his people. So we have to be ready for that. And Paul is praying here that they would be patient. That they would grow in their love and grow in their patience. So a good church has people that pray A good church has people that trust God in trying times, that has people that will obey what has been taught, that will continue to grow in love and in patience. And if you're looking for a good church, you know that's what to look for. But if we want to be a good church, and I pray that we do, this is what we aim for. This is what we try to be. Follow the example of the Thessalonians. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Let me just ask you If you're here today, maybe you're visiting, maybe God brought you here this morning, and you're probably saying, you know, I'm not even sure why I'm here. Well, it's not an accident. God wants you under the preaching of his word. You know why? He wants your soul. He wants you to be saved. If you're not saved already, he wants you to trust his son, Jesus Christ. As your only source of salvation. He is the only way. The Bible says in John 14, Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes into the Father but by me. And I want to tell you, friend, God loves you. He sent his son Jesus into this world to die for your sins, to take your sin debt upon himself. To suffer your punishment for sin there on the cross. When Jesus on the cross said it is finished, what he meant was that the price for sin has been paid. And now salvation is a gift. It was paid for by Jesus Christ. But it's offered to you today. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. And friend, if you've never come to Jesus for salvation, I'm inviting you right now to do it. Right now where you are. Right now with your head bowed and eyes closed, you can pray and you can reach out in prayer and you can say, Lord Jesus, save me. Come into my heart. Forgive me for my sin. I repent. I turn from my sin. I turn to you. Save me, Lord Jesus. And you know what, friend? He'll do that. The Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. You can have salvation right now. Can I pray for you and say that's my prayer, Pastor? That's me. I'm I want salvation. I'm trusting in Jesus Right now in Jesus alone. Anyone here? Can I pray for you? I'm waiting for you, sir. Waiting for you, ma'am. Anyone here? Alright? The word's been delivered. It's up to you. Choose. If you're hearing you're a child of God, say, man, that's my desire. I want to be a person of prayer. I want to trust God in trying times. I want to be someone that is growing in my love and patience. Would you pray for me, Pastor? Pray for me that that'll be me. That's my heart's desire. God bless you, dear friends. Father, use your word, build your church, bless your people, and may you receive honor and glory through all this done. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.