But we are celebrating at Christmas time what is called the first advent of Christ. And of course the word advent simply means coming. And w the first coming of Christ in many ways reminds us of the second coming. Just as surely as the Lord came the first time, our Lord is going to come the second time. Now notice that there are many views out there today with regard to the end times. And what I thought I would do is just kind of give a run-through of the various views of the end times. And uh just uh to talk about the view that we hold to, that we believe is the biblical view of the end times. But uh you should be aware of some of the other things that are out there that are being taught with reference to the end times. Uh we know that people have been wondering about the end time events when the Lord will return. You know, w there's a lot of speculation about it, a lot of print on this very idea. Uh there are the books, the left behind books. Anybody here ever read the left behind books? Okay, so you all are pretty much up to date on the Dispensational premillennial view in those books that they present there. Let me move this over here to the middle. And uh and then of course there's all kind of other um things out there. How many of you remember uh the the book by Hal Lindsey, the the late Great Planet Earth. Anybody ever read that book? I remember reading that book as a new believer, and boy, really giving me an understanding of uh a view of the end times and the coming of the Lord. And also a lot of times you'll feel tr you hear terms like a millennium or tribulation, rapture anti-Christ You know, these are common terms that we use, but um, you know, sometimes for new believers, they're not really sure what these terms actually mean. And so we're gonna Look at these terms and answer a few questions. For example, will Jesus return physically and reign on earth for a thousand-year period? And that period is normally uh is known as the millennium. Will Christians go through a seven-year period called the tribulation? Uh when will the Antichrist appear, or has that prophecy already been fulfilled? There's some that, you know, you ever always there are people out there that want to identify the Antichrist. You ever see that a new person arises on the scene, we say, Oh, this this reminds me of the Antichrist and so on. Um there's a lot of speculation about that. So will the second coming of Christ occur at the same time that believers meet in the air? That's another controversial issue with some. Will Christians be raptured and other people left behind? Another question with reference to that. What does the nation of Israel have to do with the end times? Now with that in mind, what I want you to to show you is there are four views out there about all of these things and how people answer these questions, four main views of the end times. And we're going to just kind of I'll introduce these views briefly and then we'll go back. And we'll we'll talk some more about terms and then we'll go into defining each of these views specifically, just so you know the various views that are out there. The first view is called the dispensational premillennialism view. And of course this is a view that we hold a as our church, a view that uh Pastor Johnson taught here um and that we hold uh uh uh we believe is a scriptural view of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ and that is that Christ's return and rapture are separate events. So they're not a something that happens at the same time, that the return of Christ happens um after the rapture. The rapture is first seven year tribulation and then the return of Christ. This is called dispensational premillennialism. Now let me just say that Even among dispensational premillennialists, there are some that will disagree about the timing of the rapture. There are some who say that the rapture might happen at the beginning of the seven year period of tribulation. Some uh might want to push it back. F uh into the middle, mid they're called mid tribbers. Any mid-tribers here? You don't have to raise your hand. Um Mid-tribers. But look look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Look down at verse number 13. A passage we all know very well where it says, But I wouldn't not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, and Paul calls death sleep here. for the believer because we will have a resurrection day, right? Just like sleep has its waking, death will have a resurrection. He says that you sorrow not even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. Now, Paul, in this passage of scripture, I want you to take note, does give a lot of chronology as far as events that will take place at this of what he's describing here that we call the rapture. He says, you know, that the Lord himself shall descend, a shout will be the voice of the archangel, the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. So all those who are already asleep in Jesus, some of us have loved ones that are already asleep, their body is in the grave, but their soul is in heaven. And when the Lord returns, the Bible says the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. This is what we call the rapture. And again, dispensational Um premillennialists believe that the rapture will happen before a period in the Bible called the seven year tribulation Now, there's another view about a premillennial position where that is called historic premillennialism And this is the view that's kind of gained some momentum out there. Uh and it's the view that the Christians will go through the tribulation period and that when the Lord comes back, there's not going to be a separate return or rapture and then return, but that that's all going to happen at the same time. That it's all going to happen after the tribulation. In other words, we're not going to be saved out of the tribulation. We're going to go through the tribulation. And there, at the return of the Lord, after that tribulation period, it's all going to happen at the same time. And the way they describe the passage that we just read, we as dispensationalists would say that we're all going to be raptured, and then we're going to be in heaven, and then what's going to happen in heaven? The Married Supper of the Lamb, right? We're going to have supper in heaven. Talked about that last week a little bit, right? On earth there will be seven years of tribulation. Then we will return with the Lord. This is a verse referred to in Jude, where it says, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints And the Greek word there's myriads. Myriads and myriads of the saints. So the the dispensational view is we're in heaven seven years while there's tribulation on earth. We return with the Lord. We watch the Lord defeat all the armies of the Antichrist that will assemble themselves at a place called Armageddon. A contingent of all the armies of the of the earth will assemble there in that place called uh the valley of Megiddo, uh that beautiful plain, if you've ever been over to Israel and see that that Napoleon called the most natural battlefield in the world. And there will the Lord will defeat the armies of the earth. So there will be the rapture and there will be the return. However, again just to re-emphasize Historical free millennials believe it all happens at once. There's not going to be a rapture. They interpret this verse as we're going to go and meet the Lord, and then we'll escort him back to the earth. That's the idea. Just like in the old times when they went out to meet a king, when a king was coming to their town, they would go out and meet him and then they would escort him back. They say what this passage actually means is that we are yeah, we're going to meet the Lord in the air. And then we're going to come back to earth with him. And then all of it will happen. The Lord will defeat the armies of the Antichrist and then the rest of it. You know. That's kind of disappointing that to be honest with you, that view to me. Because if I go to meet the Lord in the air, I don't want to come back here. You know? I want to just go, well Lord, we're already up here. Why don't we just go on the rest of the way But that's anyway, that's the view that they're holding again. This is called historic premillennialism. Uh this is a view that kind of has gained traction. I remember when I was in seminary taking a PhD seminar on the book of Revelation. My Greek professor taught that class is Dr. Kendall Easily, a very brilliant man with with with respect to Greek, and he wrote a he wrote a commentary on the book of Revelation that's out there in the um in the Holman commentary series And um and there was about 12 of us PhD students in the uh seminar there. And Dr. Easley started off the seminar by saying this. He said, How many of you are still dispensational premillennial. That was the way you started the class. And again there were twelve students in there and I was the only one that raised my hand. Yes, I'm dispensational premillennial. And Dr. Easley's response was, oh no, not you, Jerry. You know, I don't know how I didn't know how to take that. Oh no, not you, Jerry. You're s surely you don't still hold well yes I do. And so again, this is a position that a lot of people are seem to be jumping on board with. Um historic premillennialism, and we'll talk a little bit more about that. And then there's another view called amillennialism. And this is a view that there is no millennial reign. Thus you have the alpha negative in front of it. Ah. which in the Greek always cancels out the word, that that alpha negative prefix. For instance, a theist is someone who believes in God, right? An atheist is someone who does not believe in God. A millennialist is someone who believes in a literal millennium. A omillennialist is someone who does not believe in a literal millennium millennial reign. They believe that this all figurative. They would say that we're right now in the millennium. It's all happening right now. And uh, you know, and then one day the Lord's going to return and and and so on, but we're in the millennial uh reign right now, the millennial time. And then there's another view out there called post-millennialism. Postmillennialism is the view that Christ returns after the millennium. In other words, thus you have the prefix post. And the idea is that the gospel that we preach is going to continue to spread and things are going to get better and better and better and better until there's a new glorious kingdom ushered in, the gospel is victorious over all of its obstacles and opponents and enemies. And and when everything is ready, then Jesus is going to come back And he's going to take the throne of uh his father David uh after everything is already in order. Everything's been taken care of. And so it's the idea that things are gonna get better and better and better and better and better. Until finally Jesus will come. Okay? That's the idea of it. And it really emphasizes the victory of the message of the gospel. They'll use the parable That Jesus gave in Matthew 13. Some of you might remember the parable of the woman who had a a large um measure measure of meal and she hid just a little bit of leaven in it. And what happened The leaven began to spread throughout all of that loaf until finally the whole loaf was leavened, and a post-millennialist will say That represents the gospel, how it's going to spread, and it's going to permeate every part of the world and society until finally it has its victory and finally everyone is converted and then the Lord's going to come. So that's post-millennialism. And again, we're going to look at these in a little bit more detail, but that's just kind of a basic summary of these different views. with respect to the end times. Now let me just say that there are all of these views have some key points that they agree on, that they share that they would all say, you know, the same thing about the common denominator, I guess you would say. They they would say that first of all, Jesus will come again for those who love him. All those who agree on that. And they also would say that Jesus does call on his followers to be always what? Always ready. We have to be ready all the time. We they would all say no one knows the day or the hour when the Lord is going to return, which I would say that would be a little bit difficult with historic premillennialism, but nevertheless They all seem to say the same thing with respect to that. But that's where the differences are or the agreements And then from there there's a lot of differences. But let's let's start off by looking at some passages of scripture. Would you take your Bible, open to the book of Matthew, chapter number 24? Look in the book of Matthew, chapter 24. I want you to see this passage, because this is a very well-known passage of Scripture with respect to the coming of the Lord. Matthew chapter twenty four and um Looking let's start in verse number one. Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple. And verse 2, and Jesus said to them, See ye not all these things. Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. This is when Jesus and the disciples were visiting visiting the temple complex there in Jerusalem. And when Jesus made this prophecy. That all this this whole thing's coming down. This temple's coming down. Not one stone will be left upon another. He wasn't talking about the foundation of the temple. He was talking about the actual temple building itself. And if you go into Jerusalem today, you can see that um all that the stones from the temple that the Romans literally tore apart and pushed over the side of the foundation, the temple complex, you can still see those stones there today. That bears witness to the fulfillment of this one prophecy that Jesus gave with respect to the temple. And look at verse 3. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives. So they're leaving the temple complex. They go up to the Mount of Olives The disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us when shall these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? So the disciples were a lot like many people today. Lord, tell us when all these things are going to happen. When will the end be? And verse 4, and Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. And shall deceive many, and ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass. But the end is not yet, for nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. And all these are the beginning of what sorrows. These are all the beginning of sorrows, uh Jesus said. Um Now, you know, we can go through and look at the rest of this. Jesus is very detailed in some of this, but this is one of the pass one of the key passages. with respect to the end times where Jesus taught Matthew 3 excuse me Mark 13 and Luke 21 also. And in these passages Jesus promised his disciples that he would come again. He was coming. But before his return, there would be Jesus said these are all are the beginning of sorrows. All these things are the beginning of sorrows. Look in verse number eight. Look at the word sorrows there, because this is the Greek word for birth pains. All these things are the birth paints, or we could say the signs of the coming of the Lord. Now we know that when a a woman is ready to give birth to a child, those birth pains will start to come. And when the birth pains come, uh we know that in a very little while there's going to be a baby. And Jesus said, these things that I've told you about, these are the birth pains of the coming of the Lord. Look look in verse number eight of verse nine. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. And he says, and and they shall bear Uh and shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another, and many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many, because iniquity shall abound and the love of many shall wax cold, but he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved. Look at verse 14. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto the nations. Then shall the end come. Well, I don't know about you, but when I read that passage of Scripture, what's the impression that that you get? I know I get the impression that we're pretty close. When you read about all these signs. All the birth pains are all around us. One preacher said, I'm no longer looking at the signs, I'm listening for the shout. Behold, the bridegroom comes. So So what did Jesus say some of these would be? There would be wars, famine, there would be earthquakes and pestilence. I mean, can we check that off the list? Have we seen a lot of that? Wickedness will increase. There will be fearful events and signs from heaven, as he had said. People will be deceived by false prophets and false messiahs. Have we seen a lot of deception in the day in which we live? Yeah, we have. I think I told you I was over in Israel this summer and there was a um a guy's face posted everywhere. And um And people would say, well this this is the Messiah. The the Jews many of the Orthodox Jews believe that that was the Messiah. Only problem is he died, but guess what? He didn't resurrect. But here was a man that was telling everyone that he was the Messiah. And we got a lot of that. We got people around saying, I am Jesus, I am Christ, and many false prophets. Of believers in Christ will be persecuted and killed Now I know here in America we have it pretty easy, but did you know that in other parts of the world there are Christians that are being slaughtered? That are being martyred, that are being persecuted. We have freedom to worship, but it's not like that in other places in the world. Um I was one time over in um a place in Africa in um Cameroon and we were doing a pastor's conference and we received a a certified letter from a group of Muslims that were not very far away that basically was a threat that said, if you continue to preach the gospel, we will kill you. We will kill you if you continue to do this. Now that wasn't so hard for me because I can get on a plane and fly back to America. But you know what? There were pastors there that had to live there. And they had to minister there. And uh and believers are being killed. We we hear about that. And so on, believers will be witnesses of Jesus to kings. And um many will turn away from the faith And again, there will be betrayals by parents and brothers and friends. Jerusalem will be surrounded by armies. Jesus will say this in Matthew 24. And then another thing that he mentions here in Matthew 24 is the abomination that causes desolation will stand in the holy place. Jerusalem will be trampled on by Gentiles. according to this passage that we read. And th there will be signs in the heavens, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not shine. And so on, false prophets will perform signs and miracles and so on. So there are just other things here. that would happen. And then the Bible says Jesus will appear in the sky. The trumpet will sound, angels will gather together, God's elect And Jesus said this in Matthew 24, 31. No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. He's the only one who knows the specific time of when he will return. Now we know that there's still been people out there, nevertheless, that want to give a date, date setters, and we've had our share of that, haven't we? You know, back in nineteen eighty-eight, you've heard this, the guy who wrote the book, Eighty Eight Reasons While Jesus Will Return in nineteen eighty eight. And people bought that book like crazy and uh he he did pretty good selling that. But the problem was Jesus didn't return So what was what was really funny to me is that you know if you were duped to buy that thing that book the first place, that was one thing. But He wrote a follow-up book that said 89 reasons why Jesus is going to return in 1989. And I said, Oh, I made one miscalculation here. And you know what? People still bought that book. Which was uh maybe out of curiosity. But Jesus taught no one really knows the specific day or hour of the coming of the Lord. He says, because of the increase of wickedness, the love of most will grow cold. He who stands firm to the end will be saved. Now what did Paul teach about this? We'll meet the Lord there in the clouds. And so we read this passage here in 1 Thessalonians already. Don't believe that those who say the day of the Lord has already come. And Paul warns about this. Go to 2 Thessalonians real quick. We were in 1 Thessalonians, but let's just look at this other passage here. 2 Thessalonians And notice what Paul writes here. Now, the problem with this that Paul was addressing here in 2 Thessalonians was that there were some believers that thought That were taught that the Lord had already come, that they had missed the second coming of the Lord. And look what Paul says in chapter 2, verse 1. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ And by our gathering together unto him, that ye be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled neither by spirit, nor word, nor by letter, as from us As that the day of of Christ is at hand. So evidently there were some people out there that had said that the Lord had returned, and they even wrote a letter reporting that as if as if it was from Paul. Paul said, don't believe that you received a letter as if it was from us That the Lord had already returned. Look at verse three. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and the man of sin be revealed the son of Well, Paul then in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 says that before we see this the end times, the coming of the Lord, there are several things that have to take place first. And then he goes on to talk about some of the things that will be a part of this second coming of Christ. Rebellion There will be the revelation of the man of lawlessness. This is the Antichrist. There will be then other things. We just read, don't let anyone deceive you. will be revealed the the one who opposes and exalts himself over God. Of course again, this is speaking in reference to the Antichrist. There will come in the end a man who who will rise up and he will exalt himself over God. He'll set himself up in God's temple. And Paul again talks about this. In thes 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse number 2, look at verse number 8, what it says. It says, And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming, even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders. So he will set himself up in the temple Um and he goes on to talk about this. Um and so he will proclaim to be God and be revealed when the one holding him back is taken out of the way. Now who is the one that's holding him back? And again, there have been different views about this. We believe this is in reference to the Holy Spirit of God. And then this man of lawlessness will be accompanied by satanic and counterfeit miracles, and he will deceive those who do not love the truth, and he will be overthrown and destroyed when Jesus comes. So these are just some general truths about the second coming of the Lord. Now let me just take a minute and talk to you about some words that you you would know, and this would be pretty elementary for those of you that have been saved, but for those of you who may have not been saved very long, let's just give you a few words that you should know. First of all is the word eschatology. And this is a combination of two Greek words, eskytas, which means the end or the last things or final things. And then of course ology is from the Greek word logos, and it's the study of. or the word or an idea. So we could say really it's the study of the end times or the word about the final things we could say. The first coming of Jesus is called the first advent. The second coming, of course, is we call it the second advent when he will return physically and bodily. The phrase church age, we hear that a lot. What's the church age refer to? That refers to the ministry of Jesus. uh was was the beginning of the church and then all the way up until the um the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is a time considered called the church age and we are presently in this church age right now on the calendar. And then there's the phrase millennium, and we've already talked to you a little bit about that, but it comes from the Latin mile, which means thousand. And it refers to the thousand-year reign of Jesus Christ on earth. In fact, go go to Revelation. Let me just show you this. Look in Revelation chapter number twenty. Another passage you should be familiar with with reference to end time things. And notice what it says here in Revelation and verse number four and I saw thrones and they sat upon them and judgment was given unto them and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus. And for the word of God, which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads and in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ. Here's the phrase, a thousand years. So this is where we get this thousand-year reign. They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. And so this is the word millennium. where we comes from that. And of course, premillennial is the belief that the millennium is a future event and Jesus will return before that millennial reign. And so we will reign with Christ a thousand years. Jesus will take his seat on the throne of David in Jerusalem. Now the Omillennial view, again, is that this is symbolic. Christ's present reign is among his people right now So the word millennium is really not literal. It's not a literal thousand years. It's just a figurative expression for this age in which we live right now. is how they interpret that. And then of course the post-millennial view, as we said, is that Jesus will return after the millennium. The millennium is the time in which most of the world submits to Jesus and peace and justice will reign. Everybody with me so far? Are you confused? I'm trying to bring clarity to these different views, just so you know those views that are out there. Now there's another word that I want to give you. That you might hear some people if you're talking to someone about the end times, a person might come and say, Well, I'm a preterist A what? A preterist. I remember one time I was at a um I was at a uh uh a theological society meeting It was actually down here in Washington, D. C. , the Evangelical Theological Society. These are supposedly conservative scholars that come together from all over the country. And they all read different papers to each other and interact with different theological ideas. And I was walking down the corridor and a guy came to me and says, Here's a free book. It was a big little thick volume. And I said, okay. Whenever when someone gives me a free book, my antennas always kind of raise. Because always they're trying to push some agenda sometimes, you know. So here's a free book. So I kinda Skim through it, and the bottom line, it was a book promoting this view of the end times called it's called Preterism. Now, this viewpoint, um, when it talks when you use the word predator, it's really talking about something that has uh I like the word after. And really it's talking about something that has already happened. Something that is in the past. Okay? And they believe that if not all, some, if not all, biblical prophecies about the end times happen In the first century. In other words, when they look at the book of Revelation, a preterist doesn't look at it as something that will happen in the future. They look at it as something that's already happened. It's history, it's in the past. And so they say it's already been taken place. Alright? That's a preterist view Now, there's also what is called a partial preterist, and that is the person who thinks some of the things that Jesus spoke about in Matthew 24 and in the book of Revelation have happened. We're waiting for a few events to yet happen. But most of those things have already taken place. For example, Frederic will say that the Antichrist that's referred to in the scripture, that was the Emperor Nero. All the way back in the in the the early uh reign of of the ro of the uh uh of the Caesars in Rome in AD fifty around fifty-four to sixty-eight. That's when Emperor Nero ruled, and during that time he severely persecuted Christians And they'll say that, you know, if you look at the Bible carefully and you look at the events there, that the Antichrist was Nero. And so they will also say that the tribulation was the Jewish War. This is when the Romans came in and they invaded Jerusalem and they took over the city of Jerusalem and they tore the temple apart. And they say that the tribulation refers to all those events that happened there in that war during that time. The destruction of the temple in prophecy. uh may have been fulfilled in 80 seventy. So again, they look at everything that happened in AD 70 and they look at the book of Revelation. And they look at Jesus' prophecy in Matthew 24 and they say, All of these things have already happened. It's already history. It's already over with. That's a preterist view. Now I have a big problem because if you read Matthew 24, there's a whole lot of things mentioned there that haven't happened yet. There's a whole lot of things that have taken place there that you can't find in history that line up to what Jesus said in Matthew 24 and what we see in the book of Revelation to try to press all of those things into a thing that happened in history at one point in time. That you have to you have to really do a lot of hermeneutical somersaults to get all of that in there, if you ask me But nevertheless, that's what a preterist will say. It's already taken place. It's already happened. So just be familiar with that view and that word And then there's the word rapture, and of course we know what this means. This was the event described that we read about in 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17, when Jesus will return. for his people. Now we don't see now a lot of people that are against the rapture and say, well, you know, that's you know, that word rapture is not even in the Bible. Why do you talk about a rapture? That word is not even in Scripture. Well, that doesn't worry us because there's a lot of words that we use that aren't given specifically in Scripture. For example, we don't see the word sovereignty in Scripture, but that doesn't mean I don't believe that God is sovereign. God is absolutely in control. And although we don't see the actual word in Scripture, we see the concept given very clearly here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and it's from the Latin word raptus, and it means carried away, to be carried away. Now again, a dispensational pre-millennialist believe that this is the next thing on the uh the prophetic calendar. We're waiting for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ when he will carry away his people. And then what will the earth suffer after that? The wrath of God. Seven years of tribulation, as described in the book of Revelation. And now, this is what a pre- a dispensational premillennialist, we believe in the rapture. Now, the historic premillennialists, a millennialists, and post-millennialists, that's hard to say back to back. They understand the second coming and the event described in 1 Thessalonians 4 as the same event as I already told you. They say that's all going to happen at one moment. They don't divide it. They don't separate it. It's all going to happen at once. They all agree on that, whereas we as dispensational premillennialists believe that these are two separate events. And we place the rapture before the Great Tribulation and the Second Coming after the tribulation. All right, and then of course we know the word tribulation, when the disasters happen on the earth, and the people who are faithful to Jesus suffer, and this will last seven years. And also uh the w um the great tribulation we would say would happen at the end, first three and a half years of that seven year period is tribulation. The last three and a half years is great tribulation. And the reason we hold to that is because if you look at the judgments that are described, the seal judgments in the book of Revelation And then you have the the bull judgments and the trumpet judgments and so on, that they seem to pick up in their intensity and ferocity They just seem to pick up. And so the last three and a half years, we call that the great tribulation there. And so we believe that to last seven years. Now, to many, many historical free millennials view the reference to seven years. In the book of Revelation, they kind of look at that as a symbol of completeness of God's dealing with the world with the world as the end of time approaches there. And so Most omillennialists and postmillennialists treat the tribulation as a symbol of calamities and persecutions that have occurred throughout the history of the church. They say, well, the tr you know, we're kind of in the tribulation right now And a lot of the calamities have happened throughout the history of the church. That's all really what the Bible means by tribulation there. Um and again some amillennialists and post millennialists are preterists and they believe That the Great Tribulation occurred again back during the Jewish-Roman War from approximately 63 to 70 A. D. Okay? Everybody with me so far? All right. Now I know you probably have some questions. So what I'd like to do is maybe see if you have a question with reference to what you've heard so far. Before I go in and the next part here, I'm going to get more specific about these four views and talk about what they speak about more specifically. But let me just stop here and uh as a good professor would do. And ask his students if there's any questions. Any questions so far? Go ahead, Will. Well yeah, but you have to remember that a millennialists and post millennialists reject dispensationalism completely. Yeah, they don't even look at, you know, and they don't look at the period of history as being divided up into seven dispensations. They reject all that. They would say that that's kind of a man-made grid that you place over Scripture, and we don't see that in the Bible. So they would totally reject dispensationalism completely. Yeah. All right. Anyone else? Yes. Let me get over here and then I'll come back right here. Nice and loud, Justin. I can't wait for your question. Who are the people during the thousand year reign of Christ on earth? Who will be here? During the thousand year reign. Um well Uh yeah, so it depends on I can answer that from each of the four views. Let's answer that from the dispensational premillennial view. Which is what we take. These will be people that are Christians that are saved. Now we know that there'll be people during that seven-year period of the tribulation that will be saved. And so there will be people on earth that are saved out of the tribulation period during that time. Plus, there will also be the Bible tells us that We who are believers in heaven, that we're going to come back to to earth with the Lord during that thousand-year reign, and the Bible says we're going to have positions of authority. We're going to have work to do. We're going to reign with Christ a thousand years. And so there'll be a combination of people on earth that have been saved out of the tribulation period, and God's people who are um who will be there, the Christians, believers who will be there. Okay. All right, we had a question over here. Someone else have a question? We have a microphone here, so that's way everyone can hear hear your question that you might have with reference to this. Oh okay. Okay. Any any any other questions? Alright, we have one right back here. Young man sitting at the back wall. Holding that wall up for us. Brother Chris. Yeah. I hold a um a dispensational view of the millennium, but my only uh issue I have with it is uh the marriage supper of the lamb. Okay. The people who are saved through the end of the tribulation and during the millennium, sounds like they're gonna miss that. Yeah it's a bummer. That's a bummer. Yeah, you're gonna miss it. That's why you need to save right now. Get saved right now so you don't miss the Married Supper of the Lamb. I do believe that throughout the millennial reign and throughout the eternity. It's going to be wonderful fellowship together. You know, and the Bible says during that millennial reign, uh we're gonna, you know, we're gonna hear the Lord We'll go and hear the Lord Himself. Wouldn't that be wonderful to hear Jesus and to watch our Lord? So I think there will be times of great fellowship. for those that are saved later on. But um yeah, you're gonna miss a Mary's supper, man. Sorry about that. Anyway, good question. Anything else? Yes, sir. We have two gentlemen up here. Um we'll get Harry over here and then we'll get Brother Dutch. During the millennial reign, uh I believe it's scripture says that for a man to live a hundred years and die would be like an infant dying. Those born during the millennial reign, is it true that they're Yeah. See basically what the millennial rain does is it brings back the pre um pre-fall conditions. Whatever the conditions were in Eden before the fall of man, that during the millennial reign, all of those conditions return to the earth. So when the Bible describes that in passages like Isaiah, like you what you're just talking about, longevity and health, and you know, the child the lion will lay down lay down with a lamb, and the child can play by the hole of the asp, you know, a snake hole. In other words, the the curse that came upon the earth from man and his sin will be absolutely totally removed. And all the conditions of the earth that were before man's sin are all going to return. And so that's what that's talking about there. All of it will be as it was before. You know. You know, we sing the song at Christmas time, Joy through the world, the Lord has come. And we sing that as a song that celebrates, and we're going to sing that in the next service, so you might think about this when we sing it. We sing it in reference to the first coming of the Lord, but if you listen to the words of that hymn, it really is talking about in reference to the second coming of the Lord. Because it talks about the removal of the curse. When the Lord comes, the reason we have such joy is because the curse that came with sin is removed. Moved. And he rules the world with truth and grace. And so on. So the words of that song really are talking about when the Lord comes again during his Millennial reign, the conditions of the earth. That's what brings us joy. Now it's okay to sing that at Christmas time because if there were no first coming, there could be no second coming And we celebrate the fact that at his first coming is initially when he begins to remove the curse that has been on the earth because of man's sin. And that curse that has been initially removed at the first coming will be ultimately removed at the second coming, and all the conditions will be restored when the curse is removed. Okay. Alright. Um any anyone else here? Oh we had Dutch over here, that's right. In the middle of the tribulation, Moses and Elijah will come back. And um much love that God gives, he always tries to give 'em a second chance. And they would not repent. And they wind up killing them Killing both of them, if I'm correct. And they went back to heaven. So they just kept rebelling against the God no matter what. Right. You know, yeah, the two witnesses there, and obviously you believe that's Moses and Elijah, yeah. that the people on earth in that time, despite the fact that they preach with great boldness and power, and their their message is accompanied with miracles, the people during that time they do not repent And that's what you're saying there. They will not repent. And that shows the hardness of man's heart. And it also fulfills what the Lord said with respect to you know, God will send them strong delusion and people will believe a lie. You know, it's so sp spoken about in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 there. But yes, that's very, very true. Very true. Any other questions here in reference to this Justin, we only allow one question per customer. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. We got just we got John and then we'll go to you, Justin. Go ahead, John. Will people get saved uh during the tribulation period and the reason I'm asking is I'm thinking that uh that is the period of time that the hundred and forty four thousand uh Jewish people uh uh we'll be um spreading the gospel around uh in the earth and and I was wondering if people will get saved then Well, yes. I would the answer to that short answer, yes. And I believe that a majority of those people that will be saved during the tribulation period are going to be Jewish people Because during that period of time, remember the church age is the the Bible calls it the times of the Gentiles. And what we see here in the church age is that there are remnants of Jewish people that are coming to Christ, but in large measure If you look at it, relatively few Jewish people are coming to Christ. But during that time of the tribulation is when God's going to turn again to his people, the Jews. And Paul talks about that in Romans chapter 10 and 11. And I think that it will kind of be a reversal. In the tribulation period, there'll be large numbers of Jews coming to Christ and small remnants of Gentiles. So I would say it's a reversal of what we're going to see here in this age. In this age, we're seeing times of the Gentiles, many Gentiles, few Jews. During the tribulation, it will be many Jews, few, few Gentiles. I believe in that in that. Okay. So yes, we had Justin, that's right. What happens at the end of the millennial age? Okay? And again, I'm going to answer this from a pre-um or dispensational premillennial view. Or also would call this historic premillennial. Is that right after the end of the thousand-year reign, when the rebellion is put down, after Satan is loose from the from the uh from the pit for a thousand years, In fact, look in Revelation chapter 20, because this really answers your question. And um The Bible says in verse seven, and when the thousand years are expired This is after the millennial reign. Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magod, to gather together to battle, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea And they went up on the breadth of the earth and compassed the camp of the saints about and the beloved city, and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them. And the devil that was deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. And then you f followed by In verse 11 to 15, which is called the Great White Throne Judgment, when judgment will come. And then in chapter 21, you see the new heaven and the new earth. So the chronology of that is thousand-year reign. Satan is loose, rebellion on earth, that rebellion is put down. Finally and fully, sin is dealt with, and the rebellion is put down. Satan will be cast into the lake of fire forever. How many will say amen to that? Yeah. And then right after that, there'll be judgment, the great wife room judgment. And right after the great white throne judgment, the Bible says there will be a new heaven and a new earth. And so what we see here is a recreation of the heavens and the earth. And from there on out There will be eternal bliss, eternity with the new heavens and the new earth. That'll take place right after that All right. Now, next week we're going to get into the specifics of each of these views, and we're going to look at some more passages about this, but we're out of time for today. So let's have a word of prayer, and then we're going to have our service. So let's pray together. Father, thank you for your word, for how we learn from it. And Lord, we thank you that just as surely as Lord Jesus, you came the first time, you will come again. And there will be blessing for those who know you. And so, Lord, may we be reminded of this and know that all of our hope, Lord, is in you. Thank you, Lord, for what you're doing in hearts and lives. Bless our service to follow. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright.