Would you take your Bibles open to the Book of Colossians? The Book of Colossians, uh chapter three, Colossians three. And uh I want to read a few verses with you, verse 15 down to verse 17. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Colossians 3:15 down to verse 17. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatsoever you do in word or indeed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Thank you so much. You may be seated. And pray with me today. Father, thank you for uh this passage of Scripture. Lord, give us understanding into what it means and how we can apply The principles that are taught in it to our own life, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen Edwin Cooper was a famous person in America, yet no one really knew that name, that name you probably never really heard, because that's not really how he was known. He was known because he came from a family of circus clowns, and he began performing at age nine. And after a few years performing at uh Barnum Bailey Circus, he became a fixture on television in the 1950s. You probably know him as Bozo the Clown. Well, he uh entertained many people, and he would always in his television program remind those who watched every week to get checked for cancer. And yet Cooper was so busy that he neglected his own advice. And while he was making people laugh on the outside, on the inside, there was a cancer growing in his own body. And by the time this cancer was discovered, it was too late for him. And he tragically he died just 41 years old from an inward cancer that just took his life. That's a sad story. When I read that, I thought about, you know, that's an analogy that we could use to talk about indwelling sin. Indwelling sin is like a cancer May look like on the Christian life everything's okay on the surface, but the question is, what are things like on the inside? You see, in this battle that all of us face every day with sin, we have to be careful about the inside. We have to win the battle on the inside. Now we've been talking about the issue of assurance of salvation. And one of the reasons that people struggle with this issue of assurance so much is because they just feel the flesh so strongly in this battle against sin. And many people seem to f to to fail in this battle. And so therefore they wonder if they are saved. They wonder if they have the new nature. Well, we all have to remember that even though we are saved, we are still uh we still have that sin nature. We are incarcerated in unredeemed flesh. And the very fact that you struggle against sin is a sign of spiritual life. I like to remind people of that when they're struggling against sin in their life. Look, the very fact that you are in a struggle The very fact that you're in a battle is a positive sign to me. Yet on the other hand, you're going to have to win this battle. And again, the battle has to be won inwardly. If you don't win the battle on the inside, it's only a matter of time before The loss of that battle is revealed outwardly. Sin is like a cancer that grows inwardly, and if it continues to grow, it won't stay a secret very long. So if you're going to be a holy person, if you're going to be godly, if you're going to be a person who practices righteousness, you're going to have to win this inward war that we all have with sin. Did you know that uh uh uh uh the apostle Paul uh talked about this battle often? In Romans 7 he talked about that battle. But did you know that the church in Corinth attacked the Apostle Paul? You know why there were false teachers there and and they began to hammer away at him. They began to criticize him. And the reason for that is they they wanted to teach their own lives, but before they could do that, they had to They had to discredit Paul because the people in the church had so much confidence in Paul, they had to disrupt that confidence. They had to do that to get rid of that so that they could teach their own heir. And so what they did is they started to attack him. And uh so the Bible says this, Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 4 2, we have renounced the hidden things because of shame, not walking in craftiness. You see, here's what they were accusing him of. They, and by the way, you have to go through the book of 2 Corinthians to kind of piece this together, but they were accusing him of sexual sin. They were accusing him of being greedy for money. They said he was in the ministry because of money and favors from women. They said he was not a real apostle. They were accusing him of being a phony. They said he had a hidden life of shame. that uh no one knew about. In other words, he's just a hypocrite. He's walking in craftiness. How did Paul respond to all of those attacks? Well the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 1 12, he says, For this is our boast, the testimony of our conscience that we behave in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity. You know what Paul's defense to all that was? His defense was this. It was to examine his own self inwardly. And you know what he said? He said, look, you might accuse me, but my conscience does not accuse me. I have walked in simplicity and godly sincerity. I've not lived my life by earthly wisdom. I've lived my life by the grace of God. I'm not living a life of secret shame And my conscience bears witness. My conscience tells me that I've won this battle on the inside. That's really what he's saying in that Say, look, you might accuse me out there, but I know inwardly, and my conscience, which is the courtroom of my soul, has delivered the verdict that I'm not guilty. I've won this battle. And you see, he was appealing to really the highest court on earth. The highest court in heaven is God. He's the one who knows you, he sees your heart, he judges your heart. But the highest court on earth is your own conscience. And in this battle against inward sin, it's your own conscience that has to be at rest, to be at peace, to know that you are winning that battle. So the question is, are you winning the battle against inward sin? Now in Colossians chapter three here, he gives us some weapons to use in this fight. Now, this is the continuation of a sermon I began last week. It's four principles in overcoming sin. And last week we went over two principles, and today, by the grace of God, we're going to go over the other two But let me review with you the first two that we talked about. If you're taking those, write down number one, the principle of mortification. And Paul talks about this. Look at verse number five of Colossians Chapter 3. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. This is the principle of mortification. Remember what I said? What does mortify mean? It means simply to put to death. And Paul's referring here to that old sin nature, that old person that lives on the inside. And the word members here is talking about really the members of our body. Because when the old sin nature begins to work, what does he use? He has to use our body, right? He uses our mind, he uses our eyes, our our our tongue, and so on. And Paul is saying, don't allow your members to be used. By that old sin nature. Don't let the old sin nature dominate like he used to. Remember that those members that you have now, they belong to Christ. Romans 6. 12 Let not sin reign in your mortal bodies that you should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God. Now that you're saved, you yield your members to Christ, not to sin, not to the sin nature. That old relationship is over. It's gone. Now you have a new master. You yield your members to Christ. And the way that part of the way that we do this is we focus on Christ. Look again at verse 5. Mortify therefore your members. The word therefore looks back, and what he's referring to is your oneness with Christ, your relationship to Jesus. Did you know that you're one with Christ? When Christ died, you were right there with him, you died. When he was buried, you were buried. When he rose, you rose. And where is Christ now? He's seated in heaven. And that's where you are in the mind of God. The Bible calls this the operation of God. This is what God did. He made you one with Jesus Christ. So wherever Christ is, that's where you are. And because of this oneness that you have with Christ. You have authority now to say no to the old sin nature. And you yield yourself to Christ. And all your members you yield to Christ. So you focus on that oneness that you have with the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he says, put to death those desires in verse five. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. And he gives the list of mort of fornication, uncleanness, in order to affection. Evil concupiscence and covetousness, which is idolatry. These are all the desires that you put to death And what part of what that is is you just count it as true, you reckon as true that that relationship is over, that you're dead to sin and you're alive to Christ. You just count that as true. To use an analogy, you divorced the old sin nature and now you're married to Christ. You don't listen to the old husband. You don't listen to the old master. There's no more relationship there. There's been a complete, total separation in that relationship. And now you belong to Christ. And now he is your master. People wrestle with addictions. The biblical word for addictions is slave. You're a slave to something. And you know the best way to overcome an addiction is to have a new master. And that new master is Christ. I'm no longer a slave to sin. I'm now a slave to Jesus Christ. And all of me belongs to him. And I am dead, therefore, to the old sin nature. That relationship is completely over with. It is gone. And I count that as true. And that's what Paul's saying here. And so what should happen then is a weakening of that sin nature in us. When the sin nature comes and asks to use the members of my body, I say, No, there's no relationship there. I'm dead to you, you're dead to me, I'm dead to the rudiments of this world. And what happens is that weakens the sin nature so that when he comes around again, that request is a little weaker, the desire is a little weak. And when we mortify sin in us, it is a weakening of sinful desires. However, if you yield to those things, it grows stronger. That's the battle. And so we have to mortify. And that's the principle. And what helps us is we focus on God's wrath. Look at verse six. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh upon the children of disobedience. Another thing you do in this battle is you remember God's wrath. Whenever you're tempted to sin or you're tempted to listen to the old sin nature, you remember how much God hates sin. You remember God's wrath and how he judges this. And then also remember your past. Look at verse 7. In which ye also walked in sometime when ye lived in them. This was your past life. That's not now. The idea here is that now you're a believer. You don't live that way anymore. That's how you once walked, but you don't walk like that now. There should be a transformation in your life where you're running to righteousness and you're running away from sin. You walk differently So that's the principle of mortification. And then the second principle we talked about was the principle of modification. Look at verse number eight. But now you also put off all these And then again he says in verse 9, lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off. And then in verse 10 we see the phrase put on, and having put on the new man. And in verse twelve, put on therefore as the elect of God. Remember we told you that this Paul's giving an analogy here of changing clothes. What happens, the process of sanctification is taking off the old rotten clothes of the old life and putting on the new grace clothes that you have now in Christ. And really what he's referring to here, I think, is the resurrection principle. When Jesus came out of that grave, he left the old grave closed behind. As a believer now in Christ, you're resurrected with Christ. You leave behind you all the rotten grave clothes of your old life. And what do those clothes consist of? Look at verse 8. Anger And wrath and malice and blasphemy and filthy communication. All these things are part of the old rotten grave clothes that you take off. And then also lying in verse 9, lie not one to another, seeing ye that you have put off the old man with his deeds And verse ten, you put on the new clothes and put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. And the idea here is that you as you take off the old grave clothes and you put on the grace clothes of your new life. What happens is the image of Christ is restored in you. You see, all men were created in the image of God. But that image has been tarnished by the grime of sin. But as you are putting off and putting on, that new image is restored more and more and more. And again, this is a whole process that we go through. And we could say it like this that as a believer in Christ, there should be more of Christ seen in you now this year than there was last year. You know why? Because that process continues in your life. There's that process of being being conformed more and more to the image of Jesus. If you want to know what God is doing in your life, that's the major thing he's doing in your life. The major thing he's doing is conforming you to that image. And again, it's a process. It can be a painful process. But as we do that, we become more like Christ. That image is restored. And you know what? That the pride and the sin that's part of that old man and that old life, it's kind of ripped away. And look what he says down in verse uh 11, where there is neither Jew, or excuse me, Greek nor Jew. Circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian Synthian bond or free, but Christ is all and in all. That is to say that all the man-made barriers erected in pride in our life As we are conformed to the image of Christ, those barriers are just torn down and they're thrown away and they're no longer a part of our life. And what kind of a barrier is those he mentioned here? Social barriers, racial barriers. Cultural barriers, all those things are just torn away. And you know what? We become one in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are one. And the body of Christ. It doesn't matter what your background is, it doesn't matter what your race is, your nationality is, in the Lord Jesus Christ, there is oneness, there is unity. We are one in Christ. There is love in the body of Christ. And all those barriers that man makes in pride are gone. That's all part of this process of being conformed into the image of Christ. As a believer. So Paul therefore says, look at verse 12: put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering. This is all part of what we put on. Bows of mercy, this is the Greek word for the inward parts, like the stomach. And the reason they say that is because um And uh the Greek people used to think that your emotions kind of came out of your your midsection, you know, your your inward parts. You know, it's talking about compassion and love. You know, we use the phrase heart. We say, I love you with all my heart, right? And and that's really what they're saying here, except the Greeks would say, I love you with all my stomach. But I like loving you with all your heart. It sounds a whole lot better, doesn't it? Because the emotions seemed to come from the inward part, bows of mercies and kindness, and then humbleness of mind. Greeks and Romans didn't really have a word for humility because it really wasn't admired in that day But it was a beautiful virtue, and Jesus was the greatest example of humbleness of mind. And then there was meekness, which is strength under control, and long-suffering, which means you're long-tempered, you don't get angry quick. Forbearing, which means to hold up. It just means that we put up with one another. Forgiving, we, the default mode of the Christian is we just naturally forgive those who may have Have an offense against us or do something against us, you're automatically forgiven. And what holds all of this together in vr is verse 14. And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of Perfectness, or we could say completeness. What completes the whole new wardrobe, the new outfit that we wear, is the belt of love. You put on the belt of love, and it holds all of these things together. It holds together my forgiveness, my forbearing, my meekness, my long-suffering, my compassion. All those things are held together by this one belt That completes the whole wardrobe. And so in this process of sanctification, there is the principle of modification. I'm putting off and I'm putting on. Now, that's last week's sermon. Now, we're finally getting into this week's sermon. So here's number three. Here's the third principle The principle of mediation. Look at verse 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. And so here Paul says, look, let the peace of God be the ruler in your heart. Now, what does the word rule here mean? Notice, first of all, the rule of this peace. The word rule here is a very interesting word. It's used only one time in the New Testament. Whenever you're studying the Bible and you see a word is used just one time in the whole New Testament. Automatically it kind of raises your antennas because that's very interesting. That means it's kind of a unique word. And you have to go to extra biblical sources to kind of find out how this word was used in that day. Let me tell you how this word was used. According to the great Greek scholar F. F. Bruce, he said, this word carries the idea of an mediator. Or we could say an arbitrator. Actually it was used, it was kind of an athletic term. And it means to preside at games. And to distribute prizes. And so here's how it was used. You know the Greeks, of course, they had games. The Olympic games all came from the Greeks. And they had several games that they staggered so all the wealthy in the league could attend those games. And of course they had to have umpires or we could say referees in those games that would Rule over the games and determine who the winners and who the losers were. Now you think we're competitive today. They were really competitive back then. And uh these umpires had to wield authority. And in fact, they did. They were there to enforce the rules. In fact, did you know that they carried with them a stick? A bat. You know, here now the players carry the bats, not the umpires. But in the Greek games, the umpires carried the bats. And if somebody really got out of line, they would take those sticks and get them back in line. They would whack them over the head with it. Whack them on the side. Tell them to get back in line, obey the rules. That's how much authority they had over those games. And here's Paul's using this very word for the peace of God. That you know that you have a referee in your heart. You have an umpire in your heart, and you know what it is, it's the peace of God. And Paul says, look, you let that peace of God, you let that peace mediate for you You let the peace of God be that referee, that umpire, that keeps you in line. And when you're ready to get out of line, the peace of God will just kind of whack you a bit. Say, oh no, don't do that. See, that peace therefore has to rule in our hearts. One commentator said it like this. Let me read you what he said. It's so very good. He said, when faced with a choice, The believers should consider two factors. First, is it consistent with the fact that he and Christ are now at peace and thus on the same side? That's what you want to consider. Now that you're saved and you're in this relationship with Christ, you know what you have? You have peace. There's total peace, and there's oneness with the Lord, and there's fellowship with Jesus. And as a believer, you don't want anything to disturb that oneness, that fellowship, that peace that you have with Christ. So any decision that you make, you should ask yourself the question, will this disturb that peace. Or is this decision consistent with that peace I have with Christ? And then he said, secondly, this Does it perpetuate that oneness with Christ that the believer possesses? Second, will it leave him with a deep and abiding peace in his heart? That's the other thing you should consider. This decision that you make. Will the result of this decision be that you will continue to have this deep and abiding peace? with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so these two factors are really a great deterrent against sin in the life of a believer. So you allow that peace to rule. In other words, you have the mindset that says, you know what, I have peace with Christ, and that peace is so valuable, I don't want anything to disturb that peace. And this decision I'm about to make, I need to consider, will it upset or disrupt that peace with Christ? Because it's so valuable to me. And that's we were called to walk in it. Look at verse 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts. Watch this, to the which also you are called in one body. That is, you're called to walk in peace. That's the default mode for the believer. You walk in Peace. That's the normal part of the Christian life. You live in peace. You have peace with God. You have peace with others. You're at peace with yourself. And you don't want anything to disrupt that peace. What can disrupt it potentially? Sin. Sin takes away that peace. That's what disturbs it And the peace of God will let you know when you have gotten out of bounds, when you're not making the right decisions. That peace of God will be the referee. Think of it like this, you know, as I said, I think there's a big game tonight, right? Don't they have some guys out on the field that wear stripes? And you know what happens when a player does something wrong? Everybody in the stadium knows it. You know, he doesn't come up and whisper in his ear, you know what, you just messed up there. That's not what a referee does. What's a referee do? He takes a yellow flag out of his pocket, he throws it down, he blows the whistle. And everybody knows that somebody just committed a foul. And then he goes out in the middle of the field and announces to the world who just made a penalty, his number, what he did. Everybody knows it. And you see, that's the way the peace of God operates. The peace of God just doesn't quietly say, oh, you know what, Jerry, you're messing up a little bit here. No. The peace of God violates you with a restlessness, with a disturbance in your heart He might even whack you inwardly. You say, what will happen? There will be the lack of peace. The peace of God will saturate you with his absence. It'll be gone. There'll be no peace. In fact, there'll be much the opposite. When David sinned against God, he said this in Psalm 38, verse 8: He said, I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness in my heart. On the inside, David was so restless. On the inside, he was roaring. There was this noise, this inward, violent noise that reminded him that he had sinned against God. In Psalm 32, verse 3, he said it like this, when I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring. All the day long. David said, you know, when I sinned and I was silent about it, I didn't confess it. I didn't bring it to God. My bones waxed old. Boy, it took its toll on me inwardly And this roaring was constant in my life all the time. He had absolute no peace in his heart And you mark it down, that's the characteristic of a true believer in Christ. If you're a believer in Christ and you sin and you're okay, that means that you're probably not really a believer. If there's no restlessness in you, if there's no desire to get that right, because when a true believer sins, a true believer is going to suffer. There's an ancient story about a Roman soldier who wanted to persecute a Christian. And he called around all his cohorts and he said, I really want to make this guy suffer. How can we do it? And one of his friends said, Well, let's confiscate his goods. And another one said, well, that's not going to work because he says he has treasure in heaven. Another one said, well, let's just put him in solitary confinement. He said, that's not going to work because he says he has a friend who sticks closer than a brother. Well someone else said, well let's just kill him. He said, well that's not really going to help because he said to live is Christ and to die is game. So how are we going to make this guy suffer? And then one of them stepped forward and said, I know how to make if he's a true Christian, I know how to make him suffer. Let's make him sin. Because if he's a true believer and he sins, he's going to suffer. And you know what? That's exactly right. A true believer, when they live in sin, will suffer. There'll be no peace. And that umpire, that arbitrator on the inside will let them know. And so Paul says, Look, you make sure in your life that the peace of God Rules completely in your heart. That means whenever there is that sin, you confess it immediately. You get it right with God. You don't let sin reign in you for the least little bit. You confess it to Almighty God. You get that right with Almighty God. And you make sure that you're walking in peace. And when you're tempted to sin, the peace of God should be warning you inwardly. Let that peace rule. So there's the principle of mortification, and there's the principle of modification, and then the principle of mediation. But let me give you the last one, number four. Here's the principle of meditation. Look at verse number sixteen. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. And so Paul says, here's the next thing. Let the word of God dwell in you. And I call this the residing. The word dwell here means to live in or to be at home, to take up residence. The word richly here could be translated abundantly, extravagantly. That is to say, you let God's word permeate every part of your life. Remember, I said the battle has to be won where on the inside, right? So you know what? You have to let the word of God dwell richly on the inside. Because the Word of God will defeat sin. So you have to let that Word of God get inside of you. I hear people say, you know, I I read through the Bible every year. I've read through the Bible so many times, and I think that's wonderful if you do that But make sure that when you get when you're going through the Bible, that the Bible is going through you. Because that's really the issue there. The Bible has to go through you, not you just going through it. A lot of times people just read the Bible and check it off their list and go on Hey, wait a minute now. You have to let the word of God dwell in you richly. And so how do we do that? Well, I think part of it is that you memorize God's word. Commit it to memory. Take time to memorize verses of the Bible. That's the first step. Psalm 119, verse 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? The psalmist understood the the sinfulness of sin. How can I cleanse my way? By taking heed there to according to thy word, with thy whole heart have I sought thee. Oh let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart. That's That's letting the word dwell richly in you. Thy word have I hid in my heart, why that I might not sin against God I remember when I was a teenager, I read a story that had a big impact on me. It was about a pastor from Bulgaria that was thrown into a communist prison because of his stand for Christ. And while he was in that prison His name, by the way, was Pastor Harlan Popoff. And while he was in that prison, he began to witness to the people in the cells around him and the jail cells around him. Now they wouldn't let him talk So he began to witness by using a tin cup and tapping on the wall. And the way he would tap, they didn't know Morris code, so he would just go through the alphabet. One tap was A, two taps was B, three taps was C, and you can imagine spelling out a word. And but he would use that system to share the gospel with all those men that were around him. And you know what? He led many, many men to Christ with a tin cup just tapping on the wall. And after a while, and by the way, it got to a point where they would allow the men to mingle at times, and some of the men would come to him. And and there was a sense in which now he was kind of pastoring these men in this communist prison And he prayed and he said, Lord, I I need the Word of God for these men. I need to get them the Word of God in order for them to grow. And he he prayed a prayer which seemed impossible humanly speaking, but he prayed and he said, Lord Can you get me a Bible? Now here's a man in the middle of a communist prison praying for God to deliver him a Bible. Which would seem like an impossibility. But one day he saw a guard pull out a little book out of his vest pocket Tear out a page and use that page to roll up a cigarette and smoke it. And as he looked very closely at the book, he noticed that it was a New Testament. And when he saw that New Testament, he just couldn't believe it. His eyes began to fill with tears. And he said to the guard, would you please let me have that book? And the guard looked at him and he saw the emotion of this man. And he said, look, if it means that much to you here, just take this book. And God gave him a New Testament right there in prison. Now he knew that it was only a matter of time before they would be that New Testament would be found because they conducted searches of their prison cells uh at odd times. And so he knew that uh he would have to really and uh memorize as much of that New Testament as he could Because he knew that they were going to get it eventually. And so he committed himself to memorizing the New Testament before they found it. And before they were able to find that New Testament in his cell, he memorized forty-seven key chapters of the New Testament. You know what he did? He hid the word of God in a place where they could never take it away. And that was in his heart. And with the word of God in his heart, you know what he did? He ministered that word to all those men that were around him. I want to tell you something, friend, that's part of letting the Word of God dwell in you. He was kind of a walking New Testament for those guys. Because he knew the Word of God. And that's where it starts. You have to get the Word of God inside you, memorize it, but then meditate on it. And that means you just think about it over and over again. Let it go through your mind. You know, in fact the word for meditation is used to speak about uh a musical notation. It's kind of like a song that plays over and over again. It's used to talk about uh s uh something that is constantly Revolving in your mind. The word literally means to think about, to reflect upon, and I call it kind of a mental or spiritual digestion. You just Think about the word of God. You digest it in your mind and in your heart and you let it become a part of what you are. You know why God wants us to meditate on scripture? Because you become what you think about. The mind is such a powerful thing. And the things that you think about are the things that you're going to do. You're just going to begin to do those things because that's the way the mind works. Someone said Sow a thought, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character, so a character, reap a life, so a right uh sow a life, reap a legacy. And if you want to have a godly legacy, it has to start with the thought, and it has to be a godly thought. And that's all it has to start in the Word of God. The Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And so you meditate on the scripture. You let it get in you. And that's where the battle is won. When there's a temptation that comes, you can immediately pull a verse of scripture to your mind. Casting down every imagination, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. 2 Corinthians 10 5. You bring a verse to your mind. And you fight sin with the truth of God's word. And how do you know that the word of Christ will be dwelling in you? Well, there'll be some results. And I'll close with this. Look at verse 16, where it says Speaking to yourselves or singing with grace in your heart to the Lord, that would be part of it. And then whatsoever you do, do in word indeed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks. And then in verse 18 it talks about a submission. You know what the characteristics of your life will be? You'll be teaching and admonishing one another. You'll be speaking spiritual songs to yourself, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. You'll just begin to sing. You'll have a joy in your heart. You'll just have this joy. And sometimes you'll just start singing. You ever been around a Christian like that? You know what I think about when I think about this verse? I think about Pastor Johnson, to be honest with you. I remember there were times when I was on a hospital visit with Pastor Johnson. We'd be in the elevator, and there'd be a few other people that would come on the elevator, and right in the middle of that elevator, Pastor Johnson would just start singing out. All the people would jump. He had that booming voice, you know. And it was just a natural thing to him. He was singing to himself. There was that joy. Then there will also be thankfulness. The Bible says your heart will be filled with thankfulness to God, and you'll be submissive to one another. As believers in Christ. These are just the characteristics of someone who's allowing the Word of God to dwell in them richly But friend, if you want to win the battle on the inside, you have to do that. There has to be the principle of mortification put to death that sin. There has to be the principle of modification you're putting off and you're putting on in this process of sanctification. There's the principle of mediation, you let the peace of God rule in your heart, be the umpire and arbitrator of your heart And then the principle of meditation. Let the Word of God dwell in you. And I'm convinced that if we will just simply practice these principles, you know what? You're going to win the battle on the inside. And you know what? You won't doubt your salvation. It'll give you assurance because when you're living in victory over sin, The Holy Spirit will confirm to your heart that you really are a child of God and you belong to Him. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you again for the Word of God. How we need what it teaches us And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to learn these principles, to understand them, to apply these things to our own life. This is what we need in this war that we wage. Against indwelling sin. I pray for every believer under the sound of my voice, whether they're here in the auditorium or whether they're listening by way of live stream. That as they do battle against sin, that they would pick up these weapons that the Apostle Paul gives us. He above all knew this warfare. This godly man was constantly Battling sin in his life. And he was able to say and get to the point in his Christian life where he said, My conscience bears witness that I walk in godliness and sincerity. I pray, Lord, that all of us will get to that point. In our spiritual life, where our conscience, the judge of our soul, declares us not guilty. Declares us the winner, the victor over sin in our life. So Lord, help us to apply these principles. For your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.