And we've been talking about the topic of the four views of the end times. And we kind of touched on this last week. Let me move this over. Over here. It's a little bit easier for me. So we touched on this a bit last week, on this this topic, this very important topic. of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh we want to get into it just a little into it a little bit more here today. So look in Revelation chapter 20 and look at verse number one. Notice what it says there, and I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand, and he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil. and Satan and bound him a thousand years. And notice that phrase thousand years, that's a key phrase. It's where we get our word, uh, the word millennium from. Which is the Latin for a thousand years. And verse three, and cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up and set a seal upon him. And uh And that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled, and after that he must be loosed a little season. I heard about uh one day Cain and Abel, when they uh were boys, uh they found a wall and they they looked, they climbed over that wall and they looked inside. And they uh went back to their father Adam and they said, Dad, you'll never believe. We looked over this wall and we saw this beautiful paradise. He said, Do you think we could ever they said, Do you think we could ever live in a place like that? He said, Well Adam said, Well we used to live in a place like that, so your mother ate us out of house and home. Well that didn't really happen, obviously, but you get the idea there Uh there is coming a day, however, when we will live in a place like that. And that's really what we talk about when we talk about the millennium or the millennial reign of Christ, everything that man can lost and Eden will be restored during this time of the millennium. Think about this. There'll be no prisons. Uh there'll be no hospitals, there'll be no mental institutions, there'll be no army basis, there's no need for military, there'll be no gambling casinos, no bars The bloom of youth will be upon the cheek of everyone. And the Bible says that the wolf the wolf and the lamb will lay down together. Israel will be restored to her rightful uh land. Jerusalem will be the world's capital. The Bible says the resurrected saints will rule and reign with the Lord Jesus Christ, and the desert will bloom or blossom uh like a rose and the earth the Bible says will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. That's going to be a great day during that time. And if you're taking notes, write down Isaiah 35, 1. It says the wilderness and the solidary place shall be glad for them. And the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose, and shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice with uh even with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, and they shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God. And so during this time, all of the redemptive purposes of God since the fall will culminate in this time in the kingdom of our Lord. I thought that since we celebrate the first advent, the first coming of Christ during the Christmas season, it would be good to take this opportunity to also look at the second advent of Christ. Because just like in Jesus' day they were waiting for the Messiah to come, even so today there's a parallel. We're waiting for the Messiah to come, but we're waiting for his second coming. We celebrate the first Advent, but also the First Advent causes us to look forward to the second Advent when the Lord Jesus Christ will return in glory, the Bible says. And so We want to look at this because, as I told you last week, there are several views about the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember we talked about the four different views, and we're going to talk about these here. Sir, we have technical problems here. Sorry. For some reason it's flashing. Thank you. Thank you, Jack. Appreciate Hey. That's all. Thank you. So, we're going to talk about these views. Now, I think the hermeneutical key to understanding the book of Revelation is to understand the chronology of the book. And so think about this with me. The simple chronology of Revelation is we see in the first two chapters the church is referred to over and over again, actually the first three chapters where Uh Jesus speaks to the seven churches. And then in chapter four, what's happened is John's caught up into heaven, and a lot of scholars look at that and think that is a picture of the rapture when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back to receive his church. And then uh I haven't done anything. I haven't touched anything, guys. Just want you to know that up here. I I'm behaving myself. I'm not uh you know, I can back away a little bit if that'll help. But um so Let me see if again it may be me. I don't know. Or it may be something different. Who knows? So, um, well let's just get into this. And then as the tribulation starts, when you look at the book of Revelation, you get to the tribulation. which is in chapter uh five and six, and it really goes all the way to chapter nineteen. And so you have all of that wrath of God being poured out on the earth from chapter five All the way to chapter 19. And it ends with the return of the Lord to the earth, where he will defeat the arm the uh the armies of all the enemies. A continuative of all the armies of the earth in that place called Armageddon. And then when you come to chapter 20, we just read a while ago, you have the kingdom or the millennial or the thousand-year reign of Christ. Now remember I said that the word millennium comes from the Latin, which means thousand years, and it's during that time when all of uh all of the curses will be removed. All of the conditions before the fall of man will be restored. It'll be eaten again. And this is going to be a wonderful time. In fact, the scripture uses many expressions to talk about it It's called by many names. It's called a time of regeneration. That's used in Matthew 19. It's called times of refreshing in Acts chapter 3, verse 19. It's also called times of restitution. That is in Acts 3. 21. And then the in the dispensation of the fullness of time, that is in Ephesians 1. 10. And so there's much scripture on this subject. And you could even argue that this is one of the key themes. I'm just going to move this over here. Oh, it's working again. I was going to set it aside, but it's working again. Okay, well not. Um so we will uh we'll I'll not touch it again. So this is the main subject in the scripture, I could say. In fact, uh there's so much that points to this, this this glorious age. It's in 2 Samuel chapter 7, Psalm 2, and Isaiah 2, and all the way through the on through the Old Testament I can go. It was so much a part of Jewish thought that the Jewish writers in post-biblical times used to talk about the Malkuth Shemayam or the kingdom of heaven. And so the Old Testament is loaded with this anticipation of the coming of the Lord. And Revelation chapter 20 really is the fulfillment of all of what they had been waiting for, the kingdom of God on earth. Now as we told you if you were here last time, we said that there were three views, or actually four views, of this. And the one view we said was the premillennial view. And let me just review that with you. When we say premillennial, we actually talk about, we simply mean um before the millennium, and that is the idea that the Lord Jesus Christ will return before the kingdom, the millennium, and he will reign one thousand years. Christ will come publicly He will come visibly. He will come at the end. Also at the rapture, a pre dispensational view believes that he'll come before The tribulation period. There will be seven years, of course, of wrath, and then at the end he will come, defeat all his enemies, and set up his kingdom on earth. And so that's when the kingdom will begin. The kingdom will be set up on earth in Jerusalem on the throne of David. Now, all of this is based on a literal interpretation of Scripture. It takes Revelation 19 and 20 and it gives it a literal interpretation. It interprets it at face value. The promises in the Old Testament about the future kingdom and identity and the throne of David, it takes all those promises as being literal promises. Literal promises that the Lord will fulfill. And the text that give the promises also, remember this, have a squ a corresponding negative promise. And so, in other words, God says, if you obey me, I will what? I'll bless you But if you disobey me, I will what? I'll curse you. And so there's blessings for obedience, there's cursings for disobedience Now let me ask you a question. Did the promises of chastisement, of judgment, and punishment literally come to pass on Israel when they disobeyed the Lord? Does that happen? Of course. When Israel disobeyed God, they received the punishment. They received God's um cursing. Then why would the blessings be figurative? You see, um a lot of people who don't believe in a literal millennial reign would have to say that the blessings God spoke about on Israel were not literal blessings on e Israel. They were figurative. And so think about that. So the real issue in this is hermeneutical, right? How do you interpret these things literally or figuratively? Now, pre-millennialists will interpret it literally. They will say that all the literal promises of God, all the literal punishments came upon Israel, so therefore all the promises of blessing are literal And so we have to interpret all these things literally. And by the way, we also said that do we not have this on yet? Not working. You can just just maybe restart it and we'll see. We would say that there are two different types of premillennialism. There is dispensational premillennialism. We talked about that. We also talked about historic premillennialism. And this is where historical premillennials will say, yeah, well, Jesus is going to return before the millennium, but the church is going to have to go through the tribulation period. And when the Lord returns, it's all at one time. In other words, they don't break up the return of the Lord into rapture and return with seven years in between. They say, No, it's all going to happen at once. It's all going to be at the end of the time of God's wrath being poured out on earth, and that's the position he called historic premillennialism, which, hallelujah, it's working for now. And then we also said there was another position he called omillennialism. which is no literal thousand year rule. And then post millennialism. Now post millennialism go ahead, come on. Why not? So it's not it's not the preacher's fault. Please tell everybody that's my fault Sometimes sometimes with technology you just never know. So we'll we'll we'll we'll we'll go on as it is and I'll make it work no matter what happens. All right. So now we also talked about the position of post-millennialism, and the prefix post just simply means after. And so that means that Christ isn't going to return until after the millennium. So think about this. That um this is the view that says things are going to get better and better and better. That the king that the gospel is going to continue to expand and increase and things are going to get better. Until one day we simply just waltz into the kingdom. Everything is ready, everything is set up, and when everything is better and everything is ready and everything is good, the gospel has done its work, then Jesus will come and take his throne He will come back to earth, but it'll be after the millennium. And so the church will be the one that will bring about this world peace, a period of righteousness and peace. And according to this view, the progress of the gospel in the church is just going to rapidly increase. It's going to grow. Everything is going to get better and better and better, as we said before. And the this millennium will last for a long period of time. However, it's not necessarily a thousand years. Um, and uh we're not sure it's gonna be you know, a thousand could just be a figure that's not literal. It's just a number that just speaks about a long time, this period of things getting better and better. And then the Lord is just simply going to return and He's going to occupy his throne there in heaven. And so that's why it's post-millennial. It's a combination really of the literal view and the non-literal interpretation of scripture. Now, let me just say this, a lot of post-millennialism that you read about today really takes on the form of kingdom theology. Or it shows up in a warfare, a spiritual warfare mode. You know, we're going to conquer demons, we're going to conquer Satan, we're going to bind Satan, we're going to bind demons. uh by the exercise of the power of the church. We're gonna take authority over Satan. We're gonna push uh the the demonic world down. We're gonna bring Satan to a halt. And so on. And you hear a lot about that. And by the way, as Christians, I do understand that we do have victory. I understand that. It's victory that the Lord gives us. But there's also another name for this theology. It's called Dominion Theology. It's also called Christian Reconstructionism. Or another name is theonomy. All these terms come under this idea of this post-millennial mindset where we are going to take control, we're going to bind Satan, we're going to have victory and move uh uh things are going to get better and better. And um those who believe that Christ will not come back until the end hold to this dominion type theology. Now now some of you might remember uh during the uh last presidential election when Republicans were uh trying to be nominated to be the next president, that one of the candidates during that um process was the Senator Ted Cruz. How many remember that? He was running for president And some of you might remember that he came under attack, and the Washington Post wrote an article saying that this presidential campaign His presidential campaign was fueled by this dominionist vision for America. In other words, they were criticizing him by criticizing his theology Because he was, they said, someone who believed in this dominion theology. Some of you may know that um Ted Cruz's father is a pastor down in Texas, and uh he preaches a view that is called seven mountain uh Seven Mountain Dominionism. What is Seven Mountain Dominionism? This is basically the idea that Christians will dominate, they'll take dominion over seven aspects of the culture or seven aspects of society. What are they? Well, one mountain is family, one mountain is religion, one is education, one is media One is entertainment, one is business, and one is government. So those are the seven mountains that we are going to take dominion over. according to uh Dominion Theology. And again, Ted Cruz was coming under attack by uh certain newspapers and because of uh his belief in this Dominion theology and the article that I read was very critical saying that, quote, Cruz's campaign may be less about the White House and more about the White Horses that will usher in God's kingdom in the New Testament book of Revelation. So that's uh that's just something just to know. There are There are those who believe. A lot of this is Pentecostal theology. This they hold to this dominion theology where we're going to take dominion over these things and things are going to get better and better. It's just another form of post-millennialism. where the world is going to get better until finally the Lord Jesus Christ is going to return. Another more liberal form of of of this theology uh it's called liberation theology. So we have to bring in the kingdom. We have to do it this time, this this branch of theology believes we bring in the kingdom, but we have to do it not just fiercely, but we have to do it by force. And that's kind of a dangerous idea, if you ask me. Let's get our guns, let's mow down the establishment. This is a theology that's very popular in Latin America, and this idea is used to start some revolutions. And so again, a very dangerous idea. So postmillennialism says things are going to get better and Christ is going to return Pre-millennialism says things are going to get progressively worse, and then Jesus is going to come, take out his church, wrath is going to fall, and then Jesus will return again and set up his kingdom on earth. That's the difference between those two. Now, just note this, there's no trace of post-millennialism in the first three centuries of the church. Just think about that. No trace of this in the first three centuries of the church. And so This this uh where did this idea of post millennialism come from Well, the credit for developing the post-millennial system is usually given to a man by the name of Daniel Whitby. He was a Unitarian minister from England. And his view by ma his uh he was viewed by many in his day as being kind of a theological liberal or even a heretic Some of his writings were publicly burned because they strayed so far from orthodoxy. However, this view of post-millennialism kind of struck a chord. with certain people for a while. And they like the idea of things getting better and better. But there was something that happened in the world that caused this view to be no longer embraced. Because it was there was a period of time where post-millennialism was growing. But what happened that caused this whole idea of things getting better and better to be put aside? You know what big event took place? It was World War I. World War I when it came with all the slaughter of that um war just kind of caused people to realize that things were not getting better and better. And so basically they let go of Post-millennialism. You could say it staggered badly with this war. And then when the Second World War come, it was officially pronounced dead by many people. because of that. Now there are still some who hold to this kind of optimistic view of the coming of the Lord. Okay, is this working? So let me let me see how long we can get this to last. And let me so just so let me review with you then this idea. Maybe not. Of the uh I was going to say, I was going to kind of show you a chart here, but we don't have that available. I was just going to summarize it with you quickly. this uh dispensational premillennial view. Um when it's back up somebody let me know and I'll do that with you. But let me just also just say the third view. There it is You can see on the chart here, this is the dispensational premillennial view here, where you again you see on the chart, we're in the church age right now. We're waiting for the return of the Lord. And And you know, also along with this, oh well, um I was going to try to show you the slide about the rapture right there before the Great Tribulation. But So much for that. And then of course omillennialism. So let me talk to you about the third view of omillennialism, and then I want to look at Revelation 20. We'll kind of take this apart. The Omillennial view, we saw a premillennial who's going to return before the millennial reign. Post-millennialism, Christ is going to return after that thousand-year period. Things are going to get better and then it's going to return. Then there's the A-Millennial View. And we talked to you a little bit about this last week and introduced it to you. The A Millennial View is that there is no millennium. Basically, there is no king or kingdom, I could say. Or a better way to say it is, all the kingdom there is is what we have right now. This we're in the millennial kingdom right now. It's this period. Things are going to stay the same. And when a millennialist reads Revelation 20, they don't take a literal view A thousand years doesn't mean a thousand years to them. It's figurative. The kingdom is now. The church age is now. Christ is ruling now. And Christ is here So we're already in this time. According to this position, the passage in Revelation 20 describes the present church age. And this is an age in which Satan's influence over the nation has been greatly reduced so that the gospel can be preached to the whole world and Satan is bound right now. Let me ask you a question. How many believe that Satan is bound right now? If he's bound, he's got a very long chain. That's all I have to say. But this is the on-millennial view. You know, when Jesus came, remember he said he had to bind a strong men? And then um and so there are many that say, well this this has happened. Right now we are in this age uh where Satan is bound. And because he is bound, the gospel is able to spread throughout all the world. Excuse me, all the world. Those who are said to be reigning with Christ for uh for a thousand years are believers. We are reigning with him. And uh so Christ's reign in the millennium, according to this view, is not a bodily reign here on earth, but rather a heavenly reign. He spoke of when he said this, he said, All authority is given on heaven and on earth. And so they basically reject the literal view of Revelation with regard to prophecy. They either try to put it all into history Or they make it all figurative. Remember I said last week there's a word the term preterism. A preterist is someone that believes that everything that happened in Revelation already took place. It took place in 70 AD. with the uh Jewish Roman War. And so revelation is not prophecy, it's history. Now there's also people that call themselves partial preterists. They say we believe Part of what uh the book of Revelation talked about happened. There's still a few things that need to happen, but most of it was already fulfilled in uh 70 A. D. So they either make it all history Or they say this is not to be taken literal, Revelation 20 isn't to be taken literal, is to be taken figurative. All the promises to Israel in the Old Testament, all the kingdom promises that God gave to Israel are being fulfilled right now in the church. Now think about that. We are the Israel of God. This is what Amalanius will say. We're the new Israel. We're the Israel of God. There's no future Israel. God will not revive Israel. There will never be a redeemed nation. They're never going to go back into a kingdom. There's not going to be a real throne in Jerusalem. All of that, they say, is figurative It's not literal. You see. Now think about this. One time a great scholar by the name of Dr. Charles Feinberg, he was speaking in Israel to a large gathering, including the mayor of Jerusalem and the Prime Minister. And just before Dr. Feinberg spoke, an omillenist got up and he spoke, and he talked about his view. You have to imagine that that view is very disheartening to people in Israel. Because what is he basically saying? That all the punishments that God promised came to you, but all the blessings come to us. Think about that. How do you witness to a Jewish person? When you tell them there's no future for Israel, that all those punishments happened literally, but all the promises were figurative, and it really speaks about us, the church. You get all the punishments, we get all the blessings. That doesn't seem very fair. And so Dr. Feinberg, when he got up, right after the Al Millennialists spoke, he said, I I regret to stand on this platform and have to acknowledge that we've come a long way from America to announce to you Jewish people that all the curses were given to you, but all the blessings are given to us. Again, that just doesn't add up. But this is what our millennialists would have us to admit. And so and the so again, just a summary. A pre-millennial view, Christ is going to come before the thousand years and he's going to set up his kingdom. Postmillennialism, he's going to come after the millennial reign. The gospel is going to make things better. It's going to get better and better and that is going to come. Our millennial view is that things are going to stay the same. This is the kingdom. We're in it right now. This is all that there is of it The reign of Jesus is figurative. Christ is already ruling. He's ruling right now. He's ruling in his church. He's ruling in the hearts of his people. He will rule uh continually, and that he will one day he will come and formally take us to heaven. But the but it's right now, it's all going to be at one moment. And so according to this omillennial position, then The present church age will continue until the time of Christ's return. And then when he returns, that's when it's all going to happen. There will be a resurrection of both believer and non-believer. Now this a millennial view was made popular as a system of theology, they trace it all the way back to a man by the name of Augustine. How many ever heard of the name Augustine? Augustine was one of the early church theologians, but he uh basically um took some figurative uh views in his interpretation, and he held to certain allegorical ways of interpreting literal passages of scripture. And so these are the three basic, actually four basic views. But what I want you to look at here, look in Revelation chapter 20. With that in mind, let's look in Revelation 20. And I want you to notice some of the events that are part of this millennium that I think you have to take literal. You have to take this literal in order for this to make sense. And number one is the removal of Satan. Look in Revelation 20, look in verse 1. And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand. Verse 2, and he laid hold of the dr on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into a bottomless pit. and shut him up and set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more until the thousand years should be fulfilled. And after that, he must be loosed a little season. So in verses 1 and 2, John sees an angel come down from heaven with a key in one hand and a chain in the other. And we see the removal. This is the first thing that Jesus does when he sets up his kingdom. There's going to be the removal of Satan. Notice who he lays hold on. He's called the dragon. Notice these expressions in verse 2, the serpent. I think the dragon speaks of Satan's savagery, the kill. The serpent is kind of a subtitle. It speaks of his deceptiveness. The devil, he's a slanderer. The word Satan means adversary. There's no doubt as to who this is. Did you know that in the first two chapters of the Bible there's no Satan? And in the last two chapters of the Bible, there's not going to be any Satan. And there's going to be the removal of Satan. And this will dramatically change the world. Remember, Satan was cast out of heaven. Down here on the earth, and this will be a time when he will be removed. And um so we see the removal of Satan, we see the priority of his removal. This is going to be something Jesus will do before he sets up his kingdom. And we see the prison of his removal. In verse number three, notice what it says. And cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up And set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled. After that, he must be loosed a little season. Now the bottomless pit that John talks about here is not hell or the lake of fire. Actually, go back to Revelation chapter 9 and look at this real quick quick with me. Look in Revelation 9. Look at verse 1 and 2. Notice what it says, and the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven and unto the earth, and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit. Bottomless pit is the Greek word abyss. It is the penitentiary, we could say. Satan will be incarcerated in the abyss in this place. It's also called in Luke 8. 31, the deep And the New Testament writers do speak of such a place. Do you remember in the Bible in Jude 6 where it talked about the angels which kept not their first estate? But they left their own habitation. They committed a horrible sin, and the Bible says God has put them in uh darkness, chains of darkness. In 2 Peter chapter 4. It says they were cast down to hell. The word for hell is not the normal Greek word for hell. It's not Gehenai. It's not Hades. It is the word Tartarus. That's the only time it's used in the whole New Testament. So I think this is all speaking about that same place. That one place, Satan would be put in this bottomless pit. And notice we see the priority of his removal Jesus will do this before he sets up his kingdom. We see the prison of his removal, this bottomless pit, and then we see the period of his removal in verse number three of chapter 20, again, where it says a thousand years. Again, I believe this is literal. Because if it isn't a thousand years, then when will he be loosed? You see, there's no way of knowing when he will be loosed. Notice verse 3. And and verse 7 together. Verse 3 it says, And cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up and set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled And after that he must be loosed a little season. Look at verse 7. And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. So Satan will be bound during this time. Jesus will be crowned during this time. So we could say Satan will be chained and Jesus will reign. And that's all during this same period, a thousand years. And notice the protection of his removal. Notice in verse 3 where it says a seal, we could say a lock There's no chance for Satan to escape from this prison. He will be chained, he will be fettered in this place, and it will be sealed. And notice the purpose of his removal. Don't get the idea that this is Satan's punishment. Oh no, that's going to come later when the lake of fire. This is not his punishment. This is Satan's banishment. He will be banished from the earth. God wants to remove him for a certain time to get him out of the world seen. And why? Look in verse number three again where it says that he should deceive the nations no more. See that expression in verse three? that he should deceive the nations no more. Satan will not be behind the scenes masterminding plots to overflow the righteous and the work of God against God's plan. Do you ever you ever wonder who's behind all of the things that are going on in governments in the world, all the hatred? all of the the assassinations, all the the the the prejudice, all of the anti-Semitism, all of the hatred that's in the world, all the crazy things going on in corrupt governments. The Bible says that there's spiritual wickedness in high places. And I think that he's behind a lot of that. But the Bible says during this time, he he's going to be bound. He's going to be off the scene. So there will be a thousand years of Christ reigning on earth where there will be peace, there will be righteousness there on the earth Now, the problems I had with on millennialism is number one, again, one of the big problems I have is if you are omillennial, you have to believe that Satan is bound. Right now. You have to believe that he's bound. And if this is not literal, how are we to take this passage if it's not literal? I mean, how am I to understand it? Amilenius again will say that Satan was bound during Jesus' earthly ministry. He spoke of the binding of the strong man in order that he might plunder his house. And so they go to Matthew chapter twelve. And they use that passage to say Satan was bound there. And uh but I want you to sh I want to show you something. Go to Matthew twelve. Let's look at that passage. Is that what Jesus is talking about there? Look at Matthew chapter twelve real quick. Just let me show this to you. Matthew chapter 12. Now in this passage here, Jesus In verse number 29, where it speaks about this. Notice what it says in Matthew 12, 29, or else, how can one enter a strong man's house and spoil his good except he first bind? the strong man, then he will spoil his house. And so um but we have to consider the context of this whole um parable that Jesus is really giving here. in Matthew chapter 12. What happened here? What happened in Matthew chapter 12? Let me explain to you what happened. This is the passage where Jesus is being accused of doing miracles in the power of Beelzebub Now friend, that's one of the the the greatest uh blasphemies. We could say the worst blasphemy that was ever rendered against the Lord Jesus Christ on his earth that he's doing miracles. They couldn't deny the fact that he was doing miracles. They could see those miracles. Jesus had just performed one But they're accusing him of doing it in the power of Beelzebub. He does it in the power of Satan. And again, that was a monstrous accusation against the Lord. And Jesus, in order to answer that accusation, he gave this parable about the binding of the strong man. And what Jesus meant by that was simply this: that during his earthly ministry, Jesus, in his ministry, he did bind Satan. There's no question about that. But why did he bind Satan? He was getting the nation, the people ready for the kingdom to come. But what happened is that they rejected Jesus as their king. Remember that? They absolutely rejected him Remember, Jesus later will give a parable of the spirit that basically uh uh had a haunt, had a home. And uh he was cast out of that home, and that home was swept and it was it was uh cleaned up and then it what should have happened during that time? That sh that's then that that that's that home should have been filled with the uh with the spirit, the spirit of God, instead of a demonic spirit But what happened was that home remained empty and that spirit came back and the Bible says he brought with him seven more spirits that were um even worse. And the Bible says the last state of that person was worse than the first. And Jesus was using that parable to say this. that during his earthly ministry, when he came to minister, he was binding the kingdom of darkness. He was doing all these miracles to show his power over uh the demon spirits and Satan. And He was basically cleaning the house, sweeping the house, casting Satan out. And what should have happened at that point? Israel should have recognized that Jesus was the real Messiah They should have received him, and then he would have occupied that house, and the kingdom would have come. But what happened? They rejected Jesus. So the house remained empty. And what happened was the nation, the people of Israel got worse and worse. Those that rejected Jesus got worse and worse, even to the point where they wouldn't believe any more of his miracles were from God. They didn't even believe when he resurrected, even when the Roman soldiers came back and said, you know, an angel came and he's gone. What did they do? They bribed them to tell a lie. Tell them that the disciples stole his body. They refused to believe anymore. So this whole expression that Jesus uses about the binding was really a parable to talk about the fact that at that moment the his his ministry was, in fact, preparing the nation for his reign, but they ultimately rejected Jesus. You can't use Matthew chapter 12 to say that Jesus has bound has bound Satan during this whole period that we're in right now. You can't say that. Because uh again we have to look around and we have to see that uh things uh are The way they are in this world, that's not what the scripture says. And besides that, what does the Bible tell us? In 2 Corinthians 4 4, the Bible says, the God of this world Has blinded the minds of them that believe not. We're talking about this present age that we live in now. Do you think that Satan is blinding the minds of people from the abyss? No, I don't think so. I think he's right there out there in the world right now, and right now he is blinding the minds. He's called the God of this world. In First Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 18, Paul said that Satan was hindering The ministers of God. He's still out there trying to hinder the work of God. In 1 John it says this, the whole world lies in the lap of the wicked one. He's called the Prince of the Power of the Air. So you have all these verses in the New Testament that tell us that Jesus, uh, even though he is our Savior and even though his kingdom is expanding, has not cast Satan into the bottomless pit during this time. That Satan is on the loose. Paul said this, we wrestle not with flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And again, when was Paul talking about? Talk about right now. Right now you wrestle against these powers and these rulers of the darkness of this world And so we cannot say that as our millennials would have us to believe that Satan is bound right now. That he's bound right now. Surely you've got something better to show Than that. Have we gotten that bad here? That you've got to see that. You you poor people. Anyway, let me mention the numbers used on the book of Revelation. Go back to Revelation chapter 20. We just have a few minutes left. And uh Let's go to Revelation 20. And notice that in the in this You know, in this chapter particularly, we see the number 1000 used, but we also see other numbers used in Revelation. We see, for example, in the first two chapters, first three chapters rather, seven churches. Now let me ask you a question. Was that number seven? Was it literally seven churches there? Yeah, because he mentions the seven churches So the number seven stood was a literal number. It wasn't used figuratively there. We are seven ministers in those seven churches. And then also the book of Revelation talks about the twelve tribes. Again, is that a literal designation where there are really twelve tribes? Of course there was, yes. And then twelve apostles. Is it being used literally there? Are there literally twelve apostles? Yes, of course. Here's my point. The only time numbers are used figuratively is in Revelation 1. 4. Look in Revelation 1. 4 real quick. This is the only time I see numbers used figuratively. Revelation 1 verse 4. Where it says, and John to the seven churches, that's literal, which are in Asia, Grace be unto you and peace from him which is, which was, and which is to come, from the seven spirits which are before his throne. Now, when he refers to the seven spirits of God, we obviously know that that's not a literal number there, because we know there's only one spirit of God, right? But the seven is a number here used figuratively to speak about perfection or completeness here. This is the only time I really see a number in Revelation being used in a figurative sense. And I bring that up because again I'm Trying to debunk the argument that Omillenalists use and say that a thousand years in Revelation doesn't literally mean a thousand years. It's figurative. Well, all the other numbers in Revelation are literal. Why should we come to chapter 20 and say that thousand years is not literal? The term 1,000 years is used six times in the text. And what is there in chapter 20 that should tell us that it's to be taken symbolically? I don't see it. Never in scripture is the word year, when it's used with a number, when it's modified with a number, never is that used figuratively. It's always literal. 1,000 years. That's again literal. Whenever the word year is modified by a number, it's always a literal year And so the number 1000 in Scripture, as far as I can see, is never used in a symbolic way. And so it's for these reasons that I take a literal view Of Revelation chapter 20, when it says that Jesus will come and he will reign a thousand years, I take that literal view. So we see the first thing here is the removal of Satan. That's one thing that's going to happen. But here's the second thing. I want you to see the reign of the saints. Go back to chapter 20 and look at verse number four. With Satan and his all his cohorts out of the way, the kingdom will be established. Jesus will rule and reign on the earth, and his saints saints will reign with him. Look at verse 4. And I saw thrones. And they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, which had not worshiped the beasts neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, and in their hands a or in their hands, I should say, and they lived and reigned with Christ what? a thousand years. So again, this is to be taken literal. There's going to be a time when we will reign, the Bible says, with the Lord Jesus for 1,000 years. This is our future reign. So in this vision that John sees, he sees many people sitting on thrones, and the Bible says judgment is given to these people. Question, who are these people? Well, this will include the Old Testament saints. This will include also New Testament believers. Remember, Jesus promised his disciples they were going to reign Remember he promised that? Matthew nineteen twenty eight, truly I say unto you, in the New World, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne You who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And then it also applies to us as New Testament believers Remember what Paul said to the Corinthians? He said this. Remember in the Corinthian church, they were kind of taking each other to court? And Paul says, why are you doing that? Listen to what he says. Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? That is the idea that one day we're going to reign and we're going to be in positions of judgment. During the millennial reign, he will have us in positions of authority judging the world. And he said this: and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters 2 Timothy 2. 12, if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. Do you understand, beloved, that one day during the millennial reign, when you're faithful to the Lord here now, he's going to give you positions of authority? under him during that millennial reign. Wow. I'm gonna ask to be the mayor of Baltimore for next time. Lord give me Baltimore and I'll take care of it. I'm just kidding. But the Lord will put us in positions of authority. Revelation 5, 10, and has made unto us our God kings And priests, and listen to this, and we shall reign on earth. We're going to reign on earth. I'm out of time. Let me give you this one thing and then I'll close. Remember when the disciples were fighting over who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom? Remember they were fighting over that? And Peter, or that's Peter should say, James and John sent their mother to Jesus to argue for them. And she came to Jesus and she said, Lord, give me whatever I ask. Now, by the way, this was um this was Mary, his m his earthly mother Mary's sister. So this was Aunt, his aunt. Jesus, give me what I ask. Well, what do you want? Grant that my sons reign with you in the kingdom, one on your right hand, the other on the left. And remember the rest of the disciples got mad. James and John are sending their mama to argue for them. And the disciples got angry. And you remember what Jesus said? You don't really know what you're asking. Because those who reign in heaven with great positions are going to be those who suffer the most on earth. Are you ready to be baptized with that kind of baptism? You know you're asking that your sons suffer a lot here on earth in order to reign in heaven. That's a huge request. But that would be a perfect time for Jesus to correct her if she was wrong. That would have been a perfect time for Jesus to say, now hold on here, Aunt. It's not going to be a literal rain. It's all going to be spiritual. That's not literal. Okay? That would have been a perfect time for Jesus to correct her theology. But he didn't. He understood she was asking out of her understanding that one day there was going to be a literal reign and that the disciples would literally reign with him. It wasn't figurative. It wasn't spiritual because, again, that would have been the perfect time for Jesus to correct her, but he doesn't correct her. In fact, he he emphatically says it is going to happen. But you don't know what you're asking. Again, this is why I take a literal view that Jesus will come again. He will set up his kingdom, a literal thousand year reign, and we will reign with him. Amen Again, the song that we sing about Christmas really is to the second coming when he sets up his kingdom, joy to the world, the Lord has come. And when we think about his first coming here, We also think about his second coming. We think about the first advent when Christ came to Bethlehem. We think about his second advent when he will return again. And beloved, just remember this: just as surely as he came the first time. He's going to come the second time. He's coming again. All right. Let's all pray together. Lord, thank you for this. Help us increase our understanding about these things. Lord, knowing this gives us hope. And we are reminded of the words of the Apostle Paul. Because this is going to happen, because we know the Lord's going to come again, there will be a resurrection. We will live in that kingdom. Until that time, Lord, help us to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as we know that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.