See, take your Bibles now and open to the book of Matthew chapter 26. Matthew chapter 26. We know this is a very special day today, Palm Sunday. We've been studying the Passion Week of Christ, which starts with this day on Sunday when Jesus rode into Jerusalem. But today we're going to be dealing with the trial that Jesus faced before he went to Calvary. We're going to look at Matthew 26, verse 57, and we'll start there in just a minute. Probably the most famous sermon ever preached on American soil was Jonathan Edwards' sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. I'm sure you've probably heard that title before. He preached this in 1741 in Connecticut on July the 8th, and this sermon was used in a remarkable way to bring many people to faith in Christ. They said that when he preached that sermon, it was under such power that people were holding on to the pews for fear that they would perish and go to hell. And his text was Deuteronomy 32, 35, their foot shall slide in due time. Sinners in the hands of an angry God. Well, what I would like to do with all due respect to Jonathan Edwards is kind of turn the title around And today I want to talk about God in the hands of angry sinners. Because really that's what we're going to see here in Matthew. God allowed himself in the person of his Son, Jesus Christ to be taken into custody, to be beaten, to be mocked, to be falsely accused by angry sinners And eventually this would lead to his crucifixion. And as we look at this here today, I hope that by considering the terrible mistreatment that Jesus had to endure at the hand of sinners His willingness to to go through this, his submission to all that God the Father had sent him to do. I hope that by looking at this, this will move our hearts to great love and compassion and devotion to our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, for what He did for us. Let me just review with you the Passion Week, what we've gone over so far. Again, this is the most important week in redemptive history. This is the week when God will bring to a climax the work of redemption through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it starts on Sunday, Palm Sunday. Jesus was staying in Bethany. He rode into Jerusalem, as you know. and pronounced himself as the Messiah, the one that fulfilled Old Testament scripture. He went to the temple for just a brief moment. He kind of looked around at the place. He knew what he was going to do there the next day But then he went back to Bethany on Monday morning. Jesus traveled back to Jerusalem. On his way to Jerusalem, he got up very early that morning. And on and on his way to Jerusalem, he passed through Bethej which means uh house of early figs. And he saw a big fig tree. The foliage was so bright and big And we know that fruit would grow first, then foliage on fig trees. So Jesus had every right to expect there to be figs on that tree. But when he came to the tree, there were no figs. As he looked, and Jesus cursed the fig tree. That was the symbolic judgment. That fig tree represented Israel that bore no fruit. Then he went into Jerusalem and he cleansed the temple. He threw out the money changers. And then he went back to Bethany on Tuesday morning. He left again to go to Jerusalem. This time when he reaches the temple, he begins to teach in the temple, and multitudes are coming to hear him. And while he's teaching, the religious leaders come in. They interrupt what he's teaching. And they ask him this question: Who gave you the authority to do these things? Who gave you the authority to cleanse the temple? Who gave you the authority to take ownership of this temple and to teach what you're teaching And in response to that, Jesus gave a series of parables that demonstrated his authority because he was the Son of God. Therefore, it all belonged to him. The temple was his That followed by other disputes with the religious leaders, and then he taught the famous Mount Olivet discourse, and then he went back to Bethany on the way back with the disciples. They see the The fig tree that Jesus had cursed the day before, and the disciples noticed that immediately uh it was dead, and they put together that it be it died that very day when Jesus issued the curse from the roots up And they marveled at his authority. On Wednesday, Jesus stayed in Bethany. He warns the disciples that in two days he will be crucified. Meanwhile, in Jerusalem, the religious leaders are at the house of Caiaphas and they're plotting the death of Jesus. But in Bethany, Jesus that evening goes to the home of Simon the leper, a man that he had cleansed. Simon had invited him over for dinner as a way of thanking him. And while at the dinner, a woman comes in that the John in the Gospel of John identifies as Mary, and she anoints the head of Jesus with oil. Precious, expensive oil to today's standards would be about $130,000 worth. She pours it all on Jesus. And this was somewhat a prophetic act anticipating his death, his burial, and his resurrection. And she so she does it in an act of worship. Judas leaves that place and he goes to the house of Caius and he agrees to betray Jesus for thirty pieces of silver. And then on Thursday Jesus sends his disciples to Jerusalem to find the upper room, prepare it, get it ready for the Passover, because he will eat the Passover with them at six o'clock that night. And so they go to the upper room. And it's there in the upper room that Jesus reveals that Judas is the one who will betray him. He dips bread into the fruit sauce, gives it to Judas, and says, What you're going to do, go and do it. quickly. Judas leaves. Then Jesus finishes the meal with his disciples. He institutes the Lord's Supper there that night. And then they sing a hymn, they leave, they're on their way to the Mount of Olives now, and on the way, Jesus warns the disciples, he says, You all will forsake me tonight. And that's of course when Peter spoke up and said, Lord, I will not deny you. Others might, but not me. And Jesus said to Peter, Peter, before the cockroach, you're going to deny me three times, which meant in just a few hours By this time, it's very late Thursday night. It's approaching midnight. As Jesus comes down the Mount of Olives, he goes into the Garden of Gethsemane, which is right there. He tells eight of the disciples, stay here by the gate. He takes three of them into the garden with him, Peter, James, and John. And it's there that Jesus begins to To pray so intensely that the Bible says he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. And he prays And you know the famous prayer that he prays, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. Jesus Being holy, understood that he was going to have to bear the sin of the world at that moment on Calvary. And Holiness kind of would shrink back from that idea, and yet Jesus said, Father, I'm here to do your will. He was absolutely submitted to the Father's will. The disciples are asleep in the garden while Jesus is praying. Finally, he tells them, you know, sleep on, my hour is come. This is now just past midnight. It's early in the morning, Friday morning. And we pick up the story really in Matthew chapter 26, down, look at verse number 47. And while he yet spake to Judas, While he spake, lo, excuse me, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came with him a great multitude with swords and staves from the chief priests and elders of the people. That is, he's now going to be arrested, he's going to be tried, and then later on crucified. And we're going to look at some of these things. You know, it's always hard when you know you only have 25 minutes to go through so much. Pray for me. But there's so much happening here. But here's the one idea. Always when I preach a sermon, I want to try to give you one major idea. To lead with you. And the one major idea that I would have you to see here was the absolute submission of Jesus to the will of the Father. Absolutely submitted. He knew what he was going to have to endure He knew that he was going to have to be put into the hands of angry sinners. And he was willing to do it. It's a perfect illustration of what Paul said in Philippians, that he was obedient unto death. Even the death of the cross. No one took Jesus' life. He laid it down. He laid it down willingly. And that's the thing. The Bible says in Isaiah 53:7, he was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears his dome, so he opened not his mouth. Totally, absolutely submitted to do this. Now, just see a few events here. Four events I want to point out. First of all, his arrest. As we saw in verse 47, Judas comes with a multitude, the Bible says in verse 47 Great multitude. Who was in that multitude? According to John 18, three, it's the word band, and that's a Greek word that means one-tenth of a legion. A legion had six thousand soldiers in it A tenth of that would be 600. So here we see 600 Roman soldiers coming to Gethsemane. 600. You need that much to arrest him? 600 soldiers that were there. Now, evidently the chief priests and the leaders had convinced the Roman authorities that Jesus was dangerous. Now who else was in that crowd, that band? Also the religious leaders themselves, the temple police were there. Luke 22, 52 adds that the captains of the temple were there. So this was a joint venture. This was Jewish leaders, temple police, Roman soldiers, all coming to the garden late, or we could say early in the morning after midnight. To get Jesus and notice they have weapons. They have swords and clubs. The sword that is used here is a small dagger-like sword that Roman soldiers use for an arrest. The bigger swords they used in battle, the smaller swords they used for an arrest. And also the clubs were what the temple police used, kind of like a policeman's baton, a club. And they brought those. And so we see again the temple police and the soldiers that are coming. And it's no accident that Matthew points out these little incidental things. Why does Matthew point out that they brought weapons? Well, he wants us to know that they were perhaps thinking that Jesus would resist and that he was somewhat dangerous. But they had no idea that Jesus was absolutely totally willing. None of those things were necessary. And then Judas betrays them with a kiss in verse 48. Now when verse 48 says, Now when uh that betrayed him, he that betrayed him, gave them a sign saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, the same as he, hold him fast. This would be the sign that Judas would use a kiss. They wouldn't know who Jesus was. And so Judas had to point him out with the kiss. In verse 49, and forthwith he came to Jesus and said, Hail, master, and kissed him. Interesting that Jesus, or excuse me, that Judas used the sign of a kiss to betray Jesus. This was the ultimate sign of respect. Of affection. You would kiss your superiors and normally on the back of the hand, or sometimes on the helm of the garment, but Judah Judas kisses Jesus on the cheek as a sign of affection, but this was very deceptive. And by doing this he was pretending to be innocent himself in the presence of the other disciples The kisses of an enemy, the Bible says, are deceitful. So Judas gives him the kiss. Now Peter, we see in verse 51. And when one of them which were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck a servant of the high priest and smote off his ear. Now one of the disciples takes out a sword. Now Matthew doesn't name him But we know who it is according to John's Gospel. This is Peter. And John's Gospel also names the servant of the high priest who had his ear cut off. His name was Malchus. He served as assistant to the high priest. And so picture your mind. It's dark in the garden. Here's this band of soldiers and temple police. They come to grab Jesus. Peter takes a sword. And he cuts off the guy's ear. Now, he wasn't aiming for his ear, folks. He was trying to cut off the guy's head. He's a fisherman, he's not a soldier, so he missed. I'm sure the guy ducked and he got his ear. And what did Jesus do? He rebukes him. Now again, Jesus is going willingly. Peter, we're not going to resist here. That's not what we do. And verse 53, notice fifty-two, excuse me, notice what he says. Then Jesus said unto him, put up again thy sword into his place. For all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? Peter, don't fight I don't need your help here, Peter. I could call to the Father. And immediately, the Greek word there means presently. Immediately. On the very moment, I could call my father and he could send 12 legions of angels. You know how many 12 legions is? It's 72,000 angels. The Bible says in the Old Testament, one angel killed 185,000 Assyrians. What do you think 72,000 could do? Jesus didn't need that. He didn't need Peter to take up the sword. You don't use physical weapons to fight spiritual battles anyway. And Peter didn't understand that evidently. You know, the kingdom of God doesn't go forward with military might. Or military weapons. Jesus later said to Pilate, he said, If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, but my kingdom's not of this world. The kingdom of God advances spiritually, not through military might. And so Jesus allowed no resistance to his arrest whatsoever. But look at verse number 56. But all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. And notice this then all the disciples forsook him and fled. This is the king arrested. The king arrested. But I want you to see number two, the king accused. The king accused, because what's the next step? Arrest. Now they want them dead, so they're going to bring them to trial. What I want you to see about the trial of Jesus is there's actually two trials. There's the Jewish trial before the Sanhedrin. Which happened in three phases. And then there was the Roman trial, which happened before Pilate. So really we have a religious trial and we have a secular trial. And the first trial is the trial before the religious leaders, the Sanhedrin. They wanted Jesus dead. That was no uh accident about that. There was no question about that because they had made that very clear. And so where did they take Jesus first? They're going to take him first for this religious trial to the home of the high priest in verse 57 it says, and they that laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. So they take him to the home of Caiaphas. Now, one little note here, the place where this trial took place was not in the temple. Which by the way was illegal. You don't do a trial in a private residence. That's illegal. But actually John 18, 13 says, first they took him to the home of Annas, who was the father of Caiaphas. Now, according to tradition, their houses were kind of next to each other, and a courtyard connected those houses. So they took him first to Annas. Now who is Annas? He was the first high priest. Evidently the Roman government set him aside because when you're a high priest, you're a high priest for life. So he had Did something they didn't like, and so they took and set him aside and they made Caiaphas the high priest. But Annas hated Jesus. Why? Because he was the one that was in charge of the money changers at the temple. We we don't have a hard time understanding why Annas hated Jesus. Two times Jesus cleansed the temple. Cost him a lot of money. And he hated him. First he went to Annas, then they took him over across the courtyard to the house of Caiaphas. who was the high priest. And who else was there? It says in verse 57, the scribes and the elders were assembled. This was the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin consisted of 71 men. This whole council was presided over by the high priest. This would be the Jewish equivalent of the Supreme Court of Israel. He was going to be tried before the Supreme Court of Israel. Now keep in mind, it's 1. 30 in the morning. When have you ever heard of a court trial at 1. 30 a. m. in the morning? Again, this was totally illegal. There were so many problems with this trial. The Sanhedrin was would always come together to judge matters, to save life, not to determine death, but that's what they were going to do here with Jesus. They wanted him dead. In verse 59 it says, Now the chief priests and elders and all the council sought false witnesses against Jesus to put him to what? They wanted him dead. Again, this was conducted at night. You never have a trial at night. It's always during the day. There could be no secret trials. But they were doing all this under the cover of darkness. They didn't want the crowds to know about this. They wanted to do it secretly. They wanted to get it done. And then there's another problem. During the trial, according to the laws of the Jews then, the accused was always allowed to call witnesses in his defense. Jesus was not given that privilege. In addition, there was to be a defender, someone who could provide a defense for him or with him or to stand with him. But there was no one there for Jesus. All the disciples had fled, they were gone. It was just him. And the Sanhedrin only judged cases. They couldn't act like a prosecuting attorney. But that's not the case here Here, they don't act just as judges, they are prosecutors. They are looking for a reason To put him to death. Again in verse 59, they sought false witnesses against Jesus. What does it mean they sought false false witnesses? They were bribing people. They were trying to get someone to say something that could build a case against Jesus. In verse 60, but found none. Yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. They couldn't find anybody. In other words, there were many false witnesses that would volunteer, but their testimony was not good enough. It couldn't be used. It had too many holes in it. There was no consistency. So one false witness after another could not be used. Finally, they found two guys. It says at the end of verse 15 60. At last two false witnesses. And what did they say, verse 61? And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. That's the best they could come up with And what they were basically saying was, you know, Jesus was an insurrectionist and he wanted to destroy the temple, but they didn't understand that he wasn't talking about the literal temple, he was talking about his body. They didn't get it. But that's what they used. But still even then, two witnesses had to be consistent in their testimony and their Witnessing was not consistent enough. Mark 14, 56 says, many bore false witness against them, but their witness agreed not together And even these two men, their testimony was not consistent enough where they could use it against Jesus. So now Caiaphas And the religious leaders are desperate. They need something they could use to put Jesus to death. So look in verse 62. And the high priest arose and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witnesses which sees witness against thee? But Jesus held his peace. This is another problem with this trial. You could not compel a witness to speak. They didn't have to speak. It was up to others to find the evidence against them. And yet they wanted Jesus to speak. They wanted him to say something. They wanted them to use something against him. Well, finally they they compel him in verse 63. And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of And what happens here is he is compelling Jesus to give testimony. He's actually putting him under oath when he says, I adjure thee by the living God. He's putting Jesus under oath. He's calling upon Jesus to make them with the most sacred vow to speak according to the living God. And so Jesus will speak. And by doing this, he's going to give them what they're looking for. He's going to give them what they want. Again, this is Jesus. He's willing to go. They're having all this trouble finding evidence. Jesus said, let me help you. Verse 64. And Jesus said unto them, Thou hast said, in other words, you said it, that's right. Mark says, he said, I am. Tell me if you're the son of God. I am. I am. Thou hast said, nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter, ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power, coming in the clouds of heaven. What an incredible statement of deity he gives here. What an amazing claim. You know what he's saying here? Right now I'm standing before you. When I come back again, you're going to be standing in front of me. I'm going to be at the right hand of God the Father. I am the Son of God. He affirmed that he was the anointed Messiah, the Son of God. They had what they wanted. Now here's the problem, however. According to Jewish law, it was against the law to use a prisoner's confession. You couldn't use a prisoner's confession. But again, they just set that aside. Little trivial matter there. We'll use his confession. And so what does Caiaphas do? Now he puts on a real show here. 65. Then the high priest ran his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy. What think ye? They answered and said, he is guilty of death. So boy, he's he got what he wanted. He rips his clothes now Keep in mind, he's the high priest. He's wearing high priestly clothes. Did you know according to Leviticus 21, 19, the high priest was forbidden to rip his clothes? To do that meant that you were disqualifying yourself from the office. He doesn't really understand what he's doing here. In a way, what he's doing is kind of prophetic. Because really he is disqualified from his office. And this inferior priest is standing before the great high priest. And Caiaphas will be the last high priest under the old covenant, the old system. All that will pass away. There'll be a new covenant with a greater high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. Typhus would be the last high priest under the old covenant. And so in a way, what he was doing was he was symbolically demonstrating, and he didn't know it what he was doing, but he was symbolically demonstrating the abolishment of the old Jewish sacrificial system because the real Lamb of God was right in front of him. The real high priest So that we see the king arrested, the king accused. Right down number three, the king abused. So notice what they do after this, verse 67. Then did they spit in his face. And buffet him. And others smote him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy unto us thou Christ Who is he that smote thee? Right after they accuse him, they begin to abuse him. All the hatred, all of the hostility comes out on Jesus. These are supposed to be men of the law, men of the word. These are the elders, the high priests, the chief priests, the scribes, and here they are. This is the Supreme Court of Israel acting this way They spit on him. The Bible says in Luke 22, 65, they began to speak blasphemous things against him. They were spitting in the face of God. In the face of God. That was the most blasphemous thing ever. Jesus wasn't doing the blasphemy. He was God. They were the ones committing blasphemy. To the Jewish mind, spitting on someone was the supreme sign of contempt. There in just outside of Jerusalem, there's a tomb in the Valley of Hedron known as Absalom's tomb. It's still there today, you can go and see it It's there, Jewish people long have the uh bad memories of Absalom. They hate his memory. He was a traitor to David. He even tried to take his father's life. And if you go there to Jerusalem today, you go to the Valley of Kedron to the tomb there. You'll see Orthodox Jews holding to the Judaism tradition as they pass by that tomb, you'll see them spit on that tomb. They'll spit on it because still it is a sign of ultimate disdain. And here the Sanhedrin is spitting in the face of our pure, innocent Savior, Jesus Christ. What a blasphemous. Sing. And then they buffeted him. The word here means they hit him with their fist. They treated him like a punching bag And Mark 14, 65 adds, the guards did strike him with the palms of their hands. That is, the temple police, they took part in this mockery. Of buffeting the Lord Jesus. They had no right. He was still not convicted under Roman law. They had no right to do this. This is all illegal. But this was the hatred that they had. When I read this, I draw back in horror. I think, how could anyone treat Jesus this way? How could you treat another human being this way, let alone Jesus? Jesus. Spurgeon says this. This is pretty convicting. Spurgeon points out, we all need to lay aside our indignation and bring forth penitence. Because we have all hit our dear Savior in the face with our sin. It was because of our sin that he endured the abuse of these sinners and went willingly to the cross. That's exactly right. Why do you have to go through all this? My sin? My sin? Then I want you to see the next thing. The king arraigned. The king arraigned. Look in chapter 27. Just drop down to verse 11. Now keep this in mind. Even though the Jews accused him of blasphemy, they said he did a sin worthy of death, they had no authority to put Jesus to death. You know why? Because they were under Roman rule. And under Roman occupation, Jews did not have the right of execution. They didn't have the power to do that. They didn't have the right of the sword, what is called the Isus Glade. That belongs only to Rome. Only Rome could Make the decision to execute someone. So what do they have to do now? They have to bring him to a Roman court. They have to bring him before Pilate. And they have to convince Pilate that he is worthy of death That was the next step. So in chapter 27, actually look in verse number one. When the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. They did all this during the night Now it's in the morning. It's around 5 a. m. in the morning. They come together one more time. They say we've got to put Jesus to death. And verse 2, and then when they bound him, they led him away. How did they bind him with chains? That was how they did it back then. So picture this. They take him, they put him in chains, they lead him away, they deliver him. By the way, the word delivered, paradidomite, same word for betrayed. They betrayed him. They delivered him over to Pilate, the governor. Now they got to convince Pilate. That Jesus has to die. This is where the Roman trial begins. Jewish trial over. They had a religious purpose. But in the Roman trial, the only thing that Pilate was concerned about is is he a danger to Rome? Is he a traitor like they say? They made all these accusations against Jesus. They said all these things that convince Pilate that he needs to die And Pilate, and he's standing before Pilate. Look in verse 11 of chapter 27. And Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest it, that is, yes. And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then said Pilate unto him, Hearst thou not how many things they witness against thee? And he answered him never a word, insomuch that the governor marveled greatly. Jesus was silent. Again, we see the prophecy here. He was silent As a sheep before a shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. And Pilate is examining him. And we don't have time to go through all the details, but here's what he came up with. He's innocent. There's no fault in him. There's no fault in him. Why do they want to kill him? He's asking himself, why do these religious leaders want to kill him so bad? He didn't want to be guilty of the death of an innocent man. And so Matthew reminds us of a custom that the government of Rome would do on a feast day like the Passover They would offer to deliver into their hands a prisoner. It's kind of a nice thing to do, to build good relations with Israel. They would deliver a prisoner. And Pilate is thinking, you know, we have a really treacherous man named Barabbas. And if I give them the choice, who shall I deliver to you? Surely they'll let Barabbas be executed. He was a murderer. They'll ask for Jesus to be let free. And so that's what Pilate does. He thinks, I don't want to put the death of an innocent man. I want to really Take this matter out of my hands and put it in the hands of the people. I'm not going to ask the religious leaders, they want them dead. I'll just go to the people and ask them, who should I deliver into your hands? Surely they'll say, release Jesus. Kill Barabbas, he's a murderer. But that's not what happened. Look in verse 20. But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitude that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. By this time the religious leaders had done their work and convinced the multitude that Jesus needed to die. And these same people that a few days prior said, Hosanna! Are now saying, crucify him. Look at verse 21. The governor answered and said unto them, Whither of the twain will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas. And Pilate saith to them, What shall I then do with Jesus, which is called Christ? And they all said unto him, Let him be crucified. Verse 23, and the governor said, Why? What evil hath he done? But they cried out all the more, saying, Let him be crucified. And Pilate saw that he wasn't going to prevail. He didn't want to deliver over an innocent man. Now, if he had any backbone, he would say, I'm not going to deliver an innocent man to be executed. But he was under great political pressure. And he was more concerned about saving his political reputation before the people than doing what's right. And so he washes his hands and says, you know, I have I have nothing to do with this innocent just man, and he gives Jesus to the people. He delivers Jesus over to be crucified. And then after that there comes the crucifixion. You know, Pilate didn't know it, but the greatest question that you can ask, he asked, What shall I do with Jesus? That's the big question you need to ask yourself today. What are you going to do with Jesus? Who is he to you? But again, what's the idea here? Jesus was absolutely submitted to the will of the Father to go to the cross. Why? For your sin? For my sin? He did all this. He went willingly. Let me close with this. The great Dutch artist Rembrandt had a famous painting of the crucifixion of Jesus. When you look at that painting, you're first drawn to the painting of him on the cross dying for sin. It's just an incredible thing. And then you look at that painting, you see the crowd that's gathered around. And as you look on the faces of the people in that crowd, what you'll see are various attitudes being Demonstrated there. Various actions that are happening around the cross. But then if you look carefully at that painting, what you're going to see is at the edge of the picture Almost hidden in the shadows. There's one lone figure there. You can see the face of that one individual person almost hidden. And who was it? It was the face of Rembrandt himself. He painted himself into the picture. You know why he did that? Because he believed That he was the one that helped nail Jesus to the cross because of his sins. It was his sins that put Jesus through the suffering. It was his sins that put Jesus on the cross. And so he painted himself into the picture. And what we have looked at today, you know what we need to do with this passage of scripture? We need to paint ourselves into this picture. All of us, we need to paint ourselves because we must see that we are the reason that Jesus suffered. We are the reason that he died. Jesus did all of this so that you and I could have an eternal home in heaven and have our sins forgiven. That's why. Now someone sitting here they say, well, I would never treat Jesus in the way that he was treated here during the trial. But let me just tell you this, my friend, if you walk away from Jesus and reject him, you're treating him with the same disdain as these people did here in this passage. If he is indeed the Son of God and He died for your sins, then what else can you do but to come to Him and repent of your sin? And turn to him and find forgiveness and eternal life. Let's bow for prayer together today. Lord help us today as we think about these things to paint ourselves indeed into this picture. Help us to remember that it was for our sins that our Savior was crucified, that he suffered. Lord, may this humble us May this provoke in us the strongest feelings of love and devotion to our precious Savior, who did all this for us. And if there's someone here today, Lord, that has never submitted to the Lordship of Christ, they've never been to the cross, repented of their sins, And ask for salvation. I pray that today would be the day of salvation for them. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I want to just give this brief invitation. If you're here today and you're not sure That you're a child of God. If you've never been to the cross by faith, and ask Jesus to forgive you and cleanse you of your sin. I pray that you'll do that today. Remember, Jesus did all this for you, friend. He did it for you. It was your sin, it was my sin that put him there. What will you do with Jesus, Father? Will you trust Him today? If you want to receive Christ, would you be willing to pray this prayer? Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Say it right now, right there where you are. Just pray in your heart. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. It was my sins that caused you to suffer and die. Thank you for paying my sin debt on the cross. Right now I'm asking you to come into my heart and save me, Lord Jesus. I mean you say that's my prayer today. Would you lift your man and say that's me? Today I'm coming to Christ. I'm receiving Him Is my Savior and my Lord. God bless you, my friend. God bless you. Now, Father, seal these decisions. Let no one lead without knowing that they know Jesus as their Savior. And Lord, continue to do that work of sanctification in our hearts Lord, as we focus on our Savior, make us like Him. And may we be stirred with greater passion and love for our Savior than ever as we think about His sufferings for us. Bless these words to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.