Well it's good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven, as you know, on Sunday nights, we've been looking at this great chapter of the Bible, one of the great chapters of the Bible that emphasizes the theme of faith. And tonight we're going to look in chapter 11, verse number 31. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 31. And by faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not when she had received the spies with peace. Once a pastor was going to visit one of his members and uh his member worked at a coal mine, so he went to the job to visit this man, and as the pastor was uh there at the coal mine when he came into the very mouth of the that that mine, he happened to glance down and see a beautiful pristine white flower. And he thought that was so interesting because here is this this flower that is just gleaming white. And it's in the midst of all of this cold dust and he wondered how in the world could this flower stay white in the midst of all of this dirt. So he reached down and he grabbed some cold dust and he sprinkled it on the flower and the flower's petals had uh kind of a surface to where the the dust just slid right off. It did not stick at all. And then when he saw that, he thought, you know, that's what the Christian is to be like in this world. Our faith should cause us to stand apart from sin and the corruption of this world The Bible says in 1 John 5, 4, this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. So in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 31, the writer Points to Rahab as a model of the kind of faith that is able to overcome the world. This story of Rahab is really the story of the white, beautiful, pristine white flower of faith. Growing in the most dirty, corrupt, sinful places and environments. It's about a woman whose faith helped her to overcome the environment around her. So to understand this. passage in Hebrews 11. I want you to just hold your place in Hebrews 11 here. Let's go back to the Old Testament story of Rahab in Joshua chapter 2. Now remember the writer of Hebrews is trying to spark the memory of the Hebrews he's writing to by pointing out one Old Testament character after another and showing how they revealed faith in the Lord. And that's why all these characters listed in Hebrews 11 are in the Hall of Fame of faith, because they demonstrate to us what real faith is like, how real faith conducts itself. And here we see the story. of Rahab in Joshua chapter 2. Now we have to ask ourselves when we come to Joshua chapter 2, why is this story here? Why did the Holy Spirit find it necessary to give us the details of this woman's life right here in chapter 2 of the book of Joshua. The story really is not necessary to the theme of Joshua. Because what's the theme of the book of Joshua? Specifically here in this Particular part of the book, it is basically the conquest of the land. The message of Joshua is God is giving to his people the land of Canaan. And in chapter one, we see Joshua getting ready to cross over into the land of Canaan. In chapter three, they do cross over and they begin to conquer the land of Canaan. You can really take chapter two out of the book of Joshua. And and and the book of Joshua not skip a beat at all. I mean it just goes right into the conquest. And so why is chapter two in the book of Joshua? Why is this story put right in here between chapter one and chapter three? of the conquest of the land of Canaan. You want to know why? Because God wants us to know what real faith looks like. That's why He pauses the story of the conquest of the land and gives us the details of the story of this woman's life. It's as if God stops the flow of the narrative of Joshua and says, let me show you the beautiful flower of faith growing in the most corrupt place that you could ever imagine. And so God delights in faith. It pleases God to see real faith. What does the Bible tell us in Hebrews 11? Without faith is what? Impossible to please God. It glorifies God. And when people believe Him and believe in His Word, you know what? It makes God look good. It glorifies God. And this is especially true when that person exercises faith. And comes from such an unlikely background and in such an unlikely place. And so here this story appears in it an unlikely place. The place is Jericho. Remember, this is on the list of cities that have to be conquered by Joshua. He can't p bypass this city. He has to conquer it. because this is such a strategic city and uh if he could just conquer Jericho, he could divide the land up the north and south and then have three campaigns and make it easier to have these military conquests So the place is Jericho, and the person here is Rahab. Now we would expect to see a story of faith from one of God's people, a Jew, a Hebrew there, but After all, they saw all the miracles of God. They saw God take care of uh his people through the wilderness. We'd expect to see a story of faith from one of the Jewish people, but here is a person who uh We wouldn't expect to see faith from. This is a Canaanite woman. Um and yet she has this great faith. Who was Rahab? What was her spiritual condition? Well, she was a a depraved sinner. The Bible calls her a harlot. One country preacher called her the shady lady of Jericho. Now some have tried to say that, well, you know, she may may not have been a hard, maybe just an innkeeper. After all, the Hebrew word here for uh this woman is a word that can also just mean a simple keeper of an inn. And so some people try to soften this and say, well, you know, she wasn't really a harlot. But The problem with that argument is that when you go to the New Testament and you look in the book of James, chapter 2, verse 25, it uses a word that can mean none other than a prostitute, a harlot. And we also see that same thing here in Hebrews 11, verse 31, where it says, By faith the harlot Rahab perished. And so here is a def a sinful woman, a woman living in a sinful environment. She was an Amorite. The Amorites were a group of the people of the land of Canaan that were marked to be uh judged by Almighty God. They were a corrupt, vile people. Some of them sacrificed their children to false gods. A depraved religious practice. And so we could say that she was under condemnation. She was under the wrath of God already with a sentence of death upon her. Everything and everyone in the city would be destroyed. Whether those people felt condemned or not is beside the point. They were under the wrath of God and they were going to suffer God's judgment. And Jericho really is a picture of our world today. And so here's a story of a lady whose very life hung by a thread, a pagan living in spiritual darkness. She was a prostitute living in sinful depravity. She was a Canaanite. She was destined for sure destruction. And of all people and of all places Here is this woman who demonstrates real faith. It's an incredible story. And God wants us to study it. Yeah, I have heard about a man who was hired to go and take a census in the hills of East Tennessee and he knocked on a door and a teenage girl came to the door and the interviewer said, Is your mother home? And she said no she ran off with a moonshiner. And the man said, was your father home? She said, no, he he pokes his head in about once a month and comes in to get a bath. And the frustrated guy said, Well, what about your elder sister? Is she home? She said, no, she's not here. She's in jail for shooting the sheriff And the guy said, well, what about your older brother? She said, nah, he's at Harvard. He was surprised. He said, really, he's at Harvard. What's he studying at Harvard? She said, he ain't studying anything at Harvard. They're studying him. God wants us to study Rahab. He wants us to look at this woman in this place and see the faith that she demonstrates. God often uses the most unlikely of people in the most unlikely of places to affirm his promises and to reveal true faith, a faith that encourages his people. I think that's why this story is here. This story is here to encourage Joshua and the people of Israel that God keeps his promises. And it's also here to encourage us about how we should live a life of faith. Now there are three things I want you to see in this story. First of all, just write down the courage of faith. The courage of faith. Look in chapter two, look at verse one. And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shidam two men to spy secretly, saying Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and they came into an harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. Now here we see first of all the spies' mission. Joshua chose two men to send them out on a mission to spy out the land. He says in verse 1, go view the land, even Jericho. Remember the last time Israel sent out spies, they sent out twelve, and that was ten too many. And so Joshua kind of learns a lesson from that. He goes, We're not going to send out twelve this time, we're going to send out two. Just two men. And uh They were to go secretly. This was this was uh kept as a secret from Israel. Only Joshua knew. He handpicked these two men and he sent them. Joshua wanted to know the mindset and the spirit of the enemy. They were getting ready to inv invade, attack Jericho, and he wanted to see uh what the city was like, what the spirit of the people was like there in Jericho. He wanted to know how the citizens were reacting to the arrival of this big army that had just crossed uh the Jordan River. And so a good general wants to know all that he can about the enemy and the fortress before he goes to conquer it. And so next note we see Rahab's house. In verse 1 it says, And they went and they came into a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there Now the city of Jericho covered about eight or nine acres, and there is archaeological evidence that there were double walls about fifteen feet wide that went around the city. And in between those walls, people would build houses, and the outer wall would actually be the back wall of the house, and sometimes there would be windows there along that back wall. And according to chapter 2, verse 15, Rahab's house was part of the wall, or on the wall, we could say. And according to the architecture of that day, again, the houses were again built between these walls. And there's archaeological evidence from this period that shows this. That's how it was easy for these spies to escape out of Rahab's house to go out the window and they were outside the city when they did that. But the question is, how is it of all people that these spies happened to go to the house of this one person, probably of all the people in the city of Jericho, there was one person that had real faith And it was this woman. And the spies happened to come to her house. Well that would have been a good cover, you know, because travelers and visitors would No doubt frequent that place, that inn with Rahab there. And so these spies go there, and what they find there is a woman who had faith. But we know that this was not an accident. This was all part of God's Providence. God was directing the steps of these spies as they went into that city. So notice the next thing, not only Reheaves' house, but also the king's request. Look down at verse number three. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come unto thee, which are entered into thine house, for they come to search out all the country. And so somehow the king of Jericho finds out that these two spies are there in the house of Rahab. And so he sends some men to Rahab's house with a message, deliver these spies to me. Now, here is the crisis of this whole story, and don't miss it. And by the way, God will often use a crisis to reveal faith So, now ancient text from the second millennium describes the association between prostitution and innkeepers. There's a Babylonian law from the 18th century. from the law of Hammurabi that requires prostitutes to hand over criminals who are in their house. Now Rahab Risked her life by housing these Hebrew scouts. And the crisis is simply this. Will she indeed hand over the spies? Or will she not, or will she try to hide them? That is the essential crisis here. She has two lives in her hand, the lives of these men. If she refuses to hand them over, she herself could die. So we see then Rahab's response. And this again is the real crisis. Will she choose to save her own life, preserve her own life, protect her own life, hand over these spies to the king, or will she try to protect these spies? Um and because why would she even want to protect these spies? Well, because she believed in their God. She believed in the God of Israel. And again, often it's a crisis that will reveal faith to others. So look down in verse number four of chapter two. And the woman took the two men and hid them. And said thus, There came men unto me, but I wis not whence they were. And it came to pass at about the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out And whither the men went, I wrote not. Pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house. hid them with the stalks of flax, which he had laid in order upon the roof. So what does Rahab do? She hid the spies on her roof amidst the stalks of flax, the Bible says. Now the roofs were flat Back in that time, they were used customarily to to dry anything that needed to dry stalks of flax. These were stems that had been previously soaked in water. They would take stems of flax and soak them in water for weeks and then they would lay lay them out on a on a on the rooftop to dry out and uh and after they would dry them out they would separate the fibers and they would actually use the fibers to kind of make a Uh a linen cloth. Uh you remember the woman in the book of Proverbs, chapter thirty-one, she worked with wool and with flax. Women would use this to make clothing and to make um different types of uh m cloth material things. And so she hides them on the rooftop among the flax. She admitted that two men came to her, but she said she didn't know where they were from. And she tells them that they left after dark. You know, they're already gone. I didn't know where they where they went, but really if you hurry after 'em, you can find them. You might catch 'em. And by doing this, what does she do? She takes a great Now if the agents of the king don't believe her and push past her and inspect her house and find the spies She will no doubt pay with her very life. She would have been dragged before the king. She would have been pronounced guilty. probably tortured horribly and then put to death. James Montgomery Boyce writes in his commentary, Jericho was not a nice place. It was actually something of a military outpost. And we are not wrong to think that Rahab's life would not have been worth a wooden shekel if her deception had been discovered. And I think that's true. And Rahab, she understood all this She understood she was taking her very life in her own hand to save these men. And again, why would she do that? Why would she risk her life? Again, because she believed in the God of Israel. She believed what Joshua chapter 1 says, that God had already given to them the land, and including that city of Jericho. She knew that to be true. She believed that. Therefore, she was willing to risk her life to assist them in the cause. She believed that those men were sent by Almighty God And she was determined to help them. She really already believes at this point. She already believes in their God. And what we're seeing here is the evidence of her faith. and the God of the Hebrews, the God of Israel. Her faith had given her courage. And this is what true faith does. It gives people the courage to act boldly in very difficult circumstances. Now some people are going to say, well, now wait a minute, Pastor, Rahab, she lied. She lied. She lied to protect the spies. And that's not right. How could God bless a lie? And let me just tell you, there are pages and pages of material written on this subject, the lie of Rahab. And uh I'm not gonna Just give you all of the stuff that's been written on it. There's so much out there. And the big question is, was it right for Rahab to lie? Or was it wrong? That's what you want to know, right? Was her lie the right thing to do? How could God bless that? Was Rahab justified in telling this bold-faced lie or not? And and it was a lie. There's no getting past that, all right? No way around it. Is this the Bible's answer to the question that Corey Tinboom faced? You've hidden some addicts Jews that hid some Jews in the attic and the Nazis were at the door asking, Do you have any Jews? And uh do you say yes? And live with the fact that you turned them in and sealed their death for the rest of your life? Or do you say no and lie about it and say, Well, God understands I had to lie in this case to preserve the life of these innocent people. Or is there some other option? In 19 uh excuse me, in 1804, a split occurred among the Baptists in Kentucky over whether it was right to tell lies To an Indian in order to spare a child's life. And some said no. And others said that if it was to spare someone's life, it was permissible. And this latter group became known as lying Baptists. So I want to ask you, are you a lying Baptist or are you a truth-telling Baptist? Now, there are many ways to answer this question. Some argue that this is a situation where two absolutes are in conflict and despair life. To spare life and to lie. These are two con the conflicting absolutes. And they will argue that these two absolutes collide absolutely, and there's no recourse in a fallen world other than to lie. We don't live in an ideal world, and there are some times in this fallen world where we just have to use a lie. That's just the way the world is. You lie and then you confess it to God and God forgives you. There's just no other way And uh this may seem unfair, but that's just the way it is, they'll say. This is what um Lutherans especially argue. This is a form of what has been called uh popularized by a man by the name of Joseph Fletcher. This is called situational ethics. You ever heard of that expression? Situational ethics. The situation determines My ethics here. And so if these two absolutes collide together, then I have to choose the lesser of the evil or to do the right thing in that difficult situation. And so you should obey the higher absolute when two absolutes are in conflict. This is also called hierarchical ethics. And uh this is held and defended by the late apologist Norman Geisler. He argues for this view. And then there's a third view that's called the non-conflicting ethics, and basically it says that situations like these only appear to be so when in reality there is a third way which we cannot see. There's always another way That we may not be able to see. And this view is held to by John Murray in his book, The Principles of Conduct. It's also held by the great Old Testament scholar Walt Kaiser. And it was also the view of some church fathers, Augustine and Aquinas, and uh basically they they say that the uh You know, her lie, even though it was for a good purpose, was contrary to the nature of God. And so they might praise her for her intention, but yet say that they condemn her for the iniquity of her invention, they say. And that's the argument there. But no matter how you come down on this issue, there are two things that I want to remind you about. Nowhere in Scripture does God condone her lie. The Bible never condones her lie. What is rewarded is her faith. When Vrahat is mentioned in the New Testament, The writers of the New Testament never mention her lie. They never mention that. It says she received the spies, and then she did what? She sent them out. Doesn't mention her lie. In fact, in James chapter 2, verse 25, likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers. And sent them out another way. Again, it doesn't mention Elijah, so she received them and she sent them out. And here's another thing I would want you to learn from this: all faith that we exercise is imperfect faith. I don't think I've ever exercised perfect faith for one second in my life. I think even on my best days when I've exercised faith in God, that faith was always mingled in with some of my own iniquity. Some of my own unrighteousness, some of my own selfishness. There's mingled in every act of faith a degree of unbelief and self-glory and self-love and other things. I'm like the man who said to Jesus, Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief. My belief is not perfect. It's always mingled with a little bit of unbelief. There's always some junk metal of doubt mixed in with the gold of my faith. And so God, who is gracious and kind, accepts my faith as only a sinner like I can give it. And this is what God does for you and me, and this is what God did for Rahab. But I'd like ultimately what Warren Wersby wrote about this. He said this, perhaps we're expecting too much from a new believer whose knowledge of God was adequate for salvation, but certainly limited when it came to the practical things of life. If seasoned believers like Abraham and Isaac resorted to deception as well as David, we had better not be too hard on Rahab. I think that's right. We're probably a little too hard on her. Here is this woman living in this sinful environment, and she's doing the best that she knows how to exercise faith in the true God that she just heard about Now this is not to excuse her or to encourage lying, but simply to take her circumstances into consideration in this act of faith. And let's be honest, most of us would uh hesitate to tell the truth if we were put in the same situation where it's a matter of life and death, especially if it meant the death of others And another thing we need to consider, this is wartime. You know, many people have been honored for deceiving the enemy during wartime. I mean nations have given medals to spies who lied and deceived the enemy during wartime. And so um we could call Rahab a freedom fighter. Would that change the picture at all? If you thought of her that way. But you lay all these ethical problems aside. The main lesson here is that Rahab displayed courageous faith She displayed courage and boldness when she chose to believe in God. True faith Is willing at times to take a risk. So we see, first of all, the courage of faith. But then write down number two the confession of faith. The confession of faith. Look at verse number eight of chapter two. And before they were laid down, she came up to them upon the roof. This is why she had hid the spies. They The the men went running out uh follow her direction, went running out to chase these spies. Meanwhile they're on the roof. She goes up to visit them upon the roof. Verse nine, and she said unto the men, I know that the Lord Has given you the land. Notice the word Lord is all capped. He's using the name of the Hebrew God Yahweh. I know. She says, that the Lord has given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you, when ye came out of Egypt, when ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan. Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of ye For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Notice first of all, she heard the word of God. She heard how the Lord She heard what the Lord did. Now the question is, how did she hear that? They didn't have CNN or Fox News. They didn't have social media, Facebook or Twitter. How did she hear all of this? Well, and it wasn't the spies that told her this. She had already known all this before they got there. How did she get all of this? Well, remember that Rahab's house functioned as an inn for travelers. It was very probable that she heard these stories from travelers as they would come in. They would frequent her establishment, and uh her home was probably a place of a lot of talk. A lot of gossip that had come down the road, and she heard reports of this God of the Hebrews. and the things that he had done. A man would come in and say, hey, did you hear what happened in Egypt? No, what happened? Well the God of the Hebrews sent ten plagues upon the land Really? Yeah, he turned the water of the mighty Nile River into blood. Can you believe that? He brought flies and frogs upon the land. He destroyed the cattle. He blotted out the sun. He sent the death plague and killed all of the firstborn of Egypt. And then another would come in and say, well, did you hear what happened at the Red Sea? I mean, their God parted the Red Sea, and that whole multitude crossed over that sea on dry land. And not only that, he closed the sea on Pharaoh's army, and he destroyed the army of the Egyptians. They would tell those stories there. And then another one come in and say, Well, yeah, these Hebrews are still around. Not very long ago, they defeated and killed Sihon and Ag, the two Amorite kings on the east side of the Jordan River. I don't know about you, but I would be pretty afraid of that group. More importantly, I would be afraid of their God, that he's able to do all this. You know, sometimes God will use the strangest instruments to communicate his word, to communicate what he has done. But like one preacher said, God can hit straight licks with crooked sticks. And Rahab listened, and she heard the stories of God's mighty acts. The first step of faith is hearing the word of God. Faith must be founded in something. And that something is the Word of God. We don't have faith in faith. We don't have faith in people. We don't have faith in science, like some men proclaim. Real biblical faith is rooted in the Word of God. In the Word of God. She heard. The Bible says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Then she believed. Look again in verse number 11. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage than any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and earth beneath. That is a incredible confession. She didn't just hear with her ears. She listened with her heart and she believed what she heard. That's why Satan undermines the Word of God and tries to make you question the credibility of God's word. He doesn't want you to believe it. She heard the word, she believed the word, she confessed the word. Look at verse number nine, back up to verse nine. And she said unto them, and I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Notice where it says, hath given. That's perfect tense. Already given. This land, we I know this land is already yours. Your God has already given it to you. And you know what? She's saying exactly what God said to Joshua in chapter number one. What did God say to Joshua? Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you. I've already given it to you. And here is Rahab And she is voicing and affirming that promise that God gave to Joshua. This is God's affirmation. Through a Gentile woman of the promise that he made to the children of Israel. Here's this woman repeating God's promise with great confidence. And she believes it. You know what faith is? Faith is boldly saying what God has already said. That's what faith is. It boldly says what God already says. The writer of Hebrews said that he has said that we might boldly say. And she is boldly saying what God has already said. And friend, that is real faith. But the next thing we see about her is she turned. From false gods to the true God. And again, in verse eleven, she says, For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Again, this is a monumental confession of faith. I think one of the most remarkable statements in the Bible from the mouth of a foreigner or a Gentile. For the Lord, all capitals. Yahweh, your God, He is God in heaven above and earth beneath. And again, this was remarkable for several several reasons. She confesses that God, He is sovereign over all. In heaven above and on earth beneath. Did you know that the Canaanites worshiped many gods, and they worshipped gods that were supposedly ruler of certain regions? Some gods were gods of the heavens, some gods were gods of the earth, some gods were gods of the mountains, some gods were gods of the plains. Some gods were gods of the sea. The Canaanite god of the sea is called Yam. The Canaanite god of the underworld is called Mot. Baal was supposedly go to the underworld, travel there, die and be resurrected. All those gods were tied into the to the agricultural seasons of the dry season and the wet season and when the dry season was around, that's when Baal was put to death by Maud and when he resurrected when the wet season came and There was rain and fertility and so on. All of that was tied together in Canaanite belief. And so they had these multitude of gods. And here, you know what she's doing? She's rejecting all of that. You say none of that is true. Your God, He is the God of heaven above and earth beneath. He is the one true and living God. He is the only God. That's why this is such a monumental confession from her. She's like the people at Thessalonica. She turned from idols to serve the living and the true God. So that was a true faith. So she heard the word, she believed the word, she confessed God's word, and she turned to God from idols. So we see the courage of faith. We see the confession of faith, but then write down number three the components of faith. And we see this in verses 15 down to verse 24. Rahad did some things that demonstrated That her faith was real faith. So much so that James, the writer of the New Testament, will use her as an illustration of true faith. Again, James 2. 25. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and she sent them out another way. Now you might say, well, now wait a minute, we're not justified by works, are we? We're justified by faith. Didn't Paul say in Romans that we're justified by faith? In Romans 4, Abraham wasn't justified by works. Paul said, for if Abraham were justified by works, yeah, whereof the glory, but not before God. What saith the scripture, Abraham believed God. And so it seems like Paul and James are having an argument. Paul says you're not justified by works. James says you are justified by works. And this was kind of a uh uh look on a surface, it looks like kind of a contradiction. And scholars debated over what was going on here. Some liberals and skeptics looked at this and they say, aha, there's a contradiction, James. is saying that you are justified by works. But you know what? They're wrong. There's no contradiction here. They're both saying the same thing, but they're giving the heads and the tails Of the same idea. And here's the key. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before man. Man looks on the outward appearance, but God, what does he look on? He looks on the heart. I'm saved, but look at me. Can you look in my heart and see my faith? No, you can't. The only way I can really demonstrate to you that my faith is real is by the works that I do. And that's what James is talking about. If your faith is genuine faith, it's going to be manifested in what you do, your works. Your works will demonstrate That your faith is a genuine faith. Works are necessary to demonstrate true salvation. It doesn't cause us to be saved. We're not saved by works, but we're saved unto works. Right? Paul was talking about the root of salvation. James was talking about the fruit of salvation. Paul was talking about a no-so salvation. James was talking about a show-so salvation. James was the he used to show me book of the Bible. If your faith is real, show it to me. Show it to me by the way that you act. And James is tackling a problem in the early church, and a problem that we still have today. Many people profess to be true believers with their lips, but they do not back it up with their life. Their works do not Agree with their words. And that's the problem. And James is saying, it doesn't matter what you say, if your faith is not, is, is a real faith. If it's not a false faith, then we will see it in the things that you do and how you act. And so James uses Rahab as an illustration and says If you look at what she did, her actions demonstrated that her faith in the true and the living God was a genuine, real faith. And what did she do? She received the spies at the risk of her own life And she protected them and she sent them out. And that action right there demonstrated that her faith. was real. Did you know faith, according to James, has three elements to it? First of all, there is what is called anosha, if theologians use this word, it just means that intellectually, you believe something in your mind And then also there's essentius. That just means you believe it in your heart. There's a conviction in your heart. It brings an emotional response in your heart that it's true. And then there's what is called fiducia, or there will be a fiduciary commitment of your will to that idea. And so all real faith has these three elements. You believe it in your mind, you believe it in your heart. So much so that you'll make a commitment of your will. The things that you do will demonstrate that your faith is a genuine faith. That's why James said faith without works is what? It's dead. It's a dead faith. And then he also talks about demonic faith. You believe there's one God? Well, you do well. The devils also believe and they tremble. Your faith has to go beyond just believing it here and here. It has to show in what you do. With the commitment of your life. And you know what? She had all these components. Look again in Joshua chapter three, look at verse number 10. Of number ten. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you, when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. And so here she is believing the facts. Listen, we heard the facts. We heard what God did. And she believed it. So she has the notion. She believes it in her mind. Look at verse 11. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts didn't melt. Neither did there remain any more courage than any man because of you, for the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above, and the earth beneath This, what she believed, produced fear. Now, if this is all that faith, all the faith that Rahab had, she wouldn't have enough faith to be saved. Because there are other people that believe something in their mind and they believe it in their heart, but they're not saved. James calls that demonic faith. The devils believe and they tremble, but they're not saved. Notice that she uses the word our and we. There were others who had that kind of faith. They believed and they trembled. But what was it that set Rahab apart? From others. Her faith was made complete by her actions, what she did. Her faith had a fiduciary commitment of her will And how do we know that? Because she hid the spies, and she sent them out. That's what James says. Notice Joshua chapter two, look at verse four. And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus Drop down to verse number fifteen. Then she let them down by accord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the Well, she believed and because she did believe she risked her life by receiving the spies. She sent them out another way, the Bible says. And then there's another thing about her that shows uh that her faith was real. And you know what it is? She wanted her family to be saved. She wanted her family to be saved. This is another concrete demonstration of the fruit of saving faith. What was her first concern? Her family. She wanted her family to be safe and protected. I'm going to tell you something. When you truly know Jesus Christ, one of the great desires of your heart is that your family come to know Christ. That everyone in your family know Jesus. That's going to be the consuming thing in your heart. And so she wants her family. to be saved. And so she pleads in verses 12 down to verse 14, she pleads for the life of her family Look at verse 12. Now therefore I pray you, swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that you will also show kindness unto my father's house and give me a true token. That you will save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters, and that they all have and delivered our lives from our de from death. And the men answered her, Our life or yours If ye utter not this our business. And it shall be that when the Lord hath given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee. And then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall. And she said unto them, Get you to the mountain And so basically they make this agreement with her, and uh she she pleads for this mercy, she asks for kindness, which is the word kessid. Grace. She wants grace for all of her family. Not just her. She wants grace for all of her family. And then they give her a token of the covenant that they just made with her. From verses 18 down to verse 23, the spies say, Look, you take this The scarlet rope or the scarlet cord that you use. Let it out the back of your window. And when everyone sees that scarlet cord out of the back of your window, we'll know that this is your house and you will be safe. Now, there's some debate about that scarlet cord. Did you know the tradition of the in the church going all the way back to Clement of Rome was that he was the first one to suggest that that scarlet cord pointed to the blood of Jesus Christ. And others came along behind him and they questioned that. They say, how could that point to the blood of Christ? But let me remind you, it was the spies who suggested this, right? And remember these spies, they had experienced the Passover. Where the blood on the doorpost was the sign of the covenant that God had made, and a person was saved in that household with the blood. uh on the doorposts. And I think that just as the blood on the doorpost was a sign of safety, even so, this scarlet rope that marked uh a house on the wall of Jericho was a sign of protection and safety. And so we know that the blood on the on the doorposts in the Passover story pointed to the blood of Christ. And therefore I think also that this scarlet cord, it's not a stretch to say it also in a similar way points to the blood of Jesus Christ. That's the way that we're saved. That's the sure sign of the covenant. Anyone under the blood is safe from judgment. And so Her family is spared. She rescues the spies. Because of her faith, she saved. She her family is spared. That is faith. So what are the lessons? There's the courage of faith. There's the confession of faith. There is the components of faith. And God will often use the most unlikely people in the most unlikely places to affirm his promise, to reveal true faith, and encourage us. the people of God. This whole story is designed to encourage all of us. James exalts her, says her faith was genuine. It's on par With the faith of Abraham. You'll notice in the book of James, when James talks about real faith, he'll use the illustration of Rahab, and he puts that illustration alongside who? Abraham, the father of faith. And there are opposites. She's a woman, he's a man, she's a gentile, he's a Jew. And you know, you see the opposites, and yet here is true faith. The quality of her faith was equal to his. And so because of that, the writer of Hebrews puts her into the Hall of Fame of faith Saying this is an illustration of what real faith looks like, of how it acts from the house of shame to the hall of fame. Here is this woman who had real faith and demonstrated. And this is really an illustration of 1 John 5. 4. And this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. That is the kind of faith that overcomes. And by the way, in closing, you know she's mentioned somewhere else in the Bible. She's mentioned in the genealogy of our Lord Jesus. Because of her faith, she's accepted into Israel, into the Commonwealth of Israel, into the people of God. She marries a Jewish man, and she becomes an ancestor of the Lord Jesus. Christ. What an incredible story. You talk about victorious faith. You talk about faith overcoming the world. That's what this woman had. And that's the kind of faith that we need to have. In these days. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for this wonderful story designed to encourage us to have Have real faith. And Lord, I pray that as we read this story, it'll challenge us. It'll cause us to examine our own heart. Does our faith in you and what you said in your word, does it cause us to step out boldly and courageously in difficult circumstances and times, standing firmly upon the Word of God, no matter what the consequences, even at the risk of our life. We're willing to believe what you say because you said it. Are we willing to boldly say what you've already said? And by doing so, bring salvation to our whole household, just like this woman Rahab. And is used in a great way. What an example of great faith. Father, may it be true of all of us. As we learn to grow and walk in faith. Lord, we want it to grow in our faith because we know it's faith that pleases you. And Lord, we want to please you above all things. So help us, Father. Help us in that. This and we'll thank you and praise you in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen