Amen. Would you take God's word this morning, please? And I invite you to open to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number 24, this morning. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 24. And we're going to look at verse 13 on down to the rest of the chapter. Last Sunday morning when I preached, after my sermon, I was standing at the door shaking hands, and I was gently rebuked by many of you that came through. And you basically said that, Pastor, in your sermon, you said that there were nine points to your sermon, nine evidences you were going to share with us about the resurrection, and you only gave eight. And so now I'm going to have to wonder the rest of the week what that ninth point was. And so I just want you to know this morning that I have been duly rebuked and I want to repent of my transgression. that I committed last week. And to show you my restitution this morning, I'm going to give you that ninth point. In fact we're going to spend a whole sermon on that ninth point this morning just to show you how truly repentant I am about it. You remember last week we were talking about in Luke's Gospel chapter 24 uh the evidences of the resurrection and we Luke points to the moose stone and the empty tomb and the heavenly witnesses to the fulfilled promise, the faithful women. The honest doubt, the personal investigation, the folded grave clothes. And here's the ninth point. You ready? Drum roll, please. The post-resurrection appearances of Christ. And actually the whole rest of Luke chapter 24 is all about these appearances that Jesus made. Luke, we'll spend from verse 13 on down to verse number 53. That's a large section of Luke chapter 24 on these post-resurrection appearances. And so he focuses mostly on the two disciples who were walking to a village of Emmaus on that first resurrection morning. There are moments of life when things seem to fall apart, when what we believed or what we hoped, what we had all expected, collapses at once. That's where we find these two disciples here in Luke chapter 24. They're walking away from Jerusalem. They're walking away from hope. They are they thought that redemption would come through Christ. A key verse is you look in chapter twenty-four, look down at verse number twenty-one. And notice what they say. And besides all this today, this is the third day since these things were done. This is a statement that reveals confusion and despair from these disciples. They totally misinterpreted the cross. They looked at the cross as some kind of a defeat rather than what it actually was a victory. It was really part of God's plan to it was God's plan to pay for sin. They said, you know, which should have redeemed Israel. That word redeemed there is a word latreau. It actually has the idea of it has a lot of strong overtones in the Old Testament pointing to the Exodus. In other words They were kind of thinking that when Jesus came it would be a new Exodus, that Jesus would deliver them as a political messiah from the shackles of Rome. He would be a national deliverer And that he would bring a visible kingdom. They didn't understand but that Christ first had to come to bring spiritual redemption and deliverance from sin, and that he would have a kingdom that is not of this world. They didn't seem to get that. In other words, their theology was totally incomplete. And also they didn't yet believe in the resurrection. They said in verse 21, besides, this is the third day. And they had heard already reports about the resurrection. In fact, look in verse number 22 and notice what it says, yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished which were early at the sepulchre, and when they found not his body, they came, saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. In other words, they heard reports about the empty tomb. They had some evidence there, but they still didn't believe. That's not what caused them to believe in the resurrection. They at this point they simply didn't believe Um and so basically they are saying, you know, yeah, we heard the women's reports, you know how it goes with women, they can exaggerate. This is again offensive to modern ears. I I I don't believe that, by the way, ladies. But they had a kind of a low view view of a women's witness back then And so they're discouraged. They decide to leave Jerusalem. They had a long walk back home. They were going to Emmaus. That was about seven miles. They're headed to this small village. We really don't know a whole lot about Emmaus and um just a small village doesn't appear anywhere else in Scripture. And these two men make this journey and they are in despair And their hopes are dashed, and they're devastated about what happened to their master. They're utterly confused. For them, everything had fallen apart. But into that confusion comes Jesus. Look look in chapter 24 and look at verse number 13. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaeus, which was from Jerusalem about three square furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. So this is the first of several post-resurrection appearances of Jesus here that Luke records. And these appearances are not the ones that Luke selects, so there's a lot of post-resurrection appearances, but he makes these special choices that are very purposeful. They're very theological in the way he selects uh very pastoral. And Luke is basically answering some questions. How do we know that Jesus arose And how do we know that he's how do we know how he is known today? How do we know that this is a physical resurrection? And so what I want you to see here are six reasons that Luke gives these post-resurrection appearances. And yes, I will get to all six. this morning. Six reasons. Here's the first one. Number one, to show that the bodily resurrection is real and historical. That it was real and historical. Now Luke is confronting attacks against the resurrection. Even in the first century, there were attacks made against it. Some could not accept that a dead body could truly rise, or that the material world would be redeemed. This was a day when Greek Gnosticism, Greek philosophy and Gnosticism was kind of prevalent in the world, which basically said that all material fleshly things are evil, all spirit is good. And that the fleshly world and the body would not be redeemed, only the spirit. And uh there was a uh a a heresy back then called docetism, dosaio, which means to appear. Which basically said that Jesus appeared to have resurrected bodily, but it wasn't a bodily resurrection. It wasn't a physical resurrection. And by the way, that that heresy that appeared in seed form has developed in modern times. We still have people attacking this idea of the resurrection today. For example, there's the vision theory, and this view claims that the disciples didn't actually see Jesus physically. They had a vision of him, kind of like a dream. But then there's also another theory, and that is the hallucination theory. Some argue that the disciples were so grief-stricken that they wanted to see him so bad that it was really just a hallucination. It wasn't really Jesus who was there with them. And then another theory, which is called the spiritual resurrection theory, which is the idea that he didn't come out of the grave bodily. But it was a spiritual resurrection, that the resurrection is a symbol of victory and hope. His spirit lives on, and we can take comfort in that. These are all different ideas that are out there. And Luke understands what's at stake here. This is not a minor issue. This is a major issue. If the resurrection is reduced to something that is less than a physical reality, then the whole gospel collapses. If Christ didn't come out of that grave physically, then Christ did not truly conquer death. Sin has not been fully dealt with. The body is not redeemed. Salvation is incomplete. And so Paul writes this in 1 Corinthians 15, if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. If Christ didn't physically, bodily come out of that grave. is vain. Everything's vain. I mean I'm not coming back to church tonight if that's the case. I'm gonna sleep in next Sunday if that's the case. Everything else is vain. But Luke is going to point out that he did come out of that grave, and it was physical, and it was bodily, and the resurrection is a historical fact. It's based on eyewitness testimony. It's based based on verifiable events. It's based on specific details that he gives in these passages. It's based on the fulfillment of Scripture. It is a revelation from God All of those things are things that you need to understand. Luke basically piles up proofs to make it undeniable that Jesus rose physically, bodily from the grave. Leon Morris writes this. He says that Luke stresses the object reality, the objective reality of the resurrection against any purely spiritual interpretation. And so what are some of the evidences? Well, just look at the story. Jesus walks with them. We see this in verse 15. Look at verse 15. And it came to pass that while they commune together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near Not a spirit. Jesus himself drew near and went with them. Jesus appears and begins to walk with them. He overhears their conversation. He's like a traveler on the road. He's listening to them. This isn't some kind of apparition. He's a real traveler walking on the road next to them. This is not a hallucination. You don't walk with a hallucination for seven miles Besides this, this passage doesn't say that they were seeing things, it says they were not seeing things because they didn't recognize who he was. Look at verse 16. But their eyes were beholden that they should not know him. And Jesus overhears their conversation and he says, you know, verse 17, what is this that you're talking about? What am I hearing here in verse 17? What manner of communication? You have one to another as you walk in. You're sad. I can tell you're sad. You're depressed. What what are you talking about? What's going on here? And one of the disciples, Cleopas, look at verse 18. And one of them whose name was Cleopas answered and said, Art thou Only art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem is not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? Where have you been these last few days? Haven't you heard what's been going on? I mean, the the passion of Christ was the talk of Jerusalem. And so aren't you aware of this, they're saying, what has taken place? And Jesus is seen and he and he and he actually So but the main thing I want you to see here is that he walks with them, but also Jesus is seen and ate with them. Look down at verse number thirty one. Just drop down to verse thirty one. And their eyes were open, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. Finally they were able to recognize who he was. This stranger that opens the scriptures and explains why the suffering and death of Christ must be necessary. And after the Bible says he took bread and he blessed it and he broke it and he gave it to them. Then they knew him. Their eyes were opened. They saw him at that point. And the Bible says he vanished out of their sight. Well, someone might say, well, wait a minute. That sounds like a spirit to me. He just disappeared. Well, that was due to his resurrection body. He was now in a glorified body. But just prior to that, in verse 30, Jesus sat down and ate with them. Look at verse 30. And it came to pass as he sat at me with them. He took bread and blessed it and break it. An apparition doesn't eat with you. Spirit doesn't break bread with you. And then Jesus invites them to touch him. Look down at verse number 39. This is another appearance. This is after he reveals himself to these two disciples. And by the way, these two, play at this and the other. They are so excited. They go back from Amea, seven miles back to Jerusalem. They go to the upper room where the disciples were still hiding away, and they tell the disciples that Jesus is alive. Look at verse number 34. They come back and they saying, the Lord is risen indeed. Hey guys, guess what? We saw him. He did rise from the dead. He has risen indeed. And while they're there with the disciples, Jesus appears. Look at verse 36. And they thus spake, and as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and said unto them Peace be unto you. Jesus appears to them. Now did they say at that point, wow, here's a physical, bodily resurrection of Christ. No. What did they say? Look at verse 37. But they were terrified and affrighted and supposed that they had seen a what? Spirit. No, they were thinking it's a spirit. Here's a spirit. But notice how Jesus responds, verse 38. And he said unto them, Why are you troubled? And why do your thoughts arise in your hearts? Verse 39, Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and blood as you see me have. That's a decisive statement. I'm not a spirit. This is I'm this is my bodily presence here. Reach out and touch me. Handle me. This is intentional clarification. Jesus defines himself. He defines his nature as bodily, physical, with flesh and bones. He makes it very clear. Jesus directly refutes this idea that he's just a spirit. He is embodied. The word handle here means to touch, to feel carefully, examine for yourself. So Jesus, what is he doing here? He's offering himself as empirical proof that he came out of that grave physically and bodily, he resurrected from the grave. This is not a hallucination. Hallucinations don't appear to groups of people. They don't appear in bodily form. They don't interact, eating and and so on. Now, and why do you think that Jesus showed them his his hands and his feet. Look at verse number um forty. And when he had thus had spoken, he showed them his hands and feet. Why do you think he specifically showed his hands and feet? What was he showing? The wounds, right? The nail-scarred hands, the feet. If you don't believe, just look at that. You would think at that point the disciples would be totally convinced, but look at verse 41. And while they yet believe not for joy and wonder He said unto them. In other words, they were an emotional basket case. They had joy mixed with confusion and wonder. So Jesus, you know what else he does? He eats in front of them. Look at verse 41. And while they yet not believe for joy and wonder, he said unto them, Have you any here any meat? You guys got anything to eat? I mean, this is amazing. Here, Jesus is participating in a normal human activity. He eats a meal in front of them. Again, spirits don't do that. Someone sometimes asked, will we be able to eat in our glorified body in heaven? Well, here's a little bit of proof of that I I don't think we're gonna get to heaven and Jesus will be eating and I say, Jesus, can I have will you pass the biscuits please? Can I have some? And and Jesus, I'm sorry, you can't eat. Only I can eat. I I that's not gonna happen in heaven What did Jesus say to the disciples? We're going to sit down together again at the table in the kingdom of God. We're going to have that yet again in the future. And so Lucas presenting evidence, not impressions. Luke is shutting the door on the idea that the resurrection was just a vision. Or it was just a hallucination or some kind of spiritual metaphor. No, this was a physical, bodily resurrection. Our faith is not built on feelings or philosophy. It is built on historical fact. We trust in a risen Savior. But here's the second reason why Luke gives these appearances, not only to show that the the body resurrection is real and historical, but also to show that Christ is revealed through the Scripture. Let me tell you the greatest way you understand the resurrection. The greatest way you understand the resurrection is through the Word of God. That's how you understand it. When these two disciples were on the road to Emmaus and they reported about what happened and their despair over all the events, what does Jesus do? He does two things. First of all, he will give them a rebuke. Look in verse number 25, back up to verse 25. And they had told him all that they saw. And then in verse 25, then s he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. He calls them foolish. Why? Because they didn't believe what the prophets spoke. Verse 26, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? They didn't believe what Scripture said. Or perhaps they just didn't know what God's Word said. Either way, that's foolish. God expects you to know his word and he expects you to believe his word. That's why he gave it to us. And what Jesus is doing here in this encounter is he's turning to the greatest source of knowledge that you could ever have with respect to the resurrection, and that is the revealed Word of God. It's the greatest source. He began to open the scriptures. He expounds God's words in it. Look at verse 27. And beginning in Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Expounded. Dermanuo, that is to interpret thoroughly, to unfold the meaning step by step. Jesus is going systematically through the Old Testament. Going one passage at a time, perhaps he started in Genesis three fifteen with the proto-evangelium, the seed of the woman, and then he went all the way on through to Exodus and showed himself as the Passover lamb, and then on through to the Psalms where it shows that in Psalm sixteen that God would not leave this holy one in the grave to suffer corruption. And in Psalm twenty two, written as if you're standing at the foot of the cross. In Isaiah 53, he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, all the way till you get to to Malachi, where he is the uh the the one with the son of righteousness with healing in his wings. I mean he just goes all the way through the scripture. He opened the scripture in verse 32 a day later say he opened unto us to fully reveal the scripture. And it was all about him. This is a systematic theology class on Christ and who he was and what the Bible says about him. You see, the problem that these disciples had was that they had a shallow understanding of Scripture. They didn't know it. They only knew a little bit of it, which can be pretty dangerous. There's a lot of people that know a little bit of scripture. And and that kind of can lead to despair. But Jesus starts and the subject is himself and he goes through all of the Bible. And when I think about this, I think about all the study that I did in seminary, five years in a bachelor's degree, and then uh two years with a master of arts and then three years with a MDiv And then five years with a PhD, and I sat under some great professors, and I spent hours and hours and hours of study. For instance, in the PhD program for every seminar I did, I had to log on 20 hours a week of research And I normally did two seminars a semester. You say, why are you telling us all this? I want you to be impressed with me. No. I'm just kidding. Let me tell you why. Let me tell you why I'm telling you all this. I would trade every hour that I spent in class and in research and all those degrees for just this one hour with Jesus that these disciples had You talk about a seminary education. I would trade all those hours just to have this one hour to hear Jesus go through the scripture. And expound on the greatest subject ever, which is Christ. And then notice verse 32, did not our hearts burn within us? What a privilege that was to have Jesus teach you. Through the scripture like that. But I do have good news for you. He is still your teacher. He is still your teacher. And unless the Lord opens your eyes to see truth in Scripture, you're not going to see it. He is the one who still opens the word to us. He opens our eyes. The Bible is like pieces of a puzzle, all in a box. And the no picture on the front, Jesus is the one who's the picture of it, who who who reveals the big picture and shows us how it all fits together. And this is another thing I want you to see here. The way that a person knows Christ post-resurrection is through the scripture. You can look at all the evidence that you want. That's not the best way to understand the resurrection. I'm not saying there's wrong to look at those evidences, but that's not what convinced these guys. They already heard about the empty tomb. Some of the disciples already went there and investigated the empty tomb. That's not what really convinced these guys. It was not the evidences, and again, there's nothing wrong with studying those evidences, but I'm here to tell you that the greatest Source of knowledge of the resurrection is the Word of God itself. That's the greatest source. You're not going to understand it unless you see it through the scripture. Uh last week I I I posted a picture on my Facebook page about me standing by the garden tomb, the empty tomb there in Jerusalem. And I'm some of you may have been there, and uh there's But I I just put a picture of me in front of the tomb and I put two words. It's empty. And there was a lot of amens and hallelujahs one guy wrote and uh this is Mark Claggett, Billy your your brother Mark. He wrote on there uh we already know that We already know that. And that's such a great response. You know why? You don't have to go to Jerusalem to see it for yourself. You don't have to go over there and examine it. You don't have to do that. All you have to do is just believe what the Bible says. The greatest Knowledge that you'll get about the resurrection doesn't come through studying the evidences or examining for yourself. The greatest knowledge you'll get is through the scripture itself, through the Bible itself. If you want to know Christ more clearly, it will not come through experience, it'll come through the scripture rightly understood. This leads to the third point. Why does Luke give us these appearances to show that the body resurrection is real and historical, to show that Christ is revealed through the Scripture? Number three, to show that faith is not rooted in the Word. Excuse me, that show that faith is rooted in the Word, let me get that right, not sight. Faith is rooted in the Word, not sight. In verse 16, we see their eyes were holden, that is to be restrained. And then finally in verse 31, they were opened. So at first they don't recognize them. And then finally they do, and when they recognize him, he vanishes out of their sight. Why? Why this interaction? Why is Luke pointing out these details here? Luke is teaching here that the resurrect resurrection faith is not dependent on constant visible presence. Up until this time, they had the visible presence of Christ in their life. They had all of that They drew their courage, they drew their comfort, their conviction from Christ's physical presence. But that time was now over. No longer would it be a visible presence. The Christian life would soon have to be lived without visible appearances. Now they're going to have to learn to walk by faith, not by sight. The disciples and all future believers are going to have to learn to trust in the Word of God. And so this prepares the Era of the church, prepares for the era of the church where Christ is not physically seen, but he is truly known through his word. And that's how we fellowship with Christ today. That's how we get to know Christ today. We don't do it through his physical presence, but we can know him and we can have true fellowship with him. How is that? Through the word of God. Through his word. Faith lives upon the word, not upon sense. And so they move from seeing Christ physically to knowing Christ through the Word. And Jesus is bringing them to this point. Just like a child who's learning to ride a bike, the parent will hold on until finally the parent will let go, not out of cruelty, because they need to learn to ride without their physical touch. They need to ride on And here's the good news. You might not see Christ physically, but again, you can know him through God's word. You can know him through Scripture. And I'll tell you, beloved, there have been times when I've studied God's Word, even studying this in Luke 24, that I've had such a sense of the presence of Christ. And the peace of Christ. A peace that passes understanding. This is one of the greatest ways that you fellowship with Jesus Christ. That's why you need to be in God's Word for yourself. Because that's how you have fellowship with him. That's how you experience his presence. That's how he speaks to you through the word of God. And you you can have the same experience that these two disciples had when they said, Did not our hearts burn within us? And again, beloved, I tell you. That there's been times when my heart burned through what the Holy Spirit was teaching me in Scripture. And God that God would condescend down to meet with us in that way. That is such a blessing. that God gives us and we need to avail ourselves to that. But then here's number four. To show that the body resurrection of Christ is real and historical, to show that Christ is revealed through the scripture to show that faith is rooted in the word, not sight, but here's number four, to provide multiple eyewitness testimonies. And Luke is writing as a historian here. And he gives these multiple witnesses, the two disciples on the road, then to the disciples that are gathered up into the room, the upper room there in Jerusalem, and then later additional followers in Jerusalem. This all aligns with the biblical standard of two or three witnesses. They don't have just two or three witnesses. They have a whole host of witnesses here. Luke records that. And then later Jesus will say to them in verse number 48, you all are witnesses of this. You're all witnesses. It's the word martyros, where we get our word martyr. A witness is somebody is not someone who shares opinion. A witness is someone who shares facts. Even to the point that they're willing to die for those facts, which many of them did, which is why we get the word martyr from that, because they were martyred for their faith. The resurrection rests upon these witnesses, this verifiable witnesses. And these are just a few. Later on, John and his gospel will mention other witnesses. Paul and 1 Corinthians will talk about Jesus appearing to 500 at once. I mean, that's that's enough. I mean, all of these witnesses, the British New Testament scholar Westcott said, taking all the evidence together, it is not too much to say that there is no historical incident better or more variously supported than the resurrection of Christ. Simon Greenleaf, who applied legal standards to the gospel, said this: The testimony of the apostles would be accepted in any court today. And so Luke is building this case here. He's inviting examination. He's saying, here are the witnesses. But let me give you number five. To commission the church's message and mission. And Luke will move from basically from resurrection to our responsibility based upon the resurrection. Jesus, by the way, he not only opened the scriptures to the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, he did the same for the disciples in Jerusalem in the upper room. Look down at verse number 45. Look at verse 45. Notice what it says Then open he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. This is Jesus now. He goes again back to the upper room. There the disciples are gathered. The two disciples, Cleopathus and the other, were there also. Jesus appears and he does the same thing. He points to the scripture as the greatest verifiable source that he did come out of that grave, along with him being there personally himself. He teaches them about the resurrection, but then he quickly adds, now you are responsible. Since you know this to be true, you have now a responsibility. In other words, what do you do about it? You believe the resurrection? Okay, what do you do about it? You believe the resurrection here this morning? That means you have a responsibility. And what is that responsibility? To go and tell others. To go and witness to others about it Look at look at verse number 47. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, verse 48, in year, witnesses of these things. You need to preach the message of the gospel for the remission of sins so that people can be forgiven of their sins. Let me ask you a question. If if you really believe the resurrection, what are you going to do about it? You see, because really uh celebrating the resurrection is not about uh uh Easter egg hunts or or or or going to get together with family and eating a honey baked ham. And and and by the way, there's nothing wrong with those things. Alright? I'm not saying there's wrong. I'm not debunking s you know, hammering against those things. I I eat a lot of ham What I'm saying is that that's not the way we really celebrate the resurrection. The way we celebrate the resurrection is by going out and telling other people about Christ. Christ is by sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the way we celebrate the resurrection. This is the mission. Among all nations, we are to preach the remission of sins. And by the way, we can't do this on our own Look at verse number forty nine, what Jesus said. Behold, I send you send a promise of my father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. He's saying here that, you know, this is this is the this is the key. You have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. You can't do this on your own. You have to have the spirit's empowerment, so wait. And Luke is really kind of bridging the gap or getting you ready for the next volume he's gonna write. He's gonna write on the book of Acts. About uh the power of the Holy Spirit coming down on Pentecost. He's kind of getting you ready for that. This is how you get ready to be a witness. You have to have the power of the Holy Spirit. But let me give you the last one quickly Why does Luke show these appearances? To show that the resurrection is real historical, it's revealed through Scripture, it's rooted in the Word, not sight to provide multiple eyewitnesses, to commission the church for the mission. Here's the last one. To show the proper response, which is worship, joy, and continual devotion. to Christ. And so Luke ends. Look at verse number 51. And it came to pass while he blessed them, he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. Here Jesus ascends to heaven. And verse 52, and they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. So how does this end? This ends with the disciples. They see the ascended Christ. They're no longer hiding away now. They were hiding away in the upper room. Not anymore. Now they go into Jerusalem. And where do they go? They go right to the temple The place that could potentially be dangerous for them, with all those religious leaders there, remembering that they're the disciples of Jesus. Are they afraid anymore? No, they're not afraid anymore. There's a total transformation that takes place in the disciples. There's no longer fear. There's no longer uh dread. There's no longer anxiety. There's worship. They worship. They bow in reverence. And then there's joy, a deep abiding joy. And then there's bold witness. They're not afraid. They're out there sharing the word of God. This is absolutely transformational what happened to them. It's like the sun breaking through after a long storm. The entire atmosphere for them just completely changes, and they go from confusion To commission, to obeying the Great Commission. This is what happens when you truly grasp and understand the resurrection, that it's real. It produces joy in your heart. It produces worship in your life. And you'll be a witness, a bold witness for Jesus Christ. So bringing it all together, Luke records this these appearances to show that the resurrection is real. historical, bodily, that Jesus is the fulfillment of all scripture, that faith is grounded in the Word of God, that the resurrection is confirmed by multiple witnesses. The church is commissioned now to go and preach this gospel message, and the proper response is one of worship, joy, and complete, total commitment and devotion to Jesus Christ. That's the proper response. But let me end on some good news here. The good news is Jesus is alive and he, you know what? He still draws near. He still draws near. And he still opens his scriptures for us. He still ignites our hearts. He still reveals himself to us if we want that. And I want that. And when he does all of that, you know what? You're not going to stay the same. You're not going to stay the same. You're going to go from confusion to commission to conviction to obeying Him to living for Him. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this assuring word, this great passage. And Lord, we desire to be like those disciples on the Emmaus Road in the sense that we we want to fellowship with you, and we want to know you through the Word. And we want our hearts to burn within us as you continue to make yourself known to us and draw near to us and open up the scripture to us and remove all the confusion that we may have and replace it with joy. And worship and devotion. This is what we want. Thank you, Lord, that you do these things and you're willing to do it for anyone who wants it. To anyone who will believe and put their faith in you. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just ask you, friend, do you know Jesus? Are you do you believe that He came out of that grave? And more specifically, do you believe that he did that on your behalf? That he took your sin that Came out of that grave as a sign that God the Father was satisfied with his sacrifice for your sins. And will you be willing to put your full faith in Christ this very moment? If you haven't done that already. If you haven't done that, I'm inviting you to do that right now. This very minute. Reach out to Christ. We're going to have a time of invitation We're going to stand together. We'll have some ministers in the front. If we can minister to you, if we can help you to know for sure that you're trusting in Christ, then please come. Let's all stand together. And let's sing our invitation hymn Together. And if God the Holy Spirit has spoken to your heart, friend, you do what the Holy Spirit leads you to do