I want you to take your Bibles and open to Joshua chapter 2 and stand with me for the reading of Scripture. Joshua chapter 2. I want to read verses 1 down to verse 9. Joshua chapter 2 for our scripture reading this morning. Follow along as I read these verses. Joshua 2, verse 1. And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shetim two men to spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and came into an harlot's house named Rahab, and lodged there. And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in thither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee which are entered into thy house, for they become to search out all the country. And the woman took the two men and hid them. And said thus there came men unto me, but I wis not whence they were, and it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out, and whither the men went I wot not Pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in the order upon the roof And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan under the fords. As soon as they which pursued after them were gone out, they shut the gate. And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof, and she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we come before you today. We thank you for your precious word. It is a guide for us. As we consider this story here today, Lord, give us understanding. Give me your servant clarity in communicating the truth of Scripture. May it impact us. May it change who we are. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Title of my sermon today is From the House of Shame to the Hall of Fame. The reason I call it that is because this is the story of a woman. named Rahab, who gives us really an illustration of great faith. I mean of all the places to find true faith. faith on the scale of some of something where this woman can be exalted. And she ends up in Hebrews chapter 11. which I call the Hall of Fame of faith in Hebrews chapter eleven you have all the names of these Old Testament saints that uh showed great faith and they're given to us there in Hebrews chapter 11 as uh an example for us to illustrate their lives and their faith. And we see that here in the life of Rahab, the harlot, the Bible calls her. Once a pastor was visiting one of his church members, he worked at a coal mine, and the pastor went to the mouth of that coal mine and he saw right next to the opening of the cave a beautiful, beautiful pristine white flower And he couldn't believe that such a beautiful white flower can grow in such a dirty place. All around was coal dust all over the place. Yet here is this beautiful white flower right in the midst of all of that. And he took some coal dust and sprinkled it on its petals, and the coal dust just simply slid off the petals, and the white flower kept its beautiful pristine white look to it. Well, what we see here in this chapter is the pristine white flower of faith. And it grows in one of the most corrupt places in the Old Testament. What does the Bible say say? It says, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our Safe. And this is what we're going to look at here. In fact, every time I come to a chapter in the Bible, one of the things I ask myself is, why is this chapter here Why did God include this in Holy Scripture? And when you think about it, the whole theme of the book of Joshua is God giving the land to the children of Israel, and they inheriting that land. And if you look at the makeup of the book of Joshua, one Old Testament scholar noted that the format of the book corresponds to the ancient land grant used by kings in that day. You have in it the explanation for the land, the allotment, the oath of loyalty to the king, the witness of the transaction, all of those are elements in a land grant. We see that here in the book of Joshua because the whole theme is God giving the land to Joshua and his people. But if you to look in chapter 2, you would ask why is chapter 2 in this book? You really don't need it to fulfill the purpose of the book of Joshua. It seems almost intrusive. Why would God put this story of this woman right here in this book at this time? Well, it's almost like God is saying, let me show you the beautiful flower of faith. I want you to see what real faith looks like. And this flower grows in one of the most unusual places. You're going to find this faith from this woman. And a place called Jericho of all places, we know that Jericho is a very sinful city. It was filled with immorality. This is why it was on the list of God's places that he was going to destroy because of the sin of the Canaanites and the city of Jericho was really the city in the land of promise. And of course we know the person is Rahab You would expect God to show faith from what from the Jewish people. They saw all the miracles of God, but you wouldn't expect to see such a beautiful illustration of faith from a woman like this who was a Gentile woman She was a depraved sinner. In fact, the Bible calls her a harlot, a prostitute. One country preacher named her the shady lady of Jericho. And you know, some people have tried to uh soften this. They tried to say, well, she was simply an innkeeper. No, she was more than that. The Bible is very specific. The Bible uses the word And she was an Amorite, this of all the Canaanites in the land of the Hittites, uh, Persites, and uh Jebusites, and on you can go with all the ice. The Amorites were considered some of the most wicked of the people groups. And she was an Amorites singled out for destruction by God in the land of Canaan. She was also under condemnation because As she was in the city of Jericho, Jericho was to be a city that would be destroyed. And so you see here this woman, a pagan living in spiritual darkness, a prostitute living in spiritual depravity. A Canaanite destined for sure destruction of all places to see real faith. In this place, of all people to demonstrate real faith. This woman I heard about a man who was going out through the hills of East Tennessee. He was a census taker. He was going door to door taking a census and he knocked on the door and a teenage girl answered the door and it and the interviewer said, Is your mother home? And she said, Well she ran off with a moonshiner. And the man said, Well is your father home? And she said, nah, he he comes in every once in a while. He pokes his head in once a month to take a bath. And then the frustrated uh interviewer said, Well, how about an older sister? She said, No, she's not here. She shot the sheriff and she's in jail right now. The guy said, Well, what about your older brother? She said, No, he's up at Harvard. And the interviewer was shocked. He said, What's he study at Harvard? She said, he doesn't study nothing. They're studying him. We're here to study Rahab Of all people to teach us faith, to look at her faith, to study her faith. And really the whole idea in this story is God often uses the most unlikely people in the most unlikely places to affirm his promises and to show and demonstrate real faith. And that's what we see here from Rahab. We see what real faith looks like. You want to know what true faith looks like? Let's just look at Rahab. I want you to see three lessons about real faith. The first lesson is this. True faith is often courageously displayed. True faith is courageously displayed. Let's look at the story. Look at notice the spies mission in verse 1. And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shetim Two men despised secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho, and they went and came into the harlot's house named Rahab, and lodged there. So Joshua chooses two men. He sends them out on a mission to spy out the land. He says to them, Go view the land. Now the last time Jews were sent out to spy the promised land, it was twelve spies, and it was ten too many. Because you remember that Old Testament story, 10 brought back a negative report, 2 brought back a good report. So Joshua learned from that mistake and said, I'm going to send out two spies. this time. He sends these two spies. They were hand-picked. He wanted them to go and look at the land. Now he knew God had already promised to give him the land. But like a good general he wanted to know what the conditions were as they were getting ready to cross over and take the city And notice that he goes, they go, these two spies, to the house of Rahab, it says in verse number one. It says, They went and came into an harlot's house named Rahab, and they lodged there. Now the city covered about eight or nine acres. There is archaeological evidence that it was a double-walled city, an inner wall and an outer wall. And between the inner and outer wall, people would build houses there And according to chapter 2, verse 15, Rahab's house was part of this wall. Her house was built right there on the wall. It was actually on the perimeter and so really her house, the back of the wall, the outer wall, would be the back of her house, which is can explain how the spies could escape easily out her back window and leave the city Because the the wall was actually the back of her house and the window is there on that wall. How was it that they were able to come To the house of Rahab. This one of all the people in the city of Jericho, all the places they could have gone, they happened to go to Rahab's house. I think this was God's providence and action Here was a woman who had already determined to put her faith in the God of the Jews, the God of Israel. Now notice the king's request. Look at verse 3. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee. Which are entered into thine house, for they become to search out all the country. Somehow the king of Jericho is informed of the two spies in the house of Rahab And he sent some men to Rahab's house with the request, deliver over the spice. Now here's the crisis of the story. And really, God will often use a crisis to demonstrate real faith. The request is given from the king, deliver over these men. We know that they have come into your house. According to the ancient law, the law of Hammurabi, the law of Babylon, it required innkeepers to hand over criminals who are in their house. And so what is she going to do? Here Rahab risks her life by even housing these Hebrew scouts. What is she going to do? Could she she gonna hand them over and save her own life? Or is she going to risk her own life and save these men? If she refuses to hand them over, she could die. But notice her response in verse 4. And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus, there came men unto me, but I wis not whence they were. And it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate when it was dark, that the men went out, whither the men went, I woke not, pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof, and the men pursued after them. The way to Jordan under the fords, as soon as they were which pursued after them, were gone out, the gate shut. So here's Rahab's response. Again, this was a real crisis. She did not choose to save her own life. The Bible says very clearly she hid the spies on the roof, underneath some stalks of flax. Now back in that day the rooftops were flat. And what's a stalk of flax? That's kind of like a uh you know a flax stalk is about yay long and and they would kind of cut off the ends and they would soak it in water for a bit for weeks and then they would let it dry on the top of the roof, a very dry place, and they would Then just kind of pull it apart and they would use it to make material. It actually was used to make clothing. We remember the woman in Proverbs thirty-one who worked with her hands, she worked with wool and with flax making clothes. And so she was she would use that to make linen cloth. And so on the rooftop there were these piles of these these stalks. And she hid them in that place. And she admitted to the men that came, oh yes, two men came here. But if you hurry up, you can find them. They left. I don't know exactly where they went And so they went chasing after these men. Now, she did this at the risk of her own life. If these men pushed in past her and looked around, no doubt they probably, if they conducted a thorough search Would have found these two men, and that would mean that her life was over, as well as these two spies. But she's willing to risk saving these men. Why? Because she believes in their God. She truly believed that God had given them this land. And she believed that so much she was willing to risk her own life Now at this point, you have to understand that she had already put her faith in the God of the Hebrews. She had already done that. Even before the spies got there She had already done that. And so this action that she was doing was revealing that her faith was genuine. She believed so much in the God of the Hebrews, she was willing to risk her life. To show that she really believed. That's what true faith does. True faith gives you courage. Courage to stand even against the most difficult of circumstances. Now, some people will say, well, now wait a minute. Rahab lied. She lied to protect these spies. That's not right. How could God bless a lie? And by the way, there are pages and pages of material written on this subject. The lie of Rahab. Was it right or was it wrong? Some people try to soften this and say, you know, it really wasn't a lie. Look, folks, it was a lie. There's no way to get around it. She definitely lied to these men. And the question is, was it right? This might be the answer to the question that some ask, you know, Corey Tinboom during World War II, uh she hid Jews in her attic. When the Nazis came knocking on our door and they would ask, Are you hiding Jews? What how do you answer that question? Do you answer yes and give up the Jews? And have that on the conscience the rest of your life that they die because of you? Or do you say no and lie to the Nazis and save the life of the Jews? There's kind of an ethical dilemma there. Is that right or is that wrong to do? In 1804, a split occurred among the Baptists in Kentucky over whether it was right to tell lies to an Indian in order to spare a child's life. Some said no, and others said that if it was to spare someone's life, it was permissible to tell a lie. These latter folk were known therefore as lying Baptists So my question to you today is, are you a lying Baptist? Or are you a non-lying Baptist? What do you do in that situation? There's many different answers to this question. Some argue that in this situation there are two absolutes that conflict to spare life. or to lie. They will argue that these two absolutes conflict absolutely and there's no recourse in a fallen world. Other than you have to just uh tell a lie, then confess it to God, then ask for forgiveness. That's just the way it is in a fallen world. It's the world in which we live. This idea was really uh by Joseph Fletcher called Situation Ethics. The situation just demands that you tell the lie and then ask for forgiveness later on. That's one way to answer this. Another way to answer this is that Some people argue that there is a gradation in absolutes. That is, there are some absolutes that are more important than others. And when they conflict, you always yield to the higher absolute. And in this situation, the higher absolute would be to save a life. And so therefore you yield to that higher absolute and you tell the lie. to save the life. This view is known as hierarchical ethics. This is a view that's perpagated by the late apologist Norman Geisler And then there's another view, it's called non-conflicting ethics. This view basically says that there's a third way, you don't have to lie, you don't have to give them up. There's a third way, you just don't see it. Basically it says, you know, you need to wait and pray for light and get the get the third way and then yield to that. This is a View that is held by the great Old Testament scholar Walt Hiser. It's also a view held by Augustine and Aquinas and some of the other early church fathers, and they basically say that although she told a lie for a good purpose, it was contrary to the nature of God. And so they praise her, here's a quote, for the benignity of their intention, but they contempt her for the iniquity of her invention, whatever that means. Basically they're saying, you know, we understand your intention was good, but your invention was not. To invent this lie. You know, but no matter where you come down on this issue, and this is an issue that has been debated, no matter where you come down on this issue. There's two things that I really want to emphasize here. Nowhere in Scripture does God ever condone her lie. He never condones her lie in Scripture. What he condones, actually what he rewards, is her faith. In James 2. 25, it says this. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works? when she had received the messengers and sent them out another way? What's God reward? The fact that she risked her life, that she received the messengers and then sent them out, that act right there was an act of faith. And that's what God rewards. And here's the second thing I want you to understand. All faith that we exercise is imperfect faith. You understand that? The faith that you exercise, do you think that your faith is perfect? No, of course not. There are degrees of sinfulness. and corruption, even in the best acts of faith that we have, whenever I exercise an act of faith in God, there's always mingled in that some degree of unbelief, some degree of selfishness on my part. Some degree of self-glory on my part, some degree of self-love. I think of the man who said to Jesus, Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief. Lord, I have faith, but it's not perfect. Help me where it's not perfect. And God, who is gracious and kind, accepts our faith. though it be in perfect faith. This is what God did for Rahab. This is what God does for you and me. Besides, let me just give you one argument here. Perhaps we're expecting a little bit too much from a recently converted pagan prostitute. Perhaps we're asking a little bit too much of her in this situation. Think about some of the great men in the Old Testament. Abraham, do you think his faith was perfect? Did he ever lie? Of course he did. Isaac? Of course he did. David? Did he ever use deception? Yes. Yes. So let's not be too hard on Rahab here. And let's just remember that God blessed her faith, not her lying. This is not an excuse to encourage lying. It's simply to take her circumstances into consideration. And if we were all honest, if we were put in the same circumstance, what would we do? What would you do? It was wartime. I like what Wersby said here. He said, Many people have been honored for deceiving the enemy during wartime and saving innocent lives, and this was war. Suppose we looked upon Rahab as a freedom fighter. Would that change the picture at all? And I think we would say, yes, it would. But ethical problems aside, the main lesson here is that Rahab's faith was courageously displayed. She exercised her faith at the risk of her own life. True faith is willing to take a risk. And that's exactly what she did. True faith is often courageously displayed. But here's another lesson we learned. True faith is always confidently declared. Because look what it says in verse number 10. She heard the word of God. Look at verse 10 For we heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites That were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom he utterly destroyed. First she says, we've heard the word of God. We've heard what was said Now how did she hear that? They didn't have CNN back then or Fox News or Facebook or Twitter, any of the social media that we have today. It wasn't the spies that told her because she had already believed and exercised faith by the time they got there. Where did she get this word from? I think that is an innkeeper. When the men would come in and go through, they would tell stories. One man would come in and say, Hey, have you heard what happened in Egypt? Another guy would say, No, what happened? Well, the God of the Hebrews sent down ten plagues upon the Egyptians. And the Pharaoh just let them go. Another guy would say, yeah, but did you hear what happened at the Red Sea? What happened? Well the sea opened up and they walked through on dry ground. And when the Egyptian army tried to pursue, the sea collapsed upon them and it drowned the whole army. Another guy said, Yeah. You know what else? Did you hear what happened to the two kings of the Amorites on the other side of Jordan? Sihon and Ag Do you hear how they were defeated? And then another guy would say, yeah, and then you know what? They're still over there, and they're getting ready to cross over, and guess what? We're next. We're next on the list. Sometimes God will use the strangest of instruments to communicate his message and his word But here's Rahab, and she listens, she's hearing. What does the Bible say? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. She heard the word given to her, she believed. Look at verse 11. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. She believed. She believed what was going to happen to them. And not only that, she confessed, look at verse 9. And she said unto them, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. That your terror has fallen upon us, that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Notice what she says, I know the Lord hath given perfect tense already done. I know this land is already yours She's actually repeating what God said to Joshua in the beginning of the book. I've already given this land to you. And she's saying the exact same thing. God's already given you this land. You know what faith is? Faith is boldly saying what God has already said. That's exactly what she does here. She says, I believe in this message. I believe in this word. You know, we have people today that really don't understand faith. We have these Word of faith preachers who basically say you can name something and then claim it and then speak it into existence. That's not faith in the Word of God. That's faith in faith. That makes you sovereign rather than God. God, this is what I want. I'm gonna claim it. I'm gonna speak it into existence. It's gonna be real. You don't have that kind of power. And that's not real faith. The Bible says faith is believing what God says. You can't claim anything until God names it. And once God names it, then you can claim it. And that's why she's a model of faith. The Bible says in Hebrews 11 31, by faith the heartlit Rahab perish not with them that believe not, when she had received the spies with Peace. And so she heard the word of God. She believed it. She confessed it. And she turned to God. She turned from the false God. She turned to the true God. Look again in verse 11. As soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt, neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath No, she's saying he's the only God. He's the real God. You know the Canaanites, they believed in many gods. And they believed that there was gods who dwelt in the sky. That was Baal. Baal was the rider of the clouds, they called him. They believed Baal controlled the rain. The God of the underworld was called Mot. That's uh the word for death, the God of death. They believed there was a God in the underworld, they believed there was a God in the heavens. They believed there was a God of the sea called Yem. They believed in all these false gods. And yet when Rahab heard about the God of the Hebrews, you know what she said? She said, he's the real God. He's the only God. He's the God in heaven. He's the God beneath. He's the only God. He's the real God. She turned from all those other gods. And she turned to the one true, real, living God, and she confessed that he was the only one. She reminds me of what I said in the in the Thessalonians. When they say that they turned to God from idols to serve the living and the true God. That's what real faith does She turns to the Lord, away from all the falsity to the true. Let me give you the third thing quickly. True faith is often courageously displayed. True faith is often confidently declared. But here's the third thing. True faith is always clearly, or we could say concretely demonstrated because she demonstrates her faith In fact, James uses her in the New Testament, as we saw, that she was justified by works. Listen again, James 2. 25. Likewise also was not Rahab, the hearted, justified by works? When she had received the messengers? Now someone might say, now wait a minute, we're not justified by works, we're justified by faith. Paul said in Romans 4, being justified by faith And here James is saying we're justified by works. This is why, by the way, Martin Luther felt like James shouldn't be in the Bible at first. He thought that James was contradicting Paul. He called the book of James kind of a strawly epistle because he didn't couldn't really understand at first what James was saying. Later he came to understand that James was actually saying the same thing that Paul said, only in a different way. You see, Paul in Romans 4 says we're justified by faith. James says we're justified by works. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before men. You say, what does that mean? Look at me here. Can you see faith in me? You say, no, faith is kind of that invisible thing. You can't look in my heart. You can't see faith. God can look in my heart and see my faith. But you can't see it. How are you going to see my faith? The only way you can see my faith is by my works, by what I do. That's how I'm justified before others. That's how other people can see my faith is real. Salvation is by grace plus nothing. But the salvation that is real will produce good works once we get saved. And so Paul was talking about the root of salvation. James was talking about the fruit of salvation. Paul was talking about something that was inward. James was talking about something that was outward. And James was tackling the problem of the early church Which was there are many people that said they had faith in God, but their life showed that their faith was not real. And here's the point, if your faith is real, other people will see it because they will see your works. And they'll look at you and they'll say, you know what, that's a person who believes God. I can tell by their works. You know, 80% of Americans claim to be born again 80%. And yet our nation is in moral decline. How can that be? Unless their faith is not real faith. True saving faith involves the mind. You believe something in your mind. It involves believing it in your heart. And it belongs, excuse me, it also involves acting upon it with your will. Those three elements. And James talks about that. He says there's dead faith where you believe something only in your mind. There's demonic faith. Remember, James says the devils believe and they tremble. You know, the demons believe that Jesus is God, but they're not saved. It it causes them to fear. They believe it in their mind and their hearts, but it doesn't go any farther than that. James says real dynamic faith, which is the third kind of faith, involves the mind, the heart, and the will. You're willing to make a commitment to what you know to be true. It'll show on the outside by the things that you do. You see, I often, I've used this illustration before. I hope you don't mind me using it again. to illustrate this kind of faith. Let's just suppose that a man goes to the doctor's office, he's in the waiting room, he picks up a magazine, he reads an article about smoking, about it being really bad for a person, and he's a smoker and he bl reads the article, he believes all of it. But he reaches into his pocket and he pulls out a cigarette. What kind of face is that? That's dead face because he believes it here. Let's just say he goes back in again, reads the same article, and this time it shakes him to his core. He's afraid that he might die of cancer. But he reaches into his pocket and he pulls out a cigarette. What kind of faith is that? That's demonic faith He believes it in his mind, it scares him, there's an emotional response, but it doesn't go any farther than that. But this just say it goes in a third time, reads the same article. This time he reaches into his pocket, pulls out his pack of cigarettes, throws them away, and says, I will never smoke another cigarette again. What kind of faith is that? That's dynamic faith He believes it in his mind. He believes it in his heart. He makes a commitment with his will. That's real faith. And that's why James exalts Rahab. Because he's saying she shows true, dynamic faith. She believes it in her mind. Look again in chapter 2, look in verse 9. And she said unto them, and I know that the Lord has given you the land. That's the mind right there. Look at verse 11. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. There's the emotional response right there But there's another thing that she did that the rest didn't do. Notice that it says our hearts melted plural. Other people were afraid. But she's the only one who brought salvation to her household. You know why? Because she did something that showed that her faith was real. What did she do? At the risk of her life, she hid the spies. And then she sent them out another way. That one outward work, risking her life, showed that her faith was a true faith. It was real faith. And that's why James exalts her, because true faith is clearly demonstrated. She receives the spies, she sent them out, she also wanted her family to be saved, and she also made an agreement. She said, Would you please show grace to our household? And they said, Yeah, look, if you send out a scarlet cord out the back of your window, we'll know where you live, and we'll we will not bring judgment to that house. And so that's exactly what she did, and she brought salvation on her whole household, and now she is a model of true faith to the rest of us. What it looks like. And so my question to you today is: Is your faith a true faith? Is it real? Is it courageously displayed? Is it confidently declared? Is it clearly demonstrated in your life? That your faith is a true faith in the living God. Let me just say this in closing. When I uh was over in Israel, I went to the city of Jericho. And uh I went to the old city here. There's still the ruins of that city. You can walk around and see those ruins. I had the privilege that day of walking around And seeing uh that city with a scholar by the name of Bryant Wood, who's really the foremost scholar on Jericho. But on the far side of that old city in ruins There's a place there on the far side called Rahab's Wall. You know why they call it that? Because while all the rest of the wall around the city is collapsed. There's one area that's not collapsed. It's still there. It remains there to this day as a monument of her faith. The faith of Rahab and God, that one area on that side of the wall is still there. And so, my friend, I again I ask you Is your faith real? And by the way, later on, Rahab will become the great, great grandmother of Jesus Christ Himself. We'll read of her again, excuse me, again, in the book of Matthew. Where she is in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ because of her faith. You talk about faith overcoming. Her faith was able to overcome her circumstance. And she became part of God's Hall of Fame because her faith was so real Friend, do you want to do great things for God? How is your faith this morning? Let's bow for prayer together today as we're out of time. Let's bow for prayer. So Lord, as we come before you, we thank you for this beautiful illustration of faith in the life of Rahab. And Lord, my prayer is for every person under the sound of my voice, that their faith is a real faith in Christ, the living Savior. That there be no doubt in their own heart. That what they have is true biblical faith in Christ. Not just a mental assent. Not just an emotional affirmation. But a commitment of their life to the Lordship of Christ. And if there's someone here today, Lord, that's never trusted Jesus as their only Lord and Savior, as the only way of salvation. I pray that today they would give an everlasting yes to Christ. And friends with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you that question here? Do you know the Lord Jesus? We want you to know for sure. If there's any doubt, would you be willing to pray right where you are? Reach out and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. And today I'm putting my faith in you and what you've done for me on the cross as my only way of salvation. That faith might not be perfect, but friend, if you exercise whatever faith that you have in the finished work of Christ for you. You can have salvation today if you'll just trust it. But anyone here say, preacher, pray for me. That's me. I want to place my faith in Christ. This very moment. Can I pray for you? Anyone here like that today? Any person here, can I pray for you? I'm looking around. Just for a minute. Anyone here? Secondly, this Messages for believers, you know this story is in here to encourage us to exercise our faith courageously. You may be in a situation now where God's calling upon you to exercise some faith. This may be the Lord's word to you to say, saying, trust me. Take a step of faith and trust me. Be willing to risk. Step out. I will take care of you. Friend, if this is God speaking to you today, why don't you do that right now? Say, Lord, I trust you. Increase my faith. Help my faith, Lord, today. Let's all stand together with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend