Open to the book of Joshua, chapter 2, and Wednesday night we're going through this great Old Testament book of Joshua. And the theme of it is victory, and it's my prayer that we'll all learn to welcome more victorious Christian life as we study some of these great Old Testament narratives. Joshua chapter 2, and while you're finding that, I heard about a pastor who wanted to visit one of his church members at his job. This man happened to work at a coal mine. And so the pastor went to visit this man at the mine. When he came to the mouth of the opening of the mine, the mouth of the cave there. He noticed alongside there was a beautiful, pristine white flower that was growing there. It was growing out of the darkest, dirtiest of soils. And he was captivated by that white flower. He wondered how this beautiful white flower could grow in such a place of black soot and dirt. And uh he kind of reached down and he picked up a handful of coal dust and sprinkled it on the flower And when he did, he noticed that the the dust just slid off those petals because it had a property that just uh uh was a silk type property that wouldn't allow any dirt or dust to stick to it. And when he did that, and he saw that flower, he thought, you know, that is what the Christian is to be like in this world. We are people of faith, and it's because of our faith that we should stand out against the backdrop of a corrupt and sinful world. It is our faith that gives us victory over the world. The Bible says in 1 John 5. 4, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith Now, this story that we're going to look at tonight here is about the beautiful white flower of faith growing and the most dirty, the most corrupt The most sinful environment imaginable. This is a story about a woman whose faith helped her to overcome the world. Now, look in chapter 2 and look in verse number 1. And Joshua, the son of Nun, sent out of Shitim two men to spy secretly. Saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and they came into an harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search out the country. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee which are entered into thine house, for they become to search out all the country. Now Whenever I come to an Old Testament passage like this, the one thing that I want to ask always is, why is this story here? Why is this narrative here? Why does the Holy Spirit find it necessary to give us this the details of this story that is here. Why this chapter? And really, when you think about it, this story is really not necessary to the theme of Joshua. What's the theme of Joshua? It's the conquest of the land. It is God giving the land of Canaan to his people One scholar has noted that the format of the book of Joshua is parallel to ancient land grant treaties that were used by kings of that day. All the forms and features of the book of Joshua match an ancient land grant. There's the explanation for the land. Well we see that in Joshua 1 through 12. Then there's the description of the allotment and the ancient land grant. Well we see that in chapters 13 to 21 Then there's the oath of loyalty to the king, well we see that in chapters twenty two and twenty three. And then there's the witness to the transaction. Well we see that in chapter twenty-four And so really you could take chapter 2 out of the book of Joshua and still make sense of the overall message of what God is trying to say here in the book of Joshua. Joshua chapter 1, they prepare for crossing. Joshua chapter 3, they cross. And so the question is, why is chapter 2 here? Well, let me tell you why. You know why it's here? Because God wants us to see what real faith looks like. What God is doing here is he is showing us, it's almost like God is stopping the flow of the narrative of Joshua and saying, what I want to show you is this beautiful white flower of faith that is growing in this sinful, corrupt, dark soil. You know why? Because God delights in faith The Bible says without faith it is impossible to please God. It glorifies God when God sees people exercise faith in him. And this is especially true when this person who exercises faith in God is an unlikely person, living in an unlikely place. And that's exactly what we see here. Where's the place? Well the place is Jericho. We see that in verse number one and two. Jericho was first on the list of the cities that Joshua has to go and conquer. This was a tr strategic city because once he conquered this military stronghold, he had access to the land north and south. But I want you to know also this was a sinful city This was perhaps the the capital of uh the Amorite Empire and it was the most sinful, corrupt city. In a corrupt land called Canaan. Well, who's the person? Well the person is Rahab. And we see her introduced to us in verse 1 where it says and they went and came into a harlot's house named Rahab and they lodged there. Now again what we're going to see is the faith of this woman God's going to reveal the beautiful flower of faith here in the life of this woman. You know, oftentimes in Scripture, God will almost, as it were, point the camera of Scripture at someone who who exercises faith in him, who we wouldn't expect to exercise that kind of faith. Now we would expect the Jews who saw all the miracles of God Exercise great faith in God, but you wouldn't expect a Gentile woman who lived in the land of Canaan in the most corrupt city to exercise great faith in God. But again, oftentimes in Scripture we see God stopping the flow of any narrative and pointing to someone who has faith. Remember in the New Testament, the centurion? It said, Lord, my servant is sick. And Jesus said, Well, let's go heal him. He said, Lord, all you have to do is speak the word. And Jesus said, I haven't found this kind of faith in Israel. Remember the Syrophoenician woman who said, Lord, heal my daughter. You remember the centurion at the foot of the cross who said, truly this is the Son of God? All of these people exercised great faith, unlikely people, and unlikely places. And we see the same thing here. Here is Rahab. And what does the Bible say about her? Well, she was a depraved sinner. The Bible says in verse number one that they came into a harlot's house here. One country preacher called her the shady lady of Jericho. Some have tried to say that, well, she was simply an innkeeper, because the word here in the Hebrew can mean simply someone who keeps an inn, and that is very true. But we can't get around the New Testament verses in James chapter 2 And Hebrews eleven that say clearly that she was a harlot. And so she was a depraved woman. She was an Amorite This was a group of people, a group of Canaanites that were sinners among sinners. Of all the people mentioned in the land of Canaan, the Amorites were singled out for a peculiar condemnation. For their sin. And she so she lives in a city under condemnation, and she is a woman of ill reput Here's a pagan living in spiritual darkness. Here is a prostitute living in sinful depravity. Here's a Canaanite destined for sure destruction. And yet Despite all of that, what God is going to show us here in this chapter is that this woman has true faith in God. Of all people, Of all places to see this beautiful white flower faith, it is here. How can it be that this woman has this kind of faith. Maybe you heard about the man who was hired to go take a census in the hills of East Tennessee. He knocked on the door of a home and a teenage girl answered the door and he said, Is your mom home? And she said, uh, she ran off with a moonshiner. He said, Well is your dad home? She said, nah, he pokes his head in once a month to take a bath. He said, well, what about your older sister? She said, nah, she's in jail because she shot the sheriff. He said, well, what about an older brother? Do you have an older brother? She said, no, he's at Harvard. And and the man was shocked. Uh he said, Well what's he studying at Harvard? She said, He's not studying anything, they're studying him. Well of all people and all places, God wants us to study this woman Rahab. And he wants us to see her faith. And what we see from this story, and I want you to write this down, three lessons about faith. that we learn from Rahab. Here's the first one if you're taking notes. True faith is often courageously displayed. True faith is often courageously displayed. Look at verse number one again. So Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shaitem, Shaitim, I should say, two men. To spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho, and they went and came into a harlot's house named Rahab. Now here's the spies mission. Joshua chooses two men to go on a reconnaissance mission to the land. Notice he only picks two. You remember the last time they had a spying mission, they picked twelve. Moses picked twelve. Well that ended up being ten too many. So Joshua picks two. And notice where it says secretly. That is, he doesn't tell anyone this was a secret that was from Israel. Only Joshua knew, and Joshua picked out two men. Joshua wanted to know the mindset of the enemy, of those people that were there. He wanted to know if the city of Jericho was ready for battle. Oh, he already knew that the Lord had given the land into his hand, but he was a good general, and he wanted to learn about the city. And so the Bible says in verse 1 that these spies they come into an harlot's house named Arahab, and they lodged there. Now, according to chapter 2, verse 15, Rahab's house was part of the law, or it was on the wall And in the architecture of that day, and actu actually archaeology has also confirmed this, that there were two walls in Jericho. There was an inner wall and there was an outer wall. And people would build their houses in between those walls. And actually the outer wall served also as the back wall of a person's house. And so her house was right there on the wall, and this explains why later on, when the spies were able to escape out the back window of her house, they were able to make a quick getaway because that was the outer wall of the city of Jericho. But what amazes me is that these men go to this woman's house, and this perhaps was the a covering, because she probably did have an inn, even though she uh practiced a terrible thing there in that inn, a sinful thing as a as a harlot, and yet she had an inn, and so this was a natural place for them to go. And yet this was a place where they met this woman and they found her to be a woman of faith. There's no accident that they happen to go to her place. Of all places. Of all the people in the city, there's one person that has true faith And the spies come to her house. And notice what happens in verse 3. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee. Which are entered into thine house, for they become to search out the country. Now somehow the king of Jericho is informed of the two spies in the house of Rahab And he sends some messengers saying, deliver over to us the spies, over to me the spies. Now here's the crisis of the story. Every narrative you as you notice in the Old Testament has some kind of a crisis. And here, often God will use a crisis to reveal faith. Now, according to the law back then When a criminal had come into one's house, they were required to hand those criminal or that those criminals over or a criminal, either one or two. It was required that she hand over these men according to the law. And if she handed them over, more than likely she would receive some kind of a reward, a good reward for that Or if she re didn't hand them over, or if she uh refused, or even protected them. She would do so at her own peril. She was risking her life. And so this is a real crisis. What would she do? Would she hand these men over or uh at the risk of her own life? Or will she uh or hand them over rather and get the reward? Or will she protect them and at the risk of her own life? Well what does she do? Well verse 4 tells us And the woman took the two men and hid them, and said thus, there came unto me uh men there there came men unto me, but I wished not whence they were. And it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate. When it was dark that the men went out, whither the men went, I won't not pursue after them quickly, for ye shall overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house. and hid them with the stalks of the flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof. So what does she do? She hides the spies on the roof under some stalks of flax, the Bible says. Now in this day the houses had flat rooftops. And obviously they were these rooftops were used to dry things out. And back in this day you would take at harvest time the stalks of flax and you would pull them up and then you would soak them in water for a few weeks And then you would take those stalks and put them on the rooftop and dry them out. And after they dried out, they would separate the fibers and these stems, and they would make fine linen, cloth, out of that, and then they would sell it. You remember the woman in Proverbs thirty-one, one of the things that characterized her was that she seeketh wool and flax and she works willingly with her hands. They would take that and they would make beautiful clothing out of that. In fact there are some commentators that believe that this practice right here suggested that Rahab had ceased being a harlot and was now doing something different to take care of herself at this point in her life. But notice that she hides them on the rooftop underneath those uh stalks of flax there and she tells the men that they are gone, they can they came here, but they left. If you hurry up, you can catch them. Because they le they left not too long ago. And so what does he do? She puts her life at great risk Because she wants to protect these men. And you have to ask yourself, why would she want to protect these strangers? Why would she risk her life to do that? And the reason is because she believed God. She believed that these men were from God. She was willing to be dragged before the king. If these men just pushed past her and went in the house and began to investigate anyway, she would have been caught and she would have been brought before the king and she surely would have been put to death as a traitor. But she was willing to risk her life. And the only reason she was willing to do so was because she knew that these men were servants of the Most High God, the God of Israel, the God that she had come to believe in. In fact, if you read in the New Testament, both Hebrews 11. 31 and James 2. 25, Indicate that Rahab had already put her faith in God before the spies ever came, before she ever heard. From them. She already chose to put her faith in God. And that's a characteristic of faith. You know what faith does? Faith gives a person courage. Faith is courageously demonstrated. I was reading this week about a woman in 2014. Her name was Miriam, and she lived in the Sudan, a Sudanese woman who converted from Islam to Christianity and because of that, she was sentenced to die. And she was also sentenced to give 100 lashes because she married a Christian man and had a child. And She was sentenced to death, but all this could be avoided if she simply recanted her faith in Christ and turned back to Islam, which she refused to do At the shock and amazement of all of her family and friends, she refused to recant her faith in Christ. And you know what happened to her later? Miraculously, she was released. Again, to all the amazement of those around, God honored her faith. You know why? Because true faith is courageously displayed. Many times God will call upon us to do that. Now some people will say now, wait a minute now, Rahab live. Some of you are thinking that. I can see it in your head right now. She lied. She lied to protect the spies. That's not right. How could God bless a lie? And by the way, there are pages and pages of material written on the lie of Rahab. Is it right that she lied or is it wrong? And that's what many of you perhaps want to know. Was Rahab justified in telling this bald-faced lie? And by the way, there's no way around it, it was a lie. She did lie to these men. Is this the Bible's answer to Corey Tinboom's qu uh dilemma that she faced when the Nazis came and knocked on her door and said, Are you hiding Jews? And if she said no, she lied to the Nazis and protected the life of innocent people. But if she said yes, she would deliver over the lives of Jewish people So what do you do when something like that happens? Uh what what option do you take? And eighteen oh four A split occurred among Baptists in Kentucky over this issue, whether it was right to tell lies to an Indian in order to spare a child's life. Some said no And others said it was it was uh no. Some said uh no, you don't tell a lie, and others say, yes, it was okay to tell a lie if you were sparing someone's life And that group was called from henceforth lying Baptists. So my question to you tonight is this, are you a lying Baptist? Or are you a non-lying Baptist? How do you answer this dilemma? Well, I'm not going to get into this because this is not an ethical lecture. This is about faith, but let me just touch on it for a minute. There are many ways that people answer this dilemma. Some argue that this is a situation where two absolutes are in conflict To spare a life or to lie. And some will argue that these two absolutes collide absolutely. And that there's no recourse in a fallen world other than just to lie. That's just the way the world is, they'll say You lie and then you confess it and God forgives you and there's no other way. It seems unfair, but that's just the way it is. And this view has been made known by a man by the name of Joseph Fletcher, and you may have heard the term situational ethics. That's what this has been called. Situational ethics And then there's another view to this. Others argue that absolutes have a gradation about them. That is to say that there are some absolutes More important than others. And when two absolutes are in conflict, you should obey always the higher absolute And that's what the situation demands here. The higher absolute is to save a life, and so you yield to that Absolute. This view is known as hierarchical ethics, and it's defended by a man by the name of Norman Geisler, an apologist. And then there's a third view, and it's called the non-conflicting ethics view. And this view basically says this. It says situations like this only appear to be in conflict When actually there's a third way which perhaps we sometimes cannot see. And this is a view held by John Murray in his book called Principles of conduct. It's also a view held by Walt Kaiser, the great Old Testament scholar. This was also a view that was held by Augustine, the early church father, and Aquinas. And Calvin, in fact, Calvin condemned Rahab for her deception, and he said, even though she told a lie for a good purpose, he says it was contrary to the nature of God. Augustine praises Rahab for what he calls, quote, the benignity of her intention, but condemned her for the iniquity of her invention. Clever way to say it. Perhaps Rahab could have said something different without actually lying. But no matter where you come down on this issue, you say, where do you stand? I'm not going to tell you. But where, but what no matter where you come down on this issue, nowhere in Scripture, here's what I want you to see. Nowhere in Scripture does God condone her lie. That's never condoned in scripture. What is rewarded is her faith. And if you read James chapter 2 verse 25, it says that it talks about her receiving the spies and then sending them out another way. It never even mentions the lie. It rewards her faith by receiving the spies and then sending them out. But there's another thing I want you to understand about this. And and and that's simply this. All faith that we exercise is imperfect faith. Do you understand that? You know, there there is some degree Of sinfulness and the moments when I have exercised faith in God. At my most spiritual moments, I have never exercised perfect faith in God. Always with my faith that I've exercised, there's always been mingled in some type of sin or corruption. And friends, I would say that none of us here have ever exercised perfect faith without some degree Of selfishness in it, or sinfulness in it, or corruption, and even our best acts of faith. I'm like the man who said, Lord, I believe, but help thou mine unbelief. My faith is not a perfect faith. The gold of my faith is always mixed together with junk metal of my own sinfulness. But you know God is a gracious and kind God, and he accepts my faith as a sinner as I am. He looks at the faith that I do have, and he honors that faith. And this is what God does for me, and this is what God does for you. And this is what God does for Rahab. I like what Wersby writes about this. He said, perhaps we're expecting a little too much from a new believer. anyway, whose whose knowledge of God was adequate for salvation, but certainly limited in the practical things of life. And that's not to excuse lying It simply takes our circumstances into consideration. And let's be honest, if we were in the same situation, wouldn't we hesitate to tell the truth? You all look so spiritual tonight. Would we hesitate to tell the truth? Some of us would. But remember, it's wartime in this story. Many people throughout history have been honored for deceiving the enemy at wartime. They didn't even give them medals for that. But now all of that aside, let's put all of these ethical issues aside. This story here, the main lesson here, is about Rahab's faith. And her faith was courageously displayed because she was willing to risk her life, because true faith is willing to take a risk. You may have heard of a man by the name of Brother Andrew. Brother Andrew was a Christian missionary and he was used to smuggle Bibles into communist countries during the height of the Cold War And he wrote an autobiography called God's Smuggler. In that book he tells a story of the first time when he was trying to gain entry into a communist country, communist Romania. And he says in the book that he was waiting in line in his car and there were six cars ahead of him. And the inspection was so diligent and so thorough that he saw one car actually being disassembled right in front of them because they were being so thorough. To inspect the car. They were looking in the engine and they were taking parts of the engine out. And he was watching these intense inspections and he prayed. And this is what he prayed. He said, Lord, I know that no amount of cleverness on my part can get through this border search. And then he prayed this. He said, Dare I ask for a miracle? He said, let me take some Bibles out and leave them in the open where they will be seen. He said, then Lord, I cannot be possibly depending on my own stratagems, can I? And he said, I will be depending utterly upon you And when it was his turn at the crossing, he got over the border in less than thirty seconds. You know why? Because the guards didn't even look. And what he had in the in the passengers, he he just simply waved them through after he looked at the papers. And that was the Lord watching over and protecting them. But here's the point. There are times in our life when God will call upon us to take a risk, and true faith is willing. True faith is often courageously displayed. And that's what we learn here from Rahab. But there's a second lesson I want you to see here tonight. Number two, true faith is always confidently declared. True faith is always confidently declared. And notice she comes to the men after she sends the messengers of the king away. She comes to the men. Look in verse number 9. And she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that are on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Ag, whom were utterly destroyed. And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath This is an incredible declaration here from her. True faith is always confidently declared. Notice that she heard the word And verse number 10, for we have heard how the Lord. And the question I want to ask is, how did she hear these things? There was no CNN or Fox News back then, or Facebook, or Twitter. Of course, back then word traveled by word of mouth. It was not the spies that she heard these things from, because she's telling these things to the spies. She's already telling, I've already heard all these things that are happening. How did she hear? Well again, her house was was an inn, and there were many travelers that would come through there James Montgomery Boyce wrote this. He said her home would have been a place of great gossip as strangers from near and far reported tales of foreign wonders. And so one man would come in and say to the others who were there, Have you heard what happened in Egypt? The God of the Hebrews, I mean, uh he brought down ten plagues upon the Egyptians. He turned the water into blood. He brought frogs upon the land, and then And then also uh many of the firstborn died that were there. And then a second man would be there and he said, Yeah. And did you hear what happened at the Red Sea? Did you hear that the God of the Jews parted the Red Sea and they were able to walk through on dry land and then he closed the sea on the Egyptian army and destroyed Pharaoh's army. And then a third man would chime in and he would say, Yes, and the Hebrews are still around. Not very long ago, they defeated some kings on the other side of the Jordan. The Amorite kings of Sihon and Og were killed by them These foreignable kings. And then a fourth man would jump in, perhaps, and he would say, Yeah. And they're right across the river, right across from Jericho. And guess who's next on the list? We're next on the list. And so she would hear of what God was doing through the reports of these men. You know how faith begins in the heart? So then faith comes by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. True faith is always rooted in the Word of God. True faith always begins with the Word of God. She heard the Word of God and then she believed Look again in verse number 11. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt. She didn't just listen with her ears, she listened with her heart, and she believed. You see, Satan doesn't want you to believe in the Word of God. That's why he attacks it. But here she believes And notice she confesses. Back up to verse number 9. And she said unto the man, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that your terror is fallen upon us. Notice where she says, I know the Lord hath given. That's perfect tense. I know that the Lord has already given you this land. You know what she's verbalizing? What God had already told Joshua in chapter 1. Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon That what have I given to you? And the last time the Jews heard that report, they heard it from God, and now they're hearing it from a Gentile woman. The same exact thing. She is saying, this land I know God has already given it to you. And here are these men hearing that from this woman. In this place of all people, in all places, God's word is being reaffirmed and confirmed by this woman. Remember I told you faith is boldly saying what God has already said. The Lord has said, the writer of Hebrews says, that we might boldly say, Faith is boldly saying what God has already said. And so this is what Rahab's doing. She believes it. And that's why the Bible says she didn't perish with the rest of those who did not believe. But she had faith in God. But also notice she turned to God from idols. Look again in verse number 11 As soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. Watch this, for the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Again, this is a monumental confession of faith. I think this is one of the most remarkable statements in the mouth of a foreigner, a Gentile, and all the Old Testament. Your God, He is God in heaven above and earth beneath. Think about what she's saying. She's saying, your God is sovereign over all. Heaven above and earth beneath. And you have to remember what the what the Canaanites believe They believe that there were gods who controlled different parts of the cosmos. There was a God who controlled the heavens. There was a God who controlled the earth, the planes. There was a God underneath the earth. A God who controlled the heavens happened to be named Baal. He controlled the the weather. He controlled the rain. He was depicted with a a statue with lightning bolts in his hands. There was a God of the earth and under the earth, a god of mot. And by the way, their belief and their gods was tied into the weather patterns and the and the and the seasons. When it was a dry season, Baal was supposedly dead. And yet he came to life during the rainy season because when it's raining he's on the throne. And so they believe gods occupied different places. There was a God for the seas called Yom was the name of that God. But here she is saying, none of that is true. Your God, He is the God of heaven above and earth beneath. She was saying that The God, your God, and now my God, He is the only God. There are no other gods. She wasn't holding on to the gods of the Canaanites with one hand and to the God of the Hebrews with the other. She said, no. They're nothing. Your God, He is the real God of heaven above and earth beneath. In other words, these other gods don't even exist. Your God is the only true God. And that is faith. You know, there are some people when they come to Jesus Christ, they want to hold on to the world with one hand and hold on to Jesus with the other. You know what, friend? That's not real faith. Real faith doesn't hold on to Christ here and hold on to the world or hold on to other idols. Real faith in Jesus Christ gets rid of all the other idols. And it has allegiance to Jesus Christ and Him alone. So we learn from her that true faith is often courageously displayed. True faith is always confidently declared. She declares her faith. But then here's the last lesson. True faith is always concretely demonstrated. It's always concretely demonstrated. Her works revealed that her faith was real. Now, this is why James, in the New Testament, when he wants to give an illustration of what real faith looks like, James reaches all the way back into the Old Testament and says, look at Rahab. If you want to know What real faith is like, look at Rahab. In fact, why don't you hold your place here in Joshua? Go to the book of James, chapter 2, and look at this with me real quick. Look at the book of James, chapter 2. And look at verse number 14. James is teaching a specific lesson about faith, and that is real faith will be evident in the works, the outward works that a person has. Look at chapter 2 and look at verse 14. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works Can that faith save him? Or we could say, can that kind of faith save him? The kind of faith that just says they believe and there's no works to demonstrate that the faith is real? That's the question And then drop down to verse number 25. It says, likewise also, was not Rahab the harlot justified by works? Actually, back up to verse 21. Notice what James says there. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Now, someone might say, now wait a minute, Paul says we're justified by faith. In Romans chapter 4, Paul says that. For if Abraham were justified by works, yeah, we're of the glory. But Abraham said the Bible says Abraham was justified by faith. And here James says Abraham was justified by works And so immediately there are some who say, well, there's a contradiction here. It looks like James and Paul are having an argument. No, they're not having an argument. On the surface, it might look that way. But actually There's no contradiction because they're both saying the same thing. It's the heads and tails of the same truth. And here's the key to understanding this apparent contradiction. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before men. You see, man looks on the outward appearance. God looks upon the heart. But man looks upon the outward appearance. Now I want to tell you, beloved, I'm saved, but look at me. Can you see any faith? You can't see into my heart You can't see my faith. All you can see are my works that demonstrate that I have real faith You see, salvation is not by faith plus works, but it's by a faith that produces works. After you've believed on God. You will show your belief through the good works that you do. And that's what James is talking about. Paul's talking about the fruit, or excuse me, Paul is talking about the root of salvation. James is talking about the fruit of salvation. Paul's talking about what's beneath the surface. James is talking about what's above the surface. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before men. Paul is talking about the proof of salvation. James is talking about uh Paul, excuse me, is talking about the provision of salvation, I should say. James is talking about the proof of salvation. You see, there are many people that claim to know God with their mouth, but their works does not back it up And that's what James is taking it uh aim at here. And what he teaches us here in this chapter is that there are three elements of real faith: there's the intellectual element, there's the emotional element. And there's the volitional element. Martin Boyd-Jones says it like this: faith shows itself in the whole personality. And that's so very true. Look in James chapter 2, look at verse 17. Even so faith, if it had not work, works, is what? Dead being alone. That is, dead faith is faith that involves only the mind. There are some people that say, I believe in Jesus, but it doesn't go any farther than that. They have an orthodox belief right here in their mind, but it doesn't go any farther. The Bible says that's dead safe. And then there's a demonic faith. Look in verse 19. Thou believeth there is one God, thou doeth well. The devils believe and they tremble You see, demons are Orthodox. They know who Jesus is. They believe in Jesus. And the Bible says they tremble. They have an emotional response to what they believe. But no demon is saved. That's demonic faith. But then there's a third type of faith, or or true faith, I should say. Look in chapter 2, look at verse 22. See thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect or complete. In other words, by works faith was made mature or complete. And this is what we can call dynamic faith. And it is accompanied by a commitment, a fiduciary commitment of the will. Let me let me illustrate it to you like this. Let's just say let's pretend that I have a problem with smoking. Now I don't have a problem with smoking, all right? So don't leave here and say Pastor Jerry smokes. I've never smoked ever. Uh actually the Lord gave me victory over it last week, so I'm doing really well. No, I'm just kidding. I've never smoked. But let's just pretend that I have a problem with smoking I go to the doctor, I'm sitting in the office, I pick up a magazine, I read an article about lung cancer and how smoking gives you lung cancer, and I believe every word of that article But I put the magazine down, I reach into my pockets, I pull out a cigarette, I light it up. What kind of faith is that? That's dead faith. Because I only believe it in my mind Let's say I come back a week later, pick up the same magazine, read the same article, and this time it scares me. And I get emotional about it, thinking about how I could die young, how that this is a sin, I shouldn't do it And yet I put the magazine down, I reach into my pocket, I pull out a cigarette, I light it up. What kind of faith is that? That's demonic faith. Because I believe it in my mind, I believe it in my heart, there's an emotional response, but that's all. It doesn't go any farther. That's still not real faith. But let's just say I go back the third time, read the same article. I believe every word of it in my mind. It moves me emotionally. But this time I reach into my pocket, I pull out that nasty pack of cigarettes, I throw it down, I say I will never smoke another cigarette. That's dynamic faith, because it involves not only my mind, it involves my emotions. And it involves a commitment of my will where I do something about it. And that's what James is saying. That faith that's real faith also involves a commitment And that's why James reaches all the way back in the Old Testament and says, if you want to see an illustration of real faith, look at Rahab. Look at the life of Rahab. In fact, go back to Joshua chapter 2, and let's finish up. But look in Joshua chapter 2. Because she has the real thing, and this is what James is pointing out Does she believe it in her mind? Well we saw in verses chapter 2, verses 9 and 10, she said unto them, and I know that the Lord has given you the land. She says, I know this. I've heard and I believe. That's no share. That's intellectual. She hears the facts She believes. Then there's emotional. Look at verse number 11. As soon as we heard these things, our hearts did melt And neither was there any more courage in any man for you. Notice the plural there. We heard this and our hearts melted. You know what? She wasn't the only one that had an emotional response after she heard the facts. There were others there Who heard the same thing. And they were struck with fear. And they were trembling. Their hearts melted. But that wasn't enough for them to have real faith in God. Rahab's faith went beyond all that. There was also involved with it a commitment of her will, a volitional commitment to the truth of what she had heard. How do we know that? Because she received the spies at the risk of her own life, and she sent them out. The Bible says another way. Look again in verse number four. The woman took the two men and hid them. And look at verse number fifteen of chapter two. Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall She had all those elements. She believed, and she made a commitment to Jesus, to God, we could say. And that's true faith. She hid the spies, she sent them out. And you know what? There's another element here that shows real faith. And I'll say this and I'll be done because we are out of time. You know another thing that shows me that her faith was real? There was the other, I think, just a great testimony to someone who has real faith in God. She wanted her family to be saved. You ever notice when a person truly calls upon Christ and they truly come to faith, what's the first thing that that person thinks about? Their family? Think about others, and that's what she wanted. Look at verse 12. Now therefore I pray you swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that you also show kindness unto my father's house, and give me a true token That you will save alive my father and my mother and my brethren and my sisters and all that have, and deliver our lives from death. So here she wants all of her family. And of course the spies, you know what they say to her? Look down in verse number And the men said unto her, We will be blameless of this thine oath which thou hast made us. Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarted thread in the window, which thou didst Let us down by us down by and thou shalt bring thy father and thy mother and thy brethren and all thy father's household home to thee. And it shall be that whosoever shall get out Oh, the doors of the house and of the street, his blood shall be upon his head. And we will be guiltless, and whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be upon our head, if any hand be upon him. And so the spies simply say, Look, this scarlet cord That you're going to use to let us out, you leave that hanging in your window. And whoever's inside this house, when we come and we see this scarlet cord hanging out the window, this will be a safe house. Because judgment will pass over this one house here. Now what's this remind you of? The Passover, right? It was the idea of the spies. And they, and by the way, the blood of the Passover reminds us of who? The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so here we see the blood of Christ in a typical way. And all those that are under the blood will be safe from the judgment. And so She gets the grace that she asked for for her whole house. Now, so what happens? The spies leave. They return to Joshua. They say, Joshua, God's given this land unto us. They tell him all about Rahab. And she is exalted for her faith. And she is actually inducted into the hall of fame of faith in Hebrews chapter 11, where it says, By faith the harlot Rahab perish. not with them that believe not. And she's a perfect illustration of 1 John 5. 4 where it says, and this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. And then of course you know she becomes uh part of Israel. She marries a Jewish man named Salman. They have a son named Boaz. Boaz marries Ruth. They have a son named Obed. Obed was the father of Jesse, who was the father of David. And we also see Rahab in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. in the New Testament. She becomes the great, great, great, great, so ungrandmother of Jesus. You talk about a victorious faith that overcomes the world. This is the perhaps the greatest illustration of it in all of the Bible. So do you want God to do great things for you? It's according to your faith. According to your faith. Let's pray together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this wonderful story that encourages our heart. Lord, may we examine our own faith next to this. May we ask ourselves tonight, are we willing to take a risk to obey you because we believe your word? Has our faith been courageously displayed? Are we confident in what your word says? Have we demonstrated that our faith is true faith? Father, I pray that there's someone here tonight that's never trusted Christ, that's never put their whole faith and commitment into Christ that tonight Would be the time of salvation for them. And if you're here tonight and God has spoken to your heart, and you have come to the realization that you've never really placed your full faith And what Jesus did for you. Would you be willing to pray? Just say these words in your heart and mean it. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, and I realize you died for my sins on the cross. In this very moment, I put all of my faith in what you've already done for me on the cross and trust you. As my Lord and Savior the only, Lord and Savior and save me And Father, bless this word then to the hearts, the hearing hearts of those who are here tonight. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.