I see you here in the Lord's house today. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of the Gospel of Mark? During the Christmas season, we're doing a special series called Christmas in the Gospels, and we're looking at each of the Gospel writers uh Story of Christmas. Last week we talked about Matthew and how Matthew presented Jesus as King. Today we're going to look at the Gospel of Mark And I've titled this sermon, Get Ready for Christmas, Mark chapter 1, starting at verse number 1, where it says, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I heard about a a young preacher who was fresh out of seminary. He was nervous preaching a Sunday morning sermon, and sometimes he would forget his uh his his outline And he got up one morning and he was kind of having problems because he was so nervous and he was taught in seminary when you have a problem remembering you just repeat your text again. So he repeated his text, Behold, I come quickly. And still he couldn't remember what to say. And so he said it again, Behold, I come quickly. And still it didn't come. So he took a step back from the pulpit. And uh he lunged forward, was gonna pound his fist on the pulpit and said, Behold, I come quickly. But when he did, he stumbled and he landed in the front pew in the lap of a dear old lady that was there And he was so embarrassed, he said, I'm so sorry. She said, It's okay, Sonia. She said, uh, you know, uh you warned me three times I should have been ready. Well the Gospel of Mark basically is the message, behold, I come quickly, and you better be ready. The uh the beginning of the Gospel of Mark is really just like an announcement that says Jesus is coming. That's why I titled the Sermon Getting Ready for Christmas. And what I mean by that is not, you know, get your Christmas tree up and get your lights up. How many of you have done that? Don't raise your hand. Got all of your shopping done. I'm not talking about any of those things. Those are a big part of the Christmas celebration. But what I'm talking about, what Mark's talking about here is really getting your heart ready, being spiritually ready for Jesus Christ Now, some people look at the beginning of the Gospel of Mark and they say, now wait a minute, there's no Christmas in the story of Mark's Gospel. There's no Christmas here. He doesn't mention the manger. He doesn't mention Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus. He doesn't mention their journey to Bethlehem. He doesn't mention the wise men or the star that led them to the manger. He doesn't refer to the shepherds like Luke does. Really, he just kind of skips over the whole story of Christmas. So Mark the Gospel of Mark kind of taking some heat because of that, kind of skips over the Christmas story. Mark's gospel is the shortest gospel, and it spares us all the details of the birth of Christ, and it gets straight to the beginning, just like we saw in verse number one, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. So does this mean that there's no Christmas story in the Gospel of Mark? Well, he does touch on the story of Christmas, but you have to look a little bit deeper than the surface to see it. The Christmas story in Mark's gospel is not explicit, but rather it's implicit. It is implied in the beginning of these verses that we see here in the Gospel of Mark. In verse number two, he points to Malachi 3:1. Look at verse 2. As it is written, in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face which shall prepare the way before thee. Here he's quoting from Malachi 3. 1, and it's referring to God coming. The messenger is coming to prepare the way before me. That is me there is referring to God. God is coming. Isn't that what Christmas is all about, Emmanuel? God with us. God coming to be with us, to live with us in the form of a man named Jesus Christ. In verse number three, he refers to the Old Testament prophecy of Isaiah 40, verse 3. Again, he's a verse that refers to preparing the way for the Lord. Look at verse 3. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. And so he does make references to this coming one, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but he he kind of launches right into, however, the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, the Christmas message is there. You have to look deeper than the surface. Now that's because Mark's gospel is a fast-moving gospel. That's the thing you have to realize about it. Why is that? Now remember that each of the gospel writers presents the ministry of Jesus in a different way. Matthew presents Jesus to the Jews, and he presents Jesus as King. Luke will present Jesus as uh the Son of Man. He focuses on the humanity of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he focuses on how Jesus helps a s a sinful hurting humanity in his gospel. And then the Gospel of John will focus upon the eternal Son of God. It'll focus on the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. But now Mark, Mark's focus, he's writing to Roman Christians. who are in the city of Rome going through a fiery persecution. Um right after um Uh right after Peter's death is perhaps the time frame of this gospel of Mark. You have to remember that the the Christians in Rome were suffering under Nero. I'm sure you've heard about that. the Nero's persecution of believers. It was so vicious. It was so fierce that many believers were were killed and were martyred for their faith. And of course Peter was one of them. And so uh he's writing to a group of people that are some of them are hiding, some of them are in the catacombs, they're just going through a very, very difficult time. You know, today we hear about the war on Christmas. It's nothing like what these believers were going through in that time. They were being tortured. They were being killed. And so Mark wanted these believers to be encouraged. That's why he launches right into the ministry of Jesus, and he focuses on Jesus as the suffering servant and the Savior. The suffering servant and the Savior. That's why Mark doesn't really spend a whole lot of time on the birth of Jesus Christ. He doesn't present some heartwarming story. that gives all the details about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. But he moves past Christmas very quickly and he presents Jesus as this suffering servant. The Gospel of Mark has several characteristics about it. It focuses more on the works of Jesus than on the words of Jesus. Matthew's Gospel is focused around five sermons The Gospel of John is focused around seven miracles. Again, the Gospel of Luke is focused around the parables of Jesus helping other people. But what does Mark, what does he focus on? He focuses on the works of Jesus. Mark records 19 miracles He only records four parables. He's focused more on what Jesus does, his works rather than his words It's also a fast-moving book. Someone called the Gospel of Mark a Go Gospel. His favorite words are immediately, straightway. He doesn't waste any time And he just presents Jesus from going from one thing to another, from one thing to another, and he's moving fastly, and he's helping people. And the message he wants you to know is Jesus, if you have a need, he's quick to get to that need. And he's still like that today. But also the thing about the Gospel of Mark is that it focuses, it emphases Emphasize, excuse me, the last week of Jesus' life. Think about this. Over 40% of the Gospel of Mark is on the last week of Jesus' life, on his passion. So you get the sense when you read the Gospel of Mark that he would rather talk about Easter than Christmas. He'd rather move past Christmas quickly and get to Easter. Why is that? He wants to focus more on the purpose of Jesus coming. We have a lot of people that love to celebrate Christmas. It's kind of warm, isn't it, and fuzzy. It's you get those Christmas feelings, you know, it's all great. But let me tell you something. If you just think about the baby Jesus and you don't think about the reason why he came here, you've missed Christmas. You've missed it completely. Jesus was born into this world. He came as God. God became a man in order that he might be our Savior. Mark says he came to be the suffering servant and the savior of mankind. So that's why he focuses on this. The key verse in Mark, write this down in your notes, Mark 10, 43. 45, for even the Son of Man is not it came not to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. That's the key verse. This is why he came. He came to minister to others. He came to give his life as a ransom for many. So looking at the Gospel of Mark, again, we see the Christmas story. He doesn't spend a lot of time on it, but he says he came and he points to the reason and he focuses on the reason. why Jesus came to be our Savior. So let me give you three ways we can be prepared for Christmas according to the Gospel of Mark. All right, you ready for this? Here's number one. We are to be ready for Christmas. We are ready for Christmas when we believe the clear testimony about Christ. Again, look at verse number one. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Now, how does Mark identify Jesus? He jumps right in the deep theological waters, right in the first verse. He wants to assure us that Jesus is all that he claims to be. It's all about the gospel of Jesus. This speaks about his proclamation. Gospel means good news Glad tidings? This word was used in the first century to whenever someone had really good news. It was used actually to refer to the birth of Caesar Augustus This is on an inscription found in 9 BC. But this word refers to good news of a coming king. And that's Jesus Christ in Mark's context here. It is all about the gospel. of Jesus. But also notice the name Jesus, that talks about his purpose. The name Jesus means Yahweh saves. That's why he came. Also, Jesus Christ. That talks about his position. It means Messiah, the anointed one And then he talks about his person, the Son of God. So in the very first sentence, Mark is jumping into deep theological waters. He's saying, Let me tell you what Christmas is all about. It's all about the gospel of Jesus Christ. He is the one. He is the king. He is the son of God. It's all about him. Now that's a huge claim in the very first verse. Jesus is the son of God. Huge claim. What what witnesses do you have to that? If Mark were here today, we'd say, wait a minute, Mark, that's a big claim. Do you have any witnesses to substantiate your claim? Mark would probably say, I'm glad you asked. I have a number of witnesses. First of all, there's a witness of Mark himself. Mark would say, I would bear witness. I'm a witness that Jesus Christ is all that he claimed to be. Mark was in the Garden of Gethsemane, and Mark is writing this gospel based on eyewitness accounts that he had, but also eyewitness accounts that Peter himself had. But also there's the witness of the prophets. Look in verse number two. As it is written, he's referring to the Old Testament here. In the prophets, behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee Again, he's referring to Malachi 3. 1, where it's referring to God coming to be with us. He's referring to Isaiah 40, verse number 3. Again, which prophesies a forerunner, a forerunner to the king, this king would be God Uh that's an incredible prophecy here in Isaiah that Mark is referring to. So you have the witness of the prophets. Jesus is this one. That was foretold in the Old Testament by the prophets, prophets like Malachi, prophets like Isaiah. But then there's the witness of John the Baptist. Look at verse 7. This is talking about John the Baptist, and preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I, after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. These verses focus on the message of John the Baptist, who is the forerunner of Jesus. And he's called the greatest of the prophets. But you know what? John the Baptist was constantly pointing people to Jesus Christ. And he was careful to magnify Jesus and not himself. And another place he said, he must increase, I must decrease. But here, he's saying that this one that is coming is so great, I'm not even worthy to loosen his shoelaces. That's how great he is. He's incredibly great. And that again points to who he is. He's God in the flesh. But also in verse 7, when he says there cometh one, actually in the Greek we can say it's the coming one. That's how the Greek refers to it with the article, the coming one. He is this coming one. Again, he's referring to the one who was prophesied in the Old Testament, the coming one. And I'm not worthy to even loosen his shoelaces. Again, this points to the Messiah, Jesus Christ, the one who is coming as God in the flesh. And look at verse number eight. I indeed have baptized you with water, but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. Again, John is showing that Jesus is superior to himself. John says, look, all I can do is just baptize you with water. But the one who's coming, he baptizes you with the Holy Spirit. That is salvation. By the way, that makes a distinction between baptism and salvation for those who believe in baptismal regeneration. You're not saved when you go under the waters of baptism. You're saved before that. You're saved not by being baptized in water. You're saved by being baptized by the Holy Spirit. When he places you into the body of Christ, when you're saved, you are baptized by the Spirit into the body of Christ. John says, I can only baptize you in water. This one coming? Jesus, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. So John the Baptist bears witness. Jesus is the Son of God. That's what Christmas is all about. He's the coming one. And Mark says, I bear witness to who he is. And the Old Testament prophets bear witness to who he is. And John the Baptist bears witness to who he is. But also there's the witness of the Spirit of God. Look in verse nine. It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized of John in the Jordan Verse 10 is straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens open, and the spirit like a dove descending upon him. Now, here is the witness of the Holy Spirit. In verse 9, Mark tells us that Jesus came from Nazareth to Galilee. By the way, that's a 70-mile journey. Jesus walked 70 miles from Nazareth all the way down the Galilee to the River Jordan to be baptized by John the Baptist. Think about that next time you hear someone say baptism is not that important. Jesus walked 70 miles for his baptism. This will be his first public appearance, presenting himself as the Savior. Now why was Jesus baptized? This always raises the question whenever we talk about the baptism of Jesus. We know that we're baptized because we repent of our sin, we trust Jesus as our Savior as sinners. He saves us, and that baptism shows that we are now cleansed from our sin. We are now followers of Jesus Christ. But Jesus didn't need to repent of any sin. He was a sinless son of God. So that raises the question, why was Jesus baptized? People ask that all the time. Well, it's a matter of identification. In fact, you remember in Matthew's gospel, John says, look, Jesus, you know, you're coming to be baptized by me, but I need to be baptized by you. And you're coming to me? And you remember what Jesus said, look, permit me, suffer it. I need to fulfill all righteousness. What was Jesus saying? This was an act of identification. The Bible says in Isaiah 53. 12, talking about the Messiah, he was numbered with the transgressors. That is He came to identify with us as sinners. He came into the world to be our sin bearer. When we're baptized, we're showing that we are repenting from our sin. When Jesus was baptized, he was demonstrating that he was the sin bearer. He identified with us sinners. And he was fulfilling all righteousness. Our baptism looks backward to the cross, but Jesus' baptism looked forward. to the cross about what he was going to do. He was going to die. He was going to be buried. And he was going to rise again the third day and be victorious over our sin and be our Savior. It was an act of consecration. You know, y y'all know I'm a baseball fan, and my one of my favorite baseball heroes of the past is Babe Ruth. Who doesn't love Babe Ruth, right? But I especially love and I love to remind Yankee fans and Boston Red Sox fans of this one fact he was born in Baltimore. Alright, born in Baltimore. Used to play baseball down here across from St. Agnes Hospital. Alright, that was his playground. But you remember the famous story in the World Series against the Cubs where the pitcher was giving him a lot of grief and he decided to call he pointed his back to a center field? And uh everybody was like, what? What does that mean? And then he hit a home run to center field. That's in baseball history, you know, legends and lures, you know. He called a shot. This is what I'm gonna do. And then he hit the home run. You see at the baptism of Jesus, you know what Jesus was doing? He was calling a shot. He's saying, let me tell you what I'm going to do. I came to die for sin. And I'll be buried, but I'm not going to stay dead. I'm going to rise again the third day. It was an act of consecration. And then when that happened, notice what the Bible says in verse 10. And Sh straightway, one of Mark's favorite terms. Immediately coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens open and the spirit like a dove descending upon him. Immediately the Holy Spirit comes upon Jesus, and now we have this divine anointing. Now we have the witness of the Spirit of the Lord resting on Jesus Christ, which again fulfilled Old Testament prophecy, Isaiah 11, 2, where it says, the Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him. And it did. It rested on Jesus Christ. At that moment, it was the Holy Spirit bearing witness as to who Jesus was. We have the witness of Mark, we have the witness of the Old Testament prophets, we have the witness of John the Baptist, we have the witness of the Spirit of God. And if that's not enough, we have another witness. Look at verse number 11 And there came a voice from heaven saying, Thou art my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. A voice from heaven. You talk about credible testimony Here is the voice of God the Father, the most important witness of all, the most credible testimony of all. And here is the Father saying, this is my Son. And in him I am well pleased. No Old Testament prophet ever had that kind of a witness. God never said that about anyone else. Jesus was the Son of God. The words that we see here remind me of Psalm 2 verse 7, a messianic prophecy where It says this, I will surely tell the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son. You are my son. So imagine that. Incredible witness from the Father. But then there's one more witness here. We we have to mention this. There's a witness of the devil himself. Sometimes your enemies can witness as to who you are. Because look in verse number 12. And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. Verse 13. And he was there in the wilderness forty days. tempted of Satan, and was with the the wild beasts, and the angels ministered unto him. Now again, Mark doesn't dwell in the details. But he just says after that, he was driven into the wilderness, and while he was there, he faced his strongest enemy, Satan. And While he was there in the wilderness, he showed his power, his dominion over the kingdom of darkness. He faced his strongest enemy and his weakest state. Jesus passed every test that was ever thrown at him. And uh you say did he win that battle? Well yeah, we know that because In verse thirteen, the angels ministered unto him afterwards, which is which was again heavenly testimony that God the Father was pleased with him. Jesus was able to face all the assaults of hell and won that battle. And here is the devil himself bearing witness as to who this one is. He was afraid of him and confronted him, tried to bring him down and could not. So here's the point. All of this proves what? Jesus is the Son of God. He's the Son of God. Now, that's what Christmas is all about. That he's the Son of God. It is the Son of God coming into this world as a man to be our Savior. And we have to receive that testimony. We have to receive that witness. You're not going to be ready for Christmas unless you receive that. Unless you believe that. But here's number two. We are ready for Christmas when we demonstrate true repentance. This is what Mark is really going to emphasize. Go back to verse number four. of Mark 1. John did baptize in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. The message was simply repent. Repent. And John was saying, you know, repent of your sin and be baptized. And people were coming all over, from all over, into the wilderness. Way out into the wilderness. If you were going to have a ministry back then, to start in the middle of a desert would not be the place I would suggest But that's where John started. He was out there in the wilderness. He was preaching of repentance and be baptized. In other words, prepare your heart for the coming one. You want to receive this one who's coming? You need to be ready. How do you be ready? Through true, genuine repentance in your heart. That's how you're ready. I want to suggest to you that you're not ready for Christmas unless you have true repentance in your heart. Towards Jesus. You've repented of your sin and you've turned towards Him as your only salvation, as your only hope That is the message that we need, the message of repentance. Now, ironically, however, did you know that the message of repentance is not very popular today, even in churches? I've heard preachers say that when you talk about repenting of your sin, you're adding works to salvation. Really? Jesus said this, except you repent, you're all going to likewise perish. Repentance is not add is not adding a work to your salvation. It is the nature of true faith. In fact, we could say that repentance and faith are two sides of the same coin. When you put your faith in Jesus, you are turning from the world and you're turning from sin. That that is kind of a it happens all at once. I'm turning away from sin. I'm turning away from the world. I'm turning towards the Lord Jesus. I'm trusting in Him and Him alone. That is the essence of true faith and true repentance. They're inseparably linked together. And Mark is saying, look John came and said, look, I'm not going to baptize you until you demonstrate true repentance. True repentance. That's what he was looking for. And that's what the Lord is looking for out of you today. Have you truly repented of your sin? Now what is repentance? Let me give you the definition from Grudom and his from his systematic theology. He offers it like this Repentance is a heartfelt sorrow for sin, a renouncing of it, and a sincere commitment to forsake it and walk in obedience. Obedience to Christ. I think that's a good way to put it. But I like to say it involves all of us. Our mind, metanoia is a word that means a change of thinking. We change the way we think about Jesus. It is a it involves our heart. We have a sorrow over our sins. And then we have a change of the will. We are now obeying Jesus. We're turning to Him. And the pattern of our life is now obedience. It involves the mind. It involves the heart. It involves the will. There's an intellectual element of it, there's an emotional element, there's a volitional element. Jesus was describing true repentance. And Luke 10, verse 13, when he said, Woe unto you, Corusin, woe unto you, Visaida, for the mighty works that have been done in you were done entire inside and they would have repented long ago. Listen, sitting in sackcloth and ashes, Jesus was describing true repentance. And what was he saying about it? It involves A sorrow, a weeping over your sin. That's characteristic of it. Have you wept over your sins? I'm not talking about weeping because you know your sins are an offense to a holy God. You've offended a holy God. And you you hate sin. Whereas you loved it before, now there's a hatred of it. And I don't want to do it. And let me just tell you, if you're a child of God, you never really stop repenting. It's a one we it we do it at one point, we turn to Christ in faith. But every day of the rest of our life, we're living in an attitude of repentance against sin. And we're walking towards the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the message that John was preaching: repentance. Have you repented of your sin? That's the way you're ready for Christmas. That's how to be, have your heart ready We receive the witness about who Jesus is. We demonstrate true repentance, but here's the third thing. We are ready for Christmas when we live out the message of the gospel. As Christians, we have to live out the message of the gospel. Look at verse number six. And John was clothed with camel's hair. It's not talking about a cashmere jacket there. Camel's hair and with a girdle of skin about his loins, and he'd eat locusts and wild honey. That was his diet. I don't think it was keto, but it was something. It was locusts and wild honey. And verse 7, and preach saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me. And so you say, well what's the what's the issue here? What's Mark doing here? Well he's giving us a snapshot of the appearance of John. Why is that important? Because Mark doesn't really dwell on a lot of details, but he does talk about this. He was wearing camel's hair and a leather belt. That is the garb of a prophet. Like Elijah. And the Bible describes the forerunner as being in the spirit and power of Elijah. So here we have John dressing with the same wardrobe that Elijah had in the Old Testament. But also the fact that he ate locusts and wild honey, this was in harmony with the vow of a Nazarite. In other words, the picture that Mark wants you to get of John the Baptist is this. He was completely, totally dedicated to his task. Absolutely, completely dedicated to his task. Are you dedicated to the gospel? That's the challenge that it gives us. It shows John as the life of a prophet, but also we could say a life of protest. Why did John preach in the wilderness? He refused to preach in the temple and synagogues. He was protesting against the hypocrisy of the religious establishment. His food that he ate was a protesting against the selfish, self-indulgent religious society back then that were basically using religion for their own selfish agenda and their own selfish indulgence uh their desires and John the Baptist was basically saying, that's not me. He had a message of the coming Messiah One of true repentance, and he wanted every part of his life to back up that message that he preached. So he rejected the hypocrisy of the religious establishment. He lived the life of a prophet. He ate a diet that showed he rejected the opulence of that religious society, that he was totally different. Here's the point. His whole life supported the message. That's the thing. And people saw that. They knew that John was real. You say a lot of things about John, but he wasn't a hypocrite. He believed what he preached. And the way he lived demonstrated that one fact. And the thing that we need to ask ourselves is, is that true of me? When people look at me, do they see someone that really lives out what he or she proclaims We proclaim to be Christians. Do we live that out? Does the world see that? Let me tell you something. Around Christmas time, what the world needs to see are believers that truly live out the gospel. Christmas time is not an excuse to be self-indulgent. It's an opportunity to live out the light of Christ. in a dark world to live out the message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you live like a Christian? Do you take the Lord's name as Christian and live it out? I heard about a man who was leaving a church service. His name was Jim. And after the, as he was greeting the pastor on the way out at a Christmas service, the pastor said, Jim, we need you to join the Lord's army. We need you here every Sunday. And Jim said, Pastor, I'm already in the Lord's army. He said, well then how come I only see you on Christmas and Easter? He said, because I'm in the Secret Service, Pastor. God doesn't need people in the Secret Service. All right. He needs people that live out the gospel, that live out what they are. So again, the question is, are you ready for the coming one? Are you ready for Christ? You're ready when you believe the clear testimony about Christ. And you're ready when you demonstrate true repentance in your life. And you're ready when we live out the message of the gospel. That's Mark's Christmas. Mark's like, yeah, he's coming, get ready, but let me point to you to the reason why he's coming. He's coming to be the savior, the servant savior, the suffering savior. And thank God that He came for us. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, can I just ask you, friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? Do you know him as your Savior? If you're not, I'm inviting you right now to put your faith in Christ. And God is commanding you. The gospel is not just an invitation, it's a command. It's a command to repent. God is saying, repent. Turn to Christ. Turn to Him. That's the way you're ready. That's the best way to celebrate Christmas. And if you're a believer. You need to live out the gospel. Live it out in your life. Let people see it in you. For a believer, it's every day of the year. Every day of the year. So let me ask you, if you're not certain of your of your salvation, would you be willing right now to pray and say, Lord Jesus, come into my heart, save me Anyone here see that's my prayer, Pastor, pray for me. I'm putting my faith in Jesus today. I'm repenting of my sin. I'm trusting him as Savior. Anyone here like that? Alright, if you're a child of God then, I want to challenge you to live out the message of the gospel every day of your life. Especially in this time of year. Let people see the hope of Christ. That's what Christmas is all about. Let them see it in the way you live. Father, again, thank you for this gospel message. Thank you for the reminder. May we apply all these things to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.