Well, I invite you to take God's word and open, please, to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 8, if you would, 2 Corinthians chapter 8. And uh we are going to continue our study in 2 Corinthians. I want you to look in chapter 8, and we're gonna Read from verse 9 on down today. I would ask you to please stand for the reading of God's Word. Second Corinthians chapter 8, verse 9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich. Yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. And herein I give my ava advice. For this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago Now therefore perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have And if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. For I mean not that other men be eased and ye burden, but by an equity, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want that their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be a equity. And as it is written, He that hath gathered much had nothing over, and he that hath gathered little had no Lack. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's eternal word. May God help us to understand it, to apply it. Will you pray with me? Father, thank you. For the privilege we have of having your word. And Lord, we know that uh we need your help always in understanding the scripture and applying it to our life. So Lord, would you please help us today? Would you give us ears to hear the Word of God and may we apply it truth to life And may we be blessed in the doing of it. May you be honored and glorified in it. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This is actually a continuation of a sermon that I began last week. If some of you were here, you know, we've in our study in 2 Corinthians, we come to chapter 8. And in this chapter, the Apostle Paul is going to deal with a very sensitive issue, and it's the issue of collections and money A lot of times, and by the way, if you're a visitor visiting here today, this is your first visit, and you come and you say, Yeah, I went to church today, and all that preacher talked about was money. I hope that you don't get the wrong impression because all we're doing is preaching through the book of 2 Corinthians. And we are uh we've gone chapter by chapter, and now we're in chapter 8. And the whole subject in chapter 8 is Paul's collection, a collection that he is taking up from the Gentile churches to give to the poor believers that are in Judea and then specifically in Jerusalem. And so this is the whole issue here. And so as a faithful preacher of the Word, by the way, I have to give an account to God for how I handle the Word of God. So when I'm just going through the scripture, I can't say, well, you know what, Lord, I skipped over chapter 8 and 9 of 2 Corinthians Because people don't like the subject of giving and collection. But that's not going to be good enough. So we're going to go right through this because I have to give an account. And God wants you to know this. That's why it's in his word. And you need to know what the scripture says about this issue because quite frankly there is abuse out there with reference to giving and collections. There are hucksters out there that are taking people's money under the wrong pretenses. And so that's all the more reason where you need to know what the Bible says. What does God expect of us in this area of giving? I just want you to be blessed. I want you to have the blessing of God on your life. And so Paul is dealing with this issue. He's taking up a big collection. This was a big part of his third missionary journey. And why is Paul doing this? Well, because the church in Jerusalem was suffering. And the believers there were suffering. And why were they suffering? Well it was because they were out of money. They were impoverished. This is a church of thousands of people that have come to know Jesus Christ. Many of the ortho many of the Jews who who became Messianic Jews who and trusted trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, they lost their job, they lost their business. They were disowned by their family members. Others came from various parts of the world to relocate there in Jerusalem because they wanted to be a part of that church. And they had to find a suitable living. And to add to that, the Roman taxation was strangling people. Maybe you can relate to that this morning. Taxes just seemed to, you know, strangle us. And then also to add to that, there was a worldwide famine. And so this was a perfect storm of all these things happening. And as a result, believers in Jerusalem were suffering. Now the church in Jerusalem was doing all it could. We know in the book of Acts, chapter 2, that the believers there, they began to sell their possessions. That would be like someone here in this church saying, Preacher, I know that so-and-so has a need, and so I decided to sell my car And here's the bene here's the money from that sale, and I want you to use this to give it to whoever has a need. Let's just say a bunch of believers did that. They were selling their furniture. their possessions, whatever they could, and they were bringing the m the money, laying at the apostles' feet, the Bible says in Acts chapter 2, and they were distributing that money to those that had need. But poor but but soon you know soon after that There was nothing else to sell. They sold everything they could. And what you have there is just a bunch of poor believers that are trying to help each other out. And so Paul took this upon himself as a burden. He knew that the church there needed help. So he was going out to Gentile churches, taking up an offering to give to the poor believers that were there in Jerusalem. And this was an opportunity in Paul's mind to show the world the unity of the church. You know, racism was a big part of their early early days, the first century, Jews and Gentiles didn't like each other very much, but all that changed when they came to Jesus Christ. All racial barriers were torn down, and they were all one in Christ. And by the way, that's exactly what the gospel does. The gospel tears down all man-made barriers. It makes us all one in the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is an opportunity for Paul to show to the world this oneness. uh in Jesus Christ, if the Gentile churches would give a large offering to the Jewish believers there in Jerusalem, what a testimony that would be to the world of the tremendous love of God that existed in the gospel and in the church. And so that's why Paul was passionate about taking up this offering. Now he talked to the Corinthians about it. And the Corinthians began to make their pledges. They made their commitment that they were going to give. And uh something happened, however. That their giving stopped. And what was it? Well, if you've been with us in our study, you know that the book of 2 Corinthians is really Paul defending himself against all the attacks that they were giv that they were rendering against Paul, his character, his credibility. What happened? There were some false believers, false teachers that came into the church at Corinth and they questioned Paul's apostolic credibility. They questioned him as a legitimate preacher. And pretty soon gossip was spreading about Paul. His credibility was being undermined. And when people don't trust you anymore, they don't give to your ministry. And that's what was happening with Paul. And so Paul's letter in 2 Corinthians is his defense of himself. And if you've been with us in the study, we've shown Paul's profound arguments in showing that he is a man of integrity. A man who simply wants the gospel to be spread. And on one occasion, Paul wrote a severe letter to the Corinthians calling them to repentance, calling their bad behavior into account. And Paul waited to hear how they would respond. You ever write someone a mean letter and then wonder how they were going to respond to it? Paul's we could say Paul's letter was a sanctified mean letter. It was some things that they needed to hear. And so he was anxious for them. He was anxious to hear their response. And finally Titus, his fellow laborer, met Paul in Macedonia and he gave Paul good news and he said, You know what? They all repented. They realize they're wrong. And Paul's heart was overflowing with joy. And he was so thankful. And we saw this in chapter seven, how he rejoiced and he said to them, He wasn't ashamed, they say, Now receive me back. Let's let's have our relationship completely restored the way it was. And that's what was happening. There was a reconciliation. And now because of that, Paul is comfortable now to bring up this matter of this collection. Because they had stopped giving, they forgot about it all, and now Paul says it's time to talk about this issue again. And he wants to talk about how to give to the Lord. But he he's careful. He wants to make sure that they're giving with the right motive And look in chapter 9, verse 15, because really I said this verse sums up everything Paul's trying to say. Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. This is the motive behind giving. This is the whole idea. If you don't get anything else, get this. Our giving, whenever we come and we give, it's an expression of our gratitude to God for his unspeakable gift of Jesus Christ. That's the motive behind it. We're thankful to God. We're thankful for what He's done for us in giving us His Son, Jesus Christ. And so along with that, Paul gave ten characteristics of gratitude giving, we could call it grace giving back to God. And we got through three of them last time. And by the grace of God It's 1135. By 12 o'clock, I'm going to give you the other seven. Alright? I'm not going to try to keep you here long, but I'm going to give these to you. I want to be clear. In doing this. But let me review with you what some of the ones he already talked about. First of all, grace giving is not hindered by poverty. Look in chapter 8, look down at verse 1. Moreover, brethren, we do you to widow the grace of God bestowed upon the churches Now what's Paul doing? He doesn't come out and plead with them. He says, Look, I want to show you an example of giving. I want to point to a group of people that are wonderful in the way that they give. And it was these believers in Macedonia Think about them, Paul says. Look at verse two, how that in the great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded under the riches of their liberality. This doesn't add up Paul says it doesn't really make sense in the way that they gave because first of all, they had a trial of great affliction. They were under great pressure. And not only that, they had deep poverty. This was a section of the world that was previously pretty abundant with as far as wealth, but Rome the Roman Empire kind of sucked out the resources, took over the gold and silver mines and And again a worldwide famine. And now these people that formerly were doing pretty well, they were in deep poverty. They were struggling. And so normally great trials plus deep poverty normally doesn't equal abundant giving. That's normally not the way it works out, but it did hear. That's what was incredible. Paul said, I want you to know about this. Their deep trials plus their deep poverty equals liberal giving. Doesn't add up in the mind. Blows the mind. You know, their poverty, they didn't let their poverty keep them from being generous. Look at verse 3, for to their power I bear record, Paul says. to their power, and it says beyond their power they gave, so they gave according to what they could afford To what they could do, that's the principle, do what you can. They started there, but what was really incredible was they went above that. And they gave beyond their record. This is really the second principle. Grace giving is not hindered by pride. Grace giving is done sacrificially. They gave according to their ability. They gave what they could And then they took it to another level. They gave sacrificially. And all worship involves some kind of sacrifice. When we bring our worship to God, it should involve sacrifice. And so Paul says, Wow. They gave sacrificially. But here's the third principle we talked about. Grace giving is done voluntarily, enthusiastically. It's not pressured. In verse number three, where it says, For they were willing of themselves. In other words, they did it because they wanted to do it. They weren't manipulated. Paul didn't lay a guilt trip on them or appeal to their emotions He just simply presented a need. And if if you it was like, look, if you want to do something, that's between you and God. And they wanted to. In fact, look at verse 4. Praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministry of the saints. In other words, the implication here is this gift was too big, and Paul said, now wait a minute, I know your circumstance, I know your condition, this is too big. Keep some back for yourself. Don't hurt yourself here. But they begged Paul. They said, no, please take this. Please. We want to do this. That was the way that which they gave. It was Paul saying, No, it's not, it's too much. And them saying, no, we want to do this. That was the attitude of their giving. And that was incredible in the way that they did that. And now we move on to the fourth point. Grace giving is an act of worship. Look down at verse 5. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first they gave them own selves to the Lord. Now Paul introduces the next thought with the phrase, and this they did. You ever have something exciting you want to tell a person, and you kind of preface it by saying, hey, listen to this. Or hey, I got something really cool to tell you here. Or we might say, you're not going to believe this. That's really what Paul's doing here. He's saying, and this they did. You're not going to believe this. But they gave not as we hoped. They gave beyond what we expected. But they gave a whole lot more. Than we would ever conceive of them doing. Now, why were they able to do that? Well, because look what it says in verse 5. They gave first their own selves to the Lord. They first gave themselves. And beloved, please understand that in this thing of giving, really what God wants is he wants you. He wants your heart. He wants all of you. That's the whole principle. And the dedication that doesn't reach the pocketbook doesn't reach the heart. God wants you. God wants your heart. The supreme act of worship is not giving your money. The supreme act of worship is not simply attending church, although that's important, or singing songs, and though we should. The supreme act of worship is when you give your full self to God. Your whole self to the Lord. That's what God wants of you. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, Paul said, by the mercies of God. Because of God's mercy and salvation, that you present your body a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto the Lord. You say, Lord, here I am. You gave yourself for me. The mercies of Christ on the cross were for me. I give myself to you. I give all of myself to you. And if you have that heart and that attitude, it won't be hard for you to give a little bit of your substance to him as an act of thanksgiving. I use this illustration before. If you heard it before, please pretend like you've never heard it before. It it it really helps. It was really the greatest lesson in giving I ever gave. The greatest lesson in giving I ever received was given to me by my two-year-old son Jeremiah when Jeremiah was two years old. He was laying on the carpet or and and and he was eating a bag of Cheetos. And I came in and I lay down next to him on the carpet and I opened my mouth and pointed in and said, you know, give me one. I just wanted to see what he would say or what he would do. You know, sometimes children are a little bit possessive with their snacks. And uh So, you know, I laid down I know some of you are thinking a shame when you eat that little boy's Cheetos. But those Cheetos were already mine, I bought them And I pay for them. They already belong to me. And I didn't really want Cheetos. That was not the point. If I wanted to, I could bury him in Cheetos. That was not the point. I wanted to see what he would do And so he smiled, he began to giggle a little bit, and he reached into the bag and he shoved one in my mouth. And then he laughed and he reached in and he shoved another one in. And he just kept shoving them in, one after another, one after another, until finally I had to say, stop, stop, stop. Save some for yourself. You know. I didn't want his cheetah, what I wanted was his heart. And that's what he was giving me. Every time he reached into the bag, he was saying, Dad, whatever is mine is yours. And every time he shoved one in my mouth, he was giving me his heart. And that was a tremendous lesson of giving because you know what? This is what God wants from you. You know what? All the Cheetos already belong to God. All that money that you have in your bank that has your name on it, it's already God's. All the silver, Haggai says this, all the silver and the gold belong to me, saith the Lord. God said in Psalm 50, if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you, because the world is mine and the fullness thereof. It already all belongs to God, it's all his. That car that you drive was made from minerals from his earth It already belongs to him. I don't care what the title says. Everything that is in this world is all his. And he's not a collector, he's the giver. He's constantly giving to us every day. Every day. How many woke up this morning and said, God, thank you. For another day that you've given me. Thank you for the air in my lungs. Thank you, Lord, that I had a nice bed to sleep in, made by wood from one of your trees. Everything is all his. And all God wants is he wants our heart. And the expression of our heart is the way we worship him in this manner. And so the Macedonians set the right example when it says they first Gave themselves to the Lord. That's what God wants. The word first here, Prodos, meaning first in priority, not first in time. God wants your heart. He wants you first. He wants all of you. And a small expression of that, one way in which we show that, is the way in which we worship him through giving. But here's the next principle. Giving is done submissively. Look at verse 5, where it says, and unto us by the will of God. Verse 6, insomuch that we desire Titus that he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also. In other words, they submitted to the leadership of Paul, excuse me, and Titus. They were submitted to the leadership of their pastors, and they began this collection a year prior, and Paul is confident that they would continue. Paul is saying, you know, they they submitted to us, they trusted us. And let me just say that wherever you give, make sure that the leadership there are godly trustworthy and what they're going to do with resources that are entrusted to them, that they handle in a way that glorifies God. that e that it expands the kingdom of God. Grace is giving is done submissively. Number six, grace giving is done in harmony with other Spiritual virtues. Look at verse 7. Therefore, as ye abound in everything in faith, and in utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. Now, after holding the Macedonians up as an example, Paul now turns to the Corinthians now in verse 7. He says, now you've seen the example of the Macedonians. Now I want you to follow that example and I want you to abound in this grace the way that the Macedonians did. And by the way, Paul says, I know that you have a lot of gifts. Verse 7. You abound in everything in faith and utterance and knowledge and all diligence and in your love to us. What was he talking about there? He was talking about the fact that the Corinthian church were very gifted. This is a church that had a lot of spiritual gifts. If you study 1 Corinthians, you'll find that one of the things that Paul had to straighten out was some confusion over spiritual gifts because they had gifts. They weren't necessarily operating in the way they should, and they needed a little help on that, but Paul knew this was a gifted church, and he listed some of their stronger gifts here. And Paul said, just like you are enriched in this way, you abound in these gifts, I want you also to abound in this grace of giving as well. It should be in harmony. Your virtues in your Christian life should be in harmony with this grace of giving You know, sometimes I'll hear people say, well, you know, I don't necessarily give to the church because I I I I exercise my spiritual gifts, so that that really they don't need me to give Because you know, I I teach a Sunday school class or I sing songs and I'm I'm try contributing to the church that way. I I even heard pastors say, you know, I don't give to my church because I'm I'm I'm teaching them and I'm leading them and that I'm exercising my spiritual gift Look, look, exercising your spiritual gifts and serving in that way is not a substitute for your giving to the Lord. It's not. That's what Paul's saying to the Corinthian church here. Look, you need to abound in this grace. I know you have a lot of spiritual gifts, but you also need to abound In this phrase, you forget that whenever you put anything in the plate, or however, or give to a minister, or give to someone, that is an act of worship to Almighty God. And you don't want to substitute that with anything else in your life. Here's number seven. Grace giving is a proof of love. Look at verse 8. And I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love. Paul is saying, I want to test to test the sincerity of your love. By comparing it to the Macedonians. And again he says here, I speak not by command in verse 8. He again is clarifying, look, I'm not commanding you to give. He's emphasizing that it should be done f voluntarily. It should be f of the free will. I'm not commanding you. I'm just using the generosity of the Macedonians as an opportunity to remind you. That you wanted to give, you wanted to show love in this way, and now you need to follow through in this manner and show your love. by giving. He's reviving their spirit of giving. He's urging them to prove their love in this way. Here's number eight. Grace giving is motivated by the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. The greatest example of grace giving ever is Jesus Christ. No one ever did it any better than Christ. And Paul points to him. Look, if you want to know how to give, if you want any motivation for this, look at Jesus. No one ever gave more sacrificially than he. And why did he do it? Verse 9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus But though that he was rich yet for your sake he became poor. He became poor for your sake. In his person he was God, he owned all of it. Second member of the Trinity, he was King of Kings, Lord of Lords. No one was richer than Jesus. And no one became poorer than Jesus in his incarnation when he came down to this world, assumed human flesh, born as a baby. He could have been born in a palace, but he was born in a stable. He could have been born with a superhuman body, not subject to pain and hunger and tiredness, but he was born with a body like ours. except without sin. He could have come to earth as an adult ready to assume power, but he was born as a weak infant who had to be rescued from Herod's murderous threats. He could have been born in the wealth, where his hands would have never been rough with calluses from the hard work from being a carpenter and a stonemason. He could have begun his ministry doing miracles even as a child and as a young adult, but he waited till he was 30. He could have been waited on by a large number of servants instead he became a servant Good men, good men rightly should have died for him, but Jesus died for sinners like me. And sinners like you. There's no adequate way to describe the chasm between the glory of heaven and the humiliation of the cross. That Jesus wore for us. If the millionaire or billionaire Bill Gates were to give up all his wealth and possessions and go to Calcutta and clothe himself in rags and eat meager food And serve the poor, it would not compare to what Jesus Christ did in giving up the riches of heaven to take on the poverty of our sinful humanity. And through his birth And his death on the cross give us salvation. From the highest heaven, he descended to the shame and agony of the cross. No one was richer than Christ. No one became poorer than Christ. Why did he do that? That through his poverty we might be rich You understand you're you're looking at a rich guy here, right here. Don't look at my bank account. That's not what I'm talking about. You understand I have a home in heaven? You understand I have a glory waiting for me, eternal glory, future glory, and so does everyone else who knows the Lord Jesus Christ. You understand that one of these days the Bible says the meat shall inherit the earth That we're going to reign with Christ. We've been completely enriched because of Christ. And Paul says: if you have any problem understanding the grace of giving, just look at Jesus. Look at what he did for us. Here's number nine. Grace giving performs what it promises. Look at verse 10 And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Now therefore perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. Now Paul's encouraging them to start. what they or excuse me to finish what they started. And the Corinthians began in this worthy collection. To give testimony to the power of the gospel and the love of God. They got sidetracked, and now Paul is saying, look, here's my advice. You you you were forty years ago, that is the word is willing. You are willing to do this. You started this a year ago And they and it got sidetracked, you were distracted. One of Satan's greatest things to do is try to distract the believer from doing what they should do. Now Paul says it's time to perform what you promised. If you made this promise, if you said you were going to do it and you started it and now it stopped, now it's time for you to do what you were willing to do, what you want to do, and fulfill this promise. And again, don't give out of what you don't have, Paul says. Give out of what you do have, verse 12. For if there be first a willing willing mind, it is accepted according to the man hath, and not according to what he hath not. In other words, just do what you can and fulfill what you said I gotta tell you during my years as a Christian I've endured a lot of offering appeals that were just borderline Blasphemous, I gotta tell you. They they picture God as if he's some kind of a a loan officer in heaven With with a with a le with a ledger sheet and a calculator making sure he gets everything out of you that he can. Friend, that is not God God is a great giver, one who loves you dearly. And some of these appeals where people they they they they they try to scold or manipulate or try to make you feel like a wretch. That's not of God. You give it out of a willing heart. If you're not giving it as an act of worship, you may as well hold on to it If it doesn't come from a heart of worship. That's what God wants. I can relate to a story told by Mark Train, excuse me, Mark Twain, after he was served in a sermon to give. And after this long appeal, however, where the preacher started to try to manipulate and scold and put a guilt trip on people, he was so sickened and disgusted by the appeal that when the offering plate came around, he took a few bucks out for himself Instead of putting something in. I can relate to that. Listen, God wants it to come from a willing heart and give according to what you have, not what you don't have. I've even heard some of the fields where I've heard I've actually heard people say, you know, take out a loan in order to fulfill this need. That is ridiculous. God doesn't want you to take out a loan in order to fulfill a need. That's not God's plan for you. That's someone trying to build their kingdom, not the kingdom of God. God doesn't want you to go into debt and take out a loan in order to fulfill their vision, so-called vision. That's not the will of God for you. And so here's principle number 10. It kind of goes along with it. Grace giving results in equity. Look down at verse number 13. For I mean not that other men be eased and ye burdened. But by an equity, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equity. Paul says, Look, when giving is done the way God wants it to be done, when it's done from a willing heart, From ability, there's a wonderful equity that takes place in the body of Christ. And again in verse 13, he says, I mean not that other men be easy and you burdened. Paul says, I don't want you to give to the point to where now you're burdened And other men may be eased, but now you carry the burden. I don't want that to be the case. I don't want you to give to where you can't meet your own needs and take care of your own obligations. And you bear this burden. Others may be eased, but now you're carrying. That's not what God wants. When equity takes place, when excuse me, when giving rightly takes place, there's equity. If you have a lot and someone has a little and you give a little to them, then there's equity there. And the shoe may be on the other foot one day. One day they might have a lot and you have a little. I I I've always been blessed when I've had people come to me and say, Pastor, here's some money. I want you to find somebody that needs this and I want you to give it to them. I don't want anyone to know who did this. I've had that happen so many times where people say, Here's a check Please take care of this. I I had one man give me a uh you know a considerable sum of money. He said, Pastor Haman, I want you to find some widows that need this money and get and just give it to them. That's equity there. Here's a man who has an abundance, he has a surplus, and he says, I want to find somebody who has a little, and I want to share this abundance with them. That's what Paul's talking about here. You see, the church in Jerusalem, they were impoverished, but the Gentile church was enriched, and now he's taking up this collection from the Gentile church, and he's giving it to the church in Jerusalem, so that now there's equity. And they're sharing of God's resources. And they're giving willingly to those who have needs. And so that's what Paul's talking about there. There's equity that takes place. Again, God does not want any religious system that puts a guilt trip on you that feels like in order for you to be accepted by God you have to give away everything that you have and be left with nothing. That's not. You remember the in Luke chapter 21, we all hear the story of the poor widow and her two mites. She put it in her last two mites. And Jesus saw that. Now, she was to be commended for her heart and wanting to give But you have to read the context of that because right after that, you know what Jesus said? He got angry. And he said, this whole temple is coming down. This whole temple is going to be destroyed. He got angry over a religious system that preyed on people like this woman and made her think that the only way she could be right with God is if she gave her last two pennies. That's not of God. That's not with the way God wants that you operate. No, out of your abundance, out of what you can. You give, and God's your giving is not measured by the number of what you put in, but by the by the heart and and what you can do and and the ability to either sacrifice some in the way you do it. God is not looking at the hand. He's looking at the heart in the way that you give, no matter what it is. For this widow, the two mics was everything that she had. Everything that she had. She gave all that she had. And while she's to be commended for her heart, Jesus also condemned the religious system. That would demand this of someone. And so there should be equity in the body, Paul says. And then to wrap this up in verse 15, give me one more minute here. As it is written, he that had gathered much hath nothing left over, and he that gathered little had no lack. Now, Paul, to wrap all of this up, he points to one illustration in the Old Testament. In the book of Exodus to give an illustration of the principle of equity in giving. And what is this principle, what is this story here? It's the story of the children of Israel in the wilderness, and it's manna. Remember the manna, the bread from heaven? Mana actually means what is it? They walked out one day and sold it on the on the ground and said manna, what is that? You know, that's where we get the word manna from And uh it was bread that God gave. And this bread was very unique that God gave them. Every person gathered to what they needed for that day. And if you gather more than you needed and you found someone else who didn't have enough, you say, here I have too much, here you take a little bit of mine. And there was equity And by the way, you couldn't store the manna because what happened if you tried to store it? It got rotten and it turned to worms, the Bible says. And so you couldn't hoard it and then sell it to your brother later? Hey, I've got some extra manna here for a few bucks. No, you gathered what you needed. If you had a little bit extra and he didn't have enough, you'd give to him and so forth. There was equity. It was to you you gathered it daily. You gathered according to what you needed, and you shared your excess, and you didn't hoard it, and you depended on God each day for it. You trusted in the Lord each day for it. You see, that's the pattern. Every day I'm trusting in the Lord. I know that whatever I have and whatever I am. It's because of what God has given. And each day his mercies are new. Just like manna, his mercies come every day. They're new every morning. He's giving to me every day. And if he gives me a lot and I see someone that doesn't have enough, I just give a little bit extra to them. See here, take some of my manna. You know, and then I trust God the next day to give me more. I don't hoard it, I don't try to exploit it. I just trust God, and when He gives me a lot, I share with others. And I'm living dependent upon Him. And that's what God would have us to do, because that's an expression of a person who's fully given over to God. Trusting fully in the Lord. That's what God would have us to do. Let's bow for prayer together. And while our heads were bowed and eyes were closed. The one thing I want to emphasize In this whole section is verse nine, where it talks about our Lord Jesus, who though he was rich, Yet he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich Now I'm telling you here today that there's some people here that you've never known the riches of Christ. And he wants you to know them. He wants you to know his riches, his spiritual riches. He wants you to know salvation that was provided with his sacrifice on the cross. On the cross, Jesus took our sins. He paid our sin debt. He offers eternal life. He offers heaven. He offers forgiveness of sins to anyone that would turn to Christ, fully repent of their sin and put their faith in him. There are a lot of people at this world today that have a lot of money but they're poor. Because they don't know Christ They're rich with his world's goods, but it's a passing temporary superficial riches. True riches are found in Christ. And so my prayer today is that God would open your eyes. So Father, today I pray That Lord, indeed, you would open our eyes to see the beauty of Christ. And Lord, for those of us that have tasted of those riches, Father, how we thank you with all our heart for this wonderful grace. And Lord, I pray with all of my soul for those who may be here today, who may not have reached out in true repentance and faith and have known Jesus Christ. That Lord, you today again would just do that wonderful work of salvation. So that every person in here, Lord, Would know that they're a child of God, that by faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, that they're enriched through what Christ has done for them, that they have personally reached out. And said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Lord, open eyes to the beauty of Christ. Thank you for the riches that we have in Christ. Lord, help us to give in a way that is worthy of you. Not to accomplish some carnal agenda written by a man. But Lord to give out of a heart of worship and gratitude and love. Where that every time we we even participate in the act of giving, we're saying with all our heart, thank you, Jesus. Thank you for your unspeakable gift. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful natural name. Amen.