Of Jacob, and we're going to come now to a passage that I'm sure you're familiar with. This is the story when God calls Jacob to go back to Bethel. And I want you to look in Genesis 35 and follow along as I read verse number one. And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there, and make there an altar unto God that appeared unto thee when thou fledest from the face of Esau, thy brother. Then Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him, put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments. And let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar unto God who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went. Some of you who've been members of Grace for a while remember the name of an evangelist by the name of Pat Kelly. I'm sure that name is very familiar to you. Pat Kelly was a great evangelist, but also for many years he played for the Baltimore Orioles. And Pat Kelly told a story, he's told the story many times, I'm sure you heard it, but uh I'd like to use it here. Pat Kelly one time when he was playing for the Baltimore Orioles They were going through a particular slump in baseball as teams would sometimes do. And because of that, the manager, Earl Weaver, was very irritable and was very hard to live with Pat Kelly was on deck. He was getting ready to go back. And Earl Weaver was in the dughouse and he was using bad language. And Pat Kelly, being a committed Christian, said to Earl Weaver, he said, Earl, I wish you would learn to walk with the Lord And Pat uh then Earl Weaver said to Pat Kelly, uh Pat, I wish you would learn to walk with the bases loaded. Now, if you walk with the Lord for any time, you realize that all of us at times are going to go through spiritual slumps when the Lord seems to be distant. Perhaps you hit a spiritual plateau and you're really not aware of it. But at some point you begin to realize that you're not as excited about the things of the Lord as you once were. Perhaps you're not as excited about learning the truth of God's Word. And you're not as excited about prayer. I mean you're still going to church. You're still trying to be faithful, but you're going through the motions, and in your heart you really have lost your first love. It's easy for that to happen if you've been a Christian for many years. Sometimes it's just that you maybe you get burnt out serving in the church, and so you decide to kick back And just relax a little while. And slowly the air kind of leaks out of your spiritual tires, and you realize that you're in a spiritual slump. That's exactly what happens here in Genesis 35. Really, as we come to Genesis 35, Jacob is in a spiritual slum. Now the Lord is going to awaken him in this chapter out of that slum. But what we realize as we come to this point in Jacob's life is that he's been this way for a while. Thirty years before You remember the story as you've been following along with us. The Lord met Jacob in a very special way at Bethel. Remember when he was running from his brother Esau, and he happened to land at that place just outside the city of Luz And he was afraid, and he stayed there by himself, and the Lord appeared to him in a very wonderful vision, with a ladder coming down from heaven. And it was a vision that reminded Jacob that the Lord would be with him And there at that place at Bethel, Jacob made a vow unto the Lord. He said, Lord, if you'll prosper me financially, if you will protect me from harm, if you'll bring me back to the land of Canaan, then you will be my God. Well, as we look at the life of Jacob and as we've been studying, we would have to say that God certainly kept his part of the bargain, didn't he? God did protect Jacob. God did prosper Jacob financially, in spite of the fact that Laban was very greedy and very deceptive in the way he dealt with them. And God did bless Jacob with eleven sons and a daughter. And then later on we see that God wrestles Jacob into submission and breaks him of the self-reliance just before he's to meet up with Esau. And you remember that was kind of a dreaded meeting for Jacob because he was wondering whether Esau was going to kill him. And God brought victory in that situation. And so the Lord blessed him, and the Lord certainly did his part. Yet, in spite of all these blessings from God, When we come to Genesis chapter 35, we find Jacob in a spiritual slum. He's backslidden, he's out of fellowship In fact, if you were here with us when we study chapter 34, we were disappointed in Jacob because of his lack of leadership in the home. He wasn't following hard after the Lord. He was kind of a carnal follower. He didn't fully obey the Lord. He obeyed the Lord some. He went back to the land of Canaan, but he didn't go fully to the land. He didn't go back to Bethel. He dwelt at a place called Shechem And that was partial obedience. He was kind of a careless father. He really didn't watch over his daughter. And because of that, a terrible thing happened to his daughter. But Jacob was also even willing to compromise with some of the Canaanites, and probably would have. Except for the fact that his sons stepped in. And so Jacob goes through a decade of a spiritual slump. And he really needs to get back to the Lord. He needs to get back to Bethel You may be here tonight. I don't know your spiritual condition, but certainly the Lord does. Maybe you're in a spiritual slump. Maybe you're not where you should be spiritually. And God is calling to you the way in Scripture God calls out to Jacob, and that is, you need to get back to your Bethel All of us have a Bethel in our life. It is a place where God met with us in a very special way in our life, where God revealed Himself to us, and God drew us unto Himself. And God called us to do a certain thing for him. Bethel may represent perhaps a geographical place for some, as we see it does here in Jacob's life But it's not only geographical, friend, it's also spiritual. It may be at a place where God spiritually worked upon you, and God wants to bring you back, not necessarily to a geographical place, although there's nothing wrong with certain places where you can renew yourself to the Lord. I remember when the Lord called me to preach, it was out of this church ministry, and I went out and prayed. There was a place I used to pray as a teenager in the woods, a place that was very quiet, and I remember as a teenager going out to that place and and praying and saying, Lord, I want to make sure of your call on my life I don't want this to be something that I dream of, I want it to be of you. And while being there the Lord laid upon my heart Second Timothy four, two through five, preach the word, be instant in season and out of season And since that time as a teenager, I've gone back to that place a few times and remember the commitment I made as a young younger man, I should say uh you know, I'm still young somewhere, right? Younger man And I made that commitment, but I've gone back there from time to time just to remember that commitment and to renew that commitment, to be faithful to preach the word. But Bethel might not be just a geographical place. It's a spiritual place that God is calling you back to. In fact, that's more importantly what we need to see here God wants you to be back where you should be spiritually in your life. Warren Wordsby said this. God had called him to go back to Bethel, back to the place of the vision and the vow. When a person is backslidden as Jacob was, there is nothing else for him to do but to go back to the place of dedication and renew his vows. And so this is what the Lord does for Jacob. He says, go back. And God might be calling you to do the same thing. So what does it mean to go back to Bethel? I want you to see three principles that I learned from this story that I think is a little bit of what is involved in going back to Bethel. And here's the first principle. Going back to Bethel means a renewed obedience to follow God's present commands. A renewed obedience to follow God's present commands. Notice in verse 1, God calls out to him again, and God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there. Now, this ought to encourage everyone who's in a spiritual slump. Notice, observe here the patience of God. Because after the events of chapter thirty-four, you probably expected the Lord to say to Jacob, That's it, Jacob, you and your family have messed up once too often I chose you to be a blessing to all the nations. I chose your family to show the light and the glory of God to the rest of the world, and yet all you did is you deceived them. I'll find someone else to be my covenant people. But that's not what God says. Instead, God graciously speaks to Jacob again. God graciously comes to Jacob again and he says, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there and make an altar. God knew exactly what Jacob needed. Aren't you glad that God is patient with us? That God does not cast us off, that he doesn't give up on us. The Bible says in Exodus 34, 6, that the Lord God is merciful and gracious and long-suffering. And indeed he is. Psalm 86, 15 says, But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious Long-suffering and plenteous in mercy and in truth. And indeed, God is exactly that And so Jacob obeys. God speaks to him. You know, God does not stop speaking to us when we are in a spiritual slump. And I'm glad that he doesn't. And so God brings his word to Jacob. Now you may be sitting there and thinking, ah, that's good for Jacob. God spoke to him, but God hasn't spoken to me I beg to differ. God does speak, and he is speaking. Maybe you need to first bow your head before him and confess your spiritual apathy. And once you have done that, then open your Bible and ask God to speak to you. And you know what, friend? He will speak to you, just as he spoke to Jacob. You say, well, Jacob had a vision. And you too have a vision. That's what God's word is. The Bible says where there is no vision, the people perish. And a vision is simply God revealing his word to his people. God has given you his word, and all you and I need to do is obey that word. And so going back to Bethel is a renewed obedience to obey the present commands of God. There's nothing we can do about the past when we've disobeyed the Lord. All we can do is confess that And renew our obedience to obey the word of God as God reveals it to us. From this point on, we need to say, I will obey the Lord. I will do what God tells me to do. But here's the second thing that Bethel means. Not only is it a renewed obedience to follow present commands, but right down number two, it is a renewed determination to fulfill past commitments. A renewed determination to fulfill past commitments. Look at verse number two. Then Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him: Put away the strange gods that are among you. And be clean, and change your garments, and let us rise and go up to Bethel. Now again, many years earlier. Jacob made a commitment to God. He made a vow to God. He said, God, if you take care of me, then I will make you my God. You will become my, that is Jacob's God. And as we said before, God fulfilled his part of it, but Jacob never fully fulfilled his end of the vow He never really fully purged his home from idols. He never really called God his God. And so he now decides that he is going to fulfill the past commitment that he made to the Lord. Have you ever told God that you would do something? If He, Lord, if you do this for me, then I'm going to do this for you. And God indeed fulfill his part, and then you forget about your part. Like one preacher said, the repentance and the commitment that is born in the storm dies in the calm. And all of a sudden you forget your partner. Maybe there was a moment in a worship service where God spoke to you and you said, Lord, I will do this. This is my My commitment to you, and then after the worship service was over, somewhere along the line, you forgot all about that And it's no longer been fulfilled in your life. Or maybe even in a private devotion where the Lord spoke to you in a very special way and you made a vow to God. And you haven't fulfilled that vow. You know what back to Bethel means? It means that you need to fulfill that commitment that you made to God. That's what it means. Wersby said this, when people recklessly make vows and break them with equal abandon, they reveal an inadequate concept of God's holiness and majesty. And that is true. Beloved, we cannot trifle with God. We cannot play around with spiritual things. When we make a vow to God, we better be sincere about that vow. You remember not too long ago we were studying Ecclesiastes, and that's the very warning that Solomon made to the people that he's writing to. He said this in Ecclesiastes 5. 4 When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it For ye has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay it. Let not your mouth lead you into sin. And do not say to the messenger or the priest that it was a mistake Why should God be angry at your voice? When you make a vow in the house of God and then a messenger comes to collect on that vow, don't say to him, Oh, it was a mistake. I really, you know, didn't really think it all the way through The Bible says, don't trifle with the Lord. Stop and think. Was there a vow that you made to God that you're not fulfilling? The Bible says this in Psalm 66, 13. I will come into your house with burnt offerings. I will perform my vows to you, which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble You may have promised God something when you were in trouble, but friend, if you did, you better fulfill what you have said. And that's what the psalmist says that he was going to do. And this is what dawns on Jacob Jacob realizes that he had not fulfilled the vow that he made to the Lord 30 years previous. And so you know what he does? He purges his household. He takes spiritual leadership in his house. Now we have to admire Jacob here in this part of his life. Now in chapter 34 we weren't really drawn into admiration of Jacob at that point, but here it's different now Because he takes command. And he gives commands to his household. Notice the four commands he gives them. Look again in verse 2. And he said, Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods. There's the first command. This expresses a rededication. Get rid of the idols. Jacob was saying to his household, get rid of anything that tarnishes the worship of God. Anything that takes away from our full worship of God, all these idols they have to go. We've got to get rid of it Here's the number one family on the face of the earth as far as God's dealings go. And the Lord had been working with Jacob for over thirty years, and with his father and grandfather before them. And yet here we discover that his family is loaded with idols and earrings that had some kind of significance as far as idolatry is concerned. And Rachel, if you remember, she stolen her father's household gods and she had them, and probably when they raided Shechem in chapter thirty four, they gathered some more of these idols and these false gods And Jacob knew about all this. He knew about all the things that were around in his house. And up until this point he let it all ride. But when he decided to return to Bethel When he decided that he was going to get serious with God, he confronted all of the sins of his family. And he said, it's all got to go. We're going to purge this house. We're going to get rid of it. This again is the first time we see Jacob taking the proper leadership of his family and saying, we are going to serve and worship only God. Now you may be sitting here and thinking, well, that doesn't really apply to me because I don't have any idols, because I'm a Christian, not a pagan But if you think that Christians don't have idols, friend, you're sadly mistaken. We have idols, we don't have statues. Americans don't have statues or graven images that we fall down and we worship But friend, there are idols present in some homes. An idol is anything that takes the place of God in your life. An idol is anything that blocks you from growing in the Lord and doing the will of God. Martin Luther said it very well. He said that whatever your heart clings to and relies on, that is your God. Anything you love more than God, anything you fear more than God, anything you serve more than God, anything you value more than God. Then that is your God. And that is your idol. For some it might be a career of success. For some it may be affluence. They are bowing to the idols of Madison Avenue. We have to have the newest this or the latest this. For some it's it's the worship of personal fulfillment Our personal fulfillment means so much to us that we're willing to do anything to attain that. Even if it means divorcing a spouse or setting aside our family responsibilities, personal fulfillment is our God. For some it's the pursuit of leisure. All they want is pleasure and hat and leisure. Whatever it is. We need to purge ourselves of these idols. But notice the next command. He said, put away, and then look again in verse two. Then Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with them, put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean. Be clean, he says. And here he's talking really about physical cleanliness. Why does Jacob command physical cleanliness? Well number one, I think it does matter to God. It matters to God sometimes more than we think it does. They'll think of the old saying that cleanliness is next to godliness, and certainly there's an extent to where that is true. But also Clen clen clean excuse me, cleansed bodies or clean bodies was symbolic of a clean heart and a clean conscience before God. Write down Hebrews 10, 22. Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. I think the way we could apply this today is to confess and forsake sin, to make sure our consciences are clean before the Lord. And then he says, change your clothes. Look again in verse number two. He says Put away the strange gods that are among you and be clean and change your garments. Throughout Scripture, garments symbolize character. And so whenever a person came to the Lord with a renewed dedication, part of that was the cleansing or the replacing of the old garments with new garments. And so perhaps that's what Paul had in mind. He's drawing from the Old Testament when he in Ephesians wrote to put off and then to put on, put off the old garments, put on the new garments. But then he said, Follow me. Look in verse three. And let us arise and go up to Bethel. Jacob Dallies no longer. There's no more vacillation. Like the prodigal son who says, I will arise and go to my father. Jacob says, let us arise and go to the Father. Let's go to Bethel, the house of Bethel. God. And notice what happens when he gets there. Look down in verse 3, it says, And let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar unto God who answered me in the day of my distress and was with me In the way which I went. He built an altar, and that was the place where he and his family worshiped God together. Let me encourage you as families, have family worship. That will do more for your family than so many other things when you worship together as a family You know, my father got saved here in this church when I was a teenager, and uh I saw a different man when he got saved. I remember going by his bedroom, and I want to tell you something that did more for me than anything I could think of in my young life. I would go by the door of his bedroom and there cracked open I could see him on his knees. I could see his Bible open. I could see him reading the scripture. I could see him praying And I want to tell you as a fifteen-year-old young man watching that, that did more for me than any youth revival or youth conference or sermon, to see the power of the gospel working in the life of my Father. It made a profound impact on me to see my Father worship the Lord privately. And I think it makes an impact on your family when you bring your family together and when you worship the Lord, when you pray, when you seek his face. So here Jacob says, we're going to build an altar unto God. And we're going to bury the idols. Look at verse number four. And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears. And Jacob hid them under the oak, which was by Shechem. He buried the idols. He collected all the idols of the household, and there they buried them. This was a new beginning for Jacob and the whole house. The first church I pastored, we had a Christian school. And I remember one day in chapel I preached in the school against rock music, against worldly music. I really didn't expect what happened the next day to happen, but the next day when I got to my office, I found on the desk it was piled up with CDs and tapes and and and albums of rock music. It was just piled up on my desk. And I remember we took and we took all these albums and we we went out to the parking lot, we put it all into a metal trash can. And we got all the students around and they all gathered around and we just burned up all of that all those uh tapes and CDs and albums And you know what? That was really a renewal for a lot of those young people. You know, the Lord blessed many of those young people that decided that I'm going to fill my mind. with the right thing. It was a turning point for many of them. And this is exactly what's happening in the life here with Jacob and his family. They take all of these things and they bury them. And I want you to notice that the author The writer Moses focuses on a specific place where he buries them. Look at verse four, it says, And Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem Now why does he point out this detail here? This little detail about this very spot, this tree, this oak tree at uh this place here. Well the reason for that is because this is the very spot, if you look back in Genesis, you don't have to do it now, but sometime when you want to study this, go back to Genesis 12, and this was the very place where Abraham came to when he first entered the land of Canaan. He came to this very oak here. And it was at this very place that God appeared to Abraham. And so this very spot had a special significance. This is where God promised to give Abraham the land, and where Abraham first built his altar to the Lord. And where he made his dedication. And you'll remember later on that Abraham, he backslid away from the Lord. What did he do? He went down to Egypt. When the famine hit, rather than trusting the Lord and staying where he was, he ran to Egypt and he got in trouble. And after that, you know what he did? He went back to Bethel. Back to this very spot, back to this oak tree there at Shechem And so Jacob is now there in that very spot. And I think Jacob knows what happened in the past. I don't think this is something that he didn't he was unaware of. Perhaps his father told him this story, and Abraham told Isaac about this very place. And now here Jacob in this very spot, is burying the idols, and in a sense what he's saying is, I am going to follow in the footsteps of my father Abraham. And I'm going to follow the Lord. This was certainly a new chapter. In the life of Jacob. Now let me give you the final thing. What does back to Bethel mean? It means a renewed obedience, to follow God's present commands. It is a renewed determination to fulfill past commitments. But here's the third thing: it's a renewed fellowship to face future challenges A renewed fellowship to face future challenges. Because what happens is when Jacob returns to Bethel, God appears to him. And God again reaffirms what he had already said earlier, and what we're going to see is that Jacob experiences a new fellowship with God, a greater fellowship, and God repeats his promises. And when Jacob goes back to Bethel, you know what he experiences? First of all, he experiences God's protection as he goes back. Look at verse number five. And they journeyed, and the terror of God was upon the cities. that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. You know, one thing we learn about Jacob is that he's a man that was constantly fearful as he traveled. He constantly seemed to be afraid of the enemy It was fear really that kept him from going all the way to Bethel to begin with. Just why he only really marginally got into the land of Canaan and not fully in because of this fear. And here, however, Jacob seems to have a new trust in God. Once he made the decision that he's going to obey the Lord, he's filled with confidence. He doesn't have the fear that he had before. And now Jacob travels safely. to Bethel. He doesn't have to be afraid because he's trusting in God. And notice what it says in verse 5 again, and the terror of The Lord of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. The Canaanites were afraid to do anything to Jacob because they were afraid of Jacob's God You see, when you're doing the will of God and following God, you don't have to be afraid of your enemies. The Lord will take care of your enemies. When you're doing what God has called you to do and has told you to do, friend, You don't have to be afraid because you will see and experience the protection of God in your life, just like Jacob did. They didn't pursue after him. Because God was with them, because they were obeying. I wish America would learn this lesson. I wish we would learn that our might and our power is not in military might or in political strategy and cunning. It is in trusting the Lord. Trusting the Lord. So he experiences the protection of God, God's protection, but then he experiences God's presence. Look at verse number six. Notice again what happened. So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, and that is Bethel. He and all the people that were with him, and he built there an altar and called that place El Bethel, because there God appeared unto him when he fled from the face of his brother. Drop down to verse 9. And God appeared unto Jacob again when he came out of Padah and Abraham and blessed him. And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob, thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name. And he called his name Israel. And God said unto him, I am God Almighty, be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins And the land which I gave unto Abraham and to Isaac, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him And Jacob set up a pillar in that the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone, and he poured a drink offering thereon, and poured oil thereon. And Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him Bethel. Now, what happens here? Well, as Jacob comes into the land, again God graciously comes and appears to Jacob. And you know what God does? He reaffirms the previous promises that he had already given We don't really see anything new here that God hasn't already told Jacob, except for the fact that God said, I'm going to make you a nation and kings shall come from you. And then God also says, My name is God Almighty, El Shadai, the all-sufficient God. I want you to know that I'm all sufficient for you, Jacob. I can take care of all the needs that you have But other than that, there's really nothing new here. God is reaffirming what He already told him. You know, sometimes we think that to get out of a spiritual slump, we have to discover some new spiritual truth. And friend, that's hardly ever the case. You don't have to discover any new truth that you didn't know before. What you have to do is you need to be reminded of the old truths that God has already taught you. The old things, that the the the doctrine, the truth, the promises that God has already given you, you need to be reminded again of those past mercies. And pass grace that God has bestowed upon your life. We need to be reminded of all that God has already given us. And that's exactly what God does here. With his presence, with his fellowship, he reaffirms and reminds Jacob his promises. But then here's another thing. He experienced God's preparation. In this fellowship now, this new fellowship that Jacob has with God because he does what the Lord wants Through this fellowship, God is now preparing him to meet challenges that are going to come in the future. We often make the mistake of assuming that if we obey God, we are going to have a trouble-free life. And friend, that's just not true. Obedience to God doesn't mean that our life will be free of trouble. Going back to Bethel doesn't mean that you won't have any trials. Or any heartaches or any challenges, we will still have trials. But our obedience to God, going back to Bethel, you know what it does? It prepares us to face those trials victoriously. That's what it does. It's often the trials that God brings to us that keeps us from falling into another spiritual slum. And so as we read of the life of Jacob as it goes back to Bethel, we don't read that after that he had no more troubles. No, he had heartaches. But now he has faith to meet those challenges. He has a renewed strength. To meet those heartaches. In fact, what you see in the rest of chapter 35, you see no less than four tragedies that happen in his life. Say what were they? Well first there's the death of Deborah. Look in verse 8. But Deborah, Rebecca's nurse, died, and she was buried underneath Bethel under an oak. And the name of it was called Allan Bakuth, which simply means the oak of weeping. The oak of weeping. So who is Deborah? Deborah was Rebecca's nurse. Rebecca was Jacob's mother. And she has been mentioned before, one time really in the book of Genesis, Genesis 24:59. She had cared for Rebecca since Rebecca was an infant. This means that this dear lady was very old at this time. She was probably around 170 years old. And at some point in Jacob's life and journey, she joins him. And this reveals that if she was with Jacob, then his mother, Rebecca, was already, had died. And so as Jacob was close to his mother, we can assume that he was also very, very close. to this dear nurse. And when he buries her in this place, it is called the Oak of Weeping, which shows his grief. It's hard to see people that you have loved for many years pass on. But not only was there the death of Deborah, but then there's the death of Rachel. Look in verse number 16. And as they journeyed from Bethel There was but a little way to come to Ephraim, and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor. And it came to pass that when she was in hard labor, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not, thou shalt have this son also And it came to pass as her soul was in departing, for she died, that she called his name Benonai, which means son of my sorrow. Here's the second sorrow. tragedy that hit Jacob was the death of Rachel. She died bearing his child. And of course we know if you follow this story that Jacob loved Rachel. It was loved at first sight. And he labored her for seven years thinking she would be his wife, but instead he was deceived and Leah became his wife. But he he worked seven more years for Rachel And to see this happen, we know that, excuse me, Jacob had to be filled with grief. And later on, in fact, in his life, 40 years later, in Genesis 48, 7, he refers to this, the grief that he had to bear. But then there was another tragedy that happened in his life. There was the disgrace of Reuben. Look at verse number twenty-two. And it came to pass when Israel, that is Jacob, dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilha, his father's concubine. And Israel heard it. Here's a betrayal of his firstborn son Reuben. He commits incest with Rachel's maid, Bilha You say, why did he do this? Because in that time and culture, this was a symbol of a man establishing his authority. Perhaps Reuben was grabbing his inheritance by doing such measures. We see this later on when Absalom wanted to establish his authority over his father and to take the kingdom from his father and take his father's inheritance. He does the very same thing. And later on also Adonijah tries to do that to Solomon. And so this was establishing his leadership. And because of this, later on, Jacob will speak about this in Genesis 49. 4 and say that you defiled your father's bed. And because of this Reuben will lose his birthright. And he's deprived of leadership, just like Simeon and Levi were deprived of leadership because of their genocide in chapter And that's why Judah is the lead tribe. Judah is the fourthborn son, but the lead tribe, because the first three forfeited themselves. But here is a terrible betrayal that Jacob had to endure. And then finally there was another tragedy. There was the death of Isaac. Look in verse 27. And Jacob came unto Isaac, his father, unto Mamre. Under the city of Arvah, which is in Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned, and the days of Isaac were a hundred and fourscore years, and Isaac gave up the ghost and died and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days, and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him there. So what do we see in Jacob's life? One tragedy after another. One valley After another. You say, what's significant? That through these he learned to find strength and trust in God and it initially came with the fellowship that he had with God. We see little glimpses of Jacob's faith Through all these trials. You say, how? Well, he renames his son Ben Benoni in verse number 18, but his father called him Benjamin. That seems to have been an act of faith right there He changes his name from Son of My Sorrow to Son of My Right Hand. But then also we see two pillars in this chapter. The first at Bethel, where he pours out his offering. The second in verse 20 is at Rachel's grave. And there seem to be monuments of growth. First, Jacob is erects a monument for to thank the Lord for his goodness. And the second time, it's a really an act of faith where he's declaring his trust in the Lord despite his incredible grief. He's still trusting in the Lord. And then in verse twenty one we see where his faith may be hinted at, but we see it says in verse twenty one, and Israel journeyed And spread his tent beyond. That is, he continued on. But notice it's the name Israel using his new name, which was a name of strength And we can draw from this that he's learning to find his strength in God, even through all these trials. So going back to Bethel simply means That God will give us, as we renew our fellowship with the Lord, God will give us strength For whatever future challenges may come our way. And beloved, we know that all of us will have those challenges. And we will need the strength of God. I'm thankful for Psalm 46, 7 that says, the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. And so, uh now one other thing I want to point out here as we close. I think it's significant that in chapter 34, with all that sin, in chapter 34, God's name is never mentioned. But when you come to chapter 35, however, God's name appears 11 times, plus 12 more times in the names of Israel, Bethel and El Bethel and El Shaddai. And I think this is what this points out. Trials can either make us self-focused or God-focused. We need to be God focused. When the trials come. If we allow the trials to help us put God back in the rightful center of our life, then we will recover. From the spiritual slump, as Jacob did right here in this story. And so what does it mean to go back to Bethel? A renewed obedience, to follow God's present commands, a renewed determination? to fulfill God's uh to fill to fulfill past commitments and renew fellowship to face future challenges. And let me let me just close with this There was an old rabbinical legend about a man named Simon who lived in Krakow, Poland. And Simon repeatedly had a vivid dream. In this dream, there was a treasure that was buried under a bridge in Prague, which was many miles away. And having this dream repeatedly and being a poor man, he decided that he would make the long trip to Prague to search for this treasure. And when he arrived, he went to the bridge and he began to look. And a sentry saw him probing around and was trying to figure out what this man was doing. And finally He said to the to the man, he said, What are you doing? And Simon told him about his dream, and about in his dream there was a treasure under a bridge. And the century rebuked him and he said, Foolish man, he said, Don't you know that you can't believe dreams? He said, For example, I've dreamed many times about a man in Craco named Simon who has a treasure buried underneath his kitchen stove. But I've never been so dumb as to go to Crakow in search of it. He said, now get along. So when Simon heard that, he thought, I'm going to go back to Craco and look under my kitchen stove. And so sure enough he did. According to this rabbinical legend, he goes back to his home, he looks under the kitchen stove, and he discovers a treasure which enabled him to live comfortably the rest of his life. And the rabbis, whenever they would tell this legend, they would always end the story by saying this. The treasure was in Krakow, but the knowledge of it was in Prague. Sometimes the very thing that you and I are looking for is right under our noses. But sometimes we have to go the long way around before we really discover it. God's place of blessing for Jacob was right there in Bethel. But he had to go to Haran, he had to stay there for 20 years, and then spend 10 more years in Shechem Before he finally got back to Bethel. Now some of you would say, wow, all those wasted years, w were they really wasted in in one sense perhaps they were wasted in the fact that if he had learned this lesson earlier, then He wouldn't have had to spend all those years there. But in another sense, all those years were necessary in shaping Jacob to be the man that God wanted him to be. Just know this, beloved, that we all have God's treasure in Jesus Christ. And that treasure is given to us through the written word of God. He is the El Shaddai. He is the all-sufficient one for us. And sometimes God has to allow us to go through a spiritual slump before we will realize that all that we have ever needed or ever will need is right before us, is right under our noses all the time. And it's the Lord Jesus Christ. If you've been in a slump, shake it off by responding in obedience to God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, help us to learn this lesson. And for those who are here tonight that need to get back to the Bethel in their life, I pray, Lord, that you'll use this story in the life of Jacob to shake them. to awaken them out of their slumber. To get them out of the slump that they're in spiritually. And to say like Jacob, I will arise. I will go back to Bethel. I'll go back to a renewed obedience. To follow the present commands that God has giving me. I will have a renewed determination to fulfill all of my commitments that I've made to the Lord. And by the grace of God, through a renewed fellowship, my heart will be strengthened and prepared for any future challenges That life may bring. Lord, help us to go back to Bethel, that spiritual place of renewal in our life. Use these words to encourage our hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.