I want you to take your Bibles this morning and go to the little book of Jude in the New Testament. I'm gonna I know we've been in Hebrews, but I want to preach a different sermon today. And go go to Jude. Be careful because you can miss it Because it's only really one page in your Bible. If you're in Revelation, you've gone too far. It's the book right before Revelation. It's not really a letter, it's more like a postcard, as some people say. Because there's not chapters in it, there's just verses. Only twenty-two verses and this this one book or letter or postcard, we could say Written from Jude. And Jude is a book that teaches us about how to deal with the issue of apostasy. You've probably heard me talk about apostasy before. And uh he talks about the danger of apostasy. And apostasy is really people who walk away from truth or they doubt the truth. and false teachers creeping into the church. He talks about that in verse 3. Beloved, I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation. It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. Now Jude said, I wanted to write in a book about salvation He kind of wanted to write like another Romans epistle, but the Spirit of God redirected him. And he said, I thought it was better that I write to you and exhort you that you contend for the faith And so really the book of Jude is kind of a call to arms. It's a call to God's people to be involved in the fight, the fight of faith. And we live in a world today where the truth is attacked. How many of you know that? All kinds of people around believe all kinds of different things. Satan is a liar and he wants to pervert the truth. He wants to throw in error to the truth. And Judah is warning us about all of this. And he tells us that we have to get engaged in the battle. And you have to be ready to confront. You have to be ready to confront people with the Word of God and with truth. In this day, when all kinds of ideas and errors are out there As the church, we are the pillar and ground of the truth. And we have the gospel. We have the real truth. And so you'd, as it were, is really saying to these believers here, look, you need to get involved. You need to get into the fight We don't just take a defensive posture in the church where we're constantly defending. We also take an offensive posture where we're getting the truth out, where we're telling others about the gospel and about the Lord Jesus Christ. Now he tells us to be careful while you do this, because again there's all kind of error out there, and you don't want to fall into that mistake of embracing error but always presenting the truth. But what I want to talk about today, the title of the sermon is Go Make a Difference. Because really our text verses are verse 22 and verse 23. Look at those verses and verse 22. And some having compassion making a difference. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. We are called as believers to go make a difference. That's what our calling is. And we make a difference because we have the gospel, we have the truth, and that's what God wants us to be involved with, is getting out the truth. I heard about a pastor who had a picture in his office of a man who was on a boat. He was being rescued and the ship had sunk. And the picture was uh in the background was dark clouds, and the foreground of the picture was a man reaching down, taking another man by the hand. And the son walked in and he saw that picture and he asked his dad, he said, Dad, he said, is he saving that man or is he just shaking hands with him? And the pastor thought that's a good question to ask the church. Are we out to really save others, or are we shaking hands with the world? That's a question we need to ask ourselves, because God has called us to not be like the world, but to reach the world for Christ. to be different. And this is what Jude is saying here. And what I wanted to show you here in this passage are three characteristics of believers who make a difference. in this world that is so filled with error. Here's the first thing. Write down the believer's compassion. If you want to make a difference, you have to have compassion. Look in verse 22 again and some have compassion making a difference. I want you to think about the meaning of this word. The word compassion uh actually comes from two words com which means to get with Passion, which is to suffer, and it literally means to suffer with someone, to put yourself in their position and really feel for them or feel with them Have compassion on them. As believers, we need to have compassion on people. And most specifically, we need to have compassion on people who do not know the truth. You know, it's easy to be strong about truth, but we need to give the truth in love. Someone said truth without love is cruelty. Love without truth is compromise, but truth and love, that's compassion. We need to give out the truth, but we need to make sure that when we give the truth of the Word of God and the gospel, that we do it with compassion. There should be a a burden on our heart for those who do not know the Lord Jesus and have never trusted him as their Savior. One time a man went to his pastor, he was preaching for a while, and he said, Pastor I'm preaching, but I'm not having any results. And the pastor just gave him two words. He said, try tears. Try tears. Make sure that when you give the message, you're giving it with It was said of D. O. Moody that he never preached on the subject of hell without having tears in his eyes, and rightfully so. But secondly, I want you to see not only the meaning of it, but the model of it. Look at verse 21, because really that's the model in verse 21. Keeping yourselves in the love of God Looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. The model of compassion is Jesus. If you want to know what compassion looks like, just look at the Lord Jesus. You say, well, how do I look at Jesus? Friend, just read the Gospels about Jesus. Read the gospel accounts of the mercy and compassion of Jesus. I remember when I first got saved, right after I got saved, my mother bought me a Bible and I still can picture that Bible. How many of you remember the first Bible we ever had, you know It's nothing like it. I remember, and the first thing I did was I got alone, and the first book that I read was the was the Gospel of Matthew. And I remember just reading that gospel and being so uh just enamored with the life of Jesus. And the thing that stood out to me most when I read about Jesus And the Gospel of Matthew was his love and compassion for people. Made it easy to love the Lord Jesus when you see that compassion. And we see this with the Lord. And actually in the end of the Gospel of Matthew, there is a passage where Jesus is riding into Jerusalem. You might remember this triumphal entry into the city By the way, when I was over in Israel, I went to the Mount of Olives and went down that very path that they believe that Jesus went used to go into the city of Jerusalem. He went down the Mount of Olives through the valley of Kedron up into the city of Jerusalem. And the Bible says that as he rode in to the city, he wept over the city, and he said this, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Thou that killest the prophets and stonest with them which are sent unto thee, how often I would have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings, and you would not Jesus wept over the city. He is a model of compassion. So we see the meaning of it to feel with. The model of it is our Lord Jesus, but I want you to think about the ministry of. Look again in verse. 22 where it says, and some having compassion, making a difference. Making a difference. Now the the word the phrase here, make a difference, is very interesting. It's one Greek word. It's di krino. And think about this. Crino actually means to think. Think of the word cranium. That's where we get our word cranium from. Crino. To think, and then uh the word die is means twice, or we could say it like this, to think twice. And this is a word that's used in the New Testament to refer to people who are doubters, who have trouble in their soul. James called them double-minded men or a double-minded person. He he compares them in the book of James to like a sea wave. You ever been out on the sea in a boat when the wind's kicking up? You're on that boat and the waves are up, you're going up and down, up and down. And James is saying that's what a doubter is like. He's just constantly up and down. One moment he believes and the next moment he does not. One moment he has faith and then he uh undoes in unbelief what he did in faith. And James says that person is like a sea wave driven with the wind. They're constantly tossed about. There are a lot of people that are like that out there. They are doubting. Someone said a doubter needs a mountain load of faith to move a mustard seed. Because they just don't have the faith to believe. And so Judah is saying this: that we must have compassion on those who are doubting. Have compassion on the doubter. Have compassion on those that are perhaps looking for light. They're looking for truth. They're struggling in believing. They're struggling in faith. We get a picture of this in the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. Remember when Peter tried to walk on the water? Remember, they saw something out there on the water, and they didn't recognize Jesus. He was too far away, but the Bible says Jesus spoke, and when they heard the voice of Jesus, they knew it was him. And Peter said to the Lord, Lord, if it's thee, bid me come unto thee. Can you imagine that request? Lord, I want to come out there on the water with you. Give Peter some credit. He would rather be on the water with Jesus than in the boat with the disciples, even though it was a storm. And Jesus gave him one word. Jesus said, Come And Peter did something amazing. He got out of the boat and he began to walk on the water. And you know the story. He was walking for a little while, and then he looked around at the winds and saw the waves His first thought was, I can do this, and the second thought was, wait a minute, I can't walk on the water. He took his eyes off the Lord, and the Bible says he began to sink. And Peter cried out, Lord help. And what I love about that story is that Jesus was far enough away they really couldn't recognize him. But as soon as Peter said, Lord help, Jesus was right there. He reached out his hand and he picked him up. You know, when you call out to the Lord, he'll be right there. And so Jesus picked him up, and you know what Jesus said to Peter? Peter, you had it. Why wherefore didst thou diekrino? Why did you think twice? Why did you doubt? You had it right on the first thought. To trust me, keep your eyes on me. Believe in me. But then you began to doubt. You thought twice. Jesus, you know what? Jesus could have just let them sink. Jesus could have said, you know what? You're the one that got yourself into this. This will teach you not to doubt me. Go ahead and drown a little while. Jesus didn't do that. What did Jesus do? He had compassion. He was immediately there. He reached out his hand. He pulled Peter up. And this is what Jude is saying, that as Christians As people who are firm in the truth, we need to have compassion on those who are struggling, who are perhaps looking for truth And we need to reach forth our hand, and we need to help them to believe and help them to know the truth of the Word of God. And so this is what he says, you have to have compassion on those who are doubting. Now let me clarify what I mean by a doubter. I've told you this before. There are actually two kinds of doubters, and you heard me talk about this. First, there is an honest doubter. And this is someone who is really trying to understand. They want to know the truth. They really do. But they're struggling And it's a genuine struggle. It could be a young person who was taught the Bible at an early age, but then they went out into the world and they started to get bombarded with all the philosophies that are out there in the world, perhaps in college A professor began to ridicule the Bible and to ridicule Christianity. Or perhaps they got they were confronted with other ideas that contradict the Bible, and now they're beginning to doubt. They're beginning to wonder, is the Word of God true? Can I trust the Bible? Is there a creator? Did he create the world in six days? And why are other religions wrong? And so on. If you've been with me in my Sunday school hour, we've been dealing with the issue of learning how to defend our faith. uh apologetics which is giving an answer to those who question Christianity. And as believers, the Bible calls all of us to do that And that's why I'm trying to help all of us learn really to give an answer. And remember I told you that there are two major pillars And apologetics that apologetics point to that we need to give an answer to. One is the existence of God, that we there is a God, and number two, that the Bible is the authority, that the Bible really is the word of God. These are the two things that are being attacked in the world today. These are the two things that young people are being taught to question. And so as believers, we need to be able to give answers and to help those who are honestly struggling to learn and know the truth. Because I want to tell you something. Anyone who's honestly struggling, if you give them the truth, you know what? They're going to embrace it. They'll come to the place where they believe. Because the Bible can withstand the most severe scrutiny of man. And the Bible has answers. And I remember reading about G. Campbell Morgan. He was a young man, already a successful preacher. He was 19 years old. And he began to question the Bible because of the attacks on the scripture. Back in his day, there were men like Charles Darwin. That name sound familiar? And he started to get his ideas out there and they were influencing other people. There were men like uh Thomas Huxley and Herbert Spencer. And uh these men began to question Christianity. And G. Campbell Morgan, who was a brilliant young man, started to listen to some of those arguments, and doubts began to creep into his heart about the Bible And it really distressed him. And so he decided he was going to lock up all of his books. He went out and got his Bible He came home into his room. He got down on his knees. And he believed this. He believed that if the Bible was the Word of God, and if he read it, Honestly looking with an objective mind, he would either be convinced of it or he would not. So on his knees he began to read through the Bible. And when he got to the end, you know what the result was? He says. He says, the Bible found me. He had a new assurance that the Bible indeed is the Word of God. And he devoted himself to preaching and teaching the Word of God. Now, this is an honest doubter. And any honest doubter that's looking for answers will be able to get those answers if they're honestly looking. But then there's a dishonest doubter. And remember I told you a dishonest doubter is they say they're looking for the truth, but actually they're running from the truth. They pretend to be looking for it, but when they get close to it, they run away. You know why? Because they're not honestly looking. They're actually pushing God away. They're pushing the truth away. They're not looking for God for the same reason that a crook is not looking for a policeman. They don't want to get caught. They don't want to come under any authority. And the problem with them is not intellectual, it's moral. It's not in their head, it's in their heart. The problem with them is not their it's not reason, it's rebellion And they're pushing God away. And they're pushing truth away. And I told you about this in Romans 1. 18, where they push or suppress the truth. And you know what? On this person, you know what we do? We simply give the word of God and we walk away. Because let me tell you something. Neither you nor I have the power to change anybody. But God's Word has the power to do that. And we simply lay out the evidences, we lay out the truth, we give the answer, and we walk away, and we give the rest to the Holy Spirit of God, because the Holy Spirit can change a person. And he can use the word of God to change a heart. And so that's what we do with them. We give them to the Holy Spirit. So first there's the believer's compassion. But let me show you secondly there's the believer's compulsion. Look at verse number 23. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire. Hating eating the garments spotted by the flesh. What's the compulsion for us to share the truth with others? It is the reality that there is an eternal punishment. That there is a hell. There's a real hell. It's a hell with real fire. And you know what the honest truth is, we don't like to talk about this and we don't like to think about it. But beloved, the Bible is very clear on it. Just as sure as there is a heaven, there is a hell. 160 times in the New Testament, hell is mentioned. Jesus gives the story of a man in Luke chapter 16. It's not just a parable, and for the sake of time we won't turn there, but some of you maybe later read it, or you might know the story already, how that the Bible says there was a rich man who died. He was buried. Yet in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torment. You say, how could he be in hell if his body was buried? Because life is when God puts body and soul together. Death is when body and soul separate. The body's placed into a grave. The soul either goes to live in heaven or hell. And one day body and soul will be reunited in the day of resurrection. We'll get a brand new glorified body. But that soul either lives in heaven or it lives in hell. And if a person has rejected the truth, the Bible is very clear they die in eternal torment. And it's a very horrible place. The Bible says in Luke 16 that the pain is unbearable. It uses the word torment. He cries out, there in hell, this rich man. He says to Father Abraham, who he can see afar off, have mercy on me, for I am in torment in this flame. The Bible says hell is a place of weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth. A few uh years ago my daughter came into our house to me and she said, Dad, we're gonna have to evacuate the house. I said, why? She said, because the car is on fire just a few doors down from us. I went out onto the porch and looked down and sure enough three doors down from us there was a car in the driveway. It was just completely engulfed in flames. And it was so hot that three doors down, as soon as I walked out of the door, I could feel the heat. It was just incredible. The car exploded and was on fire. And I could feel that heat being so far away. And I'll be honest with you, beloved, the first thought I had was of hell That's the first thing I thought about. How awful and miserable hell will be for anyone who goes there. I don't want anyone to go there. I want no one to go there. I pray all the time that all of my loved ones, my family, my children and grandchildren know Jesus Christ. I pray that all of my neighbors and my friends know the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't want anyone to have to go there. Another thing about hell is the past is unforgettable. In Luke 16, Abraham said to the rich man, Son, remember, remember now that in thy lifetime you received good things And one of the things about people that are there in that torment is they're going to remember. They're going to remember every time someone shared the gospel and they rejected it. They're gonna remember good things. I think that might be part of the torment of hell as they're remembering it. Then another thing about it is the passage is unpassable. In other words, once you go there you can't get out I know that there's a doctrine of purgatory taught by a certain denomination that says you go there for a little while and then when your sins are paid for, you go to heaven. There's no such thing as that in Scripture. Once you're there, that's it. There's no post-mortem evangelism. There's no post-mortem salvation. When you die, that's it. And where you go, that's where you go. Another thing that's bad about hell is that the prayers are unanswerable. Think about all the prayers that people pray from hell. Here in this man in Luke chapter 16, he prayed and he said, Have mercy on me! Now if he had prayed that prayer before he died, he wouldn't have gone there. But after death it was too late. It was too late. And then he said, Send someone to my family. And you remember what Abraham said to him? He said, They have Moses and the prophets. If they don't believe them, they're not going to believe. Even if someone Rises from the dead. And by the way, someone did rise from the dead, and his name is Jesus. And if you don't believe him, you're not going to believe. But this is what causes us to have a compulsion, a divine compulsion, because we believe that there is such a thing As hell. And that's what Jude says. Look again in verse 23. Others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire. That's our compulsion. And the word pulls the idea of snatching them. Do you realize that when you share the gospel with someone and they receive Christ, you've pulled them out of the fire? You snatch them out. And may God give us many people that are pulled out of the flames. Let me give you the third thing. We said there's the believer's compassion, there's the believers compulsion. But then right down number three, there's the believer's caution. The believer's caution. Look in verse 23 again. It says, Others stay with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh In other words, that stained garment that they wear, a defiled garment. And the idea here is after we as we go after sinners, we must be careful that we don't get defiled by the world. That we don't compromise the gospel in order to win the world. You understand there's a danger in compromising the gospel while we try to get it out Because you know the gospel message, really when you think about it, people don't like it. You know why? Because it calls them a sinner and they need to humble themselves and repent. And no one likes to be called a sinner. So you know what the church does? They try to dress that message up. They try to take away the offense of the gospel. But if you preach a gospel where people don't have some kind of an offense, you're probably not preaching the gospel. The first reaction should be one of humility. You can't get into the kingdom of God being proud. You have to humble yourself. That's why Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. You know why? Because you offer God nothing. All we are is sinners. We humble ourselves. We recognize that we're sinners. We go with a repentant heart to the Lord. But what we have here today in the church All over our church is trying to compromise the gospel by making the message appear to be not so offensive. And what we like to try to do is entertain people into the kingdom. And so we have churches that are run more like a rock concert than a worship service. And we have churches that are willing to put on displays, uh a light show. I heard of church members where the pastor sent them to Bally's Casino in Las Vegas to figure out how to put on a show. So they can come back to their church and do the same thing. And do all those things to try to entertain people. But let me tell you something, folks, you can't entertain people into the kingdom. We're not trying to entertain you. We're just trying to preach the truth to you. We come we don't try to make the church um a place where sinners will like it or feel welcome. We try to make the the church a place where God comes and feels welcome. And then God will bring the people to us that He wants us to have. Spurgeon warned about those who would like to unite the church and stage cards and prayer, dancing and sacraments, and he was belittled as an alarmist But Spurgeon's prophecy has been fulfilled before our eyes. Modern church buildings are built more like theaters than they are a place of worship. And churches now are hiring full-time program consultants and special effects experts. I heard about one church where the pastor decided to have the staff engage in wrestling in order to get people to come to church. So they hired a professional wrestler to teach them how. Tugboat Taylor. And he actually came and taught the staff how to wrestle without hurting one another. Can you believe that? Just to get people in church. What is that? That's not having faith in the power of the gospel. This is what Jude says here. He says, we snatch them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. Don't try to be like the world in order to win the world. We simply have faith in the power of the message itself and we just get the message out. Just get the message out. That's what he's saying. That's the believer's compassion, the believer's compulsion, and the believer's caution. Friend, I don't want to in any way cheapen the gospel message. Or make it appear like we're trying to market the gospel. We just want to present the truth. We just want to give you the truth. And trust in the power of the Holy Spirit. to bring repentance to that heart so that a person will embrace Jesus Christ as the only way of salvation. The only way of salvation, so that they will get saved. And that's what God calls the church to do. He doesn't call us to be loved He doesn't call us to be popular. He doesn't call us to be an entertainment center. He calls us to be the pillar and ground of truth and to go into all the world and share the gospel. And preach the gospel. And then we entrust the results to a sovereign Almighty God. But we have to be about the master's business. We have to be out there. We have to be doing our part. Let's bow for prayer together, beloved. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want you to think about what God would have you to do.