Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of John, chapter number one, the Gospel of John, chapter one. And we're going to just look at this whole chapter here this morning. The Gospel of John chapter 1. I will not have you stand this morning. We're just going to get right into the message. John chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. When King Solomon was dedicating his temple in the Old Testament, he asked a very good question. He said this, will God indeed dwell on the earth? God had dwelt in the tabernacle and in the temple in the Old Testament, in his Shekinah glory. But that glory departed after Israel had sinned and become disobedient. Then something wonderful happened The glory of God came again in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is how John presents his gospel. He presents the coming of Jesus Christ as God's glory come. back to earth. Look in verse fourteen of chapter one. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now we've been looking at the Christmas story in the Gospels. Matthew records his gospel to, he writes it primarily to the Jews, and he presented Jesus as the son of David. And the fulfillment of all the Old Testament prophecies about the son of David. Mark in his gospel he wrote to busy Romans and he presented Jesus as the servant who ministered to the many needs of others. Luke wrote his gospel for the Greeks, and he was actually wrote it to a primarily for Theophilus, a new convert, and he wrote his gospel uh presenting Jesus as the sympathetic Son of Man and he focused on the songs of Christmas and we saw that last week. John will write his gospel both to Jews and Gentiles. He has more of a universal appeal. He doesn't talk about wise men, he doesn't talk about the star, he doesn't talk about the shepherds or the angels, he doesn't focus on the human story of Jesus, the human birth of Jesus, rather He focuses not on maternity but on eternity. This is Christmas without a manger. He focuses on the supernatural side of the story. And he presents Jesus as the eternal Son of God. And this is the theme that runs all throughout John's Gospel. If you commit your life to Him, if you know that He is the Son of God, And that he came for you. If you commit your life to him, then you will have eternal life. The thesis of John's gospel is you might want to write down John 20, verse 31. But these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. Now John throughout this whole first chapter is just going to s support this by giving All kind of evidence that Jesus is the Son of God. As you read this chapter, you cannot help but see that one idea. Because of the names and titles he bears, because of the works that he performs, because of the witnesses that declare his name So I want us to look at this from three aspects of John declaring Jesus to be God. Number one, Jesus is eternally God. Now John in introducing Jesus, he jumps right into deep theological waters right from the very first. Look at verse again, verse 1. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. Three times in that one verse he uses the word, word. And this is the Greek term logos. And what does that mean? Well, this term had meaning for both Jews and Gentiles and Greeks. To the Greeks, the philosophers, the Logos was an impersonal creative force. The Logosh was the source of all wisdom and reason. The Greeks believed that all wisdom and order from the universe came from the Logos. They believe that the Logos was the creative force that made everything. So that when John introduces Jesus, he's saying to the Greeks that the Logos is not some impersonal force. The Logos is a person. He always existed. He was always with God, and he is God. Look at verse number three. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. This Logos is not an impersonal force. It's a person, and his name is Jesus, and he's eternal. In verse 14, he came to dwell among men. Again, verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That statement is one of the most profound in all of Scripture. And quite frankly, there's no way to fully wrap our minds around it. This is the Christmas story in four words. The word became flesh. And this term embraces both the deity of Christ and the humanity of Christ. And so John is saying to the Greeks, look, this Logos, he's a person, and his name is Jesus. Now to the Hebrews, the word was the expression of who God is. The Hebrew term word to them meant the spoken word. And this we see all throughout the Old Testament. We see the expression the word came, or according to the word, or the word of the Lord revealed. We see expressions like that all throughout the Old Testament hundreds of times, the Jews knew that the Word was God's revelation of Himself. When when God wanted to reveal Himself, he would always reveal himself through His what? Through His Word. That's how He would do it. There's a sense in which when I speak here, I give my words. My words reveal who I am. You want to know who God the Father is? Just look at Jesus. Jesus is the expression. He is the revelation of God the Father. Remember when Philip said, Lord, show us the Father and and we'll be happy. That'll be so that'll suffice us. And Jesus said, Have I been with you so long? Hast thou not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen what? The Father. I'm the one that reveals the Father. And so Jesus is eternally God. Number two, Jesus is equally God, equally God. Again in verse 1, and the Word was made flesh, or excuse me, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And so John takes this argument a step further. Jesus existed in the beginning. That is, he is Eternal, he is the pre-existent word. The word was with God. It's hard really to get a good English translation of that Greek expression. Tantheon, we could say the word was face-to-face. This this suggests intimate fellowship between God the Father and the second person of the Trinity, God the Son. He was with God for all eternity. He's not a created being, as some people try to teach. He was with God. He was God. It's not that he was like God, it's rather that he is God. All right, not like he's the same. In his very essence, Jesus is God. Now the Gnostics of John's day, they deny that And and there's still heresies today that deny it. In fact, every cult in the world today denies that Jesus is God. The Mormons deny it. They say the Son of God is not equal with God. Rather, they say, you know, he's merely an offspring of God And the the Jehovah's Witnesses declare that Jesus is a God, but he's not the God. The Way International has decided that although Jesus is the Son of God, he's not equal to God. These heresies that are out there, that's nothing new. This has been a matter of debate all the way back to the post-apostolic church age. In the year 318 A. D. , a bishop named Arius began to teach the false doc a false doctrine about the son of God. He denied that Jesus, uh the Son of God, is the is God in the same way that God the Father is God. He would say that Jesus is like the Father, but he's not the same in substance as the Father. According to Arius, the Son is not eternal nor of the same substance, but he is a creature. He's created by the Father. And so he taught that Jesus was like the Father, but he's not the same as the Father And the difference between the two Greek words is just one little letter. The Greek word like is homoi ousias. The Greek word meaning the same is homoousias. The only difference is one little letter. It's a Greek letter iota from our English letter I you ever hear the expression it doesn't matter one iota well in this case it matters a iota That's where that all comes from. And so Arius taught that Jesus was homoeousias, like the Father, not homoousias, the same as the Father, and this heresy spread like wildfire, and it caused the church to kind of meet together in a council to settle the dispute. It was called the Council of Nicaea that met in 325 A. D. And accounts when all these ministers, all the leaders of the church would come together, and they came and they decided that Arius was a heretic. That this is not right. And they proclaim Jesus as true God, God from God, light from light, true God from true God, of the same substance as the Father, by whom all things were made. And that has been called the Nicene Creed. As an interesting side note, there was a a man there by the name of Saint Nicholas of Myra. That is the Saint Nicholas from where we get our tradition of Santa Claus So yes, Santa Claus was at this council. Good old Saint Nick was there. And he confronted Arius about his heresy. When Arius denied the eternality of Christ, uh Nick Saint Nicholas punched him in the face. Yeah. Kinda gives a new meaning to deck the holes, doesn't it? That that that is by the way a stand of clause that I can support. Jesus is eternally God. Jesus is equally God. But here's the third thing I want you to see. Jesus is evidentially God. This is a huge claim that John makes right in the very first verse of his gospel. And you'll notice this chapter has 51 verses in it. He spends all the rest of the chapter basically giving evidence to this claim. We would say, John, John, do you have any evidence of this? I mean you're saying that Jesus is God. And and really this whole first chapter, it's like a courtroom. type format with witnesses being called into the stand. In fact the key words in this chapter are witness of bear record. They're used repeatedly. Deuteronomy says in Deuteronomy 19, 15, that by two or three witnesses every matter shall be established. We'd say, John, you have you have two or three witnesses here? And John would say, I have a lot more than that. But first of all, there's the witness of John himself. John himself wore witness. Look at verse 4. In him was life. John would know that because he spent time with Jesus. He's meaning here eternal life. Everything he said in the previous verses. This is this is, we saw in him eternality. In him was life. And the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not He was the source of all life, John would say. His life was the light of men. He is the light. And in these days, uh light and darkness were recurring themes. uh in in literature and uh in fact we see this in the Dead Sea Scrolls where light and darkness were engaged in mortal combat. And John uses this concept, this metaphor to say he is the light. The darkness being the world and the fallenness of the world. And he came into this dark world. And when he came, the darkness was unable to comprehend it. The reason people today don't accept Jesus for who he is is they can't comprehend him. The light came into the darkness, and the darkness was unable to comprehend. The word comprehend means to grasp. He overcame the darkness, however. That's another nuance of this meaning here. He came into this dark world. He was the light. He overcame the darkness with his light. That's why I love Christmas lights this year. That should those lights symbolize to us Christ shattering the darkness of this world when he came. He came into this world, the world didn't comprehend him, didn't know him, and yet he overcame all of that darkness. And so we can say, John, anything else? Well, he said yes. Look at verse number six. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. I'm not the only one that can bear witness of who he was. There's another John that also bears witness. He was sent from God. He was not that light. Look at verse 7. The same came from For a witness to bear witness of that light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into There was a man sent from God. His name was John. He was not the light. He was the one that was to come and to bear witness and to point other people to that light. We say, what's your whole point, John? Well the point is that God sent a man whose whole life mission was to point to people and let them know that God has come. And and that's John the Baptist. Well, how did the people respond to John? Well, unfortunately, like today and Many just don't believe or receive him. Look at verse number 10. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world what? Knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But look at verse twelve, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Yeah, when he came into the world, uh uh and John pointed people to him, uh a lot of people just couldn't comprehend who he was. Even his own people didn't comprehend that he was eternal, that he was God come into the flesh. How much like that is is that like that today? People still don't really comprehend who Jesus is. And we will say, well, John, you talk about this light shattering the darkness. Did you ever see any manifestation of light? Well, yes. Look at verse 14. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John can say, I was on the Mount of Transfiguration. I saw when he was there, when all of the inward glory of God shone outwardly. We saw, I saw that with myself Me and some of the other disciples, we saw his glory and heard a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son. He was the glory of God returning back. That glory that left in the Old Testament, that left the temple all the way back because of the disobedience of Israel, returned in the person of Jesus Christ. And we saw that glory. He's the glory of God come. Well then, let's put John the Baptist on the witness stand. There's the witness of John the Apostle, and then number two, there's the witness of John the Baptist. And we could ask John the Baptist, what about it, John? Is he right? Is he talking truth here? Look at verse 15. John bear witness of him and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake. He that cometh before me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have all we all we received and grace for grace. And so in verse 16, John gives the testimony. Look, he He's to be preferred before me because he was before me. This one decain, he he was he was before me. Well, hold on here, John. You were born first, weren't you? I mean, weren't you born six months prior to Jesus? How can you say that Jesus was before you? Well, the answer is he was before me because he came from eternity. He always was. Jesus says before Abraham was I am. John's reference here is not to the chronological age, but to the eternal age of his younger cousin, Jesus, who is the Son of God. And uh it wasn't just a a prophet. We could we could ask John, John, how would you respond to people who would say that Jesus is just another prophet? And John would probably say something like, well, you know, I I was the last of the Old Testament prophets. In fact, I'm the bridge between the Old Testament and the New Testament, so I can speak on this. I can look at both sides. And I can tell you that Jesus was not just another prophet or teacher of the law. He was much more than that. The greatest prophet of the Old Testament was Moses, but he was greater than Moses. How do we know that? How can you say that? Look at verse 17. For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. The law brings judgment. It brings God's wrath to those who deny it and a curse to those who don't obey it. But grace is God's love. And Jesus was the embodiment of God's love. It was ver look at verse 16, grace upon grace. And of this fullness have all we received and grace for grace, and we could say grace upon grace. It literally means continual grace, inexhaustible grace. That's what Jesus was. He was the grace of God personified. And where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. You cannot exhaust the grace of God. If you embrace the person of Jesus Christ. I mean, the law was given at a quaking mountain. Grace and truth were born in a quiet manger. The law was written on stones. Grace and truth is wrought in the heart. And When the law came down, 3,000 people died according to the book of Exodus, but when the Spirit came down, 3,000 people were saved. The law kills, but Jesus gives life. And so he's much greater than Moses, greater than the law. He is the grace of God. And we could say, well, John. I mean Moses was in the very presence of God. I mean he was a great prophet, and John would probably say, well, he he actually saw God. And John would say, well, actually, no, look at verse 18. No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. Actually no one has really seen God. His unadulterated glory. I mean Moses may have seen glimpses of the glory of God in the Old Testament when Moses said, God, show me who you are God said, I can show you my afterglow. I can show you my afterparts. I can put you out in the in the hollow of this rock that I carve out here and I'll I'll put my hand over it and I'll pass by and you can see my afterglory But there was no way that Moses could look upon God and live. No man could ever be able to do that. So really no man has ever really seen God, but I'll tell you this. Jesus, the only begotten of the Son Which is he has declared him. Look at verse 18, where it says, No man has seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared. The word declared here, exegetomai, where we get the word exegesis to fully reveal, to fully disclose. If you see Jesus, you have seen God. That's the whole point. We cannot understand God apart from Jesus Christ. And John spent his whole life testifying as to who Jesus was. And uh we we might we might could ask John, as long as he's on the witness stand, we could probably ask him, John, uh why why did you do it in the desert? I mean, why were you out there in the desert? I mean, if you were going to testify about Jesus being God, how come you how come you chose to go into the middle of the Judean wilderness? How come you didn't go into the temple in Jerusalem and then start pointing people to God? I mean, weren't your parents priests? I mean, they were both Levite from the tribe of Levi, your father Zacharias, your mother Elizabeth. In fact, John was cross-examined about this whole point. Look at verse 19. And this is the record of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? And he confessed and denied not, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he said, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said unto him, Who art thou? That we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou thyself? Verse twenty-three, he said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the path the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah And so they came wondering, they do this cross-examination with examination with John, wondering, John, you know, why why are you out here in the wilderness? Who are you? Are you this one that was Prophesied to come? Are you the prophet? When they say the prophet there, what they're referring to is Deuteronomy 18 that prophesied that a prophet would come someday. That was referring to the Messiah And they said, are you that one? And John says, I'm absolutely not that one. That's not who I am. I'm just a voice. I'm a voice. I'm the one crying in the wilderness. You know what I want to know why I'm out here in the wilderness? Because God has rejected your corrupt religion. Your corrupt addition to the law, and also because I am the one prophesied that would be in the wilderness preaching, I'm the forerunner that would preach the coming of the Lord, the Messiah. I'm the fulfillment of that. I'm not that one. I'm just the voice of the one saying, make straight the way of the Lord, the Lord being God. And so my whole ministry, my whole calling, John would say, is to announce the coming of God. And the record shows in John's testimony that he was a consistent witness as to who Jesus Christ was. Jesus was. God. He pointed to him as the Lamb of God. Look down at verse 27. The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and say, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. You remember in the Old Testament when Abraham took his son to Mount Moriah and was going to sacrifice his son according to the command of God? And Isaac looked around and said, You know, behold the fire and behold the wood, but where is the lamb? That was the question of the Old Testament. Where is the Lamb? This is the question that rings all throughout the Old Testament. And here in the New Testament, we hear John saying, behold the Lamb. Here's the Lamb. And in Revelation 5, we hear 10,000 angels singing, worthy is the Lamb. Where is the lamb is the cry of the Old Testament? Behold the Lamb is the hope of the New Testament. Worthy is the Lamb, that's a summation of all eternity. And uh and so John bore witness at that Jesus was that lamb. And John would say, you know, I'm not worthy. Look at verse 27, I'm not even worthy to tie his shoes. He it is who cometh after me is preferred before me, whose shoe latchet I'm not worthy to unloose. And and he goes on to say That, you know, I can only baptize with water, but this one that's coming, he's going to baptize with the Spirit. Only He has the power to And John's testimony reaches a climax. Look at verse number 32. And John bare records saying, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. And then also down in verse number 34, and I saw in their record that this is the Son of God. And John wraps up his testimony by saying that one point. Look, I baptized him. And I saw the Holy Spirit come upon him, and I'm bearing record to you that this man is the Son of God. So you have the you have the witness of John the Apostle. You have the extensive, extreme witness here. We didn't have it skin to all of what John the Baptist says, but you have the witness of John the Baptist. That says he's God. But then you have a third witness here in this chapter. There's the witness of the disciples John is going to tell us about a few disciples and their testimony. One of them was Andrew. Here's Andrew. John tells the story of Andrew and his witness. in in our passage here. Look at verse number 30 37 and actually verse 36. And looking upon Jesus as he walked away He saith, Behold the Lamb of God. This is uh the next day he sees Jesus, he calls on the Lamb of God again. And and and the two disciples heard him speak and they followed. Jesus. Here's John. He sees Jesus again. He says, there's the Lamb of God. There's two of his disciples. And John is saying that with in the sense of, look, there's the Lamb. That's the one that you should be following. That's the one that you should walk after. And by the way, beloved, I would say the same thing to you today. Jesus is the Lamb of God. Make sure you're following him. And John says to his disciples, you know, you need to go follow him. And the Bible says they went and they followed Jesus, the word of followed here. is a the tense of the verb indicates that they began following Christ and they continued following all the rest of their life. But they turned to but they they follow Jesus. But look what Jesus does in verse 38. Then Jesus turned and saw them following and said unto him, What seek ye? I love the detail of this. These two guys start following Jesus. Jesus turns around and says, Can I help you? What what do you guys what do you guys want? Why are you following? And uh they were probably stunned by that question. And um Look in verse 38. Then Jesus turned and saw them following and said unto them, what seeking? They said unto him, Rabbi, which is to say being interpreted master, or where dwellest thou? Uh that's kind of a funny response. They were probably caught by surprise. Why why are you following me? Oh hey, where do you live? And so He said, Well, verse 39, come and see. And they came and saw where he dwelt and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. I love that part there. It was about the tenth hour. That's kind of a sentimental statement. In other words, you ever have something happen that was life-changing and you and you remember exactly when the time was when that happened? That's kind of the expression here. Yeah, we went, we saw where he lived. Got to spend some time with us. I remember I looked at my watch. It was 4 o'clock. That's not what it says there, okay? But the tenth hour is four o'clock our time. All right. I remember it was The tenth hour, he says. I remember the very hour. Why? Because it was to it was life-changing. I mean this and and they and Jesus took 'em where he dwelt. It doesn't give any details about where he dwelt. It couldn't have been much. What does the Bible say the foxes have old birds there have a nest? But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. He probably had some meager camp there. It wasn't much. But what was important was they spent the afternoon and evening with Jesus, and it was life-changing so much so that Andrew Went to his brother Peter, and notice what he says to his brother Peter. Actually, look in verse number 40. One of the two which heard John speak and follow him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, verse 41. He first findeth his own brother Simon and saith unto him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted to Christ. I mean, that was just that one visit. He was convinced completely that this is the Messiah. This is Christ. And the first thing he does is he goes, he tells his brother Peter, wow. And what happened? Well, they bring Peter to him. Look at verse 42, and he brought him to Jesus, and when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah, thou shalt be called Cephas, which is being interpreted the stone. If we enter, we're on the witness stand, we say, Enter, what happened to your brother Peter? Well, it just totally changed Peter's life. I spent one afternoon with Jesus. I was convinced, appointed Peter, Peter came, and Jesus basically took ownership of Peter and said, Look, I'm going to change your name. Your name's now Cephas, which means a stone. And Peter became one of the lead disciples. I mean, Jesus changed our life. Then there's the witness of Nathaniel, final witness in John's Gospel. Look at verse 43. The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee and findeth Philip and said unto him, Follow me. Now Philip was of Besseda and a city of Andrew and Peter. Philip findeth Nathaniel and said unto him, We have found him, of whom the Moses Of whom Moses and the law and the prophets did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said unto him, Can there be any good thing come out of Nazareth? And Philip said unto him, Come and see And so here's Philip. Philip is uh is called out by Jesus. Jesus calls Philip unto himself, and Philip His life is transformed, and what does he do? He goes and he tells Nathaniel, his friend, about Jesus. Hey, we have found the Messiah. We have found the one that's been prophesied about. And he's from Nazareth. And and uh Nathaniel, who is probably a student of Scripture. uh knows the Bible and he said Nazareth I mean he understood Micah 5 too that the Messiah would be from Bethlehem. Can any good thing come from Nazareth? I mean I grew up not far from that town they were cross town rivals Uh any good thing come out of Nazareth? I thought he was going to come out of Bethlehem. Well I tell you what, won't you come and see for yourself? Don't take my word for it. You come and meet him, because when you meet him, you're not going to be the same. And so Nathaniel then goes to meet Jesus. And if we put Nathaniel on the witness stand, we would probably say, Nathaniel, can you give us your first impression of Jesus? What did he say to you? Look at verse 47. And Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said unto him, Behold, an Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile. The word guile here. And the Septuagint is translated with the proper name Jacob. Behold an Israelite in whom there is no Jacob. Well, remember Jacob was a deceiver. Remember that? He tricked his brother, tricked his father to get the birthright. And he was saying, here is a man that's not like Jacob. We would say then Nathaniel. Now that that's kind of an odd way to uh be greeted. Why did Why did Jesus do that? He goes, well here's the here's this here's the incredible part. I never met him before. How did he know what my heart is like? He said there's no guile or deceit or Jacob in my heart. How did Jesus know that? And here's the really interesting thing. Just the day before I was laying under the fig tree. I was reading in the book of Genesis about the story of Jacob. And that greeting let me know that he knew that. And that told me that he is omniscient, he knows everything. How did he know that I was reading out of the Old Testament story of Jacob in the old and in the book of Genesis? What did he say next? Look at verse 48. How did you respond, Nathaniel? Nathaniel said unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Do you know me? And Jesus answered and said, Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. Nathanael, I saw you reading under the fig tree. Wow, only God has that kind of knowledge. You saw me the day before reading from the Old Testament story of Jacob under the fig tree. Well, how did you respond, Nathaniel? Look at Nathaniel. Nathaniel answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God. Thou art the king of Israel. I knew, Nathaniel would say, I knew at that very moment that this man was the son of God. He's God. And then notice what Jesus says. Jesus answered and said unto him, Behold, because I said I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? Thou shalt see greater things than these. And he said unto him, Verily, verily I say unknown, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and sea descending upon the Son of Man. And that had to really blow Nathaniel's mind when Jesus said that Because again, right here, Jesus is referring to that passage in the book of Genesis where Jacob had a dream that night of a ladder that went all the way up to heaven. Remember that story? And then that staircase came all the way down to where Jacob was laying, and he saw angels ascending and descending. And what Jesus was saying to Nathaniel was, look, I saw you reading that story And I saw you reading about that ladder that ascended all the way up to heaven, and I want you to know, Nathaniel, I am that ladder to heaven. You're going to see angels ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. And that is the testimony of Nathaniel. Nathanael would say: there's no doubt that he is the Son of God, he's the King of Israel, and he is the way to the Father. The only way to heaven is Jesus Christ. Jesus is eternally God. Jesus is equally God. Jesus is evidentially God. You have the witness of John the Apostle, the witness of John the Baptist, the witness of the disciples. Now I'll close this and we're done. A couple of months before Christmas, the wife of a mail carrier was killed in a car accident. And the husband was overcome with grief and was trying to work through his sorrow. And so he stayed late at the post office, sorting through a mountain of mail that always came around that time of year, Christmas time. And his job was to go through the mail and to um to to sort through the lost and the found and to reroute mail. And he came across a letter that was addressed to Santa Claus. And he noticed that the address at the top of the letter was his own address. And so he opened the letter and looking down At the bottom of the page he saw that it read he saw that it was his his only daughter's signature. And so he read it. And this is what the letter said. Dear Santa My mommy died two months ago, and since then my daddy has been crying himself to sleep every night. He says that only eternity will heal him. Would you please send a little bit of eternity to my dad this Christmas? Well, God not only sent a little bit of eternity to us, he sent us the eternal one. Christmas. Why does Jesus write to convince us that Jesus is the eternal Son of God? Well, because he has an evangelistic purpose. Again, John 20, verse 31. Jesus But these things are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life. Through his name. This is the reason. John says, I want you to let you know Jesus is the eternal one. He came from eternity. He is God in the flesh. I want you to believe that he's the Son of God. Why? So that you will believe and you will have eternal life. That's the whole point. So that you'll believe on Jesus. You'll know that you have life. Let's bow for prayer together. If heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you, friend, are you certain that you have eternal life, that you have believed on Jesus? Are you certain of that? If you're if not, right now is an opportunity to get that matter settled. Get it settled. Don't let another day go by until you have the absolute certainty that you're trusting in Christ and Christ alone as your only means of salvation. He is the Son of God. He is the King of Israel. He is that way to the Father. The only way to the Father. Just pray, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. And today I turn to you with all my heart. I believe you're the Son of God. I believe the evidence That you are eternally God, equally God, evidentially God. It's all true. I believe it. I'm trusting in you today as my Savior. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, pray that in meaning if you did let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, bless your word to every heart here today for your honor and glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right.