So just take your Bibles now, open to the book of Psalms tonight. I know we've been studying Hebrews, and we'll get back to that, but I want to look at Psalm 62 tonight. I was reading this the other morning and I just felt like I wanted to share some things with you that the Lord showed me here in this Psalm. So Psalm 62 tonight. And look in Psalm 62. This is a beautiful psalm. And look at verse 1. Truly my soul waiteth upon God, for him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. Now some of you might remember that some time back I did a series on the five solas of the Reformation. You remember that the word sola is a Latin word for alone And uh this became kind of a key word uh in the battle cry of the Protestant reformers against the corruption of the church back in the early uh 1600s And uh so really the everything kind of rallied around that one word alone. Uh there are five solas we we call them because They really convey a very, very strong message. For example, there is scripture alone. And then we also know one of them is grace alone. And then faith alone, and then Christ alone, and then glory to God alone. These again were the five uh solas, we call them, that were developed to stand against the uh corruption of the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church taught that uh the foundation for faith and practice was a combination of scripture plus the tradition of the church or the uh teachings of the magisterium and the pope and the reformers said, no, uh our authority is Scripture alone. Just scripture. Scripture alone. The Catholic Church taught that we're saved by a combination of grace and merits we accumulate through penance and good works. And the Reformer said, no, it is grace alone. The church taught that you're saved by faith plus works. And the reformers said, no, you're taught by faith, or you're saved by faith alone. And then the Catholic Church taught that you are saved by the merits of Christ and the saints, and we approach God through Christ, but also through Mary and through the saints. And again the reformer said, no, uh we approach God, we're saved by Christ alone. And then finally, uh since Christ did all the saving, uh opposed to what the Catholic Church said where they said that in the sinner salvation that you know partly Christ gets the glory, but also partly the sinner since you do some of the work. And again the reformers said no. It is a glory to God alone. And those perversions of the church that cause these battle cries are still around today. As we said, you know that, right? And that's why these expressions are still relevant for today. But tonight I want to talk about what I would call perhaps the forgotten sola. And what I mean by that is long before the reformers were emphasizing the importance of the word alone in their theology And practice, David saw the value of trusting God alone. And that's really what Psalm 62 is about We could say it really like this, in life's most threatening times, you will be at peace with God if you put your trust in God alone. That's what David is telling us here. This is what this psalm is about. This psalm comes out of a time of trial for David. Now some scholars think that David wrote this psalm when his son Absalom had rebelled against him and was forced David to flee and was trying to take over the throne. Other scholars think that this psalm was written when David was ruling over Judah and Hebron, and the forces of Saul were still plotting to pull David off the throne and to establish the dynasty of Saul. But either way It was a time of great trial in David's life. It was a time of great darkness. Look down at verse number three where it says, How long will you imagine mischief against a man? Ye shall be slain all of you as a bowing wall, shall ye be as a tottering fence. Now the King James Version here kind of translates verse 3 uh as something that day uh as making it David's words against his enemies. That's kind of the way it reads. I think that uh an another way you can look at this, I think many ancient versions translate this as uh David's uh words against his enemies or or excuse me, David's enemies uh uh words against him, I should say. And so they were actually treating David as a wall that is bowing, that is leaning, it's about to fall, it's a tottering wall, it's about to crumble. And that's the way the enemies were looking at David, and they were attacking him. They were thinking at any moment he's going to capitulate. He's going to cave in. And so yet David is at perfect peace. If you read this psalm, that's what you're going to find. In spite of all the hostility against David In spite of all the darkness and dark circumstances coming at him, he's not worried, he's not anxious, he is at peace, he is trusting in God David is in danger, but despite that, his faith is strong. He's trusting in God alone One great Old Testament scholar, Lupal, wrote this. He said, there is scarcely another psalm that reveals such an absolute, undisturbed peace. In which confidence in confidence in God is so completely unshaken, and in which assurance is so strong that not even one single petition is voiced throughout the psalm. And that's true. As you read through the Psalm, you're not going to find really one prayer here. David is resting in the Lord. He's at total peace. He has great confidence. He's not worried about his enemies. He's not worried about the difficult dark circumstances, the perils in his life. He's not worried about anything. He's a total peace. Let me ask you a question. Wouldn't you like to have that kind of peace? I don't know about you, what it's like in your life. Perhaps maybe some of you come here tonight and you have difficult circumstances. You have uh things going on in your life, perhaps Satan is hammering you, he's attacking you There's things happening in your life, and you're not at peace, and you would like to have the kind of peace that David shows us here in Psalm 62, where he is just at total rest in the Lord. What is the secret here What is the secret of David's unshakable peace? And it is this word alone. The word alone. Now this is hard to see in the English translation. But look at verse number one. Look at the very first word, verse one. It is the word truly. That's the way it's translated here in English, but the Hebrew word is ak. Which is a word that is really almost untranslatable because it's very difficult to find an English word that captures the full meaning of this word. It's translated truly here, and that's fine. In other places it is translated only. Sometimes it is translated surely or certainly. But I think that the best English word that we can use to translate this word is the word alone. Now, this Hebrew word ak is used six times in this psalm. Six times. We see it in verse one. It's the word truly. And really we can translate verse one like this, upon God alone. my soul waits. Look at verse 2. He, or we could say alone, the word only there is the same Hebrew word. He alone is my Rock. Look down in verse number five. Again, my soul wait out only upon God. Again, the word only there is the we could say alone. We could say it like this, upon God only My soul waits, and again in verse number six, he alone is my rock, and so on. And so this word is emphasized, in fact In Hebrew, this word is the first word in every verse. And why is that true? It breaks the normal pattern, the normal syntactical pattern of a Hebrew sentence. And that only happens when the writer wants to really emphasize something. And so this word is at the beginning of the verse because it's there for emphasis. God alone. He trusts in God alone. This is what David wants to Emphasize, and this is the most important part of this psalm. And this is the secret of David's peace. Alexander McLaren I think he's one of the best preachers and commentators on the Psalms. He kind of captures this when he wrote this. He said, That one word alone is the record of conflict and the trophy of the psalmist victory. And so David is emphasizing that if you want to have peace in the midst of the most dire circumstances in your life. In the most difficult times of your life, if you want to have that kind of peace that upholds you a perfect peace, then you have to trust in God alone. God alone. Now I think this is something that Christians in our day need to learn. Our problem is not that we do not trust in God in some sense. We start out coming into the kingdom. We have to trust in God alone for salvation. We know that. I just told you about the five solos of of the Reformation. Really they're foundational when it speaks about our salvation, we trust in Christ alone, not Christ in something else. We come by faith alone. We put our faith in the finished work of Christ faith alone and we rely on God's grace alone and so this is the way we come into the kingdom by trusting in Christ alone. But something happens after we get saved. We don't necessarily live by p trusting Christ alone. Or by putting faith in God alone. There's something about us where we say, well, I trust in God, but I'm also trusting in this. We trust in God and someone. We trust in God and something. God and some plan. But the reason that David had perfect peace, the reason he had confidence, is because he had learned that he needed to trust in God and God alone. And so the question I want to ask you tonight, is that where you are spiritually? Is that where the church is spiritually? James Montgomery Boy said that today, the Church in America Has a what he called a crisis of faith. A crisis of faith. He called it a lack of belief in God and a lack of belief in the power of the Word of God. This is what he wrote. Listen to what he said. He said: the real reason preachers do not teach the Bible and resort to other devices such as light theology and funny stories is that they do not trust God. They do not believe that God actually works through his word to convert unbelievers and strengthen and form character in Christians. And so They he says that the reason that preachers are not preaching the word in confidence is because they don't have faith in God That's the reason you hear more and by the way there's nothing wrong with telling a funny story. That's okay in a sermon. And by the way, I expect you to laugh whether it's funny or not. Nothing wrong with a little humor in a in a sermon. Nothing wrong with those things, but we're not here to entertain you. We're here to give you the word of God. And we have faith that the Word of God will do the work, but I think he's right when he says that we have a generation of preachers that do not Trust God. They don't trust that God will use the power of His Word. They don't have faith in God. But that's not just for preachers. That's also for lay people. They're not trusting in God alone. You may pretend to trust in God. But many are holding on to other things. That's like having one foot on a rock and the other foot on quicksand. You're going to be in trouble pretty soon. Because uh you're not standing firmly on the word. And so David learned that if he was to trust it all, he had to trust God only. And really, if we're not trusting God only, or God alone We're really not trusting God at all, are we? So let me just give you the three stanzas here. This Psalm, Psalm 62 is uh divided really into three stanzas. Uh the first two stanzas end with the word silah. Their st first stanza in verses one to four and it ends with the word silah at the end of verse four. And then verses five through eight is the second stanza that ends with the word silah. And then the third stanza is verse 9 through 12. In Hebrew poetry, this is A Hebrew poem is made up of stanzas, and these are the three stanzas that make up this one psalm. And so what I want you to see in these stanzas are what I call three ways that David expresses his faith in God alone. Here's the first one. Number one. God alone is the source of protection. God alone is the source of protection. Look again in verse one. Truly my soul waits upon God. From him cometh my what? Salvation And look at the word wait there. This is another interesting word, Damaya, which simply means silence, waiting in silence. And the idea of silence is submission. The silence is intended in short to to mean that you're submitted It's a disposition of a believer that has acquiesced to the will of God, the sovereign will of God, and the promises of God. So David is waiting, but he's waiting silently He's not waiting and complaining that maybe God's help isn't come quick enough. He's waiting in silence, which is to say he's waiting with a submissive spirit. Some of you know that uh Carolyn and Abby, my daughter, flew to London on Saturday and they had to leave from New York, JFK. airport. I I I hate flying out of that airport by the way. Always seems to be some delay, but what I found out was that they Yeah the the plane pushed away from uh the gate and they had to wait for clearance and they ended up waiting on the tarmac for two hours. Two hours. Now think about that. Here is uh Carolyn and she's got my little grandson Theo next to her. And she has to keep him occupied for two hours on that plane, and they have a seven-hour flight ahead of them. Mind you, you know. So you talk about waiting. Uh and by the but by the way, I was asking Carolyn how it went and she said, you know, Theo was actually pretty good compared to some of the adults that were on that plane I mean they were complaining. They were raising a ruckus. You know, it's one thing to wait, but it's another thing to wait silently. You see, and you know what that reminds me of? Sometimes God will put us in a circumstance where all we can do is just wait. I don't know if you've ever been in a plane waiting for clearance. There's nothing else you can do. You can't get up and move around. You can't do anything. You just have to sit there and wait until there's clearance. And it's really not that easy. And sometimes God will put us in a situation where there's nothing else that we can do. There's nothing humanly possible for us to do. All we can do is wait on the Lord. And wait on his clearance, so to speak, wait on his salvation. But again the question is how do you wait Do you wait with peaceful composure, absolutely submitted to the will of God, and saying, God I know that you know what you're doing. And so, Lord, I trust you in this situation. It's not happening as quickly as I want it to. By the way, it never does, right? It's never fast enough. But yet, Lord, I'm waiting on you. The key word is submission. I'm not angry. I'm not bitter. I'm at peace. I'm waiting. This is how David is waiting. He's waiting silently, but also notice he's waiting securely. Look at verse 2. He only is my rock, my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. And I want you to notice how confident and secure David feels as he's waiting. Notice the descriptions. He says, God is my rock, he is my fortress, he is my refuge. He's using these descriptive words, and by the way, he uses these same words in other Psalms. But these words are metaphors, but they're used to communicate the unchangeable character of God. They used to speak about God's strength, God's protection. The thought of God as a rock and a fortress contains the idea of a refuge set up way high. Some of you know that I just got back from Israel. One of the places I like to go when I'm there is in Geti. This is the desert, really, fortress or hiding place that David used when he was running from Saul. And in order to get to Angeti, you kind of kind of climb up into the rocks. I mean it's it's up high. And you can go up higher and higher to Angeti. And when you get up to the top, you can look down and you know what you see? You can see all around you for miles No one can get close to you without you seeing them. And there's a sense when you're way up high there, there's a sense of security there There's a sense of safety, of feeling safe when you're there. I can just put myself in David's sandals, so to speak. He's there on the top of that high refuge And he's looking around, perhaps Saul is hunting after him, and he feels so secure there. And he's he compares that to God God is like that for us. He is our rock. He is our refuge. When we run to him, guess what? We're safe. And so we can feel secure. Now David's enemies say he's like a wall that's about to fall down. That's about to crumble, but David is saying, no, I am standing on a rock, standing on a refuge, on a fortress. And so that his enemies could not be more wrong. David is absolutely waiting securely, so much so that he says in verse 2, I shall not be greatly moved. I'm standing upon the character of God and God alone. I'm trusting in my rock. Is that your testimony? So God alone is the source of protection. But here's number two. Second stanza. God alone is the source of peace. Look in verse number five. He says, If my soul wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation and is my defense. I shall not be moved. Now again, the theme of this stanza seems to be again David's great growing. Peace and confidence. What I want you to see here is that his his confidence and his peace, it's actually growing. It's getting stronger. Because we saw in verse number two, where David said, I shall not be greatly moved. But in verse 6, what do we see? I shall not be what? Moved. In verse 2, he says, I'm not going to be greatly moved. But now his confidence has grown even more, and he says, I shall not be moved. So we see his Growing confidence, his hope in God. And so therefore, his sense of calmness and peace is also growing as his confidence in God is growing. And so this will happen to you. But notice one of the reasons why I think it grows. He says in verse number 8: Trust in the Lord at all times, pour out your heart before Him. That's a key expression there. I praise God that we can trust God and that we can pour out our heart to God That's the key to David's peace, I believe. The fact that he's able just to pour out his heart, I think that's why he can wait silently. The reason he doesn't wait with complaining and anger is because he's already poured his heart out before God. He's already prayed and he came before the Lord. He's already given it all over to God. And so therefore he can wait silently. Therefore, he can wait with growing peace and reliance upon the Lord. But what I want you to see in this stanza is the two groups, or we could say, uh or two objects that David talks to. Who is he talking to? Well I want you to see first of all, he talks to himself. Look at verse 5, where he says, My soul, wait thou only upon God. Now who is David addressing when he says, My soul? He's talking to himself, right? Now we think that people that talk to themselves today are crazy. Right? Don't we? We think that people that do that, you know, there's there's there's something wrong here. But you know what? This happens in the Bible often in the Psalms. The psalmist is a lot of times talking to himself. He's reminding himself of something. We see this same thing in Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 where the psalmist says, Why are you cast down, oh my soul? That's a psalm about being down, and the psalmist talks to himself and he says, Why are you cast down? Hope thou in God And you for you should yet for I shall yet praise him because he's the help of my countenance. There's nothing wrong with talking to yourself in a spiritual way. In fact, Martin Lloyd-Jones has a wonderful book on spiritual depression, and he refers to this And this is what he says. Listen to what he wrote. He said this. He said, have you realized that most of your unhappiness in life is due to the fact that you are listening to yourself instead of talking to yourself? Do you get that? You're listening to yourself instead of talking to yourself. Now, what is what did he mean by that? He he m listen to what he goes on to say. He goes, he really goes on to explain that rather just going along with the thoughts that come to you In the morning time, a lot of times, how many of you when your eyes open up, you might get hit with negative thoughts? Anyone here like that? Okay, you guys don't need a sermon. I'm going home. I tell you what, that's me. I know that, you know, in the morning time, I am not a morning person. I know some people wake up and go, oh, what a beautiful morning. I want to slap those people It's not me. When I wake up, the devil knows exactly that's the time to hit me. I wake up by degrees. I don't wake up fully at the first. And the first thing that happens when I wake up is I start having these negative thoughts. Oh man, I've got so much to do today. I've got so I'll never get it all done. And so I have one negative thought after another, and that's when the devil starts throwing them at me. And you know what I'm doing at that point? I'm listening to myself. And when I'm listening to myself, you know what's happening? I'm getting depressed. I'm already wiped out and depressed before I even get my foot out of bed. I'm listening to myself. I'm listening to the negative thoughts that are bombarding me. And Martin Lloyd Jones' advice is: don't listen to yourself. Talk to yourself. And what does he mean by that? He means that you need to take yourself in hand and preach to yourself. Speak to yourself. This is why the psalmist says to himself, why are you cast down, oh my soul? Why are you cast down? You put your hope in God. And so, you know what he's basically saying here? You don't have to give in to those negative emotions and those negative thoughts. that hammer you. You can talk to yourself. That's what the psalmist does. And this is exactly what the psalmist is doing here in Psalm 62. Look again in verse number 5 where he says My soul Wait thou only upon God, for my expectation, or the that word expectation is the word hope. My hope is from him. You know what he's doing? He's reminding himself to trust in God alone. You know why? Because when you get to that place where you're trusting in God alone, guess what? That doesn't mean you're going to stay there. We're constantly have to readjust. If I am tempted to trust in something else, other than the Lord, I have to grab hold of myself and say, wait a minute, my soul, you Wait and trust in God alone. He is your hope. And then you know what he does in Psalm 62? He piles up description after description of who God is. After he says to wait on God. Look at verse 6. He only is my rock. He is my salvation. He is my defense. And then he bursts forth with greater confidence, I shall not be moved at all. Whereas before he said, I'll not be greatly moved. Now he says, I'm not going to be moved at all. He reminds himself of who God is. And that's exactly what we have to do. If we're going to trust in God alone, we have to remind ourselves to do it. We have to talk to ourselves. Don't listen to yourself, talk to yourself. And remind yourself of who God is. Don't miss the pronouns. My rock. My salvation. My Defense and so on. Nine times from verses five to seven we see the little pronoun my David either calls out God directly or he uses this pronoun here in this verse. And so what does this tell us that David knew God personally as his personal hope His rock, his salvation, his stronghold, his strength. And friends, if you want peace and severe trials, You have to know God personally, and you have to remind yourself that God alone is your rock. He is your hope. And so um and so we see this here. We have to constantly remind ourselves. Um Now, he talks to himself, but then he talks to others. Look down at verse number eight. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. Now who is he talking to? He's talking to others. First he's talking to himself, then he talks to others. Sometimes people will come out of church and they'll be very gracious to say, Pastor, that was a good sermon. Man, I needed that. And I always say, you know what? I preached it to me before I preached it to you I promise you I needed it more than you did. And you know what? When I preach to myself, then that gives me a little bit more right to preach to you. There's a sense. When I when I'm talking to myself, then I can tell you. And this is what David is doing here. And friend, the same is true of you. When you have learned to trust in God alone, and because of that, he's given you peace through the most difficult circumstances in your life And you're trusting in him alone, you know what that does? That gives you the ability to speak to others. To talk to others, to minister to others And that's what he's doing here. And the lesson is this use your peace through trials to encourage others to trust in God alone as their source. And so David calls out to all these people. And he says to all of them, And verse number eight, trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Now some Christian psychologists say that that is just useless advice to tell hurting people to trust in God. I've read that Where Christians say, Oh, that's just useless advice just to tell someone to trust in God. Well, I don't know what Bible they're reading. David isn't giving out useless advice. He's basically telling them how he endured The dark trial in his life, and now he's saying that they could do the same thing. He trusted in God, he poured his heart out to God, he took refuge in God, and now he's telling them, You can do the same thing. This is what God did for me. He gave me great peace in this, and now the same thing can happen to you. David was an example of how to not cave in to all the dark circumstances and things that's happening in his life, but to Fully trust in the Lord. Let me give you an example of this. This is one of my favorite stories in the Old Testament. Why don't you take your Bible? Go to 1 Samuel real quick. 1 Samuel chapter 30. And let me just show you this. 1 Samuel chapter 30. And this is an example of David trusting in the Lord, even in the difficult circumstances. This is a time in David's life where he was running from Saul. He had actually helped out the Philistines. uh under King Agag or excuse me um Ak Akish I should say and uh the King Akish gave him the city of Ziklag And David comes back with his men from battle one day in verse number one of chapter thirty. And notice what it says, it came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day that the Amalekites had invaded the south, and Ziklag Smitten and burned it with fire. He comes back and he finds this city that was given to him, he finds it burned with fire. By the way, did you realize this week? I read a article on about archaeologists found the city Ziklag. Anybody read that? Of course you don't read archaeology magazines. Some of you do. They found this actual city. Of Ziklag. And so anyway, that's just kind of the side point for you archaeologists out there. David comes back, he sees the city burned. Look at verse 2, and they had taken the woman captives that were therein. And they slew not any, neither small nor great, but carried them away and went on their way. So David and his men came to the city. Behold, it was burned with fire. And their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captive. Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep. Talk about a dark circumstance. Talk about a difficult time. David comes back. What if you came home from church tonight and your house was burnt down? What if all your family were kidnapped? And you didn't know where they were. And this was what happened to David. But not only was it just him, but it was his men. And their wives and children were taken. And they're weeping. These are people that loved and were loyal to David, but now they're ready to stone him and kill him. This is the most darkest trial up until this point in David's life, I believe. His own wife or wives and children were gone. He didn't know what to do. These people want to kill him Now you know what most people would do in a circumstance like that? They would give in to all the negative emotions. They would give in to all of the trial that was coming down upon them But I want you to look at the end of verse 6 where it says, the last phrase, but David did what? Encouraged himself in the Lord his God. I think this is exactly what David is telling us in Psalm 62. He chooses to trust in God. At this most difficult time of life, at this dark trial, he makes a decision In the midst of it, can you imagine the emotion of that moment? The Bible says, here are these grown strong warrior men, and they cried until they could had no more power to cry. You can imagine the intense emotions at that moment, the absolute despair that could have completely just did him in. But at that moment of darkness, David made a choice. And you know what he chose? I'm not going to let this circumstance, I'm not going to let it get me down. I'm not going to give in to this. I am going, I choose to trust in God. I choose to put my hope in God. And you know the rest of the story? David seeks the Lord. He gets a word from God. And David says, God, should I pursue after them? And the Lord said, pursue. This is in verse number 8. And God said, If you pursue you'll overtake them, and you without fail you'll recover all. And so David and his six hundred men they went after them, and you know what, they found them. And not only did David get all of his uh his possessions back, his wives, his children, all the men got everything back. They got back even more because they took the spoil that these men had taken from other places. And God took a time of a situation of total defeat and despair. And God turned it around, and God gave David victory. Because David chose to trust in the Lord alone. He chose not to give in, but to trust in the Lord. And now here in Psalm 62, David can say in verse number 8. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge. He is speaking from experience. He's speaking from experience. He had learned to do that himself. And now he's telling others to do the same thing. So he talks to himself, and then he talks to others. But let me give you the third thing here. God alone is the source of protection. David understood that. God alone is the source of peace. But here's the third thing. God alone is the source of power. God alone is the source of power. Look at verse number 9. Surely men of low degree are vanity and men of high degree are a lie. To be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity. Trust not in oppression. Become not vain in robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. God has spoken once, twice, have I heard this? That power belongeth unto who? God. God alone is the source of power. And then verse number twelve, also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy. For thou renderest to every man according to his work. Now in the first stanza, David looked at his enemies in relation to himself. Here in the last stanza he looks at his enemies in relation to God. And by comparing these men to God, you know what they were? They were nothing. He says their vanity. And what he does here is he re-emphasizes this thing of trusting in the Lord alone. And what he tells us first is what not to trust. And he says, don't trust in men's rank in verse number nine, no matter if they're men of low degree or men of high degree, no matter how great or how wealthy they may be. Don't trust in men. If they're men of low degree and they're thugs who can knock off your enemies, don't trust in them. If they're men of high degree, men of power and influence. Don't trust in them because you're putting your hope in thin air, because he says here, they are altogether lighter than vanity. You know what the word vanity is in the Hebrew? It's the word hevel, which is used to speak of a breath or a vapor or a bubble. It used to speak of what's left when a bubble bursts What's left when a bubble bursts? Nothing. And that's what David is saying about these men. In fact, he said they're lighter than air. They're less than that. If you put your trust in men, you're trusting in nothingness. And what is nothing? Don't trust in man's rank. Don't trust in man's robbery. In verse 10. And become not vain in robbery, even if you gain riches through legitimate means, don't set your heart on them either, in verse number 10. So don't trust in man's robbery, don't trust in man's riches. But then he tells us who to trust. In verse 11, I think this is an awesome verse. God has spoken once, twice. Have I heard this? I love when God says something once and I hear it twice. What does this mean here in Hebrew? This is a Hebrew poetic device, and it's a way of saying repeatedly. God spoke once, but David keeps hearing it in his mind. And it keeps rolling over in his mind. He's heard it again. You ever happen to you hear something, maybe it's in a sermon or something you hear, and you just hear it again and again and again? This is what David is saying. God said this once, but I keep hearing it in my mind. It keeps repeating in my mind. That power belongs unto God. Power belongs to him. So why would I trust in man? Why not trust in God alone? He is the source of power. God is powerful. That's the first thing here. Now there are men today that think they have power, but you know what? They really don't. They might have a little power that God will end to them a time, but you know what happened when they die? It's gone. They don't have any power. God is the one who has power. In 1715, King Louis XIV of France died after a reign of seventy-two years. He called himself the great. He was a monarch who was famous for making the statement, I am the state. His court was the most magnificent in Europe, historians tell us. And his funeral was spectacular. His body was laid out in a golden coffin. And the orders were given to take him to the cathedral And be laid out at the cathedral, and at his coffin there was to be a candlelight that was dimly lit, and it was there to dramatize his greatness. And at the funeral service, Bishop Massalon, just before he began the service, reached down and he snuffed out the candle. And you know what he said? Only God is great. And that's so very true. This is what David is saying. Power belongs to God. God is powerful, and God is also merciful in verse number 12. Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy. And for thou renderest to every man according to his work. And so in closing here, the question I would ask you is, are You trusting in God alone. God alone is the source of protection. God alone is the source of peace. God alone is the source of Power. Why would we want to try to trust in anyone else or anything else than God? There was a young family in Dallas with two children, there was a third child on the way. Seven months along, the wife became deathly ill The doctors decided that they were going to deliver the baby prematurely by a C-section. They were attempting to save the mother's life. And thankfully everything came out well. The baby and the mother survived. But during the height of that crisis, the wife's parents got suspicious of the husband because they looked at him through that trial. You know what? They didn't see a man who was distressed. And they later came and said, we don't think you love our daughter because of the way you were acting during this trial. And he explained to them. He said I he explained to them how he loved their daughter dearly, but he was trusting in the Lord who gave him peace. at that moment. Now this couple was unsaved. They couldn't understand it at first, but then they began to believe him and understand. And he became a testimony to them of someone who had Trusting God alone and God rewarded them with peace. And this eventually led to them coming to Christ And you know what, dear friend? When we go through deep dark trials, it's an opportunity for us to show others that we're trusting in God. And God will use that as a testimony. When others see our faith, our unshakable faith in God, when they see our peace, it is a testimony to who God is. And so again, the question I'm asking you tonight is, are you trusting in God alone? Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, we come before you. And Lord, we so need these words here. This challenge from David to trust in you and you alone. Lord, let that be our testimony tonight. I know that perhaps many of your children here tonight are going through a difficult time. They're going through a trial. And perhaps they don't have the peace that they need. They want. Now I pray, Lord, that you will give them and all of us the grace. And the desire and the determination to trust in you alone, you and none other. And Lord, would you reward us with your peace? And teach us, Lord, to wait upon you quietly. Which expresses our total trust in you and you alone. How many would say that's my prayer tonight, that God would help me to trust in Him and Him alone, Him and no other And so Father, bless these, your people. Hear our desire before you tonight. Thank you, dear Lord, for all that you're doing in our life. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.