And I hope that God's word is a blessing to you tonight. And we come to the final two verses in Jude, this little letter that is so very powerful. And uh we've gone kind of verse by verse through this, and I know I didn't do it justice. You could spend so much time here in Jude. But we come to the last two verses, verse 24 and verse 25. And I want to read those as you follow along. Now, in the Him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen. Those are some wonderful verses. Great verses. And they are so very packed with theology and truth. So Jude ends this powerful letter on an incredible high note. And really in this final paragraph then he just explodes with elevated praise in this doxology that we see here at the end of this letter. Now what is a doxology, by the way? The word doxology actually comes from two words, ology or from the uh from the word logos, and it just simply means a word. Doxa is the Greek word that means praise. or glory, and so we can put it together and say it's a word of glory or it's a word of praise. And scripture is just filled with doxologies. I'm sure you've noticed that as you've read through the Bible The book of Psalms is divided into five different books. At the end of each of the five books in the Psalms, it ends on a A note of doxology. In fact, the whole book of Psalms ends in Psalm 150. That whole chapter there is a whole chapter of doxology of praise to Almighty God. And so in the Old Testament, the songbook of the Redeemed was punctuated and climaxed by responses of praise to God for his glorious work among his people. The angels sang a doxology at the birth of Christ. It's recorded in Luke chapter 2. The people gave a doxology at the arrival of Christ into the city of Jerusalem. The New Testament is just filled. with these doxologies. And by the way, if you ever read these, you're going to notice that none of them ever deal with mundane matters. They always deal with salvation. They always deal with that which is eternally marvelous And they are words of praise to God from sinners like us, who are just overflowed with rejoicing and thankfulness for salvation. A doxology really is a foretaste of heaven. You know, that's what we're going to be doing in heaven. Did you know that? Praising God. And we're just going to burst forth with uh praise for the salvation when we contemplate all the glories of heaven, all the things that God has done for us. When Paul wrote to Timothy in First Timothy, Paul said this And chapter 1, verse 17. Now to the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, or excuse me, to the only God be glory and honor forever and ever. Amen. Why was Paul praising God? Well, because he had just finished in the previous verse saying that I'm the chief of sinners And when Paul thought about him being the chief of sinners, and he thought about the greatness of salvation, he burst forth with praise. Now, in this doxology here in Jude He answers an implied question. And the question is this: who will deliver us from the apostates, from the apostasy of our time? You remember that's the theme of the book of Judas about the falling away. And how that in the end there will be so many that would fall away from the truth. And the question then is, who is going to deliver us from all these false doctrines, from all these false professors? From all of these dangerous deceptions, who will deliver us? And this doxology pretty much answers that question. And he ends this letter the same way he started it on a note of security. And so he wants the believer to feel secure. He doesn't want anyone to come away from this letter thinking that as a believer, in some way, you can lose your salvation. In some way that you can fall away from grace. You remember an apostate is not someone who was saved and then lost their salvation. An apostate is someone who never had it to begin with. They received the truth on the surface, but it never got down deep into their soul, into their heart. And so true children of God can't lose their salvation. So to make that point clear and to emphasize it again, Jude ends in this doxology of praise to God, which talks about the great security that we have as believers. Now, let me ask you a question. What is the most important truth in the whole realm of salvation? If I said to you tonight, what do you think is the most important doctrine in that whole realm of a doctrine of salvation. What would your answer be to that? Would it be redemption? Would it be justification? Would it be sanctification, the fact that God is making us more like Christ? Would it be glorification? Would it be amputation or reconciliation? And on we could go. All of these doctrines are precious and necessary, but there is one of these doctrines I think that stands out as the most attractive and the most valuable of all. Maybe you haven't thought about it that deeply. But I think the doctrine of eternal security or the preservation of the saints Or the idea of once saved, always saved, is the most important of the doctrines of salvation. I would never want to diminish any of the other doctrines. They are all incredibly precious. And they are all incredibly necessary. Redemption and adoption and conversion and propitiation. All of these are wonderful. But the truth is all of those doctrines would be to some degree diminished if salvation could be lost. Or if salvation was not forever, then all those doctrines would be diminished. In fact, take away eternal security, and suddenly all the other doctrines of salvation depreciate. They lose their value. In fact, if you take away the doctrine of eternal security, you can't really enjoy all those other doctrines. You know why? Because your joy and your assurance and your peace is disrupted by the constant fear that at any moment one single act could cause you to lose all of those things To lose all the glories, to forfeit all the blessings that come with salvation. And so joy and peace and assurance is replaced by anxiety and fear. So I think in my estimation eternal security is the most important of all the doctrines of salvation because really when you think about it, without it we have no salvation. Without it, we don't have it Because if we could lose it, we would lose it. And therefore you have nothing. And when you lose it, you lose all the glories of salvation that come with it. So in this doxology here, the one main idea that Jude is going to give us is this. Here's the one main idea. In fact, this is a whole sermon in one sentence, but you can't leave after this sentence, alright? It's all in one sentence. Here it is. All the glory goes to God because he is the one who does all the keeping. That's it right there. All the glory goes to God because God is the one who does all the keeping. And that's really the whole idea of what Jude is trying to say in this closing doxology. So God does all the keeping. If the Lord can't hold on to me, what hope do I have? Or what hope is there? If salvation is not God's work and God's work alone, then guess what? I'm not going to get there I'm not going to make it. If he doesn't hold me, if he doesn't keep me, if he doesn't preserve me, I'm not going to make it. I can't save myself I can't sanctify myself. I can't glorify myself. He's the one that does all that. I can do nothing of myself. I can't keep myself I can't, I'm not good enough to keep myself. I'm not strong enough to keep myself. I could never in my own strength hold on to what I in my own strength could never attain to begin with. I don't have the strength to do that. So the keeping is not done by me. You or I are not able to keep ourselves. Now think about this with me. Think about Adam in the Garden of Eden. Adam had no sin nature, perfect Sinless, created perfectly by God. Therefore, he had no sinful tendencies, pulling him out of the way, A perfect nature. In addition, he lived in a perfect world. A perfect environment. He didn't live in a fallen, sinful world. What kind of environment was he? It was a perfect environment. A perfect man living in a perfect environment, no sin, no world system to resist this perfect man in this perfect world, and under those circumstances He could not keep himself in a right relationship with God. Think about that. Under all those circumstances, He could not maintain his obedience and his love to God. Now, if Adam could not keep himself in a perfect world, what chance do you and I have, sinful creatures as we are, living in a fallen world, what chance do we have to keep ourselves? Absolutely none. And since God does all the keeping, God gets all the glory. Now think about it again with me. If God didn't do all the keeping, if we were able, if we in some way were entrusted to keep ourselves, Then we would deserve some of the glory. If all God did was say, okay, here's salvation, I'm going to give it to you, but now it's yours. Okay, now you are the one that has to hold on to it I gave it to you, but you got to keep it. And let's just say that by some miracle you were able to hold on to your salvation, you were able to keep it, and then when you got to heaven, you're there in heaven. That means you would get some of the glory because you were able to keep it. That would make you praiseworthy. That would mean that justification is God's part. Sanctification then becomes my part And I'm only justified as long as I stay sanctified. And the moment I do some great sin, I lose it. So you understand that makes my role in salvation Almost as great as God's because I'm doing I'm doing all God is doing is He's giving me salvation, but I'm the one that has to hold on to it I'm the one that has to sanctify myself, and I keep my justification by maintaining my sanctification. When you think about it, I do two-thirds of the part, God does one-third. And actually, I'm actually doing more than he is. If I'm able to hold on to it, if I believe that. Can you imagine going to heaven? Meeting up with another believer in heaven? And you say, boy, they say, isn't this salvation wonderful? Isn't heaven wonderful? And you say, yeah man, I'm glad I made it. They say, well you mean God did it? You say, well God gave it to me, but I had to hold on to it. I did most of it. They said, what? Yeah, that's right. God gave it to me, and I thank him for that. But it only took God a moment to justify me. I had to hold on to it for 40 years. And I had to keep myself sanctified. He gave it, but I had to keep it. And boy, do you know what I had to do in order to keep it? It wasn't easy. I had to keep myself sanctified Because the moment I lose my sanctification, I would also lose my justification. And while, yes, we can praise God for saving us, we also deserve some of the praise because we held on to it You see, I can't imagine anybody who would be that foolish as to believe something like that. I can't believe there's anyone out there that's teaching that. Well, friend, you would be wrong because there are And I can use the and that's exactly what our Arminian theology teaches. That's exactly what those who teach who believe you can lose your salvation, that's what they teach, that you have to hold on to it. You have to maintain it. And I can give a lot of examples, but let me just give you one example of one man who taught this and it spread. This whole idea spread throughout the church. You ever hear of a man named Charles Finney? This is exactly what Finney taught. Finney was asked this question. He was asked this question. Does a Christian cease to be a Christian whenever he commits a sin? Here's Finney's answer. Whenever he sins, and I'm reading, by the way, from his systematic theology, these are his words, whenever he sins, he must, for the time being, cease to be holy. Or that is, he's saying cease to be a Christian. The Christian, therefore, is justified no longer than he obeys. and must be condemned. Do you get that? You're only justified as long as you obey God. The moment you stop, you lose your justification. That's what he's saying. And then he goes on. In these respects, then the sinning Christian and the unconverted sinner are upon precisely the same ground. You're on the same ground. Despite the fact that you're saved, you're justified, if you sin, you're just like a lost person, he said. You've lost it. He goes on. He says perseverance in faith, in obedience, or in consecration to God is also an unalterable condition of justification. Your justification is conditional. Based on your obedience and your faith. He goes on to say, we see that if a righteous man forsake his righteousness and die in his sin, he must stay to hell. Whenever a Christian sins, he becomes under condemnation and must repent and do his first works or be lost. Let me give you one more quote. Talking about security of the believer. This is what he says. Systematic Theology, page 550. It is not intended that saints Or the truly regenerated cannot fall from grace. He said, God never intended that you absolutely be eternally secure God never intended that. It was never intended that saints or the truly regenerated cannot fall from grace and be finally lost. And then he goes on to say this: it is possible. For all moral agents to sin at any time, saints on earth and in heaven, by natural possibility, apostasize and fall and be lost. Do you get what he's saying? Even though you make it to heaven, you can still fall out of heaven. You can still lose it. And so in his theology You have to obey. God can give you justification, but you have to hold on to your justification. How? By being obedient. And the moment you stop being obedient, you lose your justification. The moment you stop being sanctified, you lose your justification. And beyond that, even though you're in heaven, you can lose your glorification. So according to that theology, I have to hold on to my sanctification. Not only that, I have to hold on to my glorification. I mean I make it to heaven, but it ain't doesn't mean I'm not going to fall away from there. Can you imagine that So according to him and others like him, we are the ones who do the keeping. Only as we're justified, only as we're sanctified, rather, are we And again I say if I'm able to hold on to myself, if I'm able to keep my own salvation, that means I deserve some of the glory But what does the Bible say? Is that what the Bible says? Absolutely not. And this again is Jude's whole point. In this age of apostasy, you could never keep yourself. In this fallen world, you could never hold on to your own salvation. But guess what? It's not up to you. It's not up to you. God does the saving God does the keeping, God and God alone, and since God is the one who does all the keeping, God alone gets all the glory. He's the one who is able. It's he who is keeping me, not me keeping myself Now with all that in mind, I want you to see four reasons God does the keeping, and therefore God gets all the glory. Number one, I know I spent a long time on the introduction, so I'll go through these kind of quick. Alright, I won't keep you too long. Number one, because of his power. It's his power. Look in verse 24. Now unto him that is what? Abel. It's the word able is dunamo. It's where we get the word dynamite, to have power. It's God's power. That's what's keeping you. Not my power, not your power, God's power is watching over you. You're only as safe as the one who's keeping you is strong. And how strong is God? He's pretty strong. And so the question, how strong is the guard who is keeping watch at the post? It's God and He has all power. When a person asked the great general, Alexander the Great, how could he sleep so soundly when he was surrounded by so many enemies and so much danger? Alexander the Great said, Well, my great guard, Parmenio, is watching over me while I sleep. He's only a man. How much more should we be secure knowing that it is God who is watching over us With all of his power. How much more soundly should we sleep? God the Father, entrusted into the hand of Jesus, the redeemed. And by the way, you read John 17, you'll find this, that in John 17, when Jesus was getting ready to go to the cross, what Jesus did was Jesus entrusted back to the hand of the Father the redeemed, his people. The ones that God the Father gave to Jesus, Jesus entrusted them back to the Father. Why? Because at that time in his life at that season in his life, he was going to enter into spiritual war and and purchase redemption for us. And it's almost like Jesus was saying, Father, will you guard and keep these Those you have given to me, you have entrusted to me, I'm giving them back to you, and I ask you to keep them. And when redemption was completed, you know what happened? God the Father entrusted Redeemed back into the hands of Christ. That's what John 17 says. John 17, 11. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those you have given to me Father, the ones you give me, I'm giving them back to you. And Jesus said, the ones you gave me I kept, and none of them is lost, except the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. That's Judas. He was never a true believer to begin with. And so here's the point. We are kept by a holy God. God doesn't entrust the keeping of our souls to anyone else He doesn't entrust that to angels. Jesus didn't go to Gabriel and say, Gabriel, I'm going to go to the cross. Would you watch over these people for me? No. The keeping of our souls is entrusted only to the Godhead. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And let me tell you something. He is able. He is powerful. That's why we're safe. A woman once approached the famous preacher G. Campbell Morgan. After he spoke that she and he and she asked him, Do you think we should pray for even the little things in our life or just the big things? And G. Campbell Morgan in his British dignified manner replied, Madam, can you think of anything in your life that is big to God? It's nothing big to God. You know why? He's powerful. The Bible says he's able to strengthen, write down Romans 16, 25. Now unto him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, he is able to surpass anything that we ask or think Ephesians 3. 20, now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the power that works. in us. And this is another doxology right here. Paul right in the middle of the book of Ephesians just burst forth with this great doxology that God is able. And so God He surpasses what we could ever think. Don't ever think you come to God and you're asking too much. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. His grace and power are such that none could ever ask. He's able to sustain, right down 2 Corinthians 9. 8, and God is able to make all grace abound towards you, that you, always having all sufficiency in all things, might have an abundance for every good. work. And then he's able to sanctify. Hebrews 7. 25. Therefore he is also able to save the save you to the othermost Those who come to God through him, since he always ever lives to make intercession. The uttermost means to the end, to completion. Friend, when God saves you, he's going to complete what he started. And he will save us to the uttermost. And you know why? Because he that is Jesus ever lives to make intercession You know how I can't lose my salvation? Because Jesus is praying for me. He's praying for you. You know what he's praying? Read John 17. Father, I would that they be where I am. Jesus is praying that we would be where he is. If you lost your salvation, that means Jesus' prayer would go unanswered. I don't think any of the prayers of Jesus ever go unanswered I think the Father always gives Jesus what he wants. And Jesus prays in John 17, Father, I want them to see my glory, the glory that we had before the world was. You know what Jesus is praying for you and me right now? That we would be there in heaven, that we would see his glory. Friend, that's why I know I'm going to heaven And I'm not going to lose it because of the intercession of the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, the Bible says in Romans 8, the Holy Spirit also prays for us. And so, friend, I have two full-time divine intercessors securing my salvation. And so do you. That's why we're not going to lose it. And so He gets all the glory because he does all the keeping. And it's all because of his power. But then secondly notice this, it's all because of his preserving. Look again in verse 24. Now unto him that is able to keep you from what? Falling. He's the one able to keep you from falling. The word falling here, and by the way, this is the only place this particular Greek word is used in the whole Bible. And it has the idea of someone who is sure footed, who who does not stumble, who does not fall into error. The same word is used in Romans 11. 11 to refer to the Jews stumbling. And Paul asked the question, is the stumbling of the Jews permanent? The answer, no, it's not. And that's the same sense that it's used here. What Paul is trying to say is a believer might stumble, but you're never going to permanently fall away. Never. You might stumble in salvation, but you'll never fall away from salvation. An illustration I like to use in the Old Testament is Noah's Ark. When God put Noah and his family on the ark, who shut the door? God did. There was only one other opening, that was the window up top. Couldn't fall up. Couldn't fall out because the door was sealed. No man could open that door except God. When God shuts the door, you're not going to open it. And so it was literally impossible for Noah and his family to fall out of that ark. Now he could fall in the ark. But he couldn't fall out of the ark. And friend, you could fall down in Christ, but you can't fall out of Christ. You could stumble in Jesus But you will never fall away from Jesus or outside of Jesus. Why? Psalm 37, verse 24. Though he fall, talking about the believer, he shall not be utterly cast down. Why? For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. You're in God's hands. And he is upholding you. So therefore, while a Christian might stumble, is it possible for a time for a Christian to get deceived and to swallow some of these other things? Yes. Is it possible for them to get out of the way at times? Yes. Is it possible for a Christian to get with the world and do the things of the world for a time? Yes. A Christian can stumble, but I want to tell you, if you're a child of God, he's not going to let you completely fall away. He won't. If God be for us, who can be against us? Paul said. And the the if there is since, since God is for us, who can be against us? Jesus said this in John 10, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. No one can take you out of his hand. And sometimes Christians will say, well, it says no man, but I can pluck myself out of his hand. That's just quibbling over foolish semantics. You're not strong enough to get out of the hand of God. You think you're stronger than he is? No one is going to take you out of the hand of God. Look at verse 24, where it says, keep. Now in the hand that is able to keep You. And the word keep here is the idea of a military guard. It's a military word to guard, to watch over God is watching over you. God is keeping you. And you may stumble, but He will not let you permanently fall away. This reminds me of the story of Peter Marshall. In the book A Man Called Peter, it was written actually by his wife Catherine Marshall. This is a book about Peter Marshall the Great. Senate chaplain. And it talks about a story in his life when he was young. He was a young man. He was working in a village. And one night he was on his way home. He was walking. It was so very dark. He couldn't really see because of the blackness He was walking in a certain direction, and suddenly he said he heard someone call his name. It was so very distinct and so very clear that he stopped in his tracks and he said, what? Hello And after he heard nothing, he continued on. He resumed walking. And suddenly the voice he could hear that voice again. And this time it was even louder, and it was more urgent And he stopped again. And when he stopped, he tripped in, he kind of stumbled. And it was so dark He began to kind of feel around in kind of a semicircle. And what he found is that one more step, he was right there on the ledge of an old stone quarry. One more step, he would have plunged to his death. And he later on says, I know that that was God that kept me from falling. In fact, God will keep you from falling. He's the one who will watch over you. Let me give you the third thing. Because of his power, Because of his preserving. Here's number three. Because of his presenting. Look again in verse 24. Now the him who is able to keep you from falling. And to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy And the word here literally means to make you stand. The word present, to make you stand. You see, the God who is able to keep you from falling is also the God who is able to make you stand. Stand where? Stand before the presence of his glory? What does that mean? That's a euphemism before God. That one day you can stand before God, in his presence, in his glory. Imagine that, that you and I, one day we can stand. It'd be possible for us to stand before God there in all of his glory. Now, friend, do you think that we can do that on our own? That we just go and stand before God's glory? The Bible says in Psalm 1. 5, therefore the wicked shall not stand in judgment. nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. Think about it. Adam and Eve, they had fellowship with God in the garden, but once sin came, they had to hide. And they were kicked out of the garden, and a barrier was erected. The cherubim with his flaming sword was put there. Why? Because sinful, fallen man cannot stand in the presence of God. He cannot behold God in his glory. But one day, because of God's greatness, because of his grace, He, the one who keeps us from falling, he is the one who will cause us to stand before him. Now that might not sound like a big thing, but really to me this is astonishing grace. Really astonishing. You know why? Because when you read through the Bible You're going to find that whenever someone truly was in the presence of God, what was the reaction? They fell on their face. Remember Isaiah in Isaiah 6, he kind of pronounces a curse upon himself. Woe is me When he came into the presence of God. Remember Ezekiel, he falls over like a dead man when he comes into the presence of God. Remember Peter, James, and John, they kind of fall over in a semi-coma When they behold the glory of the Lord. And then look in the book of Revelation, look at John, where he falls down as a dead man. All these people were just absolutely scared out of their wits So much so that they fainted and fell away from shock. Think about the Roman soldiers at the grave of the risen Christ when they saw the glory of God on an angel, how they all kind of fell away like dead men That's the reaction when man comes into contact with the glory of God. Every once in a while I'll hear some crazy person on television bragging about how they were in the presence of God, all swelled up with pride. I want to tell you something, friend, they weren't in God's presence. You come into God's presence, you're not going to be filled with pride. You'll be filled with terror and humility. Why? Because the unredeemed in their human condition cannot stand in the presence of God. But someday we will stand in his glory. Someday, and by the way, we're going to stand there with what? Look again in verse 24 now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless. Before the presence of the glory, we're going to stand there blameless, faultless. Are we going to be in fear? Are we going to be shaking in terror? Look what it says. Before the presence of his glory with exceeding what? Joy. That will not be a time of terror there. It'll be a time of great joy because God, the one who keeps you from falling, is the one who will give you and I the ability to even stand in his presence with joy. Right now we stand in grace. One day we will stand in glory before Him, before the throne. Like the song says, when he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, dressed in his righteousness alone, what faultless to stand before the throne. Corey Tinboom said this, when Jesus takes your hand, he keeps you tight. When Jesus keeps you tight, he leads you through your whole life. When he leads you through your whole life, he brings you safely home. So very true. Let me give you the last point. We're safe, we're secure Because of his power. Because of his preserving. Because of his presenting. But here's the last one. Because of his person. Because of his person. Look at verse 25. To the only wise God, our Savior. What kind of God do we have? He's a Savior. He's a merciful Savior. And salvation is all of Him. That's why He's called the only wise God. You see, the plan of salvation is the wisdom of God. It's not man's wisdom. You think man was smart enough to figure out how to get out of this thing? Absolutely not. Salvation was not man's idea, it was God's. It is the wisdom of God and only the wisdom of God. In fact, when man's wisdom tries to mingle with it, it perverts the wisdom of God. It's all God. Man's wisdom has nothing to do with it. And by the way, you can't find the gospel. You can't find God's salvation, the gospel through man's wisdom. You can't find it that way. You find it only through the Holy Spirit and the wisdom of God. And by the way, you and I, we can't comprehend it ourselves. You say, oh, I understood the gospel. Friend, you and I, we could understand nothing unless the Holy Spirit taught us. Unless He gave it That's what Paul meant in 1 Corinthians 2. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom Which God ordained before the world unto our glory, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would have not crucified the Lord of glory. All the upper echelon high IQ people of that day, all the princes of that world, they could not comprehend the wisdom of God. Why? Because it's only given by the Holy Spirit. Had they understood really who Jesus was, Paul said they would have never crucified him. But you see, Paul goes on to say, But as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of men the things which God has prepared for them that loved him. But God has revealed them unto us by his spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. You know what Paul is saying there? He is saying, look, with all of your all the empirical ways of learning, your eyes and your ears and the way that you normally learn, you can have all of that, but if that's all you have, you'll never comprehend the gospel You'll never comprehend the wisdom of God. Why? Because it's spiritually discerned. Unless God teaches it to you, you're not going to get it. You need to have all those empirical ways, but if that's all you have, if that's where it ends, and you don't have the illumination of the Holy Spirit, friend, you will never get it. You'll never get it. I will never get it I remember one time I was at Johns Hopkins University reading Biblical Hebrew doing a seminar there, and I had all these intelligent people around me, much smarter than me, reading Old Testament passages. Christological messianic passages and we would read and have to interpret and they would read and you know what? They never saw Christ in any of it Some of the great Old Testament messianic passages. And here are these brilliant people and they're reading Hebrew like you read the newspaper. You know what? They couldn't see Jesus. You know why? Because God didn't reveal it And the Holy Spirit didn't reveal it. I was there, I was reading, you know what? I saw Jesus. You say, why? Were you smarter than them? No. Friend, God just taught me. You know why? Because He He delights in using foolish things. Uh you laugh, but I'm serious. He delights in taking the foolish to confound the wise. The Spirit has to give it. The Spirit is the one who gives the wisdom of God, or you don't get it. Thomas Watson said, Ministers may set the food of the Word before you, but only Christ can cause you to taste it. And since all of salvation is all of God, since God is the one, he's the all-wise God, our Savior, who shows you his wisdom. Because as a person, he is a merciful God, he is a saving God, and he is the one who gave us the ability to even understand the gospel and drew us unto himself, and now he is the one who is keeping us The only wise God, then he gets all the glory. Because of his power. His preserving, his presenting, his person. We join with Jude and we say, to him be glory And majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. He gets all of the praise. God forbid That I should glory accepting the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's it. I'll close with this. When I uh went to London, I went to the grave of my favorite preacher, Charles Haddon Spurgeon. And written on his tombstone, on the side of it, were these words. These are the words we sang this morning. When this poor lisping, stammering tongue Lie silent in the grave. Then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy power to save. I thought, what an appropriate thing to put on his tombstone. Listen to what Spurgeon said. He's talking about the doctrine of eternal security. I want to quote from him and then I'll be done. This is what he said. Quote. And when I heard it said That the Lord would keep his people right to the end. And when I heard it said that Christ said that Christ said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any pluck them out of my hand. And when I heard it said, I must confess, says Spurgeon, that the doctrine of the final preservation of the saints was the bait that my soul could not resist. It was a sort of life insurance, an insurance of my character An insurance of my soul, an insurance of my eternal destiny. And I knew I couldn't keep myself, but if Christ promised to keep me, then I would be safe forever And I longed and I prayed to find Christ because I knew that if I found him, he would not give me a temporary salvation as some preach. But eternal life which could never be lost, the living and incorruptible seed which lives and abides forever, for no one and nothing could ever separate me from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so it was the great doctrine of salvation that brought Spurgeon to salvation. It's what drew him. And friend, I hope that if you don't know Jesus, I hope that that will draw you to him. Because I want to tell you something. When you come and you repent of your sin and you give your heart to Christ, He not only justifies you, But he immediately begins sanctifying you. And he will continue that process. And he will glorify you ultimately. And you know what, friend? You're safe. You're secure. It doesn't matter. Now, apostasy is dangerous. Don't get me wrong. But friend, if you know Jesus. He's the one that will keep you from falling and present you faultless. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for this precious doctrine, this wonderful truth. I am so thankful for your grace, the grace that saves us. And the grace that keeps us. Lord, you alone are able. And so you alone get all the glory. And we say, like Judge, to the only wise God our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion, and power both now and forever. Amen.