Life is a mystery, and isn't that just like God? Well that's kind of what we're going to be talking about. Open your Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter 8. And your Bible should probably be falling open automatically to Ecclesiastes by now on Wednesday night. Anyway, look in chapter 8 and look at verse 9. Verse 9 says, This, all this have I seen and applied my heart to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own herd. And so I saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so uh had so done, this is also vanity. Drop down to verse sixteen and seventeen. Let me read those verses tonight. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done upon the earth For also there is that neither day nor night seeeth sleep with his eyes. Then I beheld all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun Because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it. Yea, farther, though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it. I was reading about an atheistic farmer who ridiculed God-fearing people. And uh people would God-fearing farmers would go and worship on the Lord's Day, but not this farmer. And he sent a letter to an editor of a newspaper, and this is what he wrote. He said, well, others went to church, I plowed on Sunday. I planted on Sunday. I cultivated on Sunday. He said, I hauled my crops on Sunday, but I never went to church on Sunday. Yet I harvested more bushels per acre than anyone else, even those who are God-fearing and never miss a service. Well, the editor of the newspaper printed the man's letter, but then he made this note at the end. God doesn't always settle his accounts in October. And that is right. God does not always settle his accounts in October, but you can rest assured that he does settle his accounts. Now, the issue tonight, the theme of the passage here in chapter 8, is that God does settle his accounts, but there seems to be a mystery of how and when God does it. Now let me just say in Ecclesiastes chapter 8 that this is not an easy chapter to discern. It's not an easy chapter to study, frankly It's not an easy chapter to preach. Hopefully, it'll be easy for you to listen to tonight. There are some chapters in the Bible simply that are just harder than others And you know, part of my purpose in preaching the word is to be clear, to give the meaning of the scripture, because the meaning of the scripture is the scripture. And I believe that when I'm faithful to give the clear meaning of a passage, God the Holy Spirit will use that in hearts and lives. So Ecclesiastes chapter 8 to many seems like just a bunch of disconnected thoughts and phrases. And some people when they read chapter eight, they they read the last half of the chapter and they can't figure out how this fits with the first half of the chapter. Does it relate at all? Well, in fact, it does have a relationship. And so let me just really briefly describe to you the structure of how this all works together, the first part of the chapter with the second part Now remember the background for this in the first part of chapter 8 is a a wise man having the proper protocol and decorum before a king. After all, a king in that day had absolute authority. You didn't want to make the king mad at you You wanted to make sure that when you went into the presence of a king, that you used the right wisdom, that you used the right protocol. And Solomon is exalting the value of wisdom, that this wisdom is able to help anyone navigate around an abusive authority or a king that really is not easy to live with and work with. A man who's wise, not only will his face shine, but he will have the discernment to deal with such a king Remember that last week we saw there are four responses to such an authority. There's one of disobedience or disgust. Look at verse 3 again. Be not hasty to go out of his sight. Stand not in the evil thing. Don't, when you leave the king's court, show disgust. Don't get with those who would defy him and be part of a plan that would overthrow him. But a real wise man uses discernment, verse number five. Look at that again. Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing. And a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment. A real wise man knows the right time and manner in which to graciously appeal to a king that he may not agree with Here's a man that goes into the presence of an authority and he's given a command that his conscience will not allow him to follow, or something that goes against the scripture, against his own conviction. But being a wise man, he knows how to navigate around that. And he knows how to still stand for his convictions, not compromise, and yet appease the king. That is real wisdom. Now, Solomon also knows in chapter 8 that a man who has absolute authority has a limited authority if he's an earthly king, because we also saw that things can change quickly in verse 7. For he knows not what shall be, for who can tell him when it shall be? Things can change overnight politically. That king can be deposed, he can be taken off the throne. But there's another thing, and that is, even though this king might have power, he doesn't have the power to retain his spirit. When death comes, there's nothing he can do Because although he may be powerful, he's not more powerful than that monarch of terrors, which is death. And when death comes, he has no choice. And of course we know who's in control of that. That is Almighty God. So all of this to say that wisdom is valuable because it helps a man to stand before authorities and to use wisdom. But the second part of chapter 8 says this. Wisdom can help you in relation to an earthly king. But in understanding the king of kings and the purposes and plans of the heavenly king, wisdom has limitations. You're not going to be able to understand all the ways of God. No matter how wise you are, no matter how much experience you may have. You're not going to figure God out. You cannot. Now there are some people that look in chapter 8, the second part of chapter 8. And they look at verses 16 and 17 and they say, well, this belongs in chapter 9. This is not really part of chapter 8, but I disagree. I think the whole chapter is bracketed by these two ideas. Number one, a wise man knows how to treat an earthly king. He knows how to navigate around on an earthly authority and use wise counsel. But at the end of chapter 8, his wisdom can't help him to know the hidden ways of God So it's bracketed with this idea, he can know, he has wisdom for this, and at the end of chapter 8, but he doesn't have wisdom for this. And he can't know. In fact, look again at verse, look at verse 1. Who is as a wise man who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? And then of course again he exalts the value of wisdom. But look in verse 17. Then I beheld all the works of God that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun, because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it. Yea, farther though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it. So again, just know that this whole chapter is bracketed with a wise man knows Verse 1, but then in verse 17, a wise man can't know this. And so this is altogether. All that to say that God's ways are an enigma even to the wisest Christian. The wisest man, even though he may say, I know, can't discover the full picture of what God is doing and what God is all about. Sir Winston Churchill was a man that was seldom at a loss for words. If you ever hear his speeches, you'll know that he was a master of the King's English. He was very quick-witted. But there was a time in his life when he was rendered just about speechless, not totally speechless, but just about. It was when he came to discern some of the actions of the unpredictable Russian government. And what there is this this was at one time during World War II when Russia made this unpredictable, illogical decision that threw him for a loop and in utter frustration This is what he said. It's a riddle wrapped up in a mystery inside an enigma. A riddle wrapped up in a mystery inside an enigma. Now I want to tell you, beloved, that's about as complicated as it gets. And Solomon is basically confessing the same way, same thing, regarding the ways of God. Sometimes the ways of God are riddled Wrapped up in a mystery, inside an enigma, and we can't understand. We can't know. Now this is not a new thought in Ecclesiastes because he's already stated this before. Go back to chapter 3 verse 11. Just kind of look at it. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. We can't find out All the works of God. Look in chapter 7, verse 23. All this have I proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise. But it was far from me. Verse 24. That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find out? So again, this is not a new idea that you can't know the mysteries of God. However, there is one new twist here in chapter 8. And that is that we can't understand the ways of God specifically with reference to divine retribution or divine punishment of the wicked Again, it's a question of how God settles his accounts. There's a mystery to how God settles his accounts with the wicked. It's something that defies explanation sometimes, Solomon says. So with that in mind, I want you to see quickly just four mysteries that he mentions. Here in chapter 8, the last part of chapter 8. Four mysteries that's hard to figure out. In fact, we don't really understand it. Here's the first one. Number one, the mystery of destructive power. Look at verse 9. All this have I seen and applied my heart to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. Now notice at the beginning of verse 9. Solomon again confesses what he's confessed several times in this journal, and that is, I've seen this, I've observed this, and I've applied my heart to understand this In fact, what we see is a pattern in Ecclesiastes. Observation, I have seen. How many times have we read that phrase? I have seen, I've observed, I saw this. That's Solomon's way. First there's observation. He was alert to the world around him. Some people walk through this world half asleep. Not Solomon. Nothing got by him He observed everything. He was wide awake. It was Sherlock Holmes who said, you see, but you do not observe Not Solomon. He saw and he observed. He was very keen in his observation. But then there was evaluation. Then he said, I would apply my heart to this. He would observe and then he would evaluate. He said, I would think it through. When he says apply my heart, it means he deeply thought about this. He deeply molded over in his mind. And then there was observation, evaluation, and then there was a conclusion. Solomon, after he observed and evaluated, would always come to a conclusion. And sometimes He would express bewilderment in his conclusion. In essence, he would say it's a riddle wrapped up in a mystery inside an enigma. I don't understand it. I can't wrap my mind around it. And here's one of those occasions in verse 9 when it says, There's a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. Now when he says to his own hurt, he's referring to being to an abusive ruler who hurts others. Solomon says, I can't understand a leader who has this power That he has been rendered to him and he uses that power rather than for the good of others, he uses it to hurt others And he's abusive to the hurt of others. Now anybody knows that a good leader is selfless, that he puts the people ahead of himself. He puts their desires and their good against uh over above his own desires. And whatever authority and power that he's given, he's careful to not abuse that power and that authority, he's careful to use that to help and benefit. people that's just basic leadership. But there are leaders that only care for themselves. There are leaders that are insatiable in their selfish ambitions. They abuse their power, they exploit, they murder, they cheat, they lie, they steal. They do whatever it needs to be done to advance their own cause, their evil tyrants. They think nothing of hurting other people. All the way, you look in history, you don't need a history lesson, but all the way from Nero, who killed Christians, to Hitler, who slaughtered millions of Jews. Someone has said that in his book, Mind Camp, My Struggle, for every word that is in that book, 125 people were murdered by him. Or he had them put to death. Someone estimated that 17 to 20 million people died as a result of his policies in the wars that he started That's a lot of abuse. And you can go through the history books. Kim Song of Korea, 46 years in power. It is estimated that almost two million people died as a result of his his policies. what he had done. Saddam Hussein and his genocide, millions died, Lenin, Stalin, Hirohito of Japan, and on we could go. The world has been filled with rulers who are abusive and who have hurt people. And Solomon says, I don't understand this. This is a mystery to me. Why are they allowed to get into this position of power and to do such hurt? But then the beyond that there's another mystery. Write this down. Secondly, the mystery of dead princes. Look at verse 10. And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had done so, this is also vanity. Now when Solomon uses the word vanity here, he's using it with the idea of, I can't figure this out. It's a mystery to me. Here's another mystery that baffled him. Here were wicked men. And these wicked men were hypocritical. They would go to the holy place. They would go to church. How many of you understand that just because a person goes to church don't mean they're righteous? A lot of times they go to hide from their crimes. People do, not you here tonight. I mean this is the Wednesday night crowd for crying out loud. But you understand that. Solomon says, I've seen wicked people go to the holy place. They pretend to be pious and spiritual, and then they die. And when they die, they receive a big lavish funeral and a burial. They're carried to their graves in honor. They are given outward respect and praise. They are honored as some great saint. Or hero. But had they received their due reward, they wouldn't get all of that praise. They wouldn't get all that honor. In fact, look again where it says they were forgotten in verse number 10. I also saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city. Where it says forgotten there. Just a little note. The Hebrew manuscripts reveal that the idea here is that their sins and their evil behavior was forgotten. Not that they were forgotten. In fact They were praised. All the bad things that they had done was forgotten. And I don't want to give you all the technicalities of this in the Hebrew, but just trust me. This means that they their bad deeds were forgotten and all their good things were remembered. And they were praised. They were praised in the very city where they operated their reign of terror. They were praised by the very people that they oppressed. Taylor paraphrases this verse like this. I have seen the wicked buried, and as their friends returned from the cemetery, Having forgotten all the dead man's evil deeds, those men were praised in the very city where they had committed their many crimes. How odd. And what troubled Solomon is the honor that came to their funeral. In 1715, King Louis XIV of France died after a reign of 72 years in France His whole reign was was one of where he wanted glory from people. His court was was just filled with pomp. It was filled with luxury and all these things. During his reign, he killed Christians. He had Protestant ministers thrown out or chased out of France. He had churches closed, and many Christians had to run for their lives. Yet when he died, he was given a golden coffin. And his body laid in state. And there were strict orders given that in this great cathedral where his body was, the lights were to remain low. And there was one candle on the coffin that was to be lit, that was a symbol of his greatness. And when it came time for the funeral The bishop who presided over the service, before he said anything, reached forth and he put the candle out. And he said, only God is great. And it's Solomon is basically saying the same thing here. These men don't deserve praise. They don't deserve this kind of funeral. Shakespeare said this, the evil that men do lives after them, the good is often interred with their bones. Solomon's point is the exact opposite happens And he observed this with his own eyes. In verse 10, so I saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place. He perhaps was there at the funeral. And Solomon says, I can't figure that out People who are wicked get praised when they die. But then here's a third mystery. Not only the mystery of destructive power and the mystery of dead princes, but there's the mystery of delayed punishment. Look at verse 11 Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. Now the point in verse 11 is pretty straightforward here. What happens when evil tyrants or wicked men are not dealt with quickly? They're not given a death blow by the Lord when they do evil? What happens? When they're not immediately punished, others see this, and what it does does it do for them? It emboldens their hearts to do evil. They think that people are getting away with their evil deeds. They think that they're getting away with crime. But let me tell you something about God, beloved. God is long-suffering God is merciful. God is forbearing. And thank God that he is, because if he wasn't, some of us wouldn't be here tonight. God doesn't throw lightning bolts from heaven when people do wrong. He doesn't always do it. Sometimes he might. You know why? Because he's so patient. Excuse me, Exodus 34, 6. The Lord is slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. God is patient to mankind. Why? Because God is waiting for men to repent. Right? I mean We pastor preached on this from 2 Peter. He's long-suffering, not willing that any should what? Perish And also write down Romans 2 verse 4. The forbearance of God should lead men to repent. Romans 2, 4, or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to what? Repentance. The goodness of God should lead a person to repent. But for some evil men, it doesn't do that. Instead of bringing them to repentance, they think that they're getting away with their crimes. And because they're not executed or punished Their heart is emboldened to do more evil. Look at verse number 12. Though a sinner do evil a hundred times, And his day be prolonged. That is, he lives long. He repeats his deed. Rather than turning away from wrong, he intensifies his wrong. And he has a long life sometimes to do it. I recently saw where a mobster, a man who was a mafia boss in charge of one of the five families of New York, died at age 95. When I saw that I thought, how can this guy live so long? And that's the question that we asked, that's the question that Solomon asked Yes. James Russell Lowe wrote in his poem, Truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne. It just seems like that wrong is forever on the throne of some. And so there's a mystery here in delayed punishment. But then let me give you the fourth one. The mystery of defrauded people. Look at verse 14. Drop down to verse 14. We'll come back to these other verses Look at verse 14. There is a vanity, again, a mystery here, which is done upon the earth, that there be just men unto whom it happeneth, according to the work of the wicked, again there be wicked men to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous. And I said that this also is vanity. Here's another mystery that's done on the earth, Solomon says, another riddle wrapped up in a mystery inside an enigma. It said a just man is punished as if he were wicked, and a wicked man is rewarded as if he were righteous. That's another thing that's hard to understand. And when it says unto whom it happeneth, it has the implication there of providence. Again, Taylor translates this, providence seems to treat some good men as though they were wicked and some wicked men as though they were good. And the key word is they're seeing. That's perception, friend, but that's not real. That's only perception. It seems like from our view that things are reversed, we would expect God to punish quickly the wicked and reward the righteous. Yet it seems at times that the opposite is happening. Philip Reichin, let me just quote what he wrote in his commentary. He says it so well. Good people have troubles that only bad people deserve. While bad people get what only good people deserve. Cruel dictators drive out free governments. The man who robs investors of their inheritance gets a huge bonus, while hardworking people lost their jobs and their homes. Suffering pastors are put in prison while the prosecutors of the church grow strong in their cruel power To bring things down to a personal level, the student who cheated on a difficult exam gets an A, but all you get is a C minus. The worker who stabbed you in the back gets the promotion while you remain stuck in the same pay grade Or you make a commitment to chastity, and although you're still single, the girl who throws herself at men gets a ring on her finger and gets a long white dress. Solomon is saying there seems to be a reversal of retribution and reward. And this all seems hard to think about. In fact, the Reformation theologian Bizer called it repugnant to reason. All these things are repugnant to our reason. So the question is: how do we respond to this? When things like this, when mysteries like this confront us, how do we respond? And by the way, these are just a few mysteries. You may have some why questions in your own life. Some things that you can't figure out. What are we to do when we see these things? We d are we to sweep them under the rug? Solomon certainly isn't doing that here. I mean he's pointing them out. He doesn't stick his head in the sand like some do and pretend that they're not there, that it's not reality. How are we to respond to mysteries like this? And so, in closing, that's the beginning of the closing, not the end of it. In closing, just I want you to see in the text because interwoven And the last part of chapter 8 are responses that Solomon gives to us when we're confronted with mysteries like this. What are our responses to be? Well, here's the first one. Just write this down. Humility. Humility. Admit that we don't have the answer. Just admit we don't have the answer. Look at verse 16 again. When I applied my heart to know wisdom. And to see the business that is done upon the earth, for also there is that neither day nor night, see a sleep with his eyes. Verse 17, then I beheld all the work of God That a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun, because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it, yea, farther, though a wise man think to know it Shall he he shall not be able to find it? That is, we just have to admit that no matter how hard we may apply our reason and wisdom and knowledge to these mysteries, we're not going to get an answer. We're not going to really understand it. There are mysteries in life that we don't have the answer to. And we have to accept that. But now listen, beloved, living with mystery is part of the Christian life. Because as Christians, we don't walk by sight, we walk by faith. In fact, if you read the Bible, you know what you're going to find? There are mysteries all over the Bible. And if you study theology, you know what you're going to find? There are mysteries in theology that I can't explain. That's just a part of life. That's a part of the Christian life. In 1 Corinthians 15, there's the mystery of the resurrection. In Ephesians, it talks about four different mysteries: the mystery of God's will, mystery of the church, mystery of the bride, mystery of the gospel. In 2 Thessalonians, there's the mystery of lawlessness. In 1 Timothy 3, there's the mystery of godliness. God's word, like God's will, is full of mysteries. And listen, beloved, God will sometimes choose to reveal to us the answer to those mysteries. Sometimes in his word, he reveals to us that mystery But sometimes he chooses not to. Sometimes he just lets us go. He doesn't tell us. You know why? Because at those times God is saying that you just need to trust me here. You just need to trust that I know what I'm doing. God says, you're not going to figure it out, but you have to trust me. And that is part of the Christian life. And you either accept that or you don't. Now I want to tell you something, a humble person will accept it. To a humble person, reason is faith at rest in God. A humble person will say, I don't have to know all the answers. I can walk by faith. I don't live by explanations. I live by the promises of God. And when we see things that don't seem exactly right, and we can't figure it out. We don't demand an answer from God. We just say with Abraham, who was a man who walked by faith. We say with faithful Abraham, we know that the judge of all the earth will do what is right. And that's what we proclaim by faith. But a proud person is not going to accept that. A proud person has to have an answer. They want to dig and they demand answers. I want to tell you something, beloved, if you refuse to live with mysteries, things that you cannot understand, you're going to get very bitter and cynical. Because you're not walking by faith. And pride will lead you down this road. Look again in verse 17. Though a man labor to seek it out, yet shall he not find it. You're not going to know the answer here on this side. But that doesn't stop a proud person. I remember when I was studying in seminary and I would read these books that were assigned to me. That's the only time those books ever get read when somebody assigns them. And there were certain theologians out there that could not accept mystery They looked at theology as a problem-solving venture. They had to get the answer to everything in their mind. And they demanded it. And this was pride. They were basically saying, I'm too smart not to get the answer to this. And so they approach theology with a problem-solving mentality. And when they saw a problem, a mystery, rather than worshiping God and saying, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is what? Unsearchable. The beginning of the study of theology is the presupposition of incomprehensibility. God is too great for you to understand, friend. And you have to start with that presupposition. But some people don't start there. Rather than wondering and worshiping at the incomprehensibility of God, they determine to unscrew the inscrutable. They determine to get an answer. And I want to tell you, when you go down that road, this is what happens. They bring God down off the throne and they put him in his little box. and they redefine God into somebody that they can understand. And what they do now is they're worshiping a different God. He's no longer the God of the Bible. He's a God that they created in their own mind. I want to tell you something, friend. You can commit idolatry in your mind. The pagans, they would make idols with their hands, but a lot of people make their God in their mind. They paint a picture of God in their mind that doesn't fit the God that's revealed in Scripture. Why? Because they can't accept mystery they're too proud to. They have to have all their questions answered. And they refuse to walk by faith in that sense. But A true believer will understand that mystery is a part of theology and understanding that God is too great. He's infinite. We're finite Let me tell you something, friend. There are some people that they won't even come to Christ. They won't even get saved because they can't accept the evil that's in the world. They have to have an answer to all of it. They want to have all their questions answered, but let me tell you something, friend. If God explained it to you, you wouldn't understand it anyway. You think you could understand all of that? You couldn't God has concealed things on purpose that we might know that we have limitations and his greatness is unsearchable. And we need to accept that and walk by faith. But here's the second response. Not only humility, admit that we don't have the answer. But here's the second response, fear, fear. Acknowledge that it is still better to live a godly life Look in verse 12. Look again what he says. Though a sinner do evil a hundred times, yet his days be prolonged. Yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God. Which fear before him. Look at verse 13. But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow, because he feareth not before God. You know what he's saying there, in spite of the fact that things don't always go as we would expect, despite the fact that there are mysteries in God's retribution to the wicked It is still true that it is better, that it'll go well with those who fear God. It will always go well for those who fear and worship God. You hear what Solomon is saying? He's saying, I'm choosing to walk by faith here. Although there are things I don't understand. I know. Not I see, but I know. You see, normally he uses the word saw. I saw or I have seen. He doesn't use that verb here. What verb does he use? Verse 13, yet surely I what? I know. Even though I can't see this, I know this in my heart. And this again is walking by faith. My fear of God teaches me to walk by faith, and even though I can't see it, even though it doesn't make sense, I know that it's better to fear God and walk in godliness. I know that. And I know that the wicked are not going to get away with what they think they are. There is going to be a judgment. And God will settle all of his accounts. You can rest assured of that. And again, this is based on having a healthy fear of God. And a fear of God is not just being afraid of God, although that might be part of it. It is having a reverence and an awe at the greatness of God. That's what it's talking about. And again, this is a major theme that we see throughout the book of Ecclesiastes. In chapter 3, verse 14, Solomon said, We're to fear God because he's sovereign over the seasons of our life. In chapter 5, we're to fear God when we go into the house of God. And we make a vow we better fear the Lord when we do that At the end of chapter twelve, Solomon will tell us to fear God by keeping his commandments, but here he's saying we are to fear God, even though there are things that happen that we don't understand, yet we still fear God, and we know that he's a holy God. And we know that he will settle his account. He will judge the ungodly. We know that. And so we respond in fear This will ultimately be fulfilled at the final judgment. Simply put, no one's getting away with anything. Then here's the third response. Joy. Joy. Not only humility, admit that we don't have the answer, and fear, acknowledge that it's still better to live a godly life, joy. Accept the blessings of this life while you can. Look again in verse number 15. Then I commended mirth, or joy we could say, because a man hath no better thing under the sun than to eat and to drink and to be merry. For that shall abide with him of his labor, the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun And so Solomon in essence is saying, we know that it will go well for God's people who fear him, especially at the time of judgment. But in the meantime, Solomon is giving us in verse 15 good advice on how we can live today And he's saying, look, just learn to enjoy all the blessings that God gives you now. Don't allow the difficulties of mysteries in this life that we can't understand. Rob from you the joy of taking and enjoying the blessings that God has given you. Don't let it do that. Live in the blessings and the gifts that God has given you. That's the point. I don't understand electricity, but I'm not going to sit around in darkness because it's a mystery. No, I'm going to live in the light. There are some people that because there are mysteries, they refuse to live in the light. They refuse to come to God. And I've witnessed to people like this before, because they have questions that God won't answer, or they can't find an answer to, they fold their arms and say, Well, I'm not coming to God. Well, if you want to live in the darkness and face eternal judgment, then go ahead And friend, don't get me wrong, I wish that on no one. But if you're in your stubborn pride to demand that all your questions be answered before you'll come to God, you'll sit in darkness, friend. Because God is not going to be called into your court trial and answer to you. That's not God. God says, no. Just enjoy the blessings that I give. Enjoy what you have. Have joy, choose joy. And again, you either choose to trust God or you don't. That's as simple as that. You choose to either enjoy the blessings or sit around in the dark. Solomon's advice is choose joy. Choose joy. Look at verse 15. Then I commended mirth. Now, some scholars here interpret this that Solomon's kind of being cynical here. It's kind of an expression of resignation. Since things are messed up, just get all the gusto you can It's kind of how they interpret that. But that's not the attitude that Solomon is giving. I mean, he just said fear God And he says in verse 15, which God gives. These are gifts from God. This is a God-centered perspective. This isn't a hedonistic perspective secular earthly perspective. This is a Christian God-centered perspective from someone who fears God and he's saying that I'm going to choose joy in this life. And this is what is called as one of the enjoyment passages. We've already seen several of them before. But there's something different about this one. Whereas before Solomon says, I've seen joy or I found joy, here He's even more confident where he says, I commend joy. He's saying, I want you to choose joy. I want you to experience this for yourself. Don't sit around in the dark. Choose joy. And so we respond to the difficult mysteries. The conflicts that we have in life with humility, with the fear of the Lord, and with joy. It's an expression of walking in faith. Now let me close with this. This was really made clear to me one time. I was pastoring it down in Ellendale in Tennessee And one night I went to the hospital to visit a man who was uh taken into the emergency room suddenly. And uh I've noticed when I went into the emergency room that uh he wasn't really doing well. He was in tremendous pain. So I went over to the nurses station. I let them know that they weren't giving him anything or really paying him much attention. So I said, would you please check on him? And I want to tell you that hospitals and doctors and nurses are wonderful. They're gifts from God. They really are And 99% of all doctors and nurses and hospital workers just do a tremendous job. But every once in a while, someone may slip through the cracks, so to speak And I think there was a sense in which this man was neglected. I got a phone call the next morning that said he died. 45 years old. He left a wife and three children. He was a handsome young man who was earmarked for leadership and good things. And a lot of people just couldn't understand it. They just felt like this was so unnecessary. And it was hard for so many people to deal with. They did not understand. And I remember the f at the funeral services, there were many political leaders there. There were many people from the military there. This man had served honorably in the military. He was a political leader. And many people had questions they could not understand. But I'll never forget at that funeral service, his high school son. Sharp young guy got up at the funeral. He played the piano and sang a song. Let me read to you the words of the song. The splendor of the king. Clothed in majesty, let all the earth rejoice. Let all the earth rejoice. He wraps himself in light, and darkness tries to hide, and trembles at his voice How great is our God. Sing with me, how great is our God. I want to tell you that when he began to sing that song, The Holy Spirit was on him, and all the why questions fell away. And people focused on God. And there was a great lesson learned there that day that we respond to mystery with humility. with the fear of the Lord, and yes, even with joy. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, we acknowledge that you do move in mysterious ways And we also acknowledge, Lord, that your greatness is beyond our comprehension. And we don't live by explanations. We live by promises. We don't walk by sight. We walk by faith. And Lord, I pray for those who are here tonight. Who may be experiencing some difficulty in their life. There are questions that they can't seem to find an answer to. Lord, I pray that they would in faith Stop asking those why questions that there are no earthly answers to. And that, Lord, they would embrace you. They would come to you. And realize, Lord, that there are blessings that you've given. And that, Lord, you do all things well. We can understand why, but we know that That the God of all the earth, the judge of all the earth, will do what is right. Lord, help us to reach this level of faith in our life. It's not easy. But Lord, grant that to us. And may we worship you all the more, and praise you all the more. And we pray this in Jesus' worthy name. Amen.