All right, good evening, good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take your Bibles open to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. That is the book right before the last book of the Bible, Malachi. We're doing a study in this book of Zechariah. You probably never heard a series through this book. And uh hopefully you'll learn from it as I am learning from it. And uh we're gonna look tonight at chapter 1, verse 7 down to verse 17 of Zechariah. Verse 1. Upon the fourth and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which is in the eleventh month, which is the month of Sebat. In the second year of Darius came the word of the Lord unto Zachariah, the son of Barakiah, the son of Edo, the prophet, saying, I saw by night, and behold, a man riding upon a red horse And he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom, and behind him were red horses speckled in white. Then said I, O Lord, what are these? And the angel that talked with me said unto me, I will show thee what these be. If you've been a Christian for very long, you probably have times when it seems like God has forgotten you. You're seeking to please the Lord with your life. You're not engaged in any known sin, and yet you have major trials. And it seems like perhaps at times your prayers are bouncing off of the ceiling. Then you have the thought, you know, God must have forgotten me. And to make matters worse, you look at your un Saved neighbor or pagans around you and it y they seem like they're doing quite quite well. These are people that have no regard for God or His ways They brag openly about their sins, and yet they seem to be enjoying everything that life has to offer. And you find yourself saying, God, where are you? I feel like you have forgotten me. Now the Jews to whom Zachariah were ministering were struggling with that very issue. If you remember, this was a group of 50,000 Jews that were in exile in Babylon that had decided to come back home, repatriate the land of Israel. and begin to obey the Lord. They came back to a war-devastated land, and uh they were uh surrounded by aggressive neighbors who opposed their efforts to rebuild the temple and rebuild the city of Jerusalem But by faith they had responded to the message of Haggai the prophet and had begun to rebuild the temple. And two months later after that, God raised up the prophet Zechariah, who was a younger prophet. And he had a message, and we saw that message last week in verse 3 of chapter 1. Turn unto me, saith the Lord, and I will turn unto you. And that was the message. Start off with repentance, turning to the Lord with all their heart. Then on the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, just like we read in verse number seven. On this very day, when the people had begun to rebuild, the Lord revealed to Zachariah eight visions on this one day. And these visions were to encourage this discouraged people. Um and this day on our calendar would be on February fifteenth, five nineteen BC. All eight visions that we're going to be looking at in the book of Zechariah all occurred at one time to the prophet Zechariah. And all eight visions basically develops the one major theme of the book that I told you about last week. Remember I said that you can remember the theme of the book of Zechariah just by looking at the names of the uh in verse number seven. There's Zechariah, that name means whom the Lord remembers. There's Barekiah, that name means The Lord blesses, and then there's Edo, and that name means at the appointed time. And so you put that together, you have really the whole theme of Zechariah. God remembers his people, and God will bless his people at the appointed time. And so today we're going to look at the first night vision. This is from verses 7 down to verse 17. I want us to get an understanding of this vision and how it applies to us as believers. But the big idea I want you to see really today in this whole text is this. When it seems as if the wicked are at ease and the godly are forgotten Just God doesn't forget you, and He encourages us with His presence, His prayers, and His promises. And that's really the assurance that we get here in this whole passage. So I want you to see three assurances that God sees you and remembers you in your darkness. He hasn't forgotten you. Here's the first assurance. Number one, his constant presence. His constant presence. That's what this really reveals. In verses 8 to 11, Zechariah sees a vision that assures him that God is actively working behind the scenes. Now, many times we think that God has forgotten us because we're unable to see his hand in our affairs. But he never leaves his own, and he's always with us. But much of God's work is done in secret. God is secretly working behind the scenes in your life And I I call this the providence of God. And you heard me talk about this before. Providence, what is it? It's really from two Latin words, pro, before. video to see to see beforehand. The idea of the providence of God is that God's work today in your life is based on what God sees way down the road. or what he sees before him. God's actions today are based on what God knows tomorrow. Or another way to look at the providence of God is to simply say this. Providence is God executing his plan in your life and in the entire universe. He has a plan and he has the power to execute that plan. And he arranges all the details and then he makes sure that all these things come to pass. That means there's nothing in your life that is left a chance. There's nothing in your life that is unimportant to God. What did Jesus say the very hairs of your head are what? Are numbered, right? And so God has all this arranged in our lives. And so the idea is nothing is left to chance. The Bible says in Job 24, 14, He performs what is appointed for me. Now, Zechariah is going to see a glimpse of this providential working of God and this vision. that he's going to see about what God is doing among his people, Israel. He reveals his presence behind the scene. So what does Zachariah see? Well first of all he sees the angel of the Lord. Look in verse number eight. I saw by night and behold a man riding upon a red horse And he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom, and behind him there were red horses speckled in white. First of all, in verse eight, we see that Zechariah in this vision sees what he calls a man on a red horse. Now later this man will be identified as the angel of the Lord. In fact Verse eleven makes it clear that this is who this is, not just an angel of the Lord, but notice the angel of the Lord. And this is what is called a preincarnate appearance of Christ in the Old Testament. This is the second member of the Trinity. There are several times in the Old Testament when Christ makes an appearance, and the Bible describes him as the angel of the Lord, not just any angel, but the angel of, and Lord is in all caps, the angel of Yahweh. For example, in Genesis 16, 11-13, when uh Hagar was running from the abuse of Sarah She encountered the angel of Yahweh. And after the interaction that she had with him, she later said, You are a God who sees. She was able to recognize that this messenger was Not just any angel, but it was the messenger or the angel or God Himself. In Genesis 18, we see the angel of the Lord appearing to Abraham, affirming God's promise. that God gave to Abraham about a son and all that he was going to do. And there are other places in the Old Testament. Each in each of these places, this uh the preincarnate appearance Uh the context makes it clear that it is definitely God, or we could say a Old Testament appearance of Christ. Zachariah then sees a vision of Christ. And notice some of the things that he sees. The angel of the Lord is riding on a red horse. Again, verse 8, I saw by night And behold a man riding upon a red horse. Now historically horses were used in battle. And so the image here is Messiah on a red horse. Presenting himself as a warrior ready to fight in battle against all of the enemies of God's people. Jesus is always ready to fight on your behalf. Red is the color of blood, it's the color of judgment. of vengeance. When God judged Edom, the Bible says his garments were red. And then also the angel of the Lord is standing among myrtle trees that are in the bottom. Again, look in verse 8, the second part. And he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom. What bottom is this referring to? Well, this is referring to a ravine. And this was most likely the lowest point of Kedron or the Kedron Valley that was just outside of Jerusalem. Myrtle trees grow in that area because the water would drain down into that that that ravine and it was a very fertile place. In fact, you can go to Jerusalem today and look down into that Kedron Valley and see lush trees that are growing there in that spot. And commentators agree that the myrtle trees in the ravine symbolize God's lowly people, the Jews. They're not stately cedars on mountaintops, but humble myrtles in a ravine under Gentile domination. That is what it really pictures there. The people of God are humble. They're lowly The myrtle is an evergreen that can grow up to about thirty feet. And one writer says it exudes a fragrant aroma from its berries and leaves and from its flowers. Its bl branches were used. and the feast of Booze. And by the way, it only would exude that array that fragrance when it was crushed. So Zachariah sees in this vision this angel of the Lord. Riding a red horse, and he's down in this ravine in the valley among the myrtle trees, which is a picture of Jesus being among his people that are in the valley. His oppressed people. But then also he sees the army of the Lord. Look again in verse 8, the latter part of verse 8, the last phrase, and behind him there were red horses speckled and white. So Zachariah sees behind the angel of the Lord and his red horse an army of horses. Now we assume that each horse has a rider, based on what's said in verse number 10, that they walk to and fro all throughout the earth. And the horses symbolize God's activity in governing the earth. The red horses again point to war The white horse is a symbol of victory. The speckled or the light brown or dappled, we could say, perhaps a mixture of brown and white, maybe referring to a mixture of judgment and mercy. And Zechariah, he sees all this. Now, if you're in Zechariah's position, you're probably thinking, man, what does all this mean? How am I going to understand this? And so Zechariah asks another angel to help him to understand Notice verse number nine. Then said I, O Lord, what are these? When he says, O Lord here, he's directing his question not to the angel of the Lord, not to the messenger of Yahweh, but there's another angel there. And when he uses the word Lord here, this is a word that was really a term of respect. And so this was an interpreting angel that was there. And by the way, as we look through Zechariah's visions, this angel will always be there, and he will help Zachariah in understanding the interpretation of each of these visions. And so the interpreting angel responds in verse number nine. And he said, and the angel set that talketh me said unto me, I will show thee what These be. Now this exchange illustrates to us the need for divine illumination for God's word. There are some things in Scripture that we will not understand unless God gives us the insight. Zechariah, he was seeing all this and he couldn't really grasp all the meaning of this. He needed illumination from the Lord. And by the way, the same is true of all of us. I can't understand God's word unless the Holy Spirit opens my eyes. to see the truth of Scripture. And that is also true of you. There's no way we can understand spiritual truth unless God reveals it to us by the work of the Holy Spirit. And the Apostle Paul talks about that a lot in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, that these things are spiritually revealed. God's word is spiritually revealed. Now, Zechariah didn't demand an explanation. He humbly, reverently asked, what does this mean? What does the Bible say when we ask for wisdom, God will give it? And the Lord will reveal his secrets to those who fear him. And so we see the angel of the Lord. The army of the Lord. But then there's another thing here. There's the answer of the Lord. Before the interpreting angel can give Zechariah an answer to his question, The angel of the Lord, or this appearance of Christ, the Messiah, he answers in verse number 10. And the man that stood among the myrtle trees answered and said These are they whom the Lord has sent to walk to and fro through the earth. The angel of the Lord answers Zachariah. And he says, What you see, Zechariah, is God's angelic army that patrols the earth and carries out God's decrees on earth. They carry out God's will. They do the will of God. They protect the people of God. And notice in verse number 11, this patrol of horsemen. Come back to the angel of the Lord to give a report in verse 11. And they answered the angel of the Lord that stood among the myrtle trees and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth. And behold, all the earth sitteth still and is at rest. I can't help but think of another vision when I read this. Remember the story of Jacob in Genesis chapter 28? Jacob left home because of you know, he wasn't a very good boy, and he had to leave because he made Esau mad. Esau was ready to kill him. His mother sends him to his to her family. He has to make a long journey Three days into the journey, fifty miles into the journey, he sleeps at night out in the open. He couldn't make it to the city of Luz. The gates had already closed. So he's there to the Bible calls the place, which was really an important place because Abraham settled there when he first went into the promised land. And there he he uh sleeps out in the open. He uses a rock for a pillow. I never could understand that. Seems like a hard night for him. But the Bible says that he had a vision. And what was the vision? He sees a ladder or a stairway go all the way up to the throne of God, right before the throne of God, come all the way down to where he was. The Hebrew word there solom means really a stairway. And what does he see? Angels ascending and descending on the stairway. Why? Because they were doing the will of the Lord. Angels are messengers sent out to perform God's will. They're ministering spirits, the Bible says, to serve those who are heirs of salvation. That's you and I. And there's a similar idea right here. Here are these horsemen, and they're going out and they're going to and fro in all the earth. They're on a kind of a reconnaissance mission. And they're coming back to the captain of hosts, the Lord of hosts, and they're giving their reports. And they said, We have walked to and fro throughout all the earth. And behold, all the earth sitteth still and does that is at rest. Now, when you read that at first, it might sound like, well, that's a good thing. I mean they're out there and they see that the earth is still and all is at rest. On the surface, this looks good, but actually this is quite disappointing. You say, why? Well, because Haggai the prophet had made a prophecy that God was going to shake up The enemies of the people of God. He was going to shake things. There would be a great shaking of the heavens and the earth And this is what God's people was expecting. They were expecting God to begin to work on their behalf, to put down all their enemies, those that had oppressed them, those that had been doing them so wrong. The Jewish remnant was in distress. And the Gentile powers, the ungodly people, they were all at ease. And when the rider rides, the riders ride out, they see that all hostilities, this shaking that God promised to do, this hasn't happened yet. And so for the people of God, they were still waiting. They're waiting for God to move mightily on their behalf. And so this wasn't necessarily a good report for them. But here's the point of the vision. The point of this vision of Christ and his angels in the midst of the myrtle trees, the oppressed people of God, is to encourage God's people with the reality of his presence. He's with them in that valley. You may could relate to how Zachariah and these people were feeling. You may be asking the question tonight, Lord, when are you going to work on my behalf? God, I've been going through this trial for a long time now, and I'm waiting on you, Lord. Just remember this, God hasn't forgotten you. And he is walking to and fro behind the scenes. He is working providentially on your behalf, and you have to trust him for his perfect time. This vision is meant to give hope to all those who are waiting for God to work on their behalf. You may be like that myrtle tree down there in the valley. In the darkness of that valley, but God knows where you are. In fact, He's right there with you in your midst Right there in that ravine. He sees all. He knows what you're experienced. He is mounted and ready to charge forth in your defense. And his presence is there with you. And that should comfort us all. That no matter how dark the valley that we're in, Christ is right there with us. And his presence will strengthen us, his presence will help us in this time. That were in that valley. Clarissa Mo was a woman who had learned to lean on the Lord Jesus when difficulty had come in her life. And an article that she wrote called The Only Perfect perfectly safe place to be. This is an article that reflected on the sudden loss of her husband. She says this. She said with it with the tenderness of a shepherd, Jesus began to coax, open my clenched hands. My fearful death grip on life. I sensed him asking me to step out in faith and to trust his voice calling me forward into my new life. as a widow. She says, God's power and presence had not disappeared. They were right there with me. And friend, God's presence is with you. This vision is to remind Zachariah of that very thing. God hasn't forgotten. God remembers. And we have this assurance, his constant presence. But here's the second assurance that we can see in this vision, his compassionate prayers. Look at verse number twelve. Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, O Lord of hosts, How long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these threescore and ten years? And here's the next thing that we need to see in this vision. You have someone who is praying for you. And what we see here in verse number 12, I think, is a beautiful picture of the ministry of the intercession of Jesus. Remember the angel of the Lord. This is the pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus. And what does he do here? He speaks to the Lord of hosts. Look again in verse 12. Then the angel of the Lord answered and said, Oh Lord of hosts. Here is the angel of the Lord, the messenger, Jesus, speaking to again, all capital letters, Yahweh. He's speaking to the Father. The New Testament teaches us about the prayer ministry of Jesus. We know according to the New Testament that Jesus is in heaven. And what is he doing for us right now in heaven? He's up there and he's making intercession for us. He's praying for you, he's praying for me. Hebrews 7. 25. But this man, Jesus, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able to save them to the other most that come unto him by God, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession. Jesus is always in heaven praying for you, praying for me. He is our great intercessor. The Bible says in Romans 8. 34, it is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. But let me tell you something. The intercession of Jesus, his advocacy, his intercessory ministry began long before that. We see it all the way back here. In ancient times, in the time of Zechariah, and he is praying for his people. He's pleading for the well-being of his people. Now, this had to be a great source of comfort for Zechariah, that this Son of God, this second member of the Trinity himself cries. for his people with compassion and concern. He makes an appeal to Yahweh. And he asks a question that was really on Zechariah's mind. What was Zachariah thinking? What were the people of Israel thinking? Lord, how long? How long is it going to be until you fulfill the promise that you made and you put down our enemies, our oppressors? But notice the angel asked that very question in verse 12, O Lord of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah? Again, this is a beautiful thing. Jesus doesn't rebuke Zechariah for wondering how long. He even asks the question on his behalf. The nations certainly deserve God's punishment for their many years of gross sin. But here is the Lord taking his place with his people in that ravine, right there in the midst of them. And then pleading to the Father to have compassion on them. What a beautiful picture of the abundant grace of our Lord. Nothing will separate us from his love. Robert Murray McShane, the godly 19th century Scottish pastor once wrote this. He said, if I could hear Christ praying for me in the next room, I would not fear a million enemies. And yet he goes on to say, yet the distance makes no difference. He's praying for me. And he's praying for you. What a blessing to know that Christ Please on our behalf. That should be a source of comfort. So we see his constant presence. We see his compassionate prayers. But there's another assurance that we have that God has not forgotten us in our darkest trial. That is his comforting promises. Notice that the angel responds, or excuse me, notice the response of the Father to the prayer of the angel of the Lord. Notice verse number 13. what he says. And the Lord answered the angel that talketh me with good words and comfortable words. In response, God the Father gives good words. He gives comf comforting words. These are the promises of God. God is faithful to comfort us with his word. How many times have you and I been comforted by God's word? How many times have we read through Scripture something that jumped off the page and into our heart because we needed it at that time and God spoke to us directly through Scripture? comforting words, affirming words. The psalmist said it like this, this is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word has quickened me. Now this is the focal point of this whole vision. We can call this part of the vision God's zeal for Zion. Notice verse number 14. So the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion, with great jealousy. The word jealous here, quinnah, the Hebrew word, it's a word that's connected to the Arabic word meaning to become very red, as as in red in the face, a person who is burning with passion. It's been translated zeal or jealous love. And really the word jealous is put first in the sentence for emphasis. The Hebrew uses also the cognate accusative. We can read it like this. Jealous I am with jealousy. This is the emphasis here. God is jealous for his people. And this affirms His love, his jealous love for his people, his zealous passion for his people. He's jealous over them as a husband is jealous over his wife, as parents over His children. And because of that, God is going to make some promises to Zachariah in this vision and to the people Here's the first one. God is displeased with the enemies of his people in verse 15. I am very sore displeased with the heathen that are at ease. For I was but a little displeased, and they helped forward the affliction. Here God reveals that He's angry with these Gentile nations because of their unnecessary brutality towards the Jewish people. You say now wait a minute, didn't God use Gentile nations to punish his people? Yes, he did. God used the Assyrians, God used the Egyptians, he used the Babylonians, uh, he used the Medo-Persians, and so on. But These nations went far beyond what God had called them to do, and they tried to destroy God's people. Other nations like Moab joined in on the assault. And so here God reveals that He's angry with the enemies of His people and He is going to judge these nations. And by the way, we'll see this later on in the next vision that Zechariah has. But God will judge them. But here's the next promise. God will have mercy on Jerusalem and will build, rebuild the temple. Verse 16. Therefore, thus saith the Lord, I am returned to Jerusalem with mercies. My house shall be built in it. saith the Lord of hosts, a line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem. And here God gives another promise to the people. God promises that his house, which they were working on at that time, by the way, God says, my house will be built. A measuring line would be stretched over Jerusalem. Not for judgment, but a measuring line for rebuilding. And this project of rebuilding the temple, or what is some people call the second temple, This is fulfilled, but it's only partially fulfilled at this time. The ultimate fulfillment still awaits at the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's going to return and fulfill the rest of this promise. You say, how how do we know that not all this has been fulfilled? Because as you look at all the things that Zechariah sees in the vision that the angel reveals to him, not all these things have happened yet These things have not been fulfilled. If you take this literally, it hasn't happened. So therefore, there must be an ultimate future fulfillment of this. For example, Jerusalem's boundaries will expand. Look at verse 17. Cry yet saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, My cities through prosperity shall yet be spread abroad. The Lord shall yet comfort Zion. God says about this city, Jerusalem, ravaged as it was by the Babylonians in 587 BC, and then later on by the Romans in 70 AD, and many conflicts since then And it's still being ravaged even in our present day. God says despite that, they will Jerusalem will experience an incredible urban renewal and expansion. The surveyor's line will be stretched out to measure a new and enlarged Jerusalem. But then he also says this. Jerusalem will once again become the city that God has chosen. Look again in verse 17, the latter part of it, where it says, and shall yet Choose Jerusalem. The Lord shall yet comfort Zion and shall yet choose Jerusalem. Zachariah says Jerusalem will once again become the city of God Now, beloved, that has not yet happened, but it will one day. Now those who say that Jerusalem has no special place in the future perhaps have not read Zechariah's vision. The Jews still have not experienced the fulfillment of all these promises some over 2,500 years later. Now I know there are some who want to spiritualize this and say, well, this isn't literal, but This is literal. This is a promise. How did the people back then understand this? They understood this as God literally fulfilling this promise. To make Jerusalem his city again and to rebuild it and to expand it. These promises are true, and God always keeps his promises. That's why, again, Israel is important. God hasn't canceled them. God hasn't canceled any of these promises that Zechariah made to Jerusalem and Israel. The Bible says the gifts and the calling of God Our Lord will not forget what He has promised. Even though He must judge people in Jerusalem now in the interim. Right now, Israel is not experiencing the blessings. and the promises of God. They are experiencing the curses and the judgments that God said will come to pass. But just as surely as God brought will bring about the curses and the judgments, he will also bring about his promises and his blessings And this is what God says will take place. This is yet future. We may die without seeing the fulfillment of this promise. But th it will still happen. It's interesting that Charles Simeon, writing in the early eighteen hundreds, affirmed that the Jews would return to the land, even though this event was over a century away from his time. He just simply studied the scripture and saw this as being true. And so God gives these comforting promises to his discouraged people to encourage them. And again, how does this apply to us? When our situation appears hopeless, we must remind ourselves that God identifies with our sufferings and he's in charge of the future. Our responsibility is simply to repent, confess our sins, and to believe his comforting words. His responsibility is to respond to our faith and to work out in our life what is perfect for us. But God has not forgotten you. That's the message. He hasn't forgotten you. He's working behind the scenes. He's right there in the valley with you. Don't judge things by your own feeble sense. Things are not as they seem There's a Jewish fable that tells of a rabbi who went on a journey with the prophet Elijah. At nightfall, they came to the cottage of a poor man and his wife, whose only earthly treasure was a cow. The man and his wife welcomed the strangers and fed them their best food and put them to bed in their own bed while they themselves lay down before the kitchen fire. But the next morning, the poor man's cow was dead. The next evening the rabbi and Elijah came to the house of a wealthy merchant. This merchant was very opposite of the poor man. He treated them coldly, and fed them bread and water, and he put them to bed in a cow shed In the morning Elijah thanked him for what he had done, and sent for a mason to repair one of the rich men's walls, which he had noticed was falling down. Elijah had this done as a return for his kindness. And the rabbi, when he saw this, couldn't keep silent. So he asked the prophet to explain his treatment of the poor man who's Cow died, and the rich man who he built a wall for. And the prophet replied and said, This In regards to the poor man, it had been decreed that his wife would die that night But in reward for his kindness, God took the cow instead of his wife. In regards to the rich miser, I repaired his wall because a chest of gold was concealed near the place. And if the miser had repaired it himself, he would have discovered the treasure. Now, obviously that's not a true story. But the moral of the tale is this: don't say to the Lord, What are you doing? What are you doing? But say in your heart, Must not the Lord of all do what is right? He does what is right for me. We don't always see the big picture as God does. And when it seems as if the wicked are at ease and you are forgotten, just Presence. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this vision that took place so many years ago. You gave to Zachariah on that night, that and so many other visions. And in them, Lord, you reveal again your secrets, your insight to your people, people that may be in the valley, discouraged. Suffering a dark trial, wondering when, O Lord, will you remove this from me? When will you work on my behalf? And Father, help us to take courage from this vision that was communicated to God's people so many years ago and yet also to us today. That Lord, you have not forgotten us. You never forget your own. In fact, you're right there with us, right there in that ravine. Your presence is there And Lord, you are sending your army to and fro all around. You know every part of our life. You know all that is going on. And you are putting to practice into practice your plan. You're bringing to pass the providences that you planned in our life. And Lord, may we be reminded that you're praying for us and that you give us encouraging promises that you will not. Forget us, and that you're always going to fulfill your word on our behalf. Father, may this encourage some who are here tonight and may be down. May it cause them to find strength and hope in you, Lord, we pray. In Jesus wonderful name, Amen