The message for our hearts, hopefully tonight, will be an encouragement to you. Look at Genesis 39 tonight. Genesis 39. And look in verse one. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar. An officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither I want to speak tonight on God of the Dead Ends. God of the dead ends. Once there was a man who uttered these words. He said, My life is over, but it has not yet ended. My life is over, but it has not yet ended. Who do you think said those words? These were words that were uttered by a man by the name of Sir Winston Churchill. Winston Churchill had gotten to a point in his life where he felt like he had gone as far as he was going to go politically, that there was really nothing left for him in the future days. And so he suffered through depression, according to his daughter. He called depression that black dog. He would tell his daughter he's going to go take the black dog for a walk. And of course that black dog was depression. He sa he suffered this because he felt like there was nothing really more for him. He was at a dead end in his life, even though his mind was razor sharp. even though he still had so much contribution to make. And of course we know according to history that Winston Churchill was wrong. He was not at a dead end. He was a man that was at the right place at the right time to do the right thing that was necessary in that great uh world war and which he I think was really responsible to help bring salvation to his country. Now Joseph could have said the same thing at seventeen. He could have said, My life is over, but it's not yet ended. Have you ever heard the expression like, you know, this is a dead end? Or I'm I'm at a dead end in my life. And what we mean by that is it just seems like there's no vision for the future for us. There's no room for promotion. I'm not really going anywhere. We may feel boxed in. There's really no more options left, perhaps, we might think, in our life. You might feel that way right now, that you're at some kind of a dead end. And you might be asking the question, where is the Lord in my life? I I think that Joseph felt this way. He probably thought that his life was over. You remember the story Last week what we talked about, how that he was hated by his brothers. He was sold by his brothers to a band of Midianites on the way down to Egypt. And all that Joseph knew was that he was going to be a slave for the rest of his life. That's all that he knew. F. B. Meyer, the great Bible teacher, said this in some great slave market, he was exposed for sale. Together with hundreds more who had been captured by force or by stealth by surrounding countries. Joseph was sold as a slave. Talk about a dead end. And really, as we look at this story here in Genesis 39, really there are two dead ends to the story here. There's really it's a rags to riches to rags story. At the beginning of the chapter, Joseph is at the bottom. He's a slave sold into slavery in Egypt in a foreign culture. But then in that environment, God prospers and what happens to Joseph? He ends up going to Potiphar's house, and then he's given charge. over Potiphar's house. He was a security chief to Pharaoh, or excuse me, to Potiphar. And then Potiphar's wife tries to seduce Joseph. And then, of course, you know the story, he resisted her demands, she falsely accuses him, and then he gets put into a prison in a dungeon You talk about taking three steps forward and four steps backwards. That's how Joseph felt. From a purely human standpoint, it looked as if Joseph was a failure. It looked as if he was going nowhere. Again, hated by his brothers, a slave, no future You ever feel that way? You ever feel like, man, it just seems like there's no future or the vision that I had is is gone. Or perhaps you're bewildered in a circumstance that you have no control of in your life And you don't know where to turn, you feel like you're at a dead end. You've lost your zest for life. You're simply going through the motions. Waiting for whatever comes next because your dreams have really failed and have been dashed. Well, if that's your situation, then this story here is really for you, to minister to your heart. And what I want you to see from this story here tonight are just several principles that we can learn from the supposed dead ends that we face in life. And let's face it, from time to time, we're all going to feel that way as if we're at a dead end. So let me give you some lessons that we learned from Joseph. Number one, write this down. Dead ends are providential. Dead ends are providential. Look again in verse 1. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt. Question, who was it that made that happen? Do you remember? Who was it that brought this about? As we've already seen, God was the one working behind the scenes that made this happen. It was God that gave Joseph a dream that he later told to his father and his brothers, and of course you know, you remember that dream provoked anger in the heart of the brothers against Joseph. Uh if had he not had that dream, he probably never would have said anything. His brothers never would have had the hostility, and he never would have perhaps gone into slavery. And then Jacob sent Joseph, you remember, down to check on his brothers at Shechem, but they were not there. But there happened to be a certain man there in the field that happened to meet Joseph at that certain time. And this man happened to overhear Joseph's brothers. talking about going to Dothan. Had that man not been in that field at that certain time and hear that conversation with the brothers That took place between the brothers of Joseph. He would have never relayed that information to Joseph. Joseph would have never pursued after them to Joseph and he would have never been sold into slavery by his hostile brothers And so it was the Lord that was in the background and his providence that was making all these things come to pass to fulfill what he wanted for the life of Joseph. Now lest you think I'm reading too much into this story, I want you to hold your place here in Genesis 39, and I want you to go to Psalm 105 I want you to look at this real quickly because this is really a commentary on these events from the psalmist perspective. In a poetic way, he's commenting on the works of the Lord. And look at Psalm 105, and I want you to look in verse number one. Beautiful Psalm. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name, make known his deeds among the children. Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous works Go ye into his holy name. Go ye in his holy name. Excuse me, glory ye in his holy name. Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face forevermore. Remember his marvelous works that he hath done. Now what's the psalmist doing here? He's telling us to rejoice in the Lord, to glory in his name. Why? Because of his marvelous works. These are the things that he has done, that the Lord has done. Well what did they include? Look at verse eight. He remembers his covenant. He hath remembered his covenant forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations Drop down to verse 14. He suffered no man to do them wrong, yea he reproved kings for their sakes, saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm. God would not suffer any man to harm them. And then what else? Look at verse 16. Moreover, he called for a famine upon the land. And he break the whole staff of bread. What else did the Lord do? The Lord brought a famine upon the land at the right time. You know, sometimes when we go through famine, sometimes it's the Lord that sends those famines. That's what he did here. But then look at verse 17. Here's the key verse. He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant. Who did this? God did. God sent Joseph before Israel, who was sold as a Servant. Again, this is the commentary of the psalmist who is looking back on the events of the history of Israel, and he's looking over the providential works of God that God has done. And one of the things he said was, He is the one that sent Joseph to Egypt. He is the one who did all these things and sold them into slavery. God arranged the circumstances to get Joseph to Egypt. He arranged a certain band of Midianites to come by Joseph's brothers when they were having lunch that that time when they were going to they put them in a pit and they were actually going to kill them, but they changed their minds and they decided to sell them into slavery. God did all this because he had a purpose in it all, and to Joseph it all looked like a dead end. But to God, it was just another step in his plan. The Bible says the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. It is God who assigns our posts. He's even providential over the seeming dead ends that we face in life. Recently I was reading the story about Dwight Eisenhower. At a very late place in life, he hit absolute rock bottom. At the age of fifty-one, he considered himself to be a failure with virtually no future ahead of him. Why would a man fifty-one wonder if he had any significant future because Eisenhower had been in the army since 1911. And during those 29 years, he was always praised by his superiors. He excelled in every endeavor that he did. And he went to every graduate school and it graduated always at the top of his class. He did everything that he could do to advance himself. But no matter what he did, it just seemed like there was nothing that was happening Nothing was going his way. No matter how well he did his duty, he wasn't promoted to the place that he wanted to be promoted to. And on one occasion Eisenhower told his son John, he said, you know, a man in the business world can advance as far as his characters and his abilities and his honorable ambitions would carry him. He said, but that's not the way it is in the army. Signordi pretty much governed all the promotions there until a man really got the colonel, but he was there for 16 years working, and he had just received one promotion that was to major And with his age, he could not see making it to colonel. And if he did, he would be so close to retirement that he would never achieve the rank of general. And so he was discouraged. Here was this gifted leader. Here was this brilliant man. Here was this man full of energy. He was on fire to do something. And yet he was being blocked. Even MacArthur in 1930 said of him, this is the best officer in the army. And yet when MacArthur said that, Eisenhower was a captain. But he was the best officer in the army that couldn't get ahead. Even MacArthur himself blocked Eisenhower from get from getting ahead. You know why? Because he chose Eisenhower as his chief of staff in 1929 and he wouldn't let him go anywhere. And so he felt like that he was at a dead end. But what Eisenhower didn't know is that he wasn't at a dead end. But all that he had gone through prepared him to bring victory to a nation. Of course, you don't need me to tell you this in a moment. He was selected to be the general over generals And in a moment he was elevated to be general over men like Patton, men like Montgomery, men like Bradford. He was a key leader in World War II. He was the one who developed the strategy on D-Day, which ultimately brought victory during World War II. He was not at a dead end. He was at the place that he needed to be at the right time. Ambrose said of him, Eisenhower was one of the outstanding leaders. of the Western world of this century. He was the only president of the 20th century who managed to preside over eight years of peace and prosperity. God had been preparing him all those years for that right moment. Number one, dead ends are providential. But here's number two. Here's another lesson I want you to see. Dead ends are meant to test us. Dead ends are meant to test us. Look again in Psalm 105. Look at verse 19. Notice what it says there. Again, this is the commentary of the psalmist on that which would happen to Joseph. Verse 19, until the time that his word came, the word of the Lord came tried him. And each of these dead-end experiences that Joseph had, God was testing him. God was trying him when he was sold as a slave and then ended up in Potiphar's house. In that situation, he was tested. And then later on, in another situation, when he was thrown into prison, in that situation he was tested. First of all, he was tested in the area of moral purity. Go back to Genesis 39. Just look at this Look at Genesis 39. Now here he is in Potiphar's house. And while he was there, Potiphar's wife did everything she could to seduce him. Look at verse 7. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, Lie with me. But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wardeth not what is with me in the house. And hath committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in this house than I, neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, where there was none of the men of the house there within. And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, and he left his garment in her hand. and fled and got him out. And so Joseph could have easily succumbed to this temptation. Imagine being in that kind of environment day after day. And he could have rationalized. He could have said, you know, God has forsaken me. I'm all alone. No one will ever find out. I I deserve to be treated better after all. I'm a victim in all of this. Instead of giving in to all the the reasons And rational uh uh rationale and perhaps the sinful nature, he resisted and he stood firm. And again in verse 9, he knew that God was over all this, because he said, How can I do this wickedness against God? Even though he realized that he was where he was, not by accident, but by God's providence, he realized that he was still responsible for all of his actions. And he said, I can't do this. I can't sin against God. We have to remember that, that we're responsible, no matter what situation or circumstance you might find yourself in, we are always responsible to Almighty God for the things that we do. Always. And Joseph understood this. This was a time of testing that would prepare him for what God had down the road. If God could not trust him in the house of Potiphar, then he could not trust him in the house of Pharaoh. But then the next area he was tested is in the area of personal adversity. You know the story Joseph was lied about. He was thrown into a dungeon. Look in verse 19 She falsely accuses Joseph, and it came to pass when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me that his wrath was kindled in verse 20. And Joseph's master took him and put him in the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in prison. Here's another dead end. He went from one to another. The Bible says in Psalm 105, verse 18, they afflicted his feet with fetters. They laid him in irons, placed in a dungeon. Now this dungeon was probably beneath Potiphar's house. It was probably a place with no windows, dark and unpleasant. And Joseph had to wonder what was going on. I want to tell you something, beloved, the hardest trials that you're going to face in life are the times when you do what is right and you live by your integrity and yet you suffer for it. When you're lied about, when you suffer innocently. Joseph had done the right thing by resisting all of those ungodly advances. And yet here he was in prison. He knew that God gave him those dreams years ago. He knew that it was of the Lord. But where was God now? Where was he and what was happening in his life? Every person God uses has to go through times of testing and training where the character of that person is refined. And that's what we see here in the life of Joseph. And by the way, we see this also in other places in the Bible, in the Old Testament. We see it in the life of Moses, who is a gifted and competent man and who excelled in the learning of the Egyptians yet he had to go out in the backside of the desert and be there for forty years before he can really learn to lead God's people. We see this in the life of David, a man who is after God's own heart Yet he had to spend time running as a fugitive from King Saul and living in caves and dwelling by himself. Because that was God's testing for him. We see this in the life of the Apostle Paul, who when he was converted, knew so much of the Old Testament. Probably if he were living in our day-to-day, as soon as he was converted, he would probably be put immediately in a seminary position He knew so much, but that's not what the Lord did. The Lord took him out for three years into the deserts of Arabia in obscurity. And then he labored ten more years And and the and a church there in Antioch before the Lord finally began to use him the way he wanted to use him Every person that has been greatly used of God has had to go through times of testing in their life. Let me give you the third one. Dead ends are providential. Number two, dead ends are meant to test us. But here's the third principle. Dead ends are meant to teach us the meaning of true success. They're designed to teach us the meaning of true success. Now, all of us want to be a success in life, but if we want true success, it is crucial for us that we understand the biblical definition of success. It's crucial that we understand that. Otherwise you'll be like the person who's climbing the ladder of success only to find out that the ladder was against the wrong wall. And all that he did was in vain. You can waste your life by pursuing wrong goals and making wrong decisions and living for the wrong thing. And you can hit the target that you make, hit the goal that you have for life, but if it's the wrong one, you're you you're you you've wasted time And what is sad is that it just seems like there are many Christians today that are gauging their success by the world's standards rather than seeing God's standard of success. William H. Cook in his classic book, Success, Motivation and the Scriptures, he kind of puts it into focus when he said this quote. Defining success without having God in the definition leaves man without the blessing of God upon his life. And American culture defines success in many ways, most of the time, without God in it. And so what is true success? I think we see it here in Joseph's life. Now I want you to notice, again, we see two dead ends when he's in Potiphar's house, and then he's in the prison. But I want you to see some parallels. Look in verse in verses 1 to 6, we see him in Potiphar's house. In verses 20 to 23, we see him in the prison. But notice these parallels. Look in verse 2. It says, And the Lord was with Joseph. Look at verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph. Same thing. The Lord was with Joseph in prison, in the Potiphar's house, and he was with Joseph in prison. Look at verse number four. And Joseph found grace in his sight, that is Potiphar's sight. Again, look at verse 21. It says, But the Lord were with Joseph and Showed him many, or showed him mercy, and gave him favor in the sight of the prison keeper. So Joseph found favor in Potiphar's sight Joseph found favor in the prison keeper's sight. Again, look at verse number four. Potiphar made him overseer in verse number four. And he made him overseer over his house. And all that he had he put into his hand. Again, drop down to verse 22. Same thing we see here. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. Look at verse 6. It says, And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he knew not aught that he had saved that he had saved the bread which he did. That is, uh, he didn't concern himself about anything. That is Potiphar, he didn't have any concerns because he turned everything over to Joseph. But we see the same thing again while Joseph's in prison. Look again in verse 23. The keeper of the prison look not so Uh uh look, excuse me, not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. You see the parallels? We see the same blessing when he's in Potiphar's house, the same exact blessing when he's in the prison Just like the Lord was with Joseph in Potiphar's house, the Lord was with Joseph in prison. Just like Potiphar trusted Joseph and put everything in his hands, even so the keeper of the prison trusted Joseph and put everything in his hand And just like Potiphar saw, that the Lord was with Joseph. Again, look in verse number 3. And his master saw that the Lord was with him. Same thing, look in verse 23. Same thing. And the keeper of the prisoner looked not at anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him. So what does all this mean? It's not hard. You can figure it out. He was a success no matter where he was. He was successful in Potiphar's house. He was a success in prison. Why? What was made him a success? God was with him. God's hand was on him. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the biblical definition of success. And no matter what circumstance you might find yourself in, whether you're in prison or you're in a palace or wherever you are, whatever circumstances are around you, if God's hand is with you and upon you, you are a success. If you lack God's blessing, you can have everything that this world can offer, and you're not a success. It doesn't matter if the Lord's hand is not with you. And you may be tempted to think, right now in your life, because you're at a dead end, that God is not with you. That's not true. From a human standpoint We wouldn't call Joseph a success from the world standards today, and yet the Lord was with them. We have this tendency to relate God's blessings based on our circumstances. And that's not the way the Bible measures it. The Bible doesn't measure success based on favorable or unfavorable circumstances from a human standpoint. It's based on the blessing of God. And so, like one person said, interpret your circumstances by God's love and not God's love by your circumstances. Let me give you a fourth principle. Dead ends are providential. Dead ends are meant to test us Dead ends are meant to teach us the true meaning of success. But here's a fourth principle I want you to see in this story. Dead ends are opportunities to develop our gifts for greater use. They're opportunities to develop our gifts for greater use. And again, we see this. We already saw it in verse 4. Joseph is made overseer over the whole house And Potiphar's dominion. And then verse 22, he's made overseer over the prison, under the prison keeper's authority. And what I notice here is that God is using these supposed dead ends in Joseph's life to really develop the gifts that God had given him. What do we see here about Joseph? He was obviously a great administrator And Potiphar picked up on this. He was such a good administrator that here is this powerful man in Egypt that says to him, Look, I'm going to let you have control over everything. I don't think that happened overnight I don't think he just brought Joseph in and said, Hey, you know what? I'm just going to give you in charge of everything. Of course not. By and by he proved his trustworthiness. He proved his ability to be a great administrator. And it got to the point where finally Potiphar said, you know what? I'm going to put everything in your charge. I'm not going to worry about anything This wasn't a dead end for Joseph. He was developing his skill that God was later going to use in a great way. And we see the same exact thing. And verse 22, when he's put in prison, the prison keeper does the same thing. He notices these great abilities, administrative abilities of Joseph, and he says, you know what? I'm going to put you over all these things in the prison I kind of picture the prison keeper as a guy kind of leaning back on a chair saying, Joseph, you take care of everything. I'm just going to let you take care of it. And he did. And this was this was a time in his life that God was honing those those abilities, honing those skills, because we know later on what God is going to do with Joseph. God is going to put him Second, in charge, administrating not just a household or a prison, but administrating what? The greatest power of the world at that time, which was Egypt. God was getting him ready. And that supposed dead-end time. I read the short biography of G. Campbell Morgan, the great British Bible expositor that preached for many years at Westminster Chapel there in London. Did you know that no one really knew about G. Campbell Morgan until on a trip over to Britain, D. L. Moody heard, happened to hear him? And he thought, how come no one knows about this man who is so great at making the scripture come alive And so D. L. Moody brought and invited G. Campbell Morgan over to America, and he put them on platforms and Bible conferences all over America for years. And that's how G. Campbell Morgan got to be known in the Christian world. And when he went back to London, he was somewhat of a celebrity, and the Westminster Chapel then asked him to be their pastor. But before that, G. Campbell Morgan was simply a pastor laboring in small churches, studying the Word of God, and he later said that it was in those small churches and those ministries where there wasn't a whole lot of things to do, that he was able to dig deep into the scripture and to learn the word of God. And all of that later the Lord would use in a great way in his life. That's normally the way the Lord works. God uses the time to prepare his people for what is going to come. Let me give you the fifth principle. Dead ends are providential. Dead ends are meant to test us. Dead ends teach us the meaning of true success. Dead ends are opportunities to develop our gifts for greater use. But here's number five. Dead ends are opportunities to bless others. They're opportunities to bless others. While Joseph was going through his trials, his difficulties, guess what? Others were watching him. He wasn't going through this alone. They were watching Joseph because we just read in verses 2 and 3, they saw that the Lord was with them. Potiphar saw that the Lord was with them, the prison keeper saw that the Lord was with them. How did they exactly see that? How did they know that the Lord was with them? They were watching him. They were seeing his life. They were seeing what he went through. Joseph had a unique testimony to these men. They knew several things. They knew the circumstances by which he came to Egypt. And in fact, I can just imagine in my mind Potiphar when he's going to buy this slave and he asks the Ishmaelites, where did you get him? Oh, well, you'll never believe this, but his brothers, his own brothers, sold him into slavery. Really, yes. They were actually going to kill him until we came along. And then they decided it would be better to make a little money out of this thing. And so we uh we bought them uh for 20 pieces of silver And I can imagine Power saying that's that's incredible, that his own brothers would sell him into slavery Well, he must be a very bitter and angry young man. And the Ishmaelites say, no, actually he's not. We would expect him to be angry. We would expect him to be filled with bitterness and rage, but actually he's not. Actually, he's a very peaceful young man. Oh, he cried some, especially when we passed by his house. He wept, but he's been very prayerful. He's been very peaceful. In fact, he's very, very easy to talk to. He doesn't have a rotten attitude at all. He has a really good attitude. And Potiphar says, Well, I think I'm gonna buy him. That's the kind of person I want around my house. You know, they he watched him, and what he saw was a young man with an excellent heart. And he saw a young man that God was prospering, that God was blessing. And the Bible again makes it clear that the Lord blessed him. The Lord prospered him. Let me ask you a question. Do you think God would have done that if Joseph had a rotten, unforgiving spirit? If he was angry, if he was bitter? If he was constantly talking about how he was going to get even? You ever see a teenager that's been treated unjustly? Are they always smiling and saying, oh it's all wonderful, it's all good? Is that the attitude of the average teenager when they've been treated unjustly? No, they have an attitude. In fact teenagers today, they start riots over that. But that's not the way Joseph was. And I believe that Joseph had an agreeable, cheerful spirit who did all of his duties with a positive attitude. And a good spirit. And if he had not been that way, I don't think Potiphar would have put him over all his house. And I don't think later on the jailer would have promoted him as he did. Let me ask you a question. How is your attitude when you're treated unjustly, unfairly? Perhaps when your supervisor, your boss, is not being very fair with you, he is not recognizing your hard work But instead he makes light of it. How do you respond to that? You have a choice. You can either become sullen and disagreeable and angry at everyone around you and angry at God. Or you can be like Joseph and realize that the Lord is still in control, that God is still blessing him I think he was content with his circumstances no matter what they were. People are who are content or peaceful. They're very happy. They are not angry. And again, where does this contentment that Joseph has come from? It comes from knowing that God is in control and that God doesn't owe me anything and he doesn't owe you anything. That's where it comes from. It's learning to submit to the providences of God in our life. And saying, Lord, whatever you want, if this is your will for me, I accept it. You can either be peaceful and at rest in your heart, or you can be angry. You could be like Jonah sitting on the hill, bitter, pouting, angry at God, or you could be like Joseph in prison. Cheerful, peaceful, at rest, because he knows the Lord is in control. And I think here's another key to Joseph why he had such a good spirit, and that is he learned to forgive those who had wronged him He learned to forgive. If you don't learn to forgive people who wrong you, you are going to be a miserable soul. Again, the text doesn't really say this directly, but I think it implies it indirectly because it says the Lord blessed Joseph and the Lord prospered Joseph. Again, I ask you, do you think God would be blessing him and prospering him if he had an unforgiving spirit? Of course not. He would not. I I remember reading about uh Corey Tinboom, and you know the story. She and her sister spent many hours in a Nazi concentration camp. And uh her sister was horribly abused and eventually died being in that camp. And much of Corey Tinboon's ministry after the war was ministering to the survivors. of those that were in those camps. And on one occasion she made a startling statement about the survivors. This is what she said. She said, those who were able to forgive their former enemies were able to return to the outside world and rebuild their lives, those who nursed their bitterness remain invalids. It's an incredible insight. Joseph went through the same process. He learned to forgive everyone around him. And the Lord blessed him. And he was a blessing to others. Let me give you the last principle. So dead ends are providential. Dead ends are meant to test us. Dead ends are meant to teach us the true meaning of success. Dead ends are opportunities to develop our gifts for greater use. Dead ends are opportunities to be a blessing to others, but here's the last one. Dead ends are temporary. They're temporary. They don't last forever. And Joseph may have thought that this was going to last forever. And maybe you feel that same way now. You say, man, I'm in this circumstance, I'm in this situation, I'm in this dead end of my life, and it just seems like no, there's no open doors, nothing's happening. It just looks like to me this is going to last forever But it won't. God sets dates on these dead ends. There is a beginning, there's a middle, and there's an end. And finally, Joseph would be released. I want you to turn one more time to Psalm 105. Again, I just love the commentary on this. Look at Psalm 105 and notice what it says in Psalm 105, verse 18. Talk about Joseph again. He was sent in verse 17 before them. Even Joseph, who was sold for a servant, verse 18, whose feet they hurt with fetters, he was laid in iron. Look at verse 19. Until the time That his word came. Whose word? That's God's word. He was there until the time that God's word came. The word of the Lord tried him. And then in verse number 20, the king sent and loosed him, even the ruler of the people, and let him go free. He made him lord of his house and ruler of all his substance. Until the Lord was ready and the Lord's word came, the situation wasn't going to change. But when the Lord said it's enough. The time is over. God's word came. And in an instant, Joseph went from being in the prison to being elevated second in Egypt. Overnight. Can you imagine how he felt just suddenly? Why? Because the Lord said, that's it, that's enough. The word of the Lord came. And instantly he was out. And so the dead ends are temporary. It's not forever. God will have this at the point of time, but it will be until he says it's enough. And that's what we have to trust in. Let me close with this illustration. You've probably read the story of Ali Baba, the old Arabian knight tale. You remember that when he was fleeing for his life, suddenly he was face to face at a dead end. If you read the story, there were these mammoth rock walls before him and on either side of him. His enemies were coming in from behind. And he was in trouble. It just seemed there was no way of escape. But Alibaba shouted two secret words. What were they? Uh you read the story. Open says me. And when he says, Open says me, these giant rock doors swung open before him, and he was able to ride safely through to riches. And victory. When you come to the dead end of your journey as a Christian, you know what the open says me is for the believer? You know what it is? Lord, I trust you Lord, I trust you. That's the open says me. Lord, you know what you're doing, and I trust you. That's the open says me And that's when the peace will come. And that's when we learn from Joseph in our life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, help us to learn these lessons. Not easy to learn. And there may be some people here tonight, Lord, that feel like they're they're at a dead end. They may feel a bit of hopelessness and despair. They may feel that they're walking that black dog of depression in their life because they just can't seem to see the end. But Lord, help us to take courage and encouragement from the scripture, from the story in the life of Joseph And help us to remember, Lord, that our lives are in your hands, your providential hands. And the seeming dead ends in our life are designed for a purpose. That we might learn to trust you more, that we might develop our skill. That, Lord, you would test us to see if we're ready For whatever you have prepared for us. That Lord, we can bless others in these times in our life. So Lord, help us to be as Joseph. Help us to submit. Help us to be forgiving. Help us, Lord, not to harbor any ill feelings, but Lord to sweetly yield and to trust you. And to say, Lord, we know you know what you're doing. And Lord, I trust you. I trust you. Lord, give me peace. Give me patience. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Maybe there's someone here and said, Man, that's that's me tonight. I need the peace of God. I need to learn to wait on the Lord. For God to open up this dead end that I'm in The seeming circumstance that just has me down. I need God's grace and help. Is that your prayer? God bless you. God bless you. Father, minister your word to the hearts of your people for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.