And tonight we're going to look at this chapter here. If you're with us Sunday night, we looked at the life of Jacob in chapter 28, and I want to kind of pick up there and look here tonight. In Genesis 29. Look at verse 1 of chapter 29. Then Jacob went on his journey and came into the land of the people of the east, and he looked, and behold, a well in the field, and lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it, for out of that well they watered the flocks, and a great stone was upon the well's mouth And thither were all the flocks gathered, and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in its place. And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they said, Of Heran are we? And he said unto them, Know ye Laban, the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him And he said to them, Is he well? And they said, He is well. And behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep. Tonight I want to talk about the discipline of God in our life. One of my favorite cartoons is a cartoon of a weightlifter. And he's lifting a a lot of weight on the bench press. You ever see the bench press? A guy lays down, he's pressing the weight off his chest. And uh in the cartoon, uh he has so much weight that the weight comes down on his neck. And he's and the weight is so great that it's it's choking him. He's turning blue. And and the and the bench is, you know, tipped up in the air. And the coach is standing over him with his arms folded. He doesn't really give him any help. He just says to the man that's choking there with his weight on him, no pain, no gain. Yeah. There's a pointless pain. And there is a pain that results in our benefit and in our strengthening. And God, who is our wise Heavenly Father, the one who is constantly watching over us, he never stands by and allows us to go through or experience pointless pain in our lives. The point is he has a reason for every adversity that we face. And sometimes we may feel as though the trials and the heartaches And the pains and the difficulties we endure are pointless from our perspective. If you're a child of God, rest assured they they are not. God has a purpose for all these things. One poet wrote this, God has a purpose in our heartaches. The Savior always knows what's best. We learn so many precious lessons in every sorrow, trial, and test. And when you trust in God, pain then is an opportunity to make progress. And so God is kind of like a coach. He brings discipline into our life so that we can be everything that God wants us to be. In fact, Tom Landry, the great football coach for the Cowboys, said the job of a football coach is to make men do what they don't want to do in order for them to achieve and be what they always wanted to be And there's a sense in which that's true in the Christian life. Now in Genesis chapter 29 is the story of God's discipline in the life of Jacob. God is like a loving father and he is bringing discipline to a man who desperately needs it Now, if you were here with us on Sunday night, you know that we we dealt with chapter 28, and you'll remember that in chapter 28, Jacob meets up with God for the first time. God gave him a special gift as he was fleeing from his brother, Esau, to come to this land called Haran. And on this journey, God gave him a great vision, a vision of a ladder from heaven, bringing heaven down to him. And God was speaking to him in a very wonderful way. You also remember in that vision, angels were ascending and descending upon this ladder. And the ladder basically said to Jacob that God was with him. God was watching over him wherever he went. And this was something that Jacob no doubt would carry with him for the rest of his life. And after that, God gave him a promise. Go back to chapter 28, look at verse 15, and notice The promise again that God gave Jacob, and behold, I am with thee and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and I will bring thee again to this land. And so God said, I'm going to be with you, Jacob. That was a huge encouragement. God affirmed that he was with Jacob and that he would fulfill all the promises that God made to Abraham would be fulfilled also in Jacob. And so this was a wonderful affirmation. And so we see then in chapter 29, Jacob picks up then and he continues his journey. Look at chapter 29, look at verse 1. Then Jacob went on his journey and came into the land of the people of the east. Now when it says he went on his journey in verse 1, just underscore when it's a Hebrew expression that means to lift up the feet. It's an expression that means really he had a bounce in his steps. He was just coming off a spiritual mountaintop And he didn't know what lie before him, but he had this wonderful experience with God, and this put a bounce in his step. But he didn't know what he was going into. And what we're going to see here in the story is that for the next twenty years, God was going to bring him through the school of hard knocks, you might want to say, or kind of a spiritual boot camp. For the next twenty years of his life, he would be working for a man by the name of Laban And during these years he would reap the consequences of the actions of his life. This was a time for discipline in Jacob's life A discipline that was going to make him what God wanted him to be and also prepare him for the future. God was going to knock off the rough edges, you might say, in Jacob. But God was still going to be with them. And would God ultimately bless them? Absolutely. All of that would be true. But part of this process was involved in breaking Jacob And changing him from being a deceptive, selfish person to a different kind of a person, the kind of person that God wanted him to be. Now you might say, well now wait a minute. Didn't Jacob make a vow to God in chapter 28? Yeah, we saw that. He did make a vow to God. He did have a wonderful faith experience with God, but that doesn't mean that he was done at that point. God was just beginning in his life. You know, when you and I, when we got saved, uh, I don't know if I can speak for you, but I can speak for myself. I have uh had and have a lot of rough edges. That still need to be dealt with. A lot of issues in my own life that the Lord is working on. And uh that's the way it is for all of us And when God wants to refine us, when he wants to sanctify us, when he wants to work on us, he has to put us through a process of discipline. And really, this whole story here in the Old Testament really illustrates the New Testament truth in Hebrews chapter 12 of the discipline of the Lord. God's discipline is necessary in our lives. In fact, why don't you hold your place here in Genesis 29? I want you to look real quickly, just glance with me at Hebrews chapter 12. And Hebrews chapter 12, and look at verse number 7 as we're introducing this. We want to see this in the light of God's discipline. And chapter 12, verse 7, it says, if you endure chastening, Hebrews 12, 7, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chastens not? And then drop down to verse 12. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down in the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed. And so really what we see here is the discipline of God in Hebrews 12. God's like the Father who disciplines his children. You are children in a family, and so therefore God is going to deal with you as children. But also you are contestants in a race. And God wants you to finish the race strong. He doesn't want you to finish the race with your hands hanging down and your knees feeble. He doesn't want you just barely crossing the finish line. He wants you to finish strong. And so God will discipline us. Now listen, not all of the discipline that God puts in our life is due directly to our sin Sometimes God will discipline us not because we've done anything wrong, it's just because he is wants us to finish the race strong. And like a coach, he will put his athlete through all kind of training that strengthen him for whatever lay ahead. And so we see the purposes of God's discipline here in chapter twelve. uh verse seven and eight, we're assured of being his child, we're the object of his love. Let me tell you tonight, if you have ever experienced God's discipline in your life, You don't have to wrestle about the assurance of salvation anymore because that assures you that you are a child of God. Because God doesn't discipline those that are not his children. And also we learned to reverence God. Look in verse nine. Furthermore, we had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjected unto the Father of Spirits and live? We learn to reverence God. This is certainly something Jacob needed to learn in his life to reverence God. We learn to hate sin, verse ten, that it might bring the fruit of holiness in our life, it says here in Hebrews God wanted Jacob to learn to hate deception and lying. We bear the fruit of righteousness, verse eleven. And as I said before, we become strong in the race of life, and we Enwell, verses 12 and 13, which pictures a runner barely able to cross the line. Now with that in mind, go back to chapter 29. Because I want you to see that God is now going to do this work of discipline in the life of Jacob. And what I want you to see are the tools that God uses to discipline and shape his life. And by the way, the tools that God uses in the life of Jacob, he uses also in our life. The same thing. He works in the same ways. So here's the first thing. If you're taking notes, write down number one. God uses circumstances And we see this really in verses one down to verse ten We note the circumstances that shape them. Now listen, God uses both the good circumstances and what we might call the bad. From our perspective, they're bad, but God works everything for good. He uses what we could call the delightful providences. He uses the dark providences. Now already we saw some difficult providences in Jacob's life. He had to flee for his life from a brother who wanted to kill him He had a long journey through the difficult and dangerous desert. He had to turn his back on all of his inheritance and all of his resources. He basically leaves home with the shirt on his back and just a few meager resources And he's pretty much alone. Those are some of the difficulties. But what we see here are some delightful things that happen. And look again in chapter 29 and verse number And he looked, and behold, a well in the field, and though there were three flocks of sheep lying by it, for out of that well they watered the flocks, and a great stone was upon the well's mouth. And all that to say that Jacob happens to come upon a certain place And he sees some men there, some shepherds with their sheep, three flocks, and he asks about what's happening there. This happens to be the very place that he needed to go This happens to be the place of Haran, and these men here happen to know Laban. And while he's there, Rachel, the daughter of Laban, just happens to come there. Let me ask you a question. Do you think all of that is just good luck for Jacob? No. It's God's hand. God has led him to this very place. God is working behind the scenes. And bringing him to the place where he wants him to be. And the Bible tells us that really God is we know that God's behind all these events. What are the clues here? Well God already said we we saw the promise that he was going to be with them But look at the word behold in verse 2. And he looked, and behold. That word there really is designed to show us the amazing providence of God. He happened to come to the very spot at the very time he needed to be there. And so the Lord was with him in these circumstances. And let me just say this, wherever you are in your life right now, it's because the Lord has brought you here. It's not an accident. You're where the Lord has brought you. at this time in your life. We know that the Bible says that. Ephesians 1 11, God does all things according to the counsel of his will. Many are the plans in the mind of man, but the Lord's purpose, that's the thing that's going to stand. God will bring his purpose about in our life. And so Jacob is coming now with just the clothes on his back. And normally when you come to visit a relative or or or some other person you would have some gift, but Jacob has no gifts. But he does take advantage of the opportunity because he comes to this well And what does he see at the well? He sees a bunch of shepherds that are just laying there. It's midday. Look what he says to them in verse seven. And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is is the time that the cattle should be gathered together. What are ye the sheep? And go and feed them. And the implication is, look, it's midday, you should have watered your flocks by now. And you know, the hint is, you know, you guys are lazy You should have been getting the you know, why are you laying here? And they use some excuse in verse 8 like, well we have to wait until all the sheep are here. You know, and they said, We cannot until all the flocks be gathered together until they until the ro roll the stone from the w uh the well's mouth. So there was this stone on the mouth of the well and they kept it there to keep all the you know the dirt and the dust out. And when it was time to water the sheep they would roll the stone away from the well. And then they would roll it back. But they hadn't done that. And Jacob sees these shepherds there, and then also there happens to come at this very spot Rachel. Look down at verse number nine. And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she kept them. Now he probably recognized her And he jumps into action. He takes advantage of what goes on here. And he he begins to roll the stone away. Look in verse number ten. And it came to pass when Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Laban, his mother's brother And the sheep of Laban, his mother's brother, that Jacob went near and rolled a stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban and his mother's brother. And so he jumps into action. He moves the stone, which, you know, that's kind of impressive when you think about it. This was not a small stone. It would have taken a few men to do it, but Jacob does it. Now he may have been a mama's boy, but he was pretty strong here He moves his son. He was probably showing off for Rachel a little bit too, you think? And she's probably thinking, wow, look at this guy, my hero And then look down at verse number verse 11. And Jacob, right after this, he moved the stone, and Jacob kissed Rachel. And then he lifted up his voice and he wept. Now, why all this? I think that, first of all, it's probably because this overflow of emotion of him weeping is because he can see God's hand in all of these circumstances. He could see how the Lord had brought him through this long, dangerous journey. And now he just happens to come to the very place where he needs to be at that very time And he sees Rachel, and maybe he's he sees Rachel and she maybe reminds him of his mother. In fact, we see the word his mother used three times in verse number 10. We're not too sure. That could be part of it. But this overflow of emotion, I think, is also an overflow of thankfulness to God for bringing him through this long journey. You see, Jacob recognizes that God had brought him to this place. God brought him there. And so God uses circumstances. To shape this people. What circumstance are you in tonight? I assure you, dear friend, as a child of God, it's not an accident And he is using these circumstances, both good circumstances and sometimes what we might interpret as bad, both delightful providences and dark providences. God uses it all to shape us. Here's number two. Here's a second lesson I see. God uses consequences to shape his people, not only circumstances. He uses consequences. Look at verse 13. And it came to pass when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob, his sister's son, that he ran to meet him and embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things. And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month. Now at first things go really well for Jacob for about a month. He falls in love with Rachel. This was probably love at first sight His uncle Laban seems to really like him. He calls him in verse 14, my bone and my flesh, you're part of the family. It looked like all of Rebekah's scheming work. Remember Rebecca's the one that sent Jacob out. She said, you know, you need to go out for just a few days until Esau's anger, your brother, is uh you know abated, and then you can come back after a few days. Jacob safely arrives in Haran. He meets up with beautiful Rachel. Laban is treating him like a son. God has forgiven him for his past deceptions. And so Jacob kind of shrugs off the pass. Everything looks like it's going really well. Never happened to you sometimes, man. Everything's going well, and then all of a sudden. Things start to change. What happens here? Listen, remember this. God never lets us sin and walk away without the consequences. Remember, beloved, we can get forgiveness for our sins. Of course God will forgive you. Of course God will forgive me. But what God doesn't do is He doesn't cancel out the consequences for our sins He will in his wisdom allow us to go through those temporal consequences. You say, why does God do that? He does it so that we will not take sin lightly in the future He does it so that we will remove the roots of this sin from our life. This is a discipline from God. He wants us to uproot these things out of our heart And so he will allow us to experience the consequences. And what we're going to see here is that Jacob begins to experience some consequences for sin. Look at Laban's offer in verse fifteen. And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for naught? Tell me what shall thy wages be. Now Laban after about a month comes to Jacob which which really sounds like a generous offer. He says, Look, hey listen, uh you know you should you shouldn't have to just serve For nothing, tell me what your wages would be. Now this might again sound like a generous offer, but don't be fooled. Laban is a very shrewd operator. And he's always looking out for himself And now Jacob up to this time was a guest. But now Laban he wants to make him an employee. He says, I want you to name your wages. And so it sounds like he wants to pay Jacob well. But really what he wants to do is he wants to enslave him. He wants to make him obligated. He wants to put him under his thumb. The key phrase is in verse 15 where he says, serve me. Shouldest thou therefore serve me for naught? I want you to serve me. And so Jacob begins to reap what he has sown. Now he's never worked for anyone in his life No doubt he helped some in his father's household, but really his father was rich. He had servants that served him Uh you know, if he hadn't lied to his father and deceived him, he would have ample resources. He wouldn't have to serve anyone. It would be like Abraham's servant that came looking for a bride for Isaac. He could have offered gifts Taken the bride and went on his way. But Jacob can't do that. Because of his deception, he has to work for a bride. And so notice verses 16 to 18. Notice what he says What it says, and Laban had two daughters, the name of the older elder was Leah, the name of the younger was Rachel. Leah was tender-eyed, but Rachel was beautiful and well favored. And Jacob loved Rachel. And said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel, thy youngest daughter, younger daughter. Now, this is a good deal here. Now remember, back in this day, every man had to pay a father a dowry, a price for the bride. And again I say I wish we still did that today. But he they had to pay a dowry. Now the going price for a bride in that day was three or four years service. But what does Jacob offer? He offers seven. Wow, that's pretty generous. And the Bible says in verse 20, they seem like a just a few days for the love that he had for her. But look at verse 19, and Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee than that I should give her to another man, abide with me, that is Laban. He jumps at this offer Oh yeah, done deal. Let's do this. Abide with me. But what he doesn't tell Jacob is the catch. There's a hidden clause here. Laban was kind of like a credit card company that had hidden fees. There's some hidden fees here in this story. His seven years of hard work for Rachel would be followed by seven years of hard work for the older sister. You see, there was a custom in that day, and the custom was, you can't marry off the younger daughter until you first marry off the older daughter. But that was hidden in the clause. He doesn't tell Jacob about that. So Jacob is going to work for seven years for a woman he wouldn't have served seven days for her had he had his choice. But he works seven years. Now Laban doesn't tell him any of this. And Jacob works for seven years. Look at verse 21. Now it's time for Laban to pay up. Verse 21. And Jacob said unto Laban, give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled. Give me my wife. Now, this is very strong in the Hebrew. There's the absence of please give uh that would be normally customary in that time. And so it kind of suggests that for these seven years Laban's been holding out on Jacob and he's been extorting from him as much as he could get. And Jacob now has to go and demand, pay up It's time to pay up. And so the custom of the wedding, a Jewish wedding at that time was there would be the presentation of the bride uh and her her attendance. Uh there will be the reading of the wedding contract there and then There would be a time for a feast and families would rejoice together and at the end of the day, at the end of the feast, then there would be the consummation of the marriage would take place that evening In fact, everything that happened happened in the evening time, pretty much. But I want you to notice the deception. Look at verse 22 and Laban gathered together all the men of the place and made a feast, and it came to pass in the evening that he took Leah his daughter, and there's the consummation in verse twenty-three, then in verse twenty-four And Laban gave unto unto his daughter Leah Zopath his maid for a handmaid. But look at verse 25. This is what I want you to see. And it came to pass that in the morning, behold, it was Leah In other words, wrong woman. Wrong daughter. Here is this marriage ceremony that takes place All that goes forward, there's the consummation of the marriage, and then in the next morning, he finds out, this is not Rachel, this is Leah. Can you imagine the shock? Look what happens. And then he says in verse 25, What is this that thou hast done unto me? Did I not serve with thee for Rachel? Wherefore then hast thou beguiled me. And notice Laban's response in verse 26. And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country to give the younger before the firstborn. Oh, I forgot to tell you something, Jacob. I forgot to tell you about this little custom we have, and that is we can't I can't give away the younger daughter until first I give away the firstborn. Sorry. Didn't mean it didn't mean to deceive you there. Yes, he did. And so now we We would read this story and some of you are probably already asking us, how can this happen? I mean, how can this be? How could he not know that this was Leah until the next morning? Well again, we have to understand the custom. Leah would be completely veiled during the whole wedding ceremony. I mean from from the forehead on down, even her eyes were covered with a veil Because she had, the Bible says, uh tender eyes. She had a certain look in her eyes, but even her eyes would be covered. From head to foot she would be covered. And she was probably wearing Rachel's clothes And wearing Rachel's perfume. The Bible doesn't say that, but you can imagine they were probably the same size. And again, this was at nighttime. Everything would happen in the evening. And so we can understand with all these factors in place how Jacob got the shock of his life the next morning. You know what happened? Say what happened. The deceiver had been deceived. The one who had deceived others Now he was reaping that in his life. And you can't help but notice the parallels between Jacob's deception when he deceived his father Isaac. And now Jacob is being deceived. In fact, here's some of the parallels I noted. Jacob deceived his blind father. Now he gets deceived in the dark. Jacob deceives his father, and now he gets deceived by his father-in-law. He cheats his brother out of the first out of the rights of the firstborn. Now he gets cheated because of the rights of the firstborn. Rekah, oh excuse me, Rebekah has her son Jacob deceive his father. Laban has his daughter Leah deceive him. His deception forces him to leave someplace he wanted to stay. That is back home. He got the seed and now he's forced to say to stay someplace he wants to leave. He deceived his father by wearing his brother's clothes, and now he's deceived by Leah when she wore her sister's clothes. And just as Jacob despised his brother and stole from him, Leah despised her sister and stole from her. And so there's it's all coming back on him. He's reaping what he has sown. Now, Jacob knows what it's like to be deceived. Again, what's the lesson? God will allow us in our life sometimes to feel the consequence of our actions as a tool to discipline us To keep us where he wants us to be. God uses circumstances to shape his people. God uses consequences to shape his people. But right down number three, here's the third thing. God uses difficult people. To shape his people. He uses difficult people. Jacob had met his match in Laban. And God's using Laban to be Jacob's drill sergeant in this spiritual boot camp experience. Jacob was selfish. But he was nothing compared to Laban. I mean Laban was very self-centered. He loved to take advantage of people. He didn't care if they were his own family. He would still take advantage of them. And Jacob was after material gain when he grabbed his brother's birthright and blessing. However, Laban He was even more greedy. He was only concerned about himself. He wasn't concerned about those around him. He was concerned about getting as much as he possibly could out of Jacob. With his years of service, it would help him to gain more. That's all he was concerned about. He was just concerned about himself. If he was concerned about his daughters, he never would have given his daughter Leah to a man who really didn't love her But none of those things concerned Laban. All he was concerned about was what was best for him. And notice what Laban says to Jacob in verse number 27 then. Fulfill her we And we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years. If you want Rachel, you're going to have to agree to serve seven more years Already he served long enough to have them both. I mean he could have said, I'll give you Rachel because of your seven years of good service. But again, Laban, he's not about that. He's about getting more for himself. And so in verse 28, Jacob agrees to serve seven more years. And so at the completion of the week-long wedding feast, Laban would also give his daughter Rachel to Jacob, but only if he agreed to serve those seven years. And not only that, we see another thing about Laban. All through the time that Jacob was with Lab, he's constantly changing his wages. In fact, just fast forward, look in chapter 31 and look at verse 41. We see this later on when Jacob speaks to Laban. He says, Thus have I been. Twenty years in thy house, I serve thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle, and thou hast changed my wages what? Ten times. Ten times He tried to keep Jacob poor by changing his wages. And by doing so, he could keep Jacob from leaving And therefore keep Jacob dependent upon him. He wanted to keep using Jacob for his own personal gain. But that's a difficult person to be around. But yet this was the person that God was using to shape Jacob. to discipline Jacob in his own life. You may be here tonight and you may say, man, I can relate to this because I have some lathens around me in my life. It may be for some of you here, I don't know your life, God knows, but you have difficult people around you, and it's hard on you, and these are people that may be trying to take advantage of you and are only concerned about themselves, and it's making it harder for you And you say, man, I just want to run away. But let me tell you something, God brought you there because God's using that difficult person or people that He has put around you to shape you into the person He wants you to be They are the sandpaper that God is using to refine you, to smooth you out. You don't look very encouraged tonight if I say that. But it's true. God will use people like this to drive us to Him So that we would learn to depend upon the Lord. God is teaching you and me and all of us to trust in Him. So God uses circumstances. He uses consequences. He uses difficult people to shape his people. But here's a fourth thing I see in Jacob's life. God uses time. He uses time. You know what I see about this story? How long was Jacob there serving under Laban? Twenty years. This was not a short stay. Twenty years he was there. Now, you remember that when Rebecca sent him away, she said, Oh, it's just going to be a few days. That's back in chapter twenty-seven, verse forty-four, and tarry with him a few days until thy brother Fury, turn away, you'll just be gone a few days, and then I'll call you back. Yeah, that's what she thought. But it ended up being twenty years. This was something that Jacob was not expecting Fourteen of those years, Jacob didn't earn anything for himself. He was just working for room and board. And he got two wives, one of whom he didn't want. But God was not in a hurry to get Jacob back to the promised land. One thing I notice about God, God is never in a hurry. We are in a hurry. We want God to move quicker. We're ready for God to do something, you know, yesterday, but God has his own timetable. You know what? God can't be manipulated. And God doesn't give in to our temper tantrums if we don't like how slow things are going. God has his own timetable. Vance Habner said this: He who waits on God loses no time. Eline Bruder said this, to be impatient with God, chronically, habitually impatient with Him, because things are not to our liking, makes the Christian life a dreadful burden. A. W. Tozer said this, we hear a great deal about go ye, but not much about tarry ye. When God does what he does, he takes his time. Because you know why? It takes time. to train his people, to discipline his servants, to make them what he wants them to be. Joseph spent his twenties in an Egyptian jail. All those years in his twenties. Israel spent 400 years in slavery in Egypt. Moses spent 40 years tending sheep in the backside of the desert. before the Lord brought him back to use him. David spent his twenties running from King Saul. Even the Apostle Paul, after he was converted He spent ten years in total obscurity while the Lord was working on him and preparing him for the service that he wanted him to be or to have. God has an eternal perspective, and there are no nine-week boot camp experiences in the Christian life. It is a continual, long shaping and training that God does in our life. You say, man, that all sounds so gloomy. Write down Hebrews 12, 11. All discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful but sorrowful, yet to those who have been trained in it afterward, it will yield the fruit of righteousness It's not joyful now, but in the end, you're going to see that God's bringing about a righteousness, a Christ-likeness in your life, and in my life. Let me give you the fifth thing, last point here. God not only uses circumstances and consequences and difficult people and time to shape his people, but here's the fifth thing. God uses grace. To discipline his people. He uses grace. You know what else I learn about this as we read through all of these verses? That during this whole time, when Jacob is going through all these trials, the Lord is there with them. Just because God was disciplining him, it didn't mean that God was not there. God was with him. And God was giving him his grace. And God was still blessing him in the midst of this. And even though Laban tried to change his wages, God still prospered Jacob And God's hand was still on him, still blessing him. God graciously gives him a woman he loves. He blessed him with twelve sons and some daughters. He blesses them financially. All this we don't really read of Jacob actually thanking God or maybe even recognizing God, but yet God does it anyway. You know why? Because that's the grace of God That's God just being good. All of these trials were softened for Jacob by God's wonderful grace in his life. Now, let me just give you a few, and my conclusion is that I just want to give you a few principles of application as we think about all this. Here's the first one. Number one, recognize and submit to God's hand daily in your life. Just recognize it and submit to it. That's the key to peace. God arranges all your circumstances. We had a tendency to see God's hand in the big crisis and yet not in the little irritations, but God is in even those things, car trouble, the sick a child who forces you to change your plans and and so on all these little things. Recognize God's hands and all of that. It'll help you to grow. Number two, submit to God when you reap the consequences of your sin When you know that you're reaping what you have sown, don't rebel, don't get angry. Submit to the Lord in that. Understand that God's using this. To discipline you. Nothing wrong with getting a little dose of your own medicine to keep you from dishing out that medicine. again in your life. David had learned to do this, submitting to God's discipline in his life for the things that he had sown. Number three, don't run from difficult people in your life until God gives you the okay Don't run and there came a time when basically God said, okay, Jacob, it's time now for you to leave Haran to go back to the promised land, but that was in God's time But until that time, don't try to run from the difficult people or the difficult circumstances in your life. You know why? Because The problems we have a tendency to run from, or the people we have a tendency to run from, always seem to be waiting for us in the next location. You ever notice that? Same problem. Same people. They have different names. They have different faces. But you know what? They're the same people. Same kind of people. And it only takes it it only takes longer for us in this process of sanctification. You know why? Because when you or I try to run from a trial or run from a difficulty, you know what God does? He recaptures that difficulty and He puts us through it again. You're not going to run from this, God says You're going to learn to be victorious through it all. But now here's number four. Plan to persevere over the long haul. The Christian life is not a hundred-yard dash. The Christian life is a marathon. We want instant answers. We want instant relief or release. We want instant sanctification. That's not the way it works One time a pastor was counseling a young woman who had a problem with drugs, and he was trying to encourage her to walk with the Lord, and he began to tell her all the things that it walking with the Lord included Bible reading and and journaling and praying and all these things. And she said, Well I already tried that. And the pastor said, Really? How long did you do it? She said, I tried it for two weeks. It didn't work, so I quit. Friend, let me tell you something. You can't get any answers in two weeks. If you want to walk with the Lord, it's going to take the long haul, the long road. So settle in for the long haul. And then here's number five. Thank God for the gracious blessings He bestows on your life. And every season or era of your life, God is gracious. Learn to see God's hand, even in the discipline, and thank him. You know, the thing about Jacob that uh I noticed is that He has trouble seeing that. We don't see much of Jacob thanking God. And friend, we want to learn from that. We can learn from a bad example as well as a good one. We don't want to be like Jacob in this. At the end of his life, Jacob said this to Pharaoh in Genesis 47, 9. He said, The years of my sojourn have been 130, few and unpleasant have been the years of my life Really, Jacob? Unpleasant? As much as God has been with you and how he has watched over you and blessed you in so many ways? Friend, we need to learn to see the blessings of God. even in the discipline of our life, and learn to thank God for that. Thank God that he mingles even in the discipline he mingles in his grace. Let's bow together for prayer tonight. So, Lord, we thank you for, again, this illustration that we see here in the life of Jacob. And as I look at this story, I see so much of myself in Jacob. In fact, Lord, all of us have Jacob in us. I think of the scripture verse Jeremiah 17, the heart is deceitful. The heart is Jacob. We have Jacob in our heart, and Lord, we need your discipline in our life. So Lord, help us to recognize your hand. Help us to realize that you use the circumstances in our life. You bring us to the place you want us to be. You use the consequences of our life. To shape us. And the difficult people in our life that you bring or tools that you use. All these things, Lord, we thank you for. Help us to recognize your hand in these events. And help us, Lord, to realize that you're even in the discipline, you give us grace, you use your grace. And to be patient to wait upon you for your time in all things. Speak to the hearts of your people. And Lord, let this be an encouragement to those, some who may be here tonight, who may be under the discipline of God. Lord, may they see the good that you're doing in their life and praise you for it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.