Take your Bibles tonight, please, and open to the book of Revelation. Chapter 1, as you know, we are beginning this study in this great book, and we are in chapter 1, and tonight we're going to look at verse 4. On down to verse 11. Revelation 1. Look at verse 4. John to the seven churches which are in Asia. Grace be unto you in peace from Him which is, and which was, and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before His throne, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness. And the first begotten of the dead, the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and have made us priests, kings, and priests unto God and his Father. To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. From 1942 to 1945, General Douglas MacArthur served as the commander of the Allied forces in the Pacific. When it became clear in 1942 that Patan, the last American foothold in the Philippines, would fall to the Japanese President Roosevelt ordered MacArthur to leave. Some of you know this as history. And as he left on March 11th, MacArthur utter Those famous words that we know that he spoke with a promise. These were his final words to the people there before he left. And you remember what those words were? I shall return. I shall return. And by the way, he did. In October of 1944, he did return. Now, when I think of that, I think of the book of Revelation because this is literally the message that God has to the church. The message that we he wants us to hear and he wants us to know and he wants us to believe, and that is the words of our Savior are, I will return. Jesus is coming again. Write down Acts 1, verse 9 through 11. This is when Jesus ascended. Notice what he says, and when he had spoken these things while they beheld, he was taken up in a cloud And a cloud received him out of their sight, and while they looked steadfastly towards heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by in white apparel. Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye here gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye see him go. When Jesus was leaving The message was, he's coming back. Just like you saw him leave, he will come again. He is coming. John fourteen, verse three. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. that where I am, there ye may be also. And this is why the book of Revelation is so encouraging to us, because it reminds us of this final message that Jesus Christ is coming. Look at verse number seven. Behold, he cometh. Behold is a word that's intended to arouse emotion, to give encouragement. And where it says he cometh, that in the Greek is one word, erkomi. And it's really a title, the coming one. You know who Jesus is? He is the coming one. That's really what that says there. And it's used seven times. Of the Lord Jesus. He is the one who is coming. Now it doesn't matter what the world thinks or what the scoffers may say Jesus is coming, friend. And the Bible made that very, very clear. It's been estimated that one out of every 25 verses in the New Testament speaks about the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what I want us to look at here is this final word that is given to the church that we're to believe, and I want you to see three truths about it. Number one, if you're taking notes right down the source, of this final message. What is the source of this message? Look at verse number four again. John, to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace be unto you and peace from him. which is, which was, and which is to come, and from the seven spirits which are before us thrown, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness Now these verses here, verses four and five, are the greetings and salutation of the book. And what John is doing is he's following the style that was used in first century letters. Now today when we write a letter Uh we sign our a our name at the end of the letter. By the way, you ever get a letter, start reading it and wonder who it's from and you you f you fast forward to the end, you look at the end and say, I want to know who this is from and you read the bottom. We didn't have to do that in the first century because The custom was is to put your name at the very beginning. And this is what John does in verse 4. John. So we know who the writer is. John to the seven churches. And the style was was it was your name and then a greeting and then a blessing. You would normally give a blessing to the recipients to whom you were writing. And John does in verse 4, when he pronounces the blessing, Grace be unto you and peace from him. which is, which was, and which is to come. And John reminds us that the source of this blessing of grace, and by the way, aren't you thankful for the grace of God in our life? There's peace that always comes with grace. When we receive the favor of God and we're saved, God gives us peace along with that. But you know where that comes from? And what we see in verse 4 is a beautiful picture of the Trinity, the Godhead, the three and one. We know the doctrine of the Trinity teaches that God eternally eternally exists. As three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Each person is fully God, and yet there is one God You say, well, that's kind of a mystery. You say there are three that are equally God, and yet there's one God? That's right. That's called the Trinity. You say, well, I can't really figure that out. Well, if you ever do figure it out, let me know Because that's one of the great mysteries of theology. It's an incomprehensible mysteries. Theologian call this one of the mystical unions that we see in theology The uniting of three, and yet there's one God, and yet they are revealed in three persons. And this doctrine of the Trinity has been progressively revealed in Scripture. We see it little by little By the time you get to the New Testament, we see it fully on display. For example, in the very beginning, remember what God said in Genesis 1. 26, let us make man in our image. We see a little bit of the Trinity there. And then when you get to Genesis eleven, God says, Let us go down and confound their language. First it says go down and see what they're building. Here are these guys in Genesis eleven, supposedly building up this great big tower that's way high up to the heaven. And God says, Yeah, I've got to go down to see what they're doing. It wasn't all that high as far as God was concerned But God said, Let us. And then you get to the New Testament, there's the baptism of Jesus, where Jesus is being baptized. There's a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son. And whom I'm well pleased. And the Bible says that the Holy Spirit descended upon Jesus like a dove. There you have the three persons of the Trinity right there. The three in one. And again, this is one of the great doctrines of Christianity, one of the mysteries of Christianity, and yet the Bible teaches it very, very clearly. In fact, if you don't hold to the doctrine of the Trinity, that is outside the lines of Orthodoxy. We call that heresy. If a person doesn't hold to the Trinity, it's heresy. You say, why is it heresy? Because, my friend, when Jesus died on the cross, What did he accomplish when he died on the cross? He satisfied the wrath of who? The wrath of the Father. And if there are is no Trinity, that what exactly did Jesus do on the cross? You see, if you don't believe in the Trinity, what you do essentially is change the very nature of the atonement And what Jesus did on the cross. And when you change the work of Christ on the cross, you go outside the lines of the gospel and you're changing the whole message of the gospel. That's why it's important to believe in this doctrine of the Trinity. And what we see is it's revealed right here in Revelation. Look at the description of the Father in verse number four, where it says, From him which is and which was and which is to come. This is an expression to help us understand that God is eternal. He exists presently. He has existed in the past. He exists in the future. He is eternal. He has no beginning. He has no end. He has always existed. And I think, you know, the Greek here, the grammar is awkward, but really what John is doing is he's giving an expression that comes from the Old Testament. Remember in Exodus Chapter 3 when God revealed himself to Moses, how did God reveal Himself? He said, I am that I am I am the self-existent one. I am the eternal one. And here John is playing off of that expression and describes God in this way to show that God is eternal. And then there's the Holy Spirit. Look again in verse number four. and from the seven spirits which are before his throne. Now, I've heard I've read some interpretations of it that where people say, well these seven spirits are referring to seven angels. The seven angels that are mentioned in Revelation, the Bible speaks about these seven angels blowing seven trumpets. And I don't think that's the correct way to see this. I think this is referring to the Holy Spirit Because if if it's not the Holy Spirit, then you have John referring to the Father and then to Jesus in verse five, but then he skips over the Holy Spirit to refer to seven angels? No. Well again, what John, you might want to write this in your margin, Isaiah eleven, two, where Isaiah speaks about the Spirit of the Lord, and he gives five uh attributes of that spirit we could say are five s five spirits that come from the Lord in the sense that the spirit has these seven attributes The Spirit of the Lord, that's one, in Isaiah 11, 2. The spirit of wisdom, that's two, understanding, 3, counsel, 4, might, 5, spirit of knowledge, 6, and the fear of the Lord, that's seven. And so again, what John is doing is he's alluding to this Old Testament passage that tells us of the sufficiency of the Holy Spirit in all these areas, the sevenfold spirit of The Lord, the Holy Spirit, and then to Jesus Christ. Look in verse 5. And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the first begotten of And now John in verse 5 kind of bursts into a doxology about Jesus, and he focuses on these areas of the Lord Jesus, his place of authority, who is Jesus? Jesus is the faithful witness. He is the one that speaks truth Always in his earthly ministry, Jesus spoke truth. Even when he was before Pilate, when he said to Pilate, he said, For this purpose I have come into the world. to bear witness to the truth. Jesus is the faithful witness, but also notice he's the firstborn among the dead. And this is a word referring to rank or position. He is the preeminent one. Colossians 1. 18 says he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. Again, this establishes that Jesus is preeminent. And that also, notice where it says in verse 5, where Uh I'm sorry, verse six, and he has made us, or excuse me, I'm sorry, back up to first five, and the prince of the kings of the earth That is, Jesus sovereignly reigns over all authority. He is, we say, King of kings and Lord of Lords. And this is one of the major themes that we see in the book of Revelation, the sovereignty of Jesus Christ. And then he focuses on his plan of redemption. Look at verse 5 where it says, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own. blood. And this is the great work of redemption that John refers to. Jesus is the one who washed us, the word is Luo, loosed us. We were slaves to sin. We were dead in our sin. We have been set free by the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then watch this. Notice he focuses on the purpose of believers in verse 6 and has made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. Did you know that after you're saved, God has a purpose for you? Even when we go to heaven one day, you know, and when God or when God sets up his uh kingdom here on earth, God has something for us to do. Don't get this idea that throughout all eternity we're gonna be floating around on clouds poking a a a harp. That's not what the Bible says. No friend, we have positions of authority. We have things that God will have us do. And here, John says, He has made us kings and priests unto our God. Revelation twenty-six again emphasizes this: Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death has no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him. a thousand years. Priest means we have direct access to God, and God will be giving us positions of authority in his kingdom. And we'll talk more about that as we get on in the book of Revelation. And then John says, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Well, that's the source of this message. It is God, the triune God, the God who has blessed us so. But then I want you to see number two, not only the source of this final message, but write down the summary. of this final message. Look at verse 7. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierce him, and all the kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him Even so, amen. Now these two verses really give us the summary of the book. When I was uh going through seminary, I had a wonderful Greek professor, Dr. Kendall Easley. He's written many books, and one of the books that he wrote that is well used is a commentary on the book of Revelation. It's in the Holman series. And uh it's a wonderful commentary on Revelation. I took a PhD seminar with him going through Revelation, and Dr. Easley would says Uh and by the way, he's in heaven now. He's in glory. But he said verse seven, and you might even want to put some a star next to verse number seven because this verse is this the theme verse, or we could say the thesis statement for the whole book of Revelation. You want to know what the book is about? Well it's right here in verse 7. It's summarized. In verse 7, where it says, Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. This is what it's all about. It's all about Jesus Christ coming again in clouds. Notice again the anticipation of it. Behold, that again kind of gives us a sense of anticipation, of excitement. That implies that we should be anticipating the coming of the Lord. Friend, are you looking for the coming of Jesus? That's what the Bible tells us we should have, that spirit of expectation. Write down 2 Timothy 4. 8 Where Paul said, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day, not and not to me only. But unto all them that love his appearing, for those that are looking for the coming of Christ. And notice the affirmation of it where it says, Behold, he cometh. That's the indicative mood. That's the mood of fact. It is a fact that Jesus is coming. This is not a maybe. This is not a wish. This is a fact that Jesus Christ is coming again. And then also the association of it. Notice it says he comes with clouds. Now, what are those clouds? Are these the clouds of the sky? I think that in Scripture, when the Bible refers to the second coming of Christ and it speaks of clouds, I think always it has the idea of clouds of glory. Clouds of glory. And again, this all goes back to the Old Testament. In Daniel 7. 13, it says that one came with one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven. And again, that's speaking about the glorious way in which he will come in Matthew 24, verse 30, and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. Then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And then Mark 13, verse 26. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with glory And the Bible says that every eye shall see him. Remember, this is all about the unveiling of Jesus Christ in his glory. And when Jesus comes back, he's coming back. in glory. But look at verse number seven where it says that every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him, and all the kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him Now there are two groups I see here that John points out when Christ returns. First, those that pierced him. Who is that? I think that's referring, this is not talking about the Roman soldiers involved in the crucifixion of Jesus on the cross. This is talking to the Jewish people. Listen to what Peter said. He's preaching to the Jews on the day of Pentecost in Acts. 2 verse 23 it says this man talking about Jesus was delivered up by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. You nailed to to a cross by the hands of godless men. Peter speaking to that crowd there and says, you are the ones. that nailed Jesus to the cross. You are responsible. And the Bible says that one day when Jesus comes back, Those that every eye shall see him, and they which pierced him, those that were of the unbelieving Jews of Israel, they'll see Jesus. And what does the Bible say? And they shall and shall wail because of him. It says that every eye shall see him, they also which pierced him, and all the kindred of the earth shall wail because of Him. I think that when Jesus Christ comes again, the Bible says very clearly that Israel will recognize Jesus as the Messiah. Did you know that today There's not a lot of Jewish people that are coming to the Messiah and salvation. And you know why that is? Because the Bible says in Romans 11, verse 25, that there's blindness in part has ha it has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles come in. I think this age in which we're living in is a time when many, many Gentiles are coming to faith in Christ. But not many people that are Jewish are coming to Christ because the Bible predicted this would be an era when there's blindness in Israel. They are still looking for a Messiah, not knowing or not understanding that the Messiah has already come. His name is Jesus Christ. I remember I was over to Israel a few years ago and while I was there there were posters all over of a rabbi uh posted And the reason that there was such a publicity about this person is because many of the Jewish people believed that this man was the Messiah. And there was kind of an excitement around this one rabbi. His face was all over the place when you were there. But you know what has since has happened to that rabbi? He died. And guess what? He did not resurrect. He is not the Messiah. And you know why they believe something like that? It's because there's blindness in Israel. They don't see Jesus for who he is. But the Bible says that when Jesus comes again, That they will see him, the ones who pierced him, they will see him, and they will know that he's the Messiah. Just write down Zechariah chapter 12. Again, John is alluding to this, verse number 10 where it says, and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him as one that mourns for his only son. and shall be in bitterness for him as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn. That he is indeed the Messiah, and they will turn to him in repentance at that time, and they will see that he is the real Messiah, and they will mourn in the sense that they had been so blind as not to see who Jesus really was. But then there's another group where it says, and all kindred of the earth shall wail because of him. And here I think John is referring to unbelieving Gentile nations. Jewish people will mourn over Christ. But that morning, I think, is a ref is a reference to a repentance, to where many will come to know Jesus as Savior. And by the way, I think there'll be Gentiles saved as well at the second coming of Christ. The Bible says in Revelation chapter 7, verses 9 and 10, that there will be a multitude that will be saved during the tribulation period. But I also think there will be people that will mourn At the coming of Christ, not in repentance, but there will be mourning over their doom, over the judgment that they now will face because they have rejected him. In fact, the Bible speaks about that. Look look go to Revelation chapter 6 real quick and look at these verses with me. Look in Revelation chapter 6, look in verse number 15. Where it says, And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains And said to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? These are some of the unrepentant people that will mourn when Christ comes because they will not have received him as their Messiah. And the Bible says in chapter nine, though Many people will not repent, even though there will be plagues and judgments and wrath that falls upon the earth. Still many will not repent. And I think they will mourn over their judgment. But I like what John says right after that. Look in verse number seven. Look at the last phrase. Even so, amen. Even so, amen. There will be some people that will recognize Jesus and they will mourn in repentance and call upon him as Lord. There are others that will mourn over their doom. When Jesus comes again, but you know what John says? Even so come. Even so come, Lord Jesus. And then We see the Lord Jesus Himself who puts his signature on the certainty of his coming. Look in verse 8. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, which was, which is to come, the Almighty. And now how Jesus describes himself as the Alpha and the Omega. By the way, Alpha is what? That's the first letter of the Greek alphabet. Omega is the last letter. So some see this and they say, well, this speaks about the fact that he has all knowledge. All knowledge is conveyed through the letters of the alphabet. He's the all-knowing one. But I think that what this really is referring to here is that, again, and we'll see this as we study Revelation, John is constantly pulling out of the Old Testament illusions. And in Isaiah 44, 6, this is a title used for Yahweh in the Old Testament in the sense that he's the first and the last. Again in verse 11, I'm Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And in the Old Testament, that was a reference to Yahweh. And here it's attributed to Jesus. This is a verse affirming the deity of Christ. And again, notice what it says in verse 8, which is, which was, which is to come. Does that sound familiar? That was just used about God the Father. Now here that same expression is used about Christ. Again, this is showing the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Almighty again. a reference to God in the Old Testament as El Shaddai. So Jesus is God. He is Yahweh. He is El Shaddai. He is the Almighty. Now, let me give you the last thing. We see the source of this message. We see the summary. He's coming. And every eye will see him. Some will mourn in repentance. Others will mourn over their destruction. But then number three, the situation. Look at verse number nine. I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the aisle that is called Patmos for the Word of God. And for the testimony of Christ. And what John is doing here now is he's describing the circumstance and the situation around which he wrote down this book of the Revelation. Now, I told you this last week. And by the way, I believe, of course, John was inspired when he wrote the book of Revelation. This is the inspired word of God. John wrote the Gospel of John. And was emphasizing to people to believe. He wrote the epistles, 1, 2nd, and 3 John, and the emphasis there was to be sure of your salvation. Now, in the book of Revelation, the emphasis here is be ready, Jesus is coming again. But he's on the island called Patmos, verse 9. Patmos was not a place that you would go to for a vacation. Let me just tell you that. This was a barren island about 10 miles long, six miles wide. It was covered with rocks. It had very little vegetation. It was an island that had really no escape. It was a penal colony where prisoners were placed. And one of the early church leaders, Hippolytus, tells us that John suffered under the reign of the Emperor Domitian. And Domitian was one of the emperors that demanded to be worshipped as Lord and God And of course, John wouldn't do that. And Domitian then had John boiled in oil. But it had no effect on him. In fact, tradition says that when he got out of the oil, it was as if he had taken a refreshing hot bath. And when that happened, you can imagine that maybe Domitian was a bit startled by that. So he exiled John on this island. Another early church father says who was Victorina says John was forced to labor in the mines located on Patmas. Other early church fathers, Irenaeus Clement, Eusebius, they say that John returned from exile there and went to the various churches ministering and appointing leaders. Now let me just say this the big debate over the book of Revelation is When was John on this island? I may have told you this last week, but when some people look at the book of Revelation, they look at it as if all of this is already past history. All of the things that are mentioned here, it's already happened And do you remember does anybody remember what that interpretation is called? What you're called if you believe that, you're a what? Preterist. Give this guy an extra bulletin. Um he wins actually we don't hand out bulletins right now, so you have to wait, but That's right, a preterist. A preterist sees revelation as if all of this already happened. It's already in the past. When John wrote it, it may have been future, but the future was very short It was very near. They think that the book of Revelation was written in 65 A. D. And it was all fulfilled in 70 A. D. during the destruction of Jerusalem. That's why the date of the book of Revelation is in such a debate among scholars today. Because if indeed the book of Revelation was written later than 65 A. D. , that means that that preterist view is not tenable And it means that everything in the book of Revelation are things that are yet to happen in the future. And so you have the futurist approach to Revelation, the approach that says these things are yet to be These are prophecies that have not yet been fulfilled, or the preterist who says, no, it's all already happened. And then there's in between that the interpretation of what is called the partial preterist who thinks some of these things have happened, but not all of them. Uh confused? R. C. Spro wrote in this book this. The last days according to Jesus in this book, he said this, if the book was written after seventy A. then its contents manifestly do not refer to events surrounding the fall of Jerusalem. So here's the debate. Was John in the Isle of Bat of Patnus Under the reign of Nero, was it Nero that banished John to the Isle of Patmos? Nero reigned in the mid-60s. He died in 68 A. D. Was it Nero that put him there? And was the book of Revelation written earlier than 70 AD? Or was it Domitian? who put John on the Isle of Patmos. Domitian reigned much later from 81 A. D. to 96. And the book of Revelation was written in 95 A. D. , not 65 A. And so you see, that's the big debate. Is Revelation history or is it future? Was John there under the reign of Nero, Banesir, or was he put there under the reign of Domitian, the cruel emperor who wanted to be called Lord and God? So the dating of the book is very, very important. So there are two lines of evidence for dating New Testament books. You know what they are? There's external evidence that that scholars look to, and then there's internal evidence. External evidence are evidences outside of Scripture that we could look to to help us get a a a time and when the book was written. And then internal evidence are are of course evidences that are in the Bible that we look to that help us in the dating of the b of the book. So first of all, let me just give you what are some external evidences of what I believe is the right date. I hold to a late date of the writing of the book of Revelation. I believe it was written around 95. I believe that what we're going to study here are future things, things that are going to happen. And I think that it was written in 95 A. D. based on some of these external evidences. One was from a man by the name of Hegesippus, excuse me on these pronunciations. old church fathers. Uh he was one who wrote fifteen years after the book of Revelation was written. He wrote Five treaties on the book of Revelation. And it was he who said that John was banished to Patmos during the reign of Domitian. So that's one. Then there's another external witness, a man by the name of Irenaeus. Let me tell you why he's important. Irenaeus was the bishop of Lyon, that's southern France. He was born about A. D. 120. He lived until 202 A. D. And listen to this, Irenaeus was raised in Smyrna. Now, if that name Smyrna sounds familiar, it's because this is one of the churches that John is going to write to. of the seven churches. We're going to see that as we move on later in the weeks to come. But another thing about Irenaeus was that he was discipled by a man by the name of Polycarp. Polycarp was the Bishop or pastor of the church at Smyrna. Polycarp was discipled by John, the writer of this book of Revelation. So think about that. John discipled Polycarp. Polycarp discipled Irenaeus. So here's Irenaeus, not very far removed from John, and he wrote a book called Against Heresies. And let me quote to you. what he wrote in this book. Listen to this. We will not, however, incur the risk of pronouncing positively as to the name of the Antichrist. He's basically saying, you know what, we're not going to name the Antichrist in uh in in this book here. He says, For if it were necessary that his name should be distinctly revealed in this present time, it would have been announced by him who beheld the apocalyptic vision. In other words, he's saying if we if God wanted us to know the name of the Antichrist, John would have told us in the book of Revelation. That's who he refers to here when he says, announced by him who's to him. John Who beheld the apostol the apocalyptic vision. What's the apocalyptic vision? It's the book of Revelation John had a revelation and he wrote it down. When did he do it? Now here's what Irenea says. For that was seen, that is this vision that John saw and he wrote down, which we know is the book of Revelation. For that was seen not very long time since, but almost in our day, listen to this, towards the end of Domitian's reign. So here's Irenaeus, just one generation removed from John, who says that when John wrote the book of Revelation, it was under The reign of Domitian. That's why we hold to the 95 date of the writing. And that's why when we study the book of Revelation, we don't look at it as it's things that already happened in the past. It's things that will happen in the future. And of course, are you guys still with me? Okay. I know you feel like you're in my seminary class now, right? But these are important things to consider because there's a lot because preterism is growing out there. I don't know if you know that or not. There's a lot of people that say, Oh, you talk about Jesus coming, he's already come, all these things have already happened Well not the way I read the book of Revelation they haven't. These things are yet to come. Another thing to consider Is that when John writes Revelation and he talks about the persecution that believers were going through, this was a worldwide persecution. It was all over. The Roman Empire. The persecution under Nero was limited to the city of Rome alone. It didn't go outside the city of Rome. This is another reason why we believe that it was written under D Domitian's reign, because under his persecution, churches all over the Roman Empire were under severe suffering because of Domitian and his persecution. Another reason why we um think that the late date is the correct day is because in these seven churches that John writes to, they're all kind of in spiritual decline. And in the sixties A. D. , Paul was kind of still alive in that midpoint. period of the sixties and these churches were still vibrant. Paul ministered there in Asia Minor. He died you know, right around right after sixty-five AD. That would not give these churches a lot of time to go into the spiritual decline that is mentioned here in the book of Revelation. And also, Laodicea suffered a massive earthquake in A. D. 60. Now if you read when John writes to the book of Laodicean, what does he say about that city and that church? They were rich, they were increased with goods, they had need of nothing. Did you know that Tacitus, the Roman Historian says that the Laodiceans refused all aid from the Roman Empire, we don't need your help. That matches exactly what Uh John said when the when he said that the church at Laodicea says, We have need of nothing. But if it's better with the idea of it being written in ninety five AD because it would take thirty years for a city to be rebuilt and to be wealthy again as this the city of Laodicea was. In fact One writer, Hitchcock, says the archaeological evidence at Laodicea points to a 30-year rebuilding process. And then there's one more thing I would tell you. That John was banished here to the island of Patmos. Under Nero You know what he did to Christian leaders? He had them killed. He executed Peter. Nero executed Paul. He didn't banish them, he executed them It was not Nero's practice to banish a person who was a great Christian leader for the church. But you know what? It was the practice of Domitian to banish believers. We know this because uh he banished another person around 95 A. D. to another island, and so this fits better. that it was Domitian that actually put John here on this island. And notice what it says here in verse number nine. He says, I was in the isle that is called Patmos for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. And I was in the spirit on the Lord's day and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. So here is John. He's on the aisle called Patmos. When it says he's in the spirit on the Lord's Day, some interpreters believe that maybe he was caught away in the spirit and saw the day of the Lord, future days. I think what it's simply saying here is that on Sunday, the Lord's day He was in the Spirit, meaning he was walking in the Holy Spirit, and he had this vision that God gave him. And actually the vision started with what he heard. He heard a voice He said in verse 10, as a great voice as of a trumpet. And look in verse 11, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in a book. And send it to the seven churches which are in Asia, under Ephesus, under Smyrna, under Pergamus, under Thyatira, under Sardis, under Philadelphia, unto Laodicea And so John, as he was there on the Lord's Day, he had this vision of the risen Christ. He heard the voice. That said, John, what you will see. I want you to write it down. I want you to send it to these seven churches. And again, what's the message of it? I'm coming again. Behold, he comes. That's the whole message. That's the final message. And by the way, we're going to get into this more, of course. We'll see what John had to say. But this is the whole sum of what we're going to study in the book of Revelation. All the events that happened when Jesus Christ. comes again, the final message to the church. Behold, he comes. I heard about a young man who was preaching his first sermon. It was on the text in Revelation 22 where it says, Behold, I come quickly. And as he was getting ready to preach the sermon, he announced his text, behold, I come quickly, and then he It happened to him like every preacher has this nightmare that it's going to happen one time where your mind goes just completely blank and you can't think of another thing to say. And it happened to this guy in his first sermon. He announced the text, behold I come quickly, and then he couldn't think of what else to say. So he was trained that when that happens, you just go just repeat your text. And so again he repeated it, behold, I come quickly. And still he couldn't figure out what the next sentence would be. Finally, he backed up a few steps. And then he went up to the pulpit and he slammed his hand down. And he said, Behold, I come quickly. And he slammed his hand down with such force that he flipped over the pulpit. He landed in the front row into the lap of a little old lady that was there. He was embarrassed by what had just happened. He apologized and said, ma'am, I'm so sorry. She said, Listen, don't feel bad. You warned me three times. It's my fault I didn't get out of the way. I wasn't ready. You know what the message is? Jesus is saying, Behold, I come quickly. Jesus is coming. You know what? You better be ready. Because it's going to happen. Do you believe him? Do you believe it? He is coming again. Let's pray together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask you how do we apply this? We know Scripture's very clear, Jesus says He's coming again. The first thing that you should ask yourself is, are you ready for this? And the only way you can really be ready for the second coming of Christ is to know that Jesus is your Savior. Have you repented and put your faith in the risen Christ? When I say put your faith in Christ, I mean Put your faith in what Jesus did for you on the cross. On the cross, Jesus took the sins of the world. They were laid on him in the mind of God the Father, all the sins. were laid on Jesus. God, the Father who is a holy God must judge sin. But God who is a God of love doesn't want to judge you. So God took your sins and laid it on His Son, and the wrath of the Father fell on Jesus on the cross. Your sin debt was paid. The question is, have you put your faith where God put your sins? On Jesus Christ. That's what salvation is. It's putting your faith where God put your sins. On Jesus. Have you believed on the finished work of Christ? Have you called upon him to be your Savior and your Lord? If not, friend, I would encourage you to do that. That's the best way. To be ready for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you haven't done that, would you do it right now? You don't have to be in a round Come to an altar. Sometimes we ask people to come forward. Sometimes we ask people to do different things. But the truth of the matter is it's not where you are, it's what you do. It's praying right there where you are in the quietness of your pew right there. You can reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I'm turning to you today with all my heart. Save me. Cleanse me I'm putting my faith in you and you alone. Give me eternal life. Make me your child. And friend, he'll do that. Run to Christ. That's how you ready. And when he comes, your faith is in him. Father, bless these words. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.