Well it's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to First Corinthians fourteen. We're going to continue our study in First Corinthians. And as you know, we are uh dealing this is difficult chapter. We want to bring clarity to it. And we're talking about spiritual gifts. And the Apostle Paul is specifically referring to the gift of tongues. And tonight we're going to talk about God's purpose for the gift of tongues. When I was in London a while back, I had the opportunity to visit the Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle. That's where Spurgeon preached, the uh great Baptist preacher. Uh a hundred years ago he preached. But when they they first built that auditorium, uh it is a story said that Spurgeon wanted to test the acoustics. Of course they didn't have a PA system the way we have today. Can you imagine preaching to thousands of people without a sound system? That would be a big challenge And he wanted to test the acoustics, and so he got up and he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. And what he didn't know is there was a worker in one of the balconies, and he heard that. And something about those words and the way he said 'em, it cut 'em to the heart, and he knew he needed Jesus, and he prayed and trusted the Lord as his Savior. It's an incredible story, but it really reminds us of the power of just simple understanding Understandable words, the power of the Word of God. Now, in First Corinthians, Paul is comparing, uh, just simply proclaiming the word, prophesying To the gift of tongues. And he gives, as we already saw in this chapter, several reasons why prophecy was superior. That is to say, why just the straightforward proclamation of the Word of God was superior. superior to the gift of tongues. The Corinthians, as we saw, were abusing the gift, uh they were abusing really the real gift by bringing in a counterfeit that was really part of pagan uh mystery religion's uh kind of And Paul writes to correct them, and Paul writes also to teach them the value of the true gift of tongues. And so what he's going to do here in the last part of chapter 4 14 is he gonna he's gonna show the the um the real purpose, the value in the gift comes in understanding what was God's intent for this spiritual gift. What was its origin And so I want us to talk about that tonight and I want us to see three lessons for the uh purpose for the gift of tongues. Tongues, and then we'll push on and talk about uh the meaningful use of tongues. And then finally the um the application But first of all, the misunderstood use. Look at verse number twenty of chapter fourteen. It says, Brethren, be not children in understanding. Howbeit, and malice be ye children, but in understanding be And really, this is a strong rebuke from Paul, and really it's designed to get the attention of the Corinthians and humble them. So when he says in verse number twenty, uh, be not children in understanding, he's saying that you're already acting like Children and the way that you understand these things. And so in a way he's giving them this rebuke to stop that, stop being like children. It's time to stop. He said if you want to act like children, he said be like that in malice in verse twenty. How be it in malice be ye children, but in understanding be ye men. And the word for Malice is a word that just simply means really evil. Um and some of the actions that they were uh you know demonstrating was just bad. They were ha they had some hard feelings moment in the very next second they're best of friends. They don't hold any grudge. And so Paul is saying, why don't you treat each other like that? And besides that, malice is the thing that keeps us from growing spiritually. Peter said, wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile, and then what did he say, and receive with meekness the the word, the sincere milk of the word. And so we're to receive The word of God and malice is something that will prevent us from growing spiritually. And so, and besides that, what was going on in the churches, there was all kind of confusion, and things were happening where there was no room for really hearing and teaching the word And Paul says in verse 23, if someone comes into your assembly and they see what's going on, all the confusion that's happening in the worship place, they're going to And so again, he starts off here with a gentle rebuke. One person said this the problem in the Corinthian church really boiled down to a preference of anti intellectualism over existential experience, which is basically what we see happening today. End quote. And so because of their spiritual immaturity, the Corinthians like Many today couldn't really grasp the God's purpose for tongues. They misunderstood it. And so let me just talk to you about again three I think misunderstood uses with uh with respect to tongues and the first one we already touched on and I'll touch on it briefly again and that is for personal edification or devotion. That is to say say that tongues a lot of people believe are a private prayer language, a devotional language with God, and a lot of people hold to that idea. In fact, there was a study that was done by LifeWay Research church that talked about this very thing, they pulled uh pastors and they pulled laity. Sixty f three percent of lay people believe that this is that tongues can be used as a private prayer language. 50% of the clergy also believe that same thing. And then there it goes on and it gives more details about that. But it's just enough to say that there are a lot of people out there that hold to this idea For instance, Donald Ghee, a well-known Pentecostal scholar, said, quote, the revealed purpose of the gift of tongues are chiefly devotional, and we do well to emphasize That fact. So he's saying we need to emphasize this that this is a uh devotional gift, uh something used for our private prayers and so on. Uh Larry Now we've already talked about this, and so again I don't need to belabor the point, but I think this comes from a misunderstanding of these verses here Remember, Paul has been constantly pointing out that tongues are for the benefit of the whole assembly, not for personal edification. Gifts are not for our own personal edification, our own private use. Spiritual gifts are for the benefit of the whole church. And besides that, I said this idea, this whole idea about tongues being a private private prayer language can be debunked with just one verse in the book of Matthew spoken by the Lord Jesus who said when ye pray don't use vain repetitions and again I tell you the Greek word battle Legal meaning to speak, bada is a non word. Don't speak nonwords like the pagans do. And that one verse there, in my understanding, my estimation, I think should debunk the whole idea of a private prayer language. But then there's a second, I think, misunderstood use that people talk about tongues and they say, well, it's for the purpose of evangelism. For example, there There will be some people that will say the gift of tongues in the New Testament was it to enable someone to preach the gospel in the language of a person they might be speaking to and perhaps they didn't know that person's language But the Holy Spirit gives them the ability to share the gospel with them. This might be helpful for someone on the mission field. If they're out there on the mission field and they're trying to share the gospel And uh they don't know that person's language, and that person doesn't know their language. And suddenly the Holy Spirit gives them the ability to utter the gospel in that person's language. Now, beloved, that might happen, and I would never say that God would never do that because God could do whatever He wants to do. He doesn't need any of our permission to do anything. But I would say this that that doesn't really follow the biblical pattern That's not really what the Bible says with respect to tongues. Go back to Acts chapter 2 real quick and let's look at this with me real quick. Look at Acts chapter 2. And I want to remind you of what happened there on that day. In Acts chapter 2, you remember that they began to speak languages, earthly known languages, and It tells us what those languages were. If you look in Acts chapter two, and it it catalogues these languages from verse nine on down to verse eleven. And notice what it says, and they were all amazed. Verse Verse twelve, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this? And others mocking said, These men are full of new wine. Actually, back up to verse eleven. Look at the end of verse eleven. It says we We do hear them speak in our tongues the what? Wonderful works of God. We hear them speaking the wonderful works of God. Now what happened right after that Now Peter reminds them, look, these guys aren't drunk, as some of them were supposing. And then what does Peter do to that whole crowd of Jews and that come to that feast day. Peter stands up, and remember this, he preaches the gospel to who? To these same men who just heard Tongues, their native tongues being used to tell them about the wonderful works of God. So remember this that even though they heard the the speaking in their own language, what What they heard was not the gospel. What they heard was about the wonderful works of God. When did they hear the gospel? They heard the gospel right after that, when Peter stood up and he preached the gospel What language did Peter use when he preached the gospel there? He preached basically in Aramaic, first century Aramaic language, and all those Jews who came from their native lands to come to the feast day They all understood Aramaic because that was the the international language that everybody understood. They were bilingual. They had a native tongue that they spoke, their home tongue, and they understood Of course, Aramaic. And so when they heard someone who didn't really know them, a Galilean, speak in their own native tongue, that's what amazed them. They took this as a And then they heard Peter preach the gospel in Aramaic, and of course the Bible says three thousand of them were saved. So we could say it like this. It prepared their hearts for the gospel. It was a sign to the Jews there of what they were going to hear was it had to be of God That what they were you know basically hearing the wonderful works of God in their own language prepared them for when preacher uh w when Peter excuse me stood up and he preached the gospel in his own language. Now you know the early Pentecostal leaders understood that biblical tongues were real earthly languages, and they even thought that they were Able to go to the foreign mission field without learning the languages of the people they were going to minister to because they believed that God would give them the ability to speak the gospel in that person's language And so many of them went out. In fact, there's a book by Robert Mates Anderson called Vision of the Disinherited. And in that book, he talks about many who believe that the that the gift The gift of tongues was to help them to preach the gospel in languages they didn't know, and many of these missionaries went out trusting God to give them the ability to speak a language they didn't learn, to share the gospel And when it didn't happen, they came back and said, Well that's not what tongues is, then it must be some kind of heavenly language. So this is again to me a misunderstood use of tongues. It's not primarily for evangelism. It's not a private prayer language. It's not primarily for evangelism. It's a pre evangelistic work. But here's another misunderstood use, and that's proof of spirit baptism. There are some out there that teach that that tongues is a proof of being saved. There are some that say Tongues is evidence of being baptized with the Spirit and with salvation. Let me just say in fairness, not all charismatics believe this. There's a certain group called United Pentecostals that believe this. That you're not saved unless you speak in tongues. And when you speak in tongues, it is proof that you have been baptized with the Holy Spirit. And again, I as far as I can see in my own reading Research. The only group that I know that believes this is a group called United Pentecostals. We all they're also called Oneness Pentecostals. And what is that? Why are they called oneness Pentecostals? Because Because they believe that they don't believe in a Trinity. They believe that God is just one and He appears in three modes. That's also called modalism. They don't hold to a Trinitarian understanding of God. By the way, let me just say that there are some out there that hold to this. And what's the problem? Some some people say it's no big deal. For example T. D. Jakes, I know a lot of people follow him. T. D. Jakes is a modalist. What is a modalist against? He doesn't believe in the Trinity. He believes in one God only who appears in three different mod And let me tell you something, folks. That's a problem. You say, why? Because to not believe in the Trinity changes the gospel. That's why. You say, how does it do that? That? Well, because on the cross, when Jesus died on the cross, what was he actually accomplishing there on the cross? He was satisfied, we just sang about it in the song. Wrath was being satisfied when Jesus died on the cross. It was the wrath of who? God the Father. That's propitiation. Satisfying the wrath of the Father. But if there's no Trinity and God is just one in three modes, then whose wrath was being satisfied? In other words, it changes the whole nature of the gospel, it changes what happened on the cross. You have to redefine propitiation. You have to redefine the nature of the atonement. As you redefine the cross you redefine the gospel. And again, let me just say that you know we we hold to the fundamentals of the faith. There are certain things that we don't negotiate. There are certain things that we don't mess with. And I call this the drivetrain of the gospel, the fundamentals of the faith. And anything that would change the nature of the gospel We don't hold to that. We protect the message of the gospel. Years ago, when the fundamentalists got together, there were men who were from different denominations, but they all held to these same fundamentals, these core values that were called non-negotiables. And beloved the Trinity is definitely one of those non-negotiables. Don't mess with that because if you mess with the Trinity, you mess with the nature of the gospel, you change it. You change the gospel. And that changes the fundamentals of what we But having said all of that, Oneness Pentecostals changed the nature of the gospel by saying that uh there's only one God who appears in different modes, and one of the things that we have to do is One proof of being saved is speaking in tongues. That is a proof of salvation. Now again, this is a problem because we already saw in the Bible, the Bible says says for by one spirit are we all baptized. When you got saved, you were baptized into the body of Christ. And but yet we also saw in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 12 When Paul asks the question, do all have the gift of healing? What's the implied answer? The construction of that implies a negative answer. No, not everybody has the gift of healing. Do all speak with tongues? No. Not everybody, again, there's a litany of questions there where the implied answer is no. And one of those is with respect to the gift of tongues. Not everybody has this gift. So how then can you say that everybody Everyone has to do it as a sign of being saved. And so there's a problem with that. We can go on, but we don't need to belabor the point. So there's the misunderstood use of tongues. But secondly, let me talk to you about this: the meaningful use of tongues. If it's not for a private prayer language, and if it's not primarily to share the gospel and evangelism And if it's not proof of spirit baptism, what does it do? What is God's purpose? Well, look in verse chapter fourteen, go back to first Corinthians If you're not already there, chapter 14, look down at verse number 21. In the law it is written, with men of other tongues and other lips, will I I speak unto this people, and yet for all that will they not hear me, saith the Lord. Verse twenty two, wherefore tongues are for a sign not to them And so this passage is very important. Very clear God's original purpose for tongues is as a sign. More specifically, this was to be a miraculous sign. And what we see really are four things Things in this verse, they are a sign. It's not they're not given for new revelation. Doesn't speak about that, but to point to something. That's what a sign does. A sign points to something They're assigned to unbelievers, as we saw here in verse number 22, not to them that believe, but to them that believe not. And again, this one statement here should call God says it's to unbelievers. It's not really about edification, self-edification. It's not about really even for edification of believers. But to unbelievers and specifically to unbelieving Jews. Back up to verse 21. In the law it is written with the men of with men of other tongues and with other lips will I speak unto and you might want to A circle, there's this people. What is the this people that he's talking about there in verse number 22? They specifically he's talking about Jewish people, unbelieving Jews who refuse to believe So thus they are a sign, a sign that points to something. So the question is, what do they point to? Well, one thing that they point to is divine judgment. Divine judgment. In fact, Paul, when he's quoting here, when he verse 22, actually verse 21, rather, in the law it is written, he's quoting Quoting now from where? He's quoting from the Old Testament, right? He's gonna go back to the Old Testament and he's gonna base what he's gonna say now on Old Testament scripture. Where specifically is he quoting from he quotes here from Isaiah 28 11 and 12. So I want you to hold your place here. Let's go back to Isaiah then chapter 28 and let's Let's look at what he is saying in Isaiah chapter 28. Um and we'll kind of get the context. And what he's saying is he's telling Tells them that foreign tongues were assigned to Israel in the Old Testament, and he's saying he's making the same application here in 1 Corinthians verse 22. Now, what we have here, let me just give you a little context. The year is about 705 BC. King Hezekiah is the king of the southern kingdom of Judah. In 722, 17 years later, the northern kingdom of Israel, or excuse me, I should say seventeen years earlier, the northern kingdom of Israel had been uh punished by God. They had been carried away in the captivity. By the Assyrians. And now God is warning the southern kingdom of Judah: the same thing is about to happen to you. If you do what Israel did, you're going to suffer the same consequences They were behaving terribly. They were disobedient. And so God speaks to them through the prophet Isaiah to warn them that if they don't repent, if they don't hear What God says, then judgment is impending. And that's really what he talks about in the first 15 verses here. Look what he says in verse number seven. He gives a picture of the leaders of the Israel. Look at verse 7. But they also have erred through wine and through strong drink, and are out of the way. The priests and the prophet have erred through strong drink. They are swallowed up of wine. They are out Out of the way through strong drink, they err in vision, they stumble in judgment, for all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no place clean. So this is not a very pretty picture that he gives us here. He finds the leaders, that is, the prophets and the priests and the elders drunk. They fail to fulfill their role as leaders because they were drunk. And he gives this ugly picture of drunkenness that we saw there In verse number 8. And so, but notice their response. When Isaiah warns them, how do they respond to Isaiah? Look at verse number 9: Whom shall he teach knowledge? Again, they're being skeptical. They're mocking Isaiah. They're scorning him. They're deriding him. Whom shall he teach knowledge? And whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from From the milk and drawn from the breast, for precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, here a little, there a little And so, in other words, they're saying, who could he ever teach? It must be babies. Why is he talking to us like we're babies The response of these leaders to Isaiah is one of scorn, one of mockery, one of derision. They don't appreciate his attitude. So they begin to sneer at the prophet. So what does God say in response? Look at verse 11. For with stammering lips and another tongue will I speak to this people. In other words, God says, if you don't want to hear the simple, repeated, childlike message of Isaiah, I'm going to talk to you in a language that you That you won't be able to really understand or comprehend. You'll hear a language, uh, you'll hear a babbling, a language that you don't really know. And what was he referring to there? Of course, he was referring to the language of the Babylonians That would come into them and bring judgment and destroy them. And so they would begin to hear an unintelligible language. And when they would hear that language, What would that be a sign to them about? It would be a sign that judgment is imminent. Judgment is coming. So what was it a sign of? It was a sign of Divine judgment. By the way, the Babylonians invaders did come. And if you've been with us on Wednesday night, we've been studying the prophet Jeremiah, and we know about that. terrible judgment upon them. And so tongues, Paul says, was a sign. A sign to unbelieving Jews. It was a sign of judgment. In fact, write down also Deuteronomy 28 eight verse forty nine, where it says, The Lord shall bring a nation against thee from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as an eagle flieth, a nation whose tongues thou shalt not understand and I believe this uh warning could also have reference I think to uh the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. So in the fifth century God warned Now let's again let's apply this to Acts chapter two. When they began to speak in tongues on that day, uh those Jews who were there who Understood the Old Testament should have been able to understand that with this sign of tongues, there was also going to come God's judgment on those who did not believe. And by the way, did that happen? Well, we saw in the Old Testament it happened. It happened to Judah. We see in the New Testament again this did happen not too long after the day of Pentecost. What happened to the city of Jerusalem in seventy AD they were under the judgment of the Romans. The Romans came in. If you know any history, you know that the Romans came in, they just Judgment did come. This was God's judgment to a group of unbelieving Jews because there were so many that did not believe in the Messiah. That God sent. They did not believe in Jesus. And so God warned of an impending judgment that was going to come. And so one of the purposes, therefore, was a sign of Now there's another purpose I want to mention. Not only a a sign of divine judgment, but also it could be also a sign of the divine Divine blessing. A sign of divine blessing. You see, when tongues occurred at Pentecost, the message to the Jews was this God is not going to work exclusively through one nation anymore. The gospel is not going to be just to the Jews, but it's going to be spread throughout all of the world, through people all through the world, no longer through speaking only one language. not going to favor one people any longer. Instead, God is going to the world through the world to build his church. And uh you see the very fact that all these languages were spoken in Pentecost was God's way of saying the uniqueness of Israel is over with. God is going to turn from Israel and He's going to turn to all the nations of the world. Now you remember that Paul said Speaks about this in Romans chapter eleven when he says the trespass, their trespass, their sin, means riches for the world. The fact that Israel didn't receive the Messiah Cause God to say, Okay, I'm turning to all the Gentile nations now. And their fall meant the riches for the Gentiles. And of course we know that one day God again is going to turn to his people, the Jews, and Paul's un Understanding of that is uh if their fall means riches for the Gentiles, how much more shall their inclusion be a blessing to all of us as well? But the first idea was That God was not going to work just through Israel anymore. The gospel was going to go to everyone. And so tongues was a sign. It was a sign of divine judgment. But also we could say this a third thing. Tongues was a sign of divine confirmation. Divine confirmation. During the transitional time from the old covenant to the new covenant, confirmation was necessary. Anybody could come along with a new message and say this was from God, but how was anyone to know The Jews they were always looking for signs. They're always saying, Send us a sign. Uh, because in the Old Testament God spoke of giving signs to affirm the That's why it's so shocking and so surprising that the Jewish people didn't receive many of them didn't receive Jesus because he had so many signs. There were signs all over. There were signs at his birth. There were signs at his baptism. There were signs all through his earthly ministry. He was constantly doing miracles. And all those miracles Now, God not only confirmed his his Messiah, but he also confirmed The message of the gospel through who? Through the apostles. Because what did they do right after that? They also performed many signs and wonders, and the Bible speaks about that That uh the signs of the apostles, the many signs and wonders that they did to affirm and confirm that the message, the gospel they were preaching was truly a message from God. And one of those signs Signs, one of those wonders was of course the gift of tongues. So that in itself should be a sign of divine confirmation. That's what Paul means when we saw in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse 18. And we don't have time to get into all of it, but if you go through the book of Acts and you compare these purposes, you're gonna find that they line Line up every time tongues are used in the book of Acts, one of these three things are taking place there uh divine judgment, divine blessing, or divine confirmation of the gospel that is being preached. But again, not for evangelism. Look in verse number 23 of 1 Corinthians 14 again. Go back to 1 Corinthians. And notice again Paul is saying here, he said, If therefore the whole church be come together into one place, and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unlearned or unbelief. Will they not say that ye are mad? But if all prophesy and there come in one that believeth not, or one unlearned, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all, and thus Thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest, and so falling down on his face he will worship God and report that God is uh among in you of a truth. So again what's Paul doing? He's giving a scenario here. And what's the scenario? Here's a lost, an unsafe person that comes into the assembly. And Paul says if they come in, and what's going on in the church is that everyone is up And they're all speaking at the same time, perhaps all of them exercising their gift of tongues. This is all happening at once. What's he gonna say? Now again, what Paul's reverting back to is This former argument that prophecy, the speaking of the Word of God, is superior to tongues. Tongues is an inferior gift. Because they come in and everyone's doing this. Person is going to say you're crazy. But here's another scenario. What if a lost person comes into the church and instead of hearing a cacophony of different sounds That no one can understand, they come in and they hear the word of God being spoken. They hear people speaking clearly the word of God What will happen again look at verse 25, and thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest. And so falling down on his face, he will Worship God and report that God is in you of a truth. He's convicted of all, in other words, he'll feel the guilt, he'll feel from the word of God the weight of his sin. He's judged of all, in other words, the He feels guilty because he is guilty. He's guilty before a holy God. And the sins of his heart are revealed. The secrets of his heart are made manifest. His sins will become apparent. They'll be unmasked. Then in humiliation and with conviction and with self-condemnation, he'll fall down and repent and he'll Worship and he'll say, uh God is really here. The truth is being spoken here. This is what God uses to bring conviction to those who Do not know him, the Word of God. And so Paul again he's comparing the two. He's saying which one would be better. So there's the meaningful use. Now let me talk to you the third thing Let me talk to you about the methodical use of tongues. What I want to do then from verses 26 down to verse 40 is then just show you what Paul does here. Look at verse 26. How is it then, brethren? Or we could say what then? What is the conclusion then of this matter? Paul's about to conclude all of what he's been saying. Everything he's been talking about, his arguments about the superiority of prophecy over tongues. Purpose and the gift for the gift of tongues. Now he's going to conclude it all. He's going to bring it all together. And we can say like this: what is the practical application of all of this about this matter of tongues? And what Paul's going to give you is he's going to give rules for orderly worship. Again, look at verse 26. How is it then, brethren, when you come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. Then he says what? Let all things be done decently and in order. Now when he says when you come together, this phrase indicates a church Church when it comes together for its corporate time of worship and fellowship, when it all gathers together when you attend, and he says everyone hath a psalm. Look at the word psalm there, right? I don't think it's referring to a book uh uh from the Old Testament, one of the Psalms. I think the word here actually means a song sung to the accompaniment of an instrument So more than likely what's going on here is that in the Corinthian church, there was a lot of people who wanted to sing. There were so many solos that they all wanted to sing them, and you know what? They all got up and they sang at once Imagine doing that in a church. Everybody wants to sing a solo? We're gonna have a solo night. Everybody get your song ready. Well on the count of three, sing it. Get it over with Get it out. You say, Man, that wouldn't make any sense. That's right. Paul said, How is it that when you come together, everybody has a song or everybody has a doctrine that is a teaching or a lesson. Everybody who wanted to exercise the gift of teaching, or everybody thought that they were a teacher, got up and they actually taught, or hath the revelation, he says there, that is just Standing up and saying, Thus saith the Lord. Imagine coming together, and whenever you felt led, you just stood up, and people all over said, Thus saith the Lord, and they're all speaking. Again, there's confusion there Or even on top of that, half a tongue in verse number twenty-six. These were people who were standing up and speaking with the gift of languages. I think it's legitimately here Uh I think when he uses the word hath the tongue here in the singular, remember I told you s m many times when it's singular, it's talking about the false gift. But here I think it's referring to the real thing, because here the subject of the verse is singular and so I think he's referring to the real gift even if a person who has the real gift if they all at the same time they all stand up and they speak in a tongue there's just Just confusion or hath an interpretation, he says. And so there was the need to bring order in the church, order in the worship. That's why he says let all things be done decently and in order. Paul wants to resolve all of the confusion because if all of this is happening in the worship service, again And what's the problem? Nobody is being edified. Look again where he says, Let all things be done unto edifying at the end of verse number twenty six, and later he'll say, Let all things be done Decently and in order, but no one's being edified if all of this is going on in the church. And so Paul wants to bring some structure to the world So from verses twenty-seven down to verse thirty-five, he's going to give some rules to regulate the gift of tongues. If you want to use this in church in a public worship, Paul says here's what you do Look at verse number twenty-seven. If any man speak in a tongue, let it be by two, or by at the most by three, and that by course And let one interpret. And so this is the first rule. And by the way, this rule implies control. It's not someone who's totally out of control in a frenzied state, is it? It implies control. The Spirit of God ministers the gifts through people who are characterized by controlled behavior. And so Paul says this. He said if somebody in the congregation has this gift and they want to do it, let it be at the most two or three. After two or three, that's it. No more. Two at the most three. And then he says this In verse number um uh verse twenty seven. Let e if any man speak in a tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and that by horse What does he mean that by course? That means one at a time. That's the next rule. Each take a turn. In turn. In other words, at one time. Don't all stand up and If the legitimate gift of tongues is necessary in the public worship, let it be three at the most and take turns one at a time Time and if there's no one there to interpret her to interpret it, then don't say anything. Look at verse number 28. But if there be no interpreter, let him Let him what? Keep silence in the church and let him speak to himself and to God. In other words, you know, you just be quiet there. If there's no one to interpret, and in the Greek the one is in the other supposes that the the congregation knew that there were some in the church that had the gift of interpretation and if there were no one there that had that gift then no one is to stand and speak And then look at verse number 34. Here's another rule that he gives to it. Let your women keep silent in the churches. They are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. And so here's another rule that it's very clear, very simple, and with with reference to the speaking in tongues, no women Now if you have a problem with that, you can take it up with the Apostle Paul, all right? I'm just telling you what he said. All right? He said, No women. There's a lot I can say about that So these are the rules. They were very clear, very simple. At the most three, one at a time. If there's no interpreter, be quiet. He's bringing order to the whole thing here. By the way, what he'll do in other verses here is he's going to bring order also to speaking prop prophetic Remember in the early church sometimes a person felt led to speak from God and he also was very careful to lay down some general rules about that, that there be someone there to discern to move And again, what do we what do we learn for this? What do we So we see the misunderstanding Understood use of tongues, the meaningful use as a sign of divine judgment, divine blessing, divine confirm con uh confirmation, and then the methodical use. Paul gives some structure So, again, let me just say that you know we want a true work of the Holy Spirit of God. Want to do anything to hinder or quench the work of the Holy Spirit because, friends, we need the filling of the Holy Spirit. We can't do the work of God without His help But we want to make sure that we're following biblical guidelines and the Holy Spirit never goes against his word. And I would just say this, even someone who believes that the gift of tongues are for today, then let me just say in all fairness, I with respect I believe that uh you know the Bible says that they will cease when they're no longer necessary, that they will cease. And I remember I told you that the word there, Paul O, and the In the Greek middle voice, in and of themselves, when they're no longer necessary, they will cease, they will come to naught when God's purpose for that gift is no longer necessary That gift will cease. And I believe that for the most part it has ceased. I don't think it's normative in the church. I think that after seventy AD, after the destruction of Jerusalem, we don't read about it anymore. The last Time tongues are mentioned here in First Corinthians. This was written in 59 A. D. There were 16 other letters written after First Corinthians. None of them mention tongues in the churches of So I think that they have for the most part ceased. Now I I I I've told you before I call myself a leaky cessationist, which means that God can do whatever Once, but God's not going to violate his word. He's going to keep his word. And I believe that God is a God who does miracles all the time. Thank God for Him. The question is not does God do miracles and wonders? Of course he does. The question is do people today have that gift of doing The question is, do you have the gift of doing miracles? Do you have the gift of doing signs and wonders? That's the question. It's not a question of whether God does it or not. Of course God does. Is are there still people in the church that have these gifts? Are they still necessary in the church? And I say for the most part, I don't see the legitimacy of that happening in the church And there's church history that supports that. But nevertheless, dear friend, again I say God can do what he wants. So let's be committed to done let's not be as the Apostle Paul said, let's not be children in our understanding. Let's make sure that we're discerning. And to know what's of God and what's not of God because we want all of what's of God. We don't want the counterfeit. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you again for the clarity of your word. Lord, make us people of the book, people of your word, faithful to your Truth, faithful to the scripture, and yet Lord also yielded to your spirit, submitted fully As the Apostle Paul prayed that we might be filled with all the fullness of God. And surely, Lord, that's what we want. We want your Spirit to have free reign in our hearts, in our lives. In your church, so that when people do come into the public worship, they sense your spirit among your people. They feel and sense the love of Christ. When they hear the word of God, the spirit of God moves And does bring conviction on their heart and brings them into the kingdom of God. Lord, how we long to see conversions and a mighty work of God. We pray, Lord, that you'll do something of Among us that no one can explain, but other than to say it's the Lord's doing. And it's marvelous in our eyes. And so Lord bless us, use us, fill us Give us discernment in these days. And Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful and matchless name. Amen.