But you would you take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of Matthew chapter 19? Matthew chapter 19. And you know on Wednesday night we've been dealing with a series called Family Matters, and we're talking about issues that confront our home and our family. And we want to go to God's word to learn what Scripture says and to be strengthened in our own family and marriages. And so tonight in Matthew chapter 19, verse number 3, I just want to read you a few verses here of the words of our Lord. The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And he answered, and he said unto them, Have ye not read That which he m that when he made them at the beginning, he made them male and female. And he said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder. Now s some of some of you are like me, when I my children were smaller I bought them toys and didn't read the directions before I bought it because when you got the toys home there was a something that said assembly required. I'm there not very good at assembling things and I'm really not good at following directions. There's always a manual to come in with those things. It's kind of a man law that we don't look at that manual. We try to do it ourselves, you know And uh we always kind of mess up when we do that, you know. Uh I think uh when marriage when marriage should come with a label that says assembly required Because it takes it a lifetime really to figure it out and get it right. And a lot of times people plunge into marriage without reading the instruction manual, confident that they can figure it out. But that approach gets many into trouble. So we need to read and reread God's instruction manual when it comes to marriage. Most of the problems we get into can be traced to our neglect of Reading God's word and understanding what God's design for marriage really was from the beginning. And this was certainly the case in Jesus' day. Marriage was regarded lightly and divorce was rampant The Pharisees came to Jesus one day. We see this here in our text. They came to Jesus one day tempting him with a question. They had heard Jesus' earlier teaching on marriage, and they knew that he was very conservative in this area. He didn't really reflect what society thought about it. And they were trying to really turn people against Jesus. And uh and so they asked Jesus this very sensitive question about marriage and divorce. Now in answering this question, Jesus does not appeal to tradition. He doesn't quote the popular rabbis of the day, Shema or Hillel that were popular rabbis that had views on this. He doesn't appeal to the Sanhedrin on this matter and say, you know, whatever the Sanhedrin says is fine with me. What does Jesus do here in this passage? Jesus goes all the way back to the designer's manual, God's Word, and he quotes from the book of Genesis. And so Jesus addresses the issue of divorce by first addressing the issue of marriage. Now this is significant because His answer implies that one reason why divorce was so rampant in that day was because people did not understand God's purpose. And design and marriage to begin with, or at least they didn't embrace God's design to begin with And Jesus starts off by emphasizing to them that marriage is a divine institution, whereas divorce is a human invention. And the problem was that people in that day were putting man's invention ahead of God's institution. And by the way, the same thing is happening today. Marriage is not held in high esteem, or it's being redefined based upon the whims, the whims, I should say, of sinful and perverted men or people. And so in this passage here, Jesus emphasizes several important elements about marriage, and I want us to look at them. The first one is What I want us to think about as we look at the words of Jesus are the participants of marriage. Look again in verse number four where Jesus said, Have ye not read, I love that when he says to guys who are Old Testament scholars. These Pharisees are supposed to be Old Testament scholars, and as if Jesus is rebuking them or saying, have you forgotten? Or have you even read what It said in the very beginning that at the beginning made he he made them male and female. Now Jesus here is quoting from Genesis 1. 27. And in the Hebrew, when it says he made them male and female, this is in the emphatic position. And then down in verse number six here in ver in chapter 19, he says, Wherefore There are no more twain but one flesh, what therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder And so in other words, the marriage, to begin with, was God's idea. It was not man's. This was all of God. Marriage is an institution of God, not man. Therefore, the God who designed it is the only one who has the authority to define it. Marriage is not defined by the Congress. It's not defined by the U. S. government or any other government for that matter. Governments and men are to be submissive to the laws of God. And anytime any government uh uh passes a law that goes against the laws of God. That's in direct rebellion to the Word of God and in direct rebellion against God Himself. Jay Adams wrote this. He said, if marriage were of human origin, then human beings would have the right to set it aside. But since God instituted marriage, only he has the right to do so. Nor can marriage be regulated according to human whims. And then he continues and he says this. The state has been given the task of keeping orderly records, etc. But it has no right to determine the rules for marriage or for divorce. That prerogative is God's. He has revealed His will on these matters in the Scriptures, which are expounded and applied by the Church And Jay Adams is absolutely right. God is the authority on marriage. He created it. And so how does God define it? It is between a man and a woman. Notice here when Jesus quotes this passage out of Genesis. Notice the Genesis passage didn't say that God gave Adam Eve and also there were some other women created. If Eve didn't work out, he had some other women he could fall back on. He didn't do that. He didn't create groups. There were no spares. Adam didn't have anyone else to choose from if the first one didn't work out. He didn't say I'm I'll marry Eve and you know if Eve doesn't work out I'll try Esther over here. There were no there was no one else. There was no provision or even possibility for Any other alternative at that time? Adam and Eve knew nothing of divorce. It was unheard of. That was never even in the equation. And uh this was God's original design. You know, many times uh couples can go into a marriage with the same attitude the test pilot goes into an untested plane. They got their parachute ready to bail out if things don't work out That's not the attitude that we're to have. I I often, when I counsel young married, uh prospective married couples, I say, look, you need to go into this with an absolute commitment. A lifelong commitment. This was God's original design. Don't think about divorce, don't mention divorce. That should not even be in your vocabulary. Sometimes couples at an angry moment get Bring up divorce, uh as just uh to hurt the other partner, but that's a word that you should not use It's not even under consideration. God's design from the very beginning was one man, one woman in a covenant relationship. The Bible says in Genesis 2. 23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. That is the first wedding vow And God instituted this marriage and united Adam and Eve together in the covenant of marriage. There's another thing I want you to notice about this is that God did not make another man for Adam. He didn't say, you know, it's not good for man to be alone. Let me just make another man. Didn't do that, did he? That's not God's design. And that's not God's not marriage. People talk about same-sex marriage. There's no such thing. That's an oxymoron. God designed it, and God defined it, and he defined it as between a man and a woman. Those who argue for same-sex marriage They do not recognize the authority of God or the authority of God's Word. They they think that Marriage is somewhat of a human institution and they can they can work it around however they want to, but they do so in violation of God So we see here in the very beginning that the original participants of marriage was man, woman There are three participants in marriage. God at the head, man and woman, and God unites man and woman together. That is the way it was from the very beginning. That is God's design. And that's how marriage best operates. And God gives us his word. He gives us principles that will help us to have good marriages. And so since God designed marriage and he was a part of it, I think marriage works best when God is central in that marriage. I like the uh the illustration that is used as a triangle. You know, sometimes I'll draw out a triangle on a piece of paper and put God at the top and man and woman at the bottom and arrows pointing to the top. And as man and woman get closer to God, or husband and wife get closer to God, they get closer to each other. That's a good design. That's exactly what God intended. As you get closer to the Lord, as each partner gets closer to the Lord, you both get closer to each other And that is what God intends marriage to be. Broken marriages always involve at least one partner moving away from God. So the starting place for having a good marriage, according to God's design, is God is at the center who unites man and woman together, and man and woman seek to walk with God and seek to love each other. And so that's the participants of marriage. But I want you to see a second thing here. Write down also the partnership of marriage. The partnership. This is another thought. When Jesus referred to this verse again in verse 4, he made them male and female. Only two genders. Notice that in the beginning God only made two genders, despite what you might hear today. You don't get to pick your gender any more than you get to decide whether or not you're born. You don't get to pick that And again, Jesus is quoting here from Genesis, Genesis 127. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And then it says in Genesis 2. 21, and the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof. Now I don't know how much clearer the Bible has to be than that. XX or XY. Female and male. That's it Now every once in a while I know that there's a boy that might be born with an extra Y chromosome. This extra Y chromosome is called Jacob syndrome. Science and doctors tell us that it happens one out of every thousand, but they're still boys. There's still the male gender. You know the transgender interpretation of Genesis 1. 27 and Genesis 2. 21? Their interpretation is that when God created Adam in the beginning, he created a being without gender. And after all, when he created Adam, they say, he created him out of the dust of the ground, and the word Adam means earth person So God created this genderless earth person who became lonely. And only after God, notice Adam was lonely, did God create two sexes after that. And that's simply not what the narrative says. In Genesis, it does not say that God changed Adam's gender in any way. It simply says that out of the gender man created he woman. The only physical change in Adam was that God took one of Adam's ribs. That's it. He created the gender man first, and then he created the gender woman second. Why did he create man first and then woman? Well, like one preacher said, because he didn't want advice from woman on how to make a man. You know. I didn't say that. I'm just repeating somebody else. That's not nice. I'm sorry There's only two genders, only two. But the transgender interpretation of Genesis says there was more There's a book out called Family Faith and Equity by Orlando Espin. And this is what he writes. Let me just quote this. He says the book of Genesis shows us a creator who is imaginative and celebrates an incredible range of beings. such as coral that is both plant and animal, or a startling array of ways that life manifests on our planet, rather than an argument for limitations, Genesis speaks to us of possibilities or many genders. And in another article From 2019 called How Many Genders Are There? According to this article, there are 112 gender identities. They're listed alphabetically from A to Z. And again I'm not making this up. It's that's how bizarre things have gotten in our world today. That's how crazy things are Recently I received, not well recently I say maybe a few years ago, I received a letter from a man who sent me a copy of his book. He was trying to help me out on this issue. It's called The Process. And he was trying to educate me on transgender and all this other stuff. And he the whole idea of the of the book is that uh reincarnation is behind the issue. It's people who lived in a past life. This person lived in a past life as a man and they were reincarnated as a woman and vice versa. That's why they're having a struggle with our identity, you know. And so his mission was to share this knowledge with the Christian community. We need to know this. We need this help. We need to understand this, you see. His letter ends by saying to me, I don't envy you, Dr. Harmon. God has put you in a position Not to question God, but to question the whole historic Christian narrative. Well, I'm not the one questioning God. It's anyone who doesn't believe the design that God gives us in his words. There's the one questioning God. Because God has made it clear in his word. You don't have to have a PhD to know what the Bible says. There are only two genders, male and female. God chooses your gender at birth. In fact, he chooses it before you're born. And he is the one who creates you as you are. Your gender is not chosen by your parents, it's not chosen by your public school institution, it's not chosen by the government, it's not chosen by anyone except God Almighty. who thought about you in eternity past. The ones questioning that are the ones that are questioning God's design And so the other thing that I would have you see here is the plan for partnership that we see here. God's plan was for man to have a partner. For for God wanted man to have a a help meet, we could say. Look at uh well Genesis 218, let me just Quote this, and the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him. In the beginning marriage was established because Uh Adam was alone. And God saw that it was not good. That is something that should stand out. You know, when you're reading Genesis chapter one. And chapter two, you're reading about all the things that God created and how it was good. God created the season, it was good. He created vegetation, it was good. He created the stars, it was good. Everything that God created was good, it was good, it was good. We see that over and over again. The only time that God sees something that He created that is not good is when he looks at Adam and he sees that Adam is alone, and God said, Boy, that's not good. It's not good that Adam should be alone. That should grab our attention. Think about that. Here's a sinless man in perfect fellowship with God, living in a perfect environment, and you might ask the question, what more could you want? Isn't that enough? Not according to God. God's evaluation was that man needed a human companion to correspond to him. You know, sometimes, you know, super spiritual people will say, you know, if you're lonely, there must be something wrong with your spiritual life. And, you know, that's simply not true. God acknowledges our need not only for fellowship with Him, but He also acknowledges a need for a life partner. Now, we already talked about God has given some people the gift of singleness. We understand that. But for the majority of us, we need a life partner. And so God has called, well God may call some to remain single. God calls most of us to marriage. We all need companionship. And so um the one of the main reasons for God's design in marriage then was to meet the human need of companionship. And so in Genesis 2. 18, God says he will make Adam a helper. You know, where it says a help meet for him. We could say a helper suitable for him. Now, some feminists want to say that the idea that a woman was created as man's helper Or help meet is demeaning. But the Hebrew word here is not demeaning. This word is often used of God's help for those in distress or for military assistance. It points to the fact that the husband needs and even depends upon his wife's support and help. Just write down Proverbs 31, 11, the heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. And so this is a blessing from God. This is something that is, I think, one of God's greatest gifts to mankind. But now we also need to remember Paul's words in 1 Corinthians 11 19, or excuse me, 11-9, where it says, Neither was man created for the woman but the woman for man. So man was not created for woman's sake, but woman was created for man's sake. And that verse alone destroys the feminist view that there are no distinctions based on gender. The fact that God created the woman as a helper Points to her subordinate role to her husband even before the fall. But at the same time, there's no basis for the few for the view that men are superior to women. That's just simply not true. God made the woman to be a helper suitable for man. The woman is the missing part of the man. Just like a jigsaw puzzle will never be complete when it has missing pieces. God designed it so that man will never really be complete unless he has that suitable helper that God designed for him. Again, 1 Corinthians 11, 11, never nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord. What does that mean? It just means the woman is not really not anything without the man, and the man is not anything without the woman. There is this interdependence there in this companionship relationship. Both are equal persons. They have distinct roles and they complete one another. And we also again read in Genesis 2. 7 that God made Adam out of the dust. And then he made Eve from Adam's rib rather than from the dust. Why did God do that? I think that God did it to show Adam that his wife was part of him, equal with him, not a lower creation. A man is to cherish his wife as his own flesh, right? And that would the Bible says in Ephesians 2, excuse me, Ephesians 5. 28, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. And this goes all the way back from the very beginning because she was taken out of man. And so man should love her as his own body. It's often been said that woman was not taken from man's head to rule over him, nor from his feet that he should put her down, but she was taken from his side, so that he would protect her and keep her close to his heart. And then of course you know uh there w in the beginning when God was uh before God gave uh Adam, Eve What it what exercise did God make Adam go through? You might remember that in the Genesis narrative where Adam had to go through and name all the animals. And he's naming these animals and he's noticing that for every male animal there's a female. And you know, he goes through all the animals, and by the time he's done, Adam's wondering, you know, Where's my where's my partner? You know, and I think that was on purpose. God first made Adam feel the need for a wife. You know, sometimes God might make a person endure loneliness so that when the need is met, we appreciate it all the more. And so God prepares us to receive his gifts, his gifts, and then he provides for our needs. And so we have to see that woman was a tremendous gift to man. In fact, I would just say, aside from Jesus Christ, who is the indescribable gift, That the greatest gift that God has given to mankind is womanhood. What a gift that God has given. And that gift should be highly valued. Proverbs 1914 says this, houses and riches are the inheritance of fathers. A prudent wife is from the Lord. The whole idea there is, you know, you from your earthly fathers you get an inheritance, but from your heavenly father you get a prudent wife That's God's gift. The word prudent here is the idea of matched. A wife that matches you, one that God gives you. And she is to be valued. 1 Peter 3:7. were to give honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. The word weaker there again doesn't mean inferior. It actually means very valuable, very fragile, but very costly, very precious, very valuable, and that's the way we are to treat this gift that God has given you know just like you would treat something that's very valuable yet very fragile. And God says if you don't value your wife, I'm not going to listen to your prayers. Notice what it says there. As being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not what? And your God says, if you don't appreciate the gift that I've given you, I'm not going to listen to you when it comes time for you to pray. God said to the ungodly priests of Malachi's day, I don't accept your offering. I don't want your offering. Why? For what reason? And it goes on to say in Malachi 2. 14, because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, with whom you have dealt treacherously. She is your companion. And the wife and your wife by covenant. And so there's the partnership of marriage. Partnership and companionship. is the essence of marriage. It is a gift from God because it is not good for man to be alone. Now there's a third Thing I want you to see here. We see the part the participants. We see the partnership. But also I want you to write down number three the purposes of marriage. The purpose is now someone might ask, why did God design marriage this way between a man and a woman? Well, God's designed marriage is to fulfill several important functions, vital functions. And let me just go through this real quick. We already mentioned one, that's partnership. We don't need to belabor that point. Another one would be pleasure The marriage relationship is to be a blessing. It's to be enjoyed. The oneness that you have in that marriage is to be enjoyed. The intimacy in that marriage is to be enjoyed, there's pleasure, and then also there's procreation. God's first command in Scripture is this, Genesis 128, be fruitful, that is bear fruit, and multiply, and replenish, that is, fill the earth. Marriage is God's design for procreation to fill the earth. And we have to look at Children in a marriage as being a another blessing and a gift from Almighty God. Psalm 1 27 verse 3 says, Lo, children are a heritage, or we could say an inheritance of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. God is the one who gives children, and they are a blessing from God You know, a lot of times today we there's this mentality that children, you know, they're so expensive, so costly, you know, you always have to sacrifice in your life and you know, ch children will kind of make you poor. No, children don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. They're a gift from God. Psalm 127 says that, happy is the man who has his quiver full of them. They shall not be ashamed. But speak with the enemies at the gate. I love that imagery there. Back in biblical times, whenever the enemy would come, they would come to the gate. And if you had to answer the gate and look the enemy in the eye, it's always good to have a bunch of burly boys behind you. When it comes time to answer the enemy. Oh, these are my sons, you know, Bruno and and so on. You know, big boys. In other words, they're gonna have your back It's good to have that. Children are a blessing from God. They're a divine gift. Then there's another thing, protection. Another design is protection. The husband is to protect his wife. by laying down his life for her, Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. A wife is to protect the interest of her home. That's Titus 2. 4 And five, that they may teach the younger women to be sober, to love their husbands, love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, and so on. And parents are to protect their children by raising them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. They are to insulate them with the Word of God. We can't isolate our children from the world, but we can certainly insulate them with a Christian biblical worldview and the Word of God. And we protect them from some of the things of the world. But then there's another reason for marriage or purpose, and that is portrayal. Say what do you mean by that? That is to say that the marriage relationship is a type of Christ in the church. So marriage is to be a human object lesson of the divine relationship between Christ and his people Again in Ephesians 5. 31. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, they shall be joined unto his wife, and he shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. And then he says this, this is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. The Bible says that God created marriage for a purpose bigger than itself. There's another purpose behind this design of marriage. And what is it? Marriage is an earthly picture of the spiritual relationship that exists between Christ and his bride, the church. Just as a husband and a wife become one and they know one another, even so we can know our bridegroom, Christ. A husband and wife are one flesh. Even so we are one with the Lord. That's called the union of the believer with the Lord Jesus Christ. Just as the church is to be subject to Christ the head, so the wife is to be subject to her husband. Just as Christ loves The church, even so husbands are to love their wives. Just as the marital union results in children, so the union of Christ and his church is to result in many spiritual offspring Many spiritual children. So someone has described marriage as God's doing with one man and one woman that which he purposes to do within the world as a whole. That's why it's so important that you develop a Christ-honoring marriage. Why? Because the world is watching and God's glory is at stake. That's the essence of Christianity. They need to see reflected in our marriage relationship, Jesus Christ. Now let me give you a fourth point here. We talked about the participants of marriage and the partnership and the purposes. But let me give you number four, the priority of marriage. Go back again to Matthew chapter 19. Look at verse number 5, where it says this. And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother. I want to focus on the word leave here. And the word leave indicates that one is to leave the deepest tie tie known to a child up to that point in order to establish a new tie that actually supersedes the old tie. In other words, the marriage relationship is the preeminent relationship of all human relationships. It's to be priority, it is to be number one. It is the closest of human ties. It is to be closer than that tie that you once had even with your father and your mother. That is to be your priority. That's the whole point here. And by the way, leaving father and mother doesn't mean that you forget them or you dishonor them. Or that you can't still look to them for wisdom and help and knowledge and all of that. It doesn't mean to shut them out of your life. You always honor your parents. You do that every day of your life. You continue to do that. But what it's saying is that you don't allow those old relationships to interfere with this new relationship that you have. Many marriages are troubled because a husband will put maybe his mother ahead of his wife, or the advice of his mother ahead of the needs of his wife. Or sometimes a daughter can put her father and his word above the authority and needs of her husband. If she still listens to her father more than her husband, that's a problem. And vice versa. And I've had to counsel couples about this. Look, you always honor and love and respect your parents. But you remember that this new relationship that you have now, this is your priority. This is the thing that you focus on. And you parents, remember your boundaries and don't cross them. Let them grow up. Always be there to encourage, to love, to give wisdom, to loan money, and so on. You know, whenever that whenever there's a need there for that, you're always help out for that. Thank God for parents for that. Look, just give me your money, I don't want your advice, all right? But you don't let that relationship interfere with yours. That's the idea here. Did you know that in the Old Testament it says that when a man and Israel first married, he was neither to go to war Or be in charge of a business for a whole year. Why? So that he can concentrate and focus on that new relationship. That became a priority for him. That's not a bad rule to follow. But then let me give you another thing. We see the participants, the partnership, the purposes, the priority. But then here's number five, the product of marriage. Notice the rest of this. In verse 5, for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. The word cleave here is a very, very strong word. The Hebrew word to cling to, to hold fast. This word is used to speak of a strong bond. Sometimes it was used to speak of things being cemented together. Job used this word to speak of his bones clinging to his skin. It was used to speak of someone clinging to another in loyalty and in affection. For example, Ruth claived to Naomi, same word there. The men of Judah claved to David. Shechem claved to Dinah because he loved her. So cleaving is really a word that is used in Old Testament covenant language. It's kind of a technical term. The Bible says that Israel was to cleave to the Lord God. And this is the same word that is used here Husbands are to cleave to their wife, embrace, hold on to, literally cement himself to, glue himself to. That's the product to become one. And this brings up another issue. Who is it that makes Two, one. That's not a work of the legal courts or the state license. That's a work of Almighty God. God is the one that makes two one, and they become one in every way. We don't have time to look at it because we're running out of time, but in the book of Malachi again Malachi refers to this where he's rebu rebuking the uh sinful priests because they were divorcing their wives, and and God says, I don't accept your offering, I don't accept it because of the way you're treating your wife. And then God asked a question in Malachi chapter 2. And I'll let just let me read this to you in verse 15. He said, And did he not make one? That is, isn't this the work of God? Yet he has the residue of the Spirit. Another way we could say that is Did he not make you one flesh and one spirit? When God unites you together in marriage, it is God who makes one flesh and one spirit. And what you priests have done, he says to these priests and Malachi's, you've you've you've ripped this flesh apart. And your garment is filled with blood. It's a blood-spattered covering because you have ripped apart What God has joined together. All that to say it is the sovereign work of God who makes two one. And God doesn't want his work to be torn apart. And that's the whole point there. That's the product of marriage. And then there's the permanent. This is the final point here. Look at verse number six, where it says, Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder. What God has made one, let no man tear it apart or divide it. God's design for marriage is that if be Don't let anything violate your oneness. Protect that oneness that you have. When you came together and you were declared one. You begin to live out that oneness all the rest of your life. Don't let anything take you away from that oneness that God has given you. Protect it, guard it. Keep it as precious. You know, cling to one another. That's the whole idea there. Modern marriages can use this This clinging together, this cleaving together, that's what God's design is. And so let me just finish up tonight by saying I believe one of the necessities of a happy and lasting marriage is that you understand God's design from the beginning. This was Jesus' whole point. This is why when the the Pharisees came asking him about divorce. Jesus went right back to the designer's manual, right back to the beginning, quoting out of Genesis, and again the implication there was You all have seemed to have forgotten God's plan and his original design of marriage. That's why. Marriage is treated the way it is. That's why divorce is so easy. That's why people are so careless in this area because you don't understand God's design. And we need to be reminded of what God's design is, and we need to be committed to that. You see, it's not your love that holds your marriage together, it's your commitment to God's design that holds your marriage together. Because your love will wax and wane, it'll be higher or lower at different times, there will be challenges, but your commitment to God's design in marriage is what will keep you together. Through the good times, through the bad times, through the challenges that everyone will face in life. I was reading about Martin Luther. that uh he was a Catholic priest, of course he came out of the Catholic Church and uh he became a Protestant and and uh he no longer believed that in celibacy uh of the priesthood as the Catholic Church taught it, so he thought he should just take a wife. And so he admitted that when he married Catherine von Bora, he didn't really feel in love with her. And she also admitted the same thing. She was getting over a broken engagement to a man she truly loved. And she admitted, you know, she doesn't necessarily feel in love with him, but each of them knew God's word Each of them understood God's design for marriage, and they were committed to that design, and they got married, and their love grew. So after 20 years of marriage, there was this deep love, this true love that they had for one another in marriage, because they understood God's original design. The same thing can happen to any marriage couple that follows that example. Let's pr let's pray together. Father, as we come before you, we are so thankful always, Lord, for your word. It is our source of instruction, it is our authority. And Lord, we submit to it as your people. And Lord, we admit that in these things we are weak and we constantly are in need of your help. It's our desire, Lord, as your people to follow your word, to obey you, and to be all that you called us to be. So Lord, will you give us the grace? Help us to understand your original design and help us to be committed to that original purpose that you had. Help us, Lord, as men, to understand the precious gift that you gave. to us when you gave us a help meet, a helper suitable for us. And may we value that, may we cherish that May we, Lord, understand this tremendous gift. And Lord, I pray for our church and for all the families in it that you would make the marriages. godly and strong. And for those that do go through challenges, and Lord, we all will, that Lord, that original Design and that commitment to that original design will keep marriages strong even through the stormy times. So that Lord Our children will be children who love you and walk with you so that we produce godly children that want to walk with you And seek your will for their life. So, Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.