No, I'm not the special music. We're going to get right into God's Word today. Would you take your Bible, please, and open to the book of 1 John? We uh began a series into 1 John last week, and I want to just we actually did just an overview of the whole book, but I want to look at the first four verses of 1 John this morning, 1 John chapter 1. And uh verse one. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it and bear witness and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested unto us. And that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. When I read these first few verses of 1 John, I can't help but think of a person that I met in college, a student by the name of Ed. He was unlike any college student that I've ever met. Ed would had just come to faith in Jesus Christ after having a rough life. He was saved out of a motorcycle gang. And Ed was only saved for a few months when he decided to go to Bible college Uh and when God saved Ed, there was a dramatic transformation in his life. He was again st still a new convert coming to Bible college there, and by the providence of God, Ed and I were roommates at college there that first year. He was full of energy. I mean when he spoke he sounded like Hulk Hogan. That's what he reminded me of. Always with all that passion and energy whenever he would say something. And uh the really the most zealous Christian I had ever met. Uh he was always either praying out loud or preaching at someone always. And I remember sometimes in the early morning hours my bed would shake and I'd wake up, it would be Ed at the end of the bed, and he would say, Pray with me, Brother Jerry, pray with me. And I would say, Ed, it's three in the morning. He would say, please, Brother Jerry, please pray with me. I said, okay, sure. So I get out of bed and I prayed a short pathetic prayer, you know, that lasted maybe thirty seconds, and then Ed would pray. And uh he would pray for an hour. And then he would end his prayer like this. And God, Brother Jerry, wants to say something else. Pray again, Brother Jerry. Pray again. And that was just Ed. That was the way he was. Somewhere along the line in his young Christian life, he uh he heard the song, I think it was in a chapel skid that was done, the song Drop Kick Me Jesus through the Gold Post of Life one of the crazy pop songs, you know. And Ed thought that since it had the name of Jesus in it, it had to be one of the hymns of the faith. So he incorporated one of the lines of that song into his prayer life. Especially the one where it said, Drop kick me Jesus And when Ed was felt backslidden and cold, he would just pray, Jesus, I wish you would just dropkick me. And I would try to encourage him and I would say, Ed Jesus isn't gonna dropkick you, man. Come on. I mean, you know, you need to be realistic here. One day we were walking to class outside Early in the morning, first hour class. It had just snowed the week before. It was kinda icy. Ed was praying out loud and I remember him saying, Lord Jesus, my heart's not where it should be. I wish you would just drop kick me right now. And when he said that, his feet slipped out from under him And he hit the ground. And I helped him up. I said, Edward, you're right. He was so happy. He said, he dropkicked me, brother. He dropkicked me. First hour class, the teacher said, Any testimonies today? Ed Ed's he and shot up. Ed said, I just want to thank the Lord that on the way to class today, Jesus dropped, get me. Well the teacher didn't know how to receive that. And uh Ed said, Brother Jerry was there, he saw it. Every guy in the class fastened on me. I mean what was I supposed to say? Yeah, I saw what he drop kicked him, man, you know. But the thing I remember most about Ed was uh He would go around shouting out all the time, Jesus is real, Jesus is real, all over, Jesus is real. That was just his his his byline. That was just what he said all the time And that really, again, when I read these verses here in 1 John, I just think of Ed running around campus saying over and over again, Jesus is real. Because Jesus was so real to Ed. When Jesus came into his life, he totally transformed his life. And Ed wanted everybody to know it. He wanted everyone to know that Jesus Christ was real. And that, I believe, is the very heart of what the Apostle John wants to communicate in the first few verses of this letter here. John is telling us that Jesus is real. By the way, this is the mark of a true child of God. A true child of God has experienced the reality of Jesus Christ in their life, and it changes them in a very profound way. Christianity is not essentially a system of thought. Rather, it's all about a person, Jesus Christ. And it's knowing the truth about Jesus Christ, but not just objectively knowing that truth, but experiencing that truth in your life. Knowing Jesus personally. So let me ask you a question: Is Jesus Christ real to you today? Is he real? So John invites us to believe in the reality of Jesus Christ in three ways. Here's the first way. First of all, John wants us to embrace the historical reality of Jesus. Again in verse number one, that which was from the beginning. which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. God has revealed Himself to us in the person of Jesus Christ. God became a man. That man is Jesus. He was eternal God, come in human flesh. He was a historical figure who came from eternity to dwell among men. And the only way we can know God is through Jesus Christ. Is to know Jesus Christ. The Bible says this in John 17, 3. This is eternal life that they may know him, they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So in this first verse of 1 John John declares that he and the other apostles they saw, they heard, they looked upon, and they even touched Jesus. John is not giving us here abstract theology. He's giving us his personal eyewitness account of Jesus. Now some question whether Jesus was really a historical figure? Was he something that was made up? Was he really a literal person that lived among people? Well John puts that question to rest. John tells us his personal account of knowing Jesus. Jesus wasn't a ghost or a symbol. He was real. He was born in a manger. He lived a sinless life. He performed miracles. He physically rose from the dead. Jesus was a real man who lived among us, John tells us. And this is no minor point, because you have to remember that part of the heresy that John was combating there at that time was called docetism, which actually taught that Jesus wasn't a real man. He only appeared as a man. That's where the wordseo comes from in the Greek, to appear And so some of these early false teachers would say he wasn't really a man, he only appeared to be a man And John debunks all of that. He pushes back. He says, oh no. He was real. He was a man. I saw him. I heard him. I saw all his miracles. In every way that matters, John knew Jesus. He heard his words, he saw his actions, he saw his sufferings, he saw his resurrection from the dead. Jesus made God real to John and the other apostles. Now John is inviting us to believe this reality about Jesus so that we could get to know him as well. But you have to first be there. You have to believe that he was a historical person. So John, in order to verify the historical reality of Jesus, he does it several ways. First of all, he talks about his message, again in verse 1, that which was from the beginning. Now what is the beginning that John is talking about here? And conservative scholars are divided over what beginning he's referring to here. Some think that he's referring to the beginning of creation, like Genesis 1. 1. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And some think that the beginning that John's referring to here is the beginning of eternity, or all the way back in eternity, they compare this opening of this small epistle to John's gospel. John 1. 1, in the beginning was the word. And they compare those two verses and say there's similarities here. So the beginning that he's referring to here is the beginning of uh Jesus in the eternity. But I don't think any of that's correct. I think the beginning that he's referring to here is the beginning of the gospel. The beginning of the gospel message. For example, look in chapter 2, look at verse number 7. Brethren, I write no new commandment on you, but an old commandment, which ye have heard from the beginning. This is something that you have heard already. At the very beginning, you started to hear this and I think he's referring here to the gospel. Look in chapter 2, verse 24. Notice what he says. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If which ye heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. Well, what did they hear from the beginning? Again, this is the beginning of the gospel. When you first heard the message of the gospel about Jesus Christ. That's the beginning that he's referring to here. In other words, what is going to keep a person from wandering off the path of truth? You have to go back to the beginning of the message of the gospel. Don't we have to do that sometimes in our Christian life? Just go back to the beginning. Go back to the cross. Go back to the gospel. And I think this is what John is saying. When you do that, it reinforces truth. So he's the gospel is no uh is not some new secret message. This is the message you have heard from the beginning. From the beginning. His message, but then his teachings. Again in verse 1, which we have heard. Look at the word heard there. That's a kuo in the Greek where we get the word acoustics. John heard Jesus speak And he uses the word we there. He's referring to the other apostles. We we had the privilege of hearing the words of Jesus. We heard him speak. Wouldn't you like to have been a part of that class? One day we will hear Jesus speak there in heaven, but we have his written word here, which is a sure word of prophecy, the Bible says But they heard John says, Look, I heard the words of Jesus. I heard him speak. But then his life and miracles, again in verse 1, which we have seen with our eyes. John saw Jesus with his own eyes here And this phrase shows that John's not talking about some mystical vision of Christ. This was something that he saw with his own eyes. He actually saw the works of Jesus He saw Jesus turn water into wine. He saw Jesus feed the 5,000. He saw Jesus walk on water. He saw Jesus heal the multitudes. He saw Jesus raise the dead. He saw it with his own eyes. There are 35 miracles of Christ recorded in four Gospels, and that's just a small percentage of everything that John saw. The Gospel of John says this. If we would have written down everything that Jesus said and did, I suppose John said that the world could not contain the books. Now obviously John's using a little bit of hyperbole there, but you get the message. What's recorded is only just a small percentage of all that Jesus did. And John says, I saw it I watched his life and his miracles, but also his glory, again in verse number one, which we have looked upon. This is not just a repetition of we have seen with our eyes. When it says looked upon here, the verb takes it a step further. It means to see careful examination, to see with uh with attention and careful examination. And it also has the idea of studying to get understanding, understanding the significance of what he saw. It means to interpret what you see. It's where we get our word theater from, the English word theater. John uses the same word in his gospel, John 1. 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld, same word there. Theomia. We beheld his glory. We saw his glory. In other words, we looked at it, we beheld it, and we interpreted it. We understood that who he was, he was the glory of God come to me. He was God come to man. They saw his glory. So the historical reality of Jesus is verified in his message, and his teaching, and his life, and miracles, and his glory. But also in his bodily resurrection, again in verse number one, our hands have handled of the word of life. John said, We touched him We touched him, we handled him. It didn't just appear as a man, he was a man. Our hands have handled him. Again, the Greek word here means to uh to feel in order to understand. It's like a blind man who is handling things for understanding. That's the idea here. This is the same verb used in Luke 24, 39, after the risen Christ said this: handle me. Touch me, handle me, and see, for a spirit has not flesh and bones, as you see I have. And John here is saying, I knew Jesus as a real man. He was human because I handled him. I touched him, not only before his resurrection, but after his resurrection. I touched him. I know he was real. His message, his teaching, his life and miracles, his glory, his bodily resurrection. I saw all of that. I was a part of all of that. And by the way, the verb tense used in all of these things is perfect tense. What is perfect tense in Greek? Something that happened in the past that has continuing results. We could say that 9-11 was something that took place 20 years ago in our nation, but are we still feeling the impact of what happened on that day? Yeah, we still feel the impact of it. And that's a perfect tense verb in Greek. John is saying, I saw the ministry of Jesus, I heard him teach, I saw his miracles. I saw his his uh his life, his his his resurrection, I felt him, I handled him. And what Jesus did, we're still feeling the impact of that The impact of his life is still being felt today. Jesus didn't just enter into history, he changed history. And Jesus will never be real to you until you first accept this historical reality of Jesus and who He is. But so John invites us to embrace that. But here's number two. He invites us to experience the spiritual reality of Jesus. Look at verse 2. For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us You see, knowing about Jesus and knowing Jesus is two different things. Many know the facts about the gospel, but they never experience the the power behind the message of the gospel. That's why John moves quickly from history to transformation. Jesus wasn't just revealed to the apostles physically. Jesus, who he was, was manifested to them spiritually. They knew the person Jesus in a historical way, but they also knew Jesus in a spiritual way because their eyes were opened so that they could truly understand and see who Jesus really was This is a spiritual work that took place. There's some key words here in this verse. The word manifested is one of them. We see it two times in verse number Once at the beginning, once at the end. It's the word in the Greek, fanaru, to reveal. In order for you to really know Jesus, God the Father has to reveal him to you. He has to open your spiritual eyes. So that you understand who Jesus is. Not just know the facts, the historical facts. There's a lot of people that know a lot of the historical facts about Jesus, but their their eyes have not been opened to see who Jesus really is spiritually. to their heart. And so John says, he was manifested to us. And now we bear witness. We have seen it and bear witness. This is another key word here, bear witness. It's a legal term used in the courtroom of John's day. And uh the idea of giving evidence. John says, look, he was manifesting us, and what I'm doing now is I'm giving you all the evidence of what I saw and experienced so that You can really know him too. And so, really, what John is giving us is two steps here. First of all, you have to have that proper knowledge, you have to embrace all of the facts about Jesus Christ. It starts with knowing the facts about him. That's why John gives first-hand testimony about his virgin birth, his sinless life, his miraculous works, his atoning death. His body resurrection. It all starts there. You have to believe all of that about Jesus. That's vital, but it doesn't end there. And by the way, the Gnostics That John was writing against their false teaching. They believe that salvation came through knowledge. All you had to do is just know certain things, and that's how salvation comes. And John is saying, oh no, it goes way beyond that. It's it starts there. You do have to have the proper knowledge about Jesus, but then you also have to experience it spiritually in your life. He has to be manifested to you. He won't be real until he's manifested to you spiritually. So you have to have that spiritual revelation. God must reveal Jesus to your heart. He has to open your eyes to show you, again in verse 2, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father. And was manifest unto us that eternal life. Literally reads in the Greek that life, the eternal one. God the Father has showed you that Jesus Christ is the eternal one, the Savior. John says, God the Father showed that to us, and he's got to show that to you. You gotta see that. Do you remember when uh Jesus fed the f the five thousand? The people ate? And the next morning they got up and they they wanted breakfast. And they looked and Jesus wasn't around. He was on the other side. So they followed him over to the other side. And and they were looking for another meal. And Jesus said, I am the bread of life which came down from heaven. And you know what? The Bible says they murmured. when when Jesus said that. Because he claimed to come down from heaven. Because he claimed to be the bread of life from heaven. They murmured. Jesus just did the miraculous in feeding them, and they still did not see who he was. They didn't get it. They saw a man before them. They had the historical idea. They understood he was a man, but they did not spiritually understand who he was. And then Jesus said this in John 6 45. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the Father cometh to me. And Jesus was saying, unless the Father opens their eyes about who I am, they're not going to understand it. They're not going to get it. And so John says the life was manifested. It was manifested. In other words, the apostles again not only saw Jesus historically, but it was manifested to them who he was, the eternal one. That he was the Christ. Now why didn't the multitudes that heard the same teaching and saw the miracles? How come they didn't How come they didn't believe? How come they didn't put their faith in who he was. And Jesus explained this in again in Luke 10, 21, that the Father has hidden these things from the wise. and reveal them to the infants. And then in Luke 10, 22 he says this, all things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one who knows the Son is a is is except by the Father. No one you can't really know the Son except it be through the Father, Jesus said. And who the Father is except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal them. You're not going to know any of these things about who the Father is and who I am unless that is revealed to you, unless the Father reveals the Son, and the Son reveals the Father. In other words All of this must be a spiritual revelation to your heart as to the truth of Jesus Christ. That has to happen. So, at his core, Christianity is all about Jesus Christ and who he is and being revealed to your heart to your heart for who he is. So John invites us to embrace the historical reality of Jesus. He invites us to experience the spiritual reality of Jesus. But then here's the third thing, the final thing. He invites us to enjoy the personal reality of Jesus. And here John gets to the bottom line. Look at verse 3. And that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. That ye also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Now again, the Gnostics claim that the truth about Christ was a deep mystery. It was exclusive. Only the elite, only the special can really understand this and really get in on this. They were deliberately exclusive in the way that they presented the message. But John counters that error by showing that Christianity is not exclusive and it's not hidden. It is a message by its very nature must be proclaimed to everyone. We must proclaim Jesus Christ to everyone and tell the world who He is. That's the nature of Christianity. The message of the gospel is not to be hidden. It is to be heralded by all of us. So notice what I there's what I call the proclamation. And John uses three words here to tell us how they proclaim the message of Christ in that day. First of all, in verse 2, we saw bear witness. Again, that's a courtroom term. Where John is just giving the evidence. I'm going to give all the evidence about Jesus and all that I know about him. John Stott calls this the authority of experience. The apostles spoke the truth of Jesus Christ based on their own experience, what they had seen and what they had heard about Jesus. But then also in verse 3 there's the word declare. that we saw, that that which we've seen and heard, declare we unto you. This is a word that means to announce. This is the idea that Jesus commissioned his apostles to go out and to declare, to announce Who he is and the whole message of the gospel. And by the way, that's something that we need to do as well. We need to declare Jesus Christ. We're called to declare Jesus who he is. We're we're we're doing it as witnesses, you know. A lawyer is someone who takes the evidence and just presents it in court, but he's never really experienced any of it. He's just assembling the facts. But a witness is the evidence A witness was there. You see, we're not like lawyers, we're witnesses. We declare to the world what is real to us in our own life, what we know about Jesus Christ. But then there's another way we that the apostles were to get out the message and proclaim it. Look in verse 4 where it says, write. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be John and some of the other apostles wrote under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit the words that God wanted us to receive. And this is what we have in the Word of God. It is written down so that we can receive it, so that we could know, and so the message can be proclaimed. This is firsthand testimony from John about Jesus. Peter calls it a more sure word of prophecy. Years ago, there was a ABC News report done, and the title of the report is called The Search for the Historical Jesus Now when you hear that title, at first you might think, oh wow, this is great. ABC News is going to tell us about Jesus. No, they were doing it under the idea that the Bible that you have here is not reliable. And since we want to find out who Jesus is, we have to go on a historical search. Meaning we have to go outside the Bible. We can't use the Bible. And so the whole concept was there are historical sources that we should go to and appeal to, and maybe we can find in those historical sources who the real Jesus was, not the one uh that maybe the church made up. So it's really it was a backhanded slap against the Bible and against Christianity. Are there historical documents that talk about Jesus? Yes. And we're talking about documents outside the Bible. Yeah, there's some. There are some. Tacitus, the Roman historian, talked about Jesus who was put to death under the under the reign of Pontius Pilate during the time of the Emperor Roman Tiberius. Pliny the Younger wrote to the Emperor Trajan on the subject of Christ and Christians in one of his books. Josephus, the Jewish historian, he talked about Jesus from a historical standpoint He has a long section in his antiquities where he talks about Jesus uh and what he did and uh how that Pilate put him to death and how that his that he rose from the dead and some of his followers are still out there to this day. These are all pretty good sources, but none of them really give the gospel. And besides that, we have a more sure word of prophecy. These are histor historians who are getting re accounts second hand and third hand about Christ. Do you realize that what you have in your lap is a first hand account of Jesus' life? From an eyewitness? John, who spent years with Jesus, this is his first hand eyewitness account. That Jesus was real and he was God that came down in the form of a man. This is the best witness that you'll ever have. The best witness is God's word. So there's the proclamation, but then there's the partnership. Look at verse 3. And that which we have seen and heard declare within you, that you may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father. That's what salvation is. It's a call to fellowship. And this word fellowship, again, is a very important word, means to have in common. As sinners, we can have nothing in common with the Holy God in and of ourself. But God in His grace sent Jesus to this world, the sinless Son of God, who took our sins upon himself, paid our sin debt, so that we can have fellowship with God So that we can have that nature of that spirit of God dwell in us. Jesus Christ took upon him the nature of man that by faith we might receive the very nature of God. And therefore we can have fellowship. Fellowship with who? Look again in verse 3. That you may have fellow that uh that which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that you may have fellowship with us. And who else? And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Is there any greater fellowship that you can have? You can be partakers of this fellowship. You can have real fellowship with the Father and with the Son. What an incredible privilege that is. This is an invitation for us to join in that Trinitarian fellowship that existed between God the Father and God the Son. This is what Jesus' prayer in John 17 was all about. That we can be part of that Trinitarian fellowship that God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit had. We're invited to join in. Man, that's incredible. That's incredible. John 17, 20, neither I pray these for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. That they all may be one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, and they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. That we could be one in fellowship with the Father and the Son, and this, that that is amazing. That's what salvation is. It's a call to fellowship with God the Father and God the Son. Amen. That you can experience that. It would be like, you know, my family uh we're having such a good time within our the members of our family, and we're Enjoying each other so much that we decide, you know what, we're going to adopt somebody and bring them into our family so they can enjoy the fellowship that we're having here. That's the whole concept. There was such joy And completeness and satisfaction within the members of the Trinity that God the Father said, let's invite others to share in this fellowship, in this partnership, in this joy. And that's what salvation is. What a privilege. And here's the whole purpose. Here's the whole bottom line. Look at verse 4. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. And here John gives the purpose of writing this letter. This is one of the purpose statements of 1 John. There are several, but here's the first one. John's whole purpose of writing this is so that you can know Jesus personally, so that you can have this fellowship, this very real fellowship, experience that love and that presence and that joy in your life The result of knowing Jesus is this personal fellowship and joy that will be manifest in your life. That is knowing Jesus on a personal level. You were created to enjoy fellowship with God. You were created to enjoy fellowship with God. So are you enjoying that? Now you might be thinking, well, join the Lord, that's a nice extra, but it's not essential. No, it's essential. As John Piper often points out, we cannot glorify God properly unless we enjoy Him thoroughly. And so the whole aim in proclaiming the gospel is so that others can enjoy this fellowship. That comes as a result of the gospel, this joy of knowing Jesus Christ. And so John invites us to embrace the historical reality of Jesus, experience the spiritual reality, enjoy the personal reality. And this passage also calls upon all of us to examine our own heart to ask, am I really enjoying this? Is this really what I have? Is is it genuine with me? So let me ask you right now again, is Jesus real to you? Is he real to you? Is he just a person in the Bible? Or a person in history? A person out there in eternity The Bible tells us to examine ourselves. That's healthy. We need to examine ourselves. So let me ask you, is your life dominated by Jesus? Look at all the people in Scripture when they responded to Jesus. Notice how they responded. They were amazed at him. They adored him. They fell at his feet. Is your knowledge of Jesus the greatest thing that has ever happened to you? Is it the greatest thing that has ever happened to you? That was true of John. And when you read these verses here, you get the sense that he is amazed. He's not over it. That he hasn't experienced Jesus in his life. It's the greatest thing that ever happened to him. John said, I I saw him, I heard him, I touched him. The greatest thing that ever happened to me, that I came to know Jesus Christ, is he the biggest factor in your life? As we look back at our life, we can just point to many things that have happened in our life, many monumental events, associations and schools and universities maybe that we graduated from and people who have influenced us. We can all talk about that, but Is Jesus Christ the biggest factor of your life? The biggest influence of your life? Are you more proud of your association with him than anything else? Anything else? I'm more proud of the fact that I know Christ than I'm anything else. This is the biggest thing for me in my whole life. That's exactly how John felt. And are you declaring him to others? Because it's if it's the biggest factor in your life, you can't be silent about that. You're going to talk about that. You're going to declare it to other people. That's part of John's point here. It's the greatest rejoicing in your life based on what Jesus Christ has done for you. Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Is your mind at rest because you know Jesus Christ? That's the whole point, is it at rest. Jesus is real to you when He becomes the most important factor, the greatest influence, the greatest source of joy, the greatest source of satisfaction in your life. life because you have embraced not only the historical reality of Jesus, but spiritually, your eyes have been opened to see the beauty of Christ. And you have embraced him. You have bowed to him. You've made him Lord and Savior. Let's now prepare together. Father, thank you for opening our eyes and showing us the beauty of Christ. That we may embrace who He is. God, who became a man, born of a virgin Who dwelt among us, lived a sinless life, who took all of our sins upon himself on the cross, to pay our sin debt that we might have eternal life, that we may be forgiven when we repent and turn to Him. That we may have true fellowship. As our eyes are open to see the beauty of Christ, we see Him as the only true way, the only true Savior. We see our sin, we see ourselves for what we are, sinners, in need of a Savior. We embrace this reality of Jesus Christ as Savior, and we come in true repentance. And now we experience the joy of knowing Christ. And being sanctified into his image. And it's the biggest factor of our life. It's the biggest influence of our life. It's the greatest joy of our life. Father, I pray that everyone here will know that Jesus is real. And if there's someone here that has a question in their mind, that they would settle it today, right now. With heads bowed and eyes close friend, if you're here today and you haven't repented and turned to Christ And ask for his forgiveness and believe on him. Believe who he is and why he came and what he can do. I invite you right now to reach out by faith. Ask Jesus to cleanse you from your sins and to be your Savior Father, do your work in every heart. Bring assurance to every heart of salvation for those who truly put their faith. And Jesus who repent of their sin and put their faith in the risen Christ. And we pray in his precious name. Amen