Take God's word tonight, if you will. Open to the Old Testament book of 2 Kings. If you're new to our study on Wednesday night, we're going through 2 Kings and uh we are And tonight we're in 2 Kings chapter 9 and in chapter 10. There are Thirty seven verses in chapter nine and there are thirty nine verses or thirty six verses in chapter ten, so you guys gotta listen fast tonight. But we're so obviously we're going to kind of do this in a survey format, but I want to give this to you all at once because I think it's better to get it in a whole picture. And so let me just read a verse with you. Look in 2 Kings chapter 9, look down at verse number 7. And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab, thy master. That I may avenge the blood of my servants, the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of Jezebel. On April 26, 2003, Aaron Ralfston was hiking through Blue John Canyon in eastern Utah. While he was descending uh down the canyon on uh an eight hundred pound suspended boulder became dislodged, and as he was climbing down from it, it crushed his right hand and pinned his arm against the canyon wall. Uh Aaron had uh didn't really h give anyone information about where he would be hiking, so no one really would be searching for him, and surely after a few days someone would try, but there was no way they would probably be able to find him there in that narrow passage. where he was stuck there in Blue John Canyon. If he didn't free himself he would die there. And after being trapped for five days and seven hours, he finally used a dull pocket knife to cut off his forearm. He then repelled nearly 70 feet and like three hours before he was rescued by a helicopter. What an incredible story. You know, there are times when amputation is necessary in order to preserve life. We've heard of people that have had their limbs amputated by a doctor only because their the infection was so bad that In order to prevent the ins the spread of that infection and to uh preserve the whole body from death, that amputation had to happen. Amputation is a last resort when all other treatments have failed Then it is the only option. And a surgeon who is appointed to do that normally uses the finest instruments that a hospital can furnish for such surgery. Well, I bring it up because i in the history of Israel, the infection of uh of false worship, the and infection of of Baalism and worship of Baal have been spreading so much throughout the nation That the infection was was causing really the whole nation to die spiritually. And God had been pa patient with the nation of Israel. He tried to treat this idolatry, this false worship. by sending out prophets who would preach the word of God to the people, but yet nothing seemed to work. And it finally became necessary for God to do some amputation in a nation. He had to finally cut out a source of wickedness, a tumor that was growing in the nation of Israel called the house of Ahab Now if you've been with us in the study of First and Second Kings, you know that Ahab was the most wicked king in all of Israel. He had no regard for the things of God, and in fact he was a man who taught people to turn away from God. His wife Jezebel was the daughter of a priest of Baal, and she was teaching all the people of Israel to turn away from God and to worship Baal. And so for years, even though they were told to repent, they continued with their hardness of heart Turning away from the Lord and teaching others to do the same. And finally now God had had enough. Now it was time for God to do some amputation. And it was necessary for God to find an instrument to do that amputation. And the instrument God chooses here is a less than perfect instrument. In fact, he's a very flawed man. We're going to be introduced in chapter 9 and 10 to the to a man by the name of Jehu. He was a military man. He was an officer under King Ahab. And uh he was designated by God to be the man who would be the instrument of judgment against the house of Ahab. Uh and so uh he did his job, in fact. Uh he did more than God asked. In fact He went from really being zealous for the Lord's sake. He really wasn't he he bragged about being zealous for God's sake, but really he wasn't zealous for the Lord's sake. He was really zealous out of his own heart ambition. And later on God would judge Jehu because he did more than what God asked, and in his fanaticism and his rage and bloodthirsty lust He killed more people than than uh that was necessary to do what God wanted him to do. Nevertheless, he was God's man for the task And he was used by the Lord to get rid of the spiritual cancer in the nation. What's God's purpose here? God's purpose is very clear. God is now going to judge the house of Ahab just like he had promised to do under the prophets He was going to get rid of Ahab and his influence and all of the worship of Baal. In fact, in chapter nine, look at verse number seven. that we read it, that thou might smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants, the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of of Jezebel. And so this is God's clear purpose. God in verse 8 said he's going to cut off all the descendants of Ahab. And God's going to use a dull sword, we could say, uh alike Jehu, uh to do this Now I want you I want us then to look at this drama in three acts and again this is kind of these are long narratives. I'm just going to kind of touch on a few of these And then at the at the end we're just going to draw some lessons from it. But this whole drama of God's judgment on the house of Ahab, we can put it in three acts. Act one I call the anointing. First of all, Jehu's going to be anointed for this task. So look in chapter nine, look down at verse number one. And Elijah the prophet called one of the children of the prophets and said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this box of oil in thy hand. And when thou comest thither, look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat, son of Mimshe, and go in and make him arise from among his brethren, and carry to him to an inner chamber and take the box of oil and pour it on his head and say, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then open the door and flee and tarry not. So this is going to be uh someone that is an unnamed prophet that's going to get this job, you could say. Elisha is not going to go himself. Because he wants to kind of keep this low key. If Elisha went into Samaria to do this, it would be um it would be big news. So here's an unnamed prophet that's going to go and kind of keep this secret. And he basically tells him, go in and anoint and anoint him and get out of there fast. Because this could be, if it's found out, interpreted as an act of treason. Now, this has been God's plan all along to anoint Jehu. You might remember back in 1 Kings when Elijah the prophet was depressed and felt like Baal worship was taking over, that he was the only one left. You remember one of the ways God encouraged his prophet was to say, Look, there are three men yet to come who are going to help you take care of this. One will be Elisha, go and anoint him And the other will be Haziel. We looked at him last week, a wicked king from Syria. God's going to use him as another instrument of judgment against the wicked people. But the other is going to be Jehu. Anoint Jehu. And now this is finally happening. Well it wasn't Elijah that did it, however, it's Elisha who sends a prophet to do it. And so notice that this this is what will happen. A prophet uh will be appointed. We see that already in verses one to three. And then a king is anointed, verses four four, down to verse thirteen. This young prophet does exactly what he's told. He goes to Uh Ramath Gilead. Um there is a war council meeting, he kind of interrupts it, goes in and says to Jehu, can I talk to you secretly And then he anoints him just like he said, for the purpose in verse number seven, to avenge the blood of my servants, God said the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord. Look down at verse number nine. And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, and like the house of uh Ba'eshah, uh the son of Ahijah. And the dog shall eat Jezebel. This is what's going to happen. God said, I'm going to make Ahab's house like the house of Jeroboam. What was that like? All of them were were cut off. There was nobody left. No one Uh left in the house that breathe, the Bible says. All of the house of Ba'esha, all of them, not a single male was left. They were all completely exterminated, wiped out. God said, this is what I'm going to do at the house of Ahab. And by the way, Jezebel, she's going to be dog food. The dogs are going to eat her. That's a pretty severe judgment. Now, after the young prophet leaves in verses 11 to 13, the soldiers gathered around Jehu and said, What did this madman want? You ever notice why they always think preachers are crazy? What did this madman want? And basically, Jehu says, oh come on, you know. He thought this was a practical joke. He thought that these guys had set him up on this. In verse 12, and they said, it is false. Tell us now. No, this isn't a joke. We didn't do this. What did this guy tell you? And he said, he said, thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. And they then they hastened and Took every man his garment and put it under him on the top of the stairs and blew with a trumpet, saying, Jehu is king. That's the anointing. See Act Two. I call this the avenging. Because here's where Jehu's work begins. Now that he's anointed as the king. Now that he's been appointed by God to judge the house of Ahab, he wastes no time. He goes to Jezreel because he knows that in Jezreel there is Joram who is a a king, a son of Ahab. And also Ahaziah was visiting him there. Here are these, a king of Israel and a king of Judah. They're both together at one place. Easy to get Uh bring judgment on both of them at the same time. And so he begins to travel there. Look at verse sixteen. So Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there, and Ahaziah, king of Judah, was come down to see Joram. And as uh there there stood a watchman on the tower of Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company And Joram said, Take a horseman and send to meet him and let him say, Is there peace? And so the watchman sees the uh a company of chariots coming led by Jehu, and he sends out uh some messengers and finds out, Hey, is it peace? And so rather than answering, Jehu just says, fall in line. They send out a second group of messengers asking the same question, and the same thing is said. Just fall in line. Finally you get to verse number twenty, and the watchman's looking, and they recognize him as being Jehu. Look at verse twenty, and the watchman told him, saying, He came even unto them, and he cometh not again, and the driving is like the driving of Jehu, the son of Nimshi, for he driveth furiously. Jehu is known for his road rage. We knew some folks like that around, right? They saw the guy driving the chair furiously, oh that's Jehu. And uh now Jehu was the military commander, and so now Joram and Ahaziah, they're probably thinking he's bringing good news to us, and so let's go out and meet him and find out what the good news is. And so they ride out to meet him and the news is not good because here is Joram is killed because um In verse number twenty-two, and it came to pass when Jerome saw Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace so long as the whoredoms of thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many? Whoops. This is not good news. This guy is coming for blood. Verse 23, and Joram turned his hands and fled and said to Ahaz, There is treachery, O or excuse me, Ahaziah, there is treachery, O Ahaziah And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote Jehoram between his arms, and the arrow went out his heart, and he sank down in his chariot. As he's running away, uh Jehu fires the the arrow, it meets its target, comes out through the heart. Joram now dies. He dies in the chariot. Just like his father Ahab. Ahab, I don't know if you remember Ahab, he died in the chariot in his blood. And then to show the fulfillment of the Word of God, which the writer of Kings is faithful to do, as we've seen in our study, and verse twenty six, surely Basically Jehu says to his captain, take them to uh the field of Naboth, the Jezreelite, verse 25. For for look at it says, For if remember how when I I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, the Lord laid his burden upon him. Surely I seen yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his son, saith the Lord. And I will requite thee in this This uh plait, saith the Lord. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the Lord. He throws him down on the very ground where Ahab stole from Naboth and murdered Naboth. Now his son is thrown down on that very place again to signify this comes from the hand of God. This was the judgment of God. So Jerome is killed. And I gotta wan I gotta warn you, these are two bloody chapters here, okay? Probably two of the most bloody in the Bible. Ahaziah then is killed in verses 27 down to verse 29. Ahaziah the king of Judah when he saw this, you know, he fled, but Jehu followed him, he kills him in his chariot. However, they allow him to be buried in in j in Jerusalem at the uh at the sepulchre of his father in the city of David. I've been to that very spot. And he was b buried there in that place, the family burial place there. So Ahaziah is now killed. Who's next on the hit list? Jezebel. Look down to verse number 30. And when Jehe was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it, and she painted her face and tired her head and looked out the window. So now here's Jezebel. She here's all what's going on. And she's waiting for this confrontation. When she hears that he's coming, she put on her eye makeup. She adorned her head. She took her position at the window. Why did she do this? Now there's some commentators think that even though she was a grandmother at this time, she was still Beautiful and trying to seduce or capture the affections of Jehu. That's one thought. The other thought is she was just preparing for death in a manner that was befitting a queen. You know, she didn't want to die without her makeup on She wanted to look good even when she died. Uh I don't know what the right interpretation of this is, but either way she's dressed to kill, you could say. So what happens in verse thirty-one? As Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Had Zimri peace who slew his master? Why does she say that? As Jehu comes in, she gives him this little clever saying, Had Zimri peace who flew his master? Now again, some commentators think she was flattering Jehu by calling him Zimri. But actually what she's doing is she's kind of drawing an analogy between Zimra and um Jehu. It it would kind of be like calling somebody a Benedict Arnold, a traitor, you know. This was kind of a clever taunt because you might remember back that Zimri he m had murdered his master, just like Jehu had done. And Zimurai only ruled for seven days. So in a very sarcastic way, she's basically saying that even though you may be having victory now, it's going to be short-lived. Your day is coming. And so this she's defiant even in her death. So Jehu simply looks up and he sees Some men, some servants there, look at verse thirty two, and he lifted up his face to the window and said, Who is on my side? Who And there looked after him two or three eunuchs. In verse 33, he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down, and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall. and on the horses that trod that he trod her underfoot. So it's a very simple solution. There's some servants up there. Any you guys with me? If you are, throw her down. You know, there wasn't a whole lot of loyalty there. Those guys didn't hesitate They didn't think twice. They threw her down and she sh you know hit the ground, her blood splattered along the the the wall, and then he rode over top of her and disgust. And so she dies in this this horrible way, this ugly way. And I like what Philip Riken wrote. He said the justice of her demise is obvious. The queen who had been so ruthless in destroying her opponents was betrayed by her closest servants. The queen who had been so haughty was thrown down from her high tower. The queen who had been so obsessed with her appearance, fixing her hair, putting on eyeshadow, and all the rest of it, died an ugly, ugly death. The queen who had shed the blood of the prophets had her own blood splattered on the palace wall. This was not simply poetic justice, it was divine justice. So what does Jehu do here? Jehu, after this, he says, Let's go eat, I'm hungry. In verse number 34, and when he was come in, he did eat and drink. And said, Go now and see this cursed woman and bury her, for she is the king's daughter. So he's been in there, he's been eating and drinking. You have to imagine a few hours go by. You know, and he's celebrating his victory. And finally he says, you know what? Go out and check on the body, the corpse of this cursed woman, and and go ahead and bury her. After all, she was the daughter of a king And so let's go ahead and give her a burial. I don't know why he even said that, because he above all people should know what the prophet Elijah said. He was there when Elijah said it. This almost shows me that, again, Jehu's not concerned about God's word and God's will and doing things God's way. He's more concerned about his own political agenda. He wants to kinda save faith with maybe some of the people there because he's their king now. So go out and get her body and bury it But it's too late because in verse number uh thirty-five, and they went to bury her, but they found no more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of her hands. And wherefore they came again and told him, and he said, This is the word of the Lord. He knew it. This is the word of the Lord, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel. This is exactly what God said would happen. And again, I know I sound like a broken record here, but uh the writer of the Kings is again focusing on the truthfulness of God's word. When God says something, it will happen. Jehu's intent was to bury her, but God had some dogs around to do the job before he can get to her. She will be dog food. There'll be no place for her to be buried. There'll be no place where people can come and commemorate her life. Verse 37, and the carcass of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel. They can't go and visit her grave. And so this was God's judgment on a wicked queen who led so who had committed murder and led so many people down the wrong path of of um false worship. So who's next? I mean we see that Jehu in his fury he kills Joram, he kills Ahaziah, he kills Jezebel. And then you get to chapter 10, and now he's going to kill all of Ahab's descendants. And again, we can't go through all of this, but let me just give you the summary He now knows that there are seventy sons of Jay of Ahab in Samaria. So he wrote a letter to the leaders there, the elders, and said, Look, I'm coming. You better get out your best champions. I'm coming to take care of Ahab's descendants, the seventy of them. And they write back and they say, Oh listen, uh you know we don't want we don't want to go to war with you. Uh we're your servants, you just tell us what you want. And so Jehu sends a second letter, and in the second letter he says, Well, if you want to do what I say, look down in verse number 6 of chapter 10. Then he wrote a letter the second time to them saying, If ye be mine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of your of the men, of your master's sons, and come to me to Jezreel by tomorrow this time. In other words, if you really want to do what I want, bring me their heads by tomorrow. Bring me their heads. Seventy of 'em. And they did exactly that. And verse number eight, and there came a messenger and told him saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons And he said, Lay ye them in two heats at the entering of the gate until morning. Now, is that really necessary, Jey Hugh? What does he do with these heads? He takes them out, he puts them in two piles, he lays them at the gate there at Jezreel, and he's doing this to terrorize the people that are there. He's doing this to show his own power. The idea is pretty clear. Do not mess with Jehu. In verse 9, he actually pretends to be innocent of their death. Hey, I killed their master, but I don't know who did this. I don't know who did this. But then he affirms in verse ten that this was done according to the word of the Lord. It is true they did fulfill God's word, but yet at the same time Jehu is not really concerned about the word of the Lord as much as he is establishing himself as a man of power and someone that you don't want to really mess with. His actions fulfilled the word of God, but his motives were corrupt. And so um and this is part of the reason why God will judge him later. Ever the opportunist, Yahu Went beyond the clear command of God and tried to advance his own agenda. And if that's not enough, the next few verses, verses 12 down to verse 14, demonstrate now he's out of control. Because now Jehu is on his way to a place called Beth Eched, north of Samaria, and he meets up with some of the family of Ahaziah. They didn't know what happened They were just coming down to visit family members. They were unarmed. They were unaware of what was going on. Jehu kind of tells them, you know, while you know, wants to find out what's what the story is with them He takes them alive and then he takes them to a place, a place called the shearing house, and there are 42 men here, and he, out of suspicion, he kills all 42 of those men. Now wait a minute. They are not of the house of Ahab. They uh they he's kind of stepping over the line there in that. But then in verse 17 in chapter ten it says, And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him according to the saying of the word of the Lord, which he spake to Elijah. So once he wipes out now the whole house of Ahab, now he's going to turn his attention to all the Baal worshippers. Now they're next on the list. And from verses 18 down to verse 28, we're going to see this. And the way Jehu does this, he's going to bring them all together. He's going to gather together all of the Baal worshipers and all of the land. How's he going to do this? Well, first he's going to lie. Look down at verse 18. And Jehu gathered all the people together and said unto them, Ahab serve Baal little, but Jehu shall serve him much. Oh, you think that Ahab served Baal? Wait till you see me. I serve him even more. I'm a friend of Baal. In fact, I want to have a solemn assembly of all the worshipers of Baal. I want to bring them all together. And that's exactly what they do. Look at verse 21. And Jehu sent for all Israel, and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not, and they came into the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was full from one end to the other. Here's a packed house full of Baal worshipers. And once he had them all together, you know what? He didn't let any of them escape. He told his men. Down look down at verse twenty-five. It came to pass as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains, Go in and slay them, and let none come forth. And they smote them with the edge of the sword, and the guard and the captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal And then in verse 26, they break down the images of the house of Baal and they burned it. Verse 27, they break down the image of Baal and break down the house of Baal and made it a draught house to this day. And so what does that mean? So they not only they wipe out all the worshipers and kill all of them, they kill they break down all of the images, and the Bible basically says that they took and they made the house of Baal into a latrine. as the ultimate insult. It had gone from being a temple to a toilet. Basically is what he did. He turned it into a he defiled it permanently by turning it into a latrine. In verse 28, thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel. This was his greatest achievement. Now, he killed Joram, he killed Ahaziah, he killed Jezebel, he killed the whole house of Ahab, he killed all the Baal worshippers. You talk about amputation. You talk about cutting out cancer, cutting out the evil of Baalism and the evil of Ahab's house. And so he obeyed the Lord, but he in his zeal and his selfish ambition went beyond what God said. He was God's instrument to do judgment, but he also had a lot of flaws in his own life. His character left much to be desired. And so let me just show you really quickly Act 3. I call this the abandoning. We saw the anointing, the avenging, and now the abandoning. Because what we're going to see here is in these remaining verses is the writer's assessment, evaluation of Jehu Jehu obeyed God in bringing vengeance against the house of Ahab, yet again he did it from a selfish ambition. His obedience was kind of half-hearted. He wasn't again concerned about God's glory, he was more concerned about his own kingdom. Now where he did write, God rewarded him. But look down at verse number twenty-nine. Again, here's the writer's evaluation. How be it from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat who made Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit the golden calves that were in Bethel, that were in Dan. And the Lord said to Jehu, Because thou hast done well in executing that which was right in mine eyes, And as done unto the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, thy children of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel. But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the Lord God of Israel with all his heart. For he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, which made Israel to sin. And so he was half-hearted. He obeyed outwardly, yes, and God will always honor you when you obey God, but in his heart. He still turned away from God. He abandoned God. He got rid of all the Baal worshippers, but he himself went back to the original idolatry that Jeroboam had set up. Remember he set up two golden calves? That started the whole whole ball rolling of idolatry. And he went back and did that. Why? Political reasons. It was again he was trying to unite all the people under him, and this was a political move on his part. He was more concerned about his own power. about his own stability and his kingdom than he was about the glory of God. And that was the problem. And so he abandoned God and then thus God abandoned him. And then God begins to use Ah uh uh um excuse me, Hazel as an instrument to judge uh Jehu and all of Israel because in verses 28 down to verse 31, um basically what'll happen is um I'll just give you verse 32 down to verse 33. In those days the Lord began to cut Israel short, and Hazel smote them in all the coasts of Israel. Now Haziel, God is using him to do some more work of judging this nation of Israel. And then finally the Bible says Jehu reigned 28 years and then he died. And that was it, the bloody sword of Jehu. God used him to bring judgment. And that was it. But his heart was not really the way it should have been. Now let me just give you, we have five minutes left here, actually seven according to my watch. Let me give you some really quick lessons in closing this. So what do we learn from all of this? Now again, I brought these two chapters together. I know it's long narratives. But it really is, you have to see this holistically, all of this together, because again what we're seeing is Jehu was God's instrument of judgment and of vengeance. All of this is about the vengeance of God. God pouring out his vengeance upon a people that disobeyed him. And God promised it was coming. His mercy delayed the judgment, but it finally came So here's the first lesson. Number one, God uses imperfect instruments to accomplish his purposes. We often see this in the Bible. God will use some of the most ungodly of men as a rod. to punish his own people. God will put people in leadership positions that have a lot of flaws and are less than perfect, and yet what God is doing, he's using them as instruments to fulfill his own will. And this is again where we see the sovereignty of God and the free agency and responsibility of man converge in a way that we really can't understand. Those men do what they want to do of their own free choice, and yet the things that they do fulfill the purpose of God. And we see this no less here in Jehu, and we see it in other leaders throughout all of Scripture. God will use imperfect people to judge his people. In fact God will often give a nation the leaders that it deserves as a punishment for their disobedience. You think you know you don't like the leaders that we have? Well, it's probably it's it's it's what we deserve. It's what our country deserves because we've turned our back on Almighty God. And those leaders often mirror the the spiritual condition of the nation at that time. Jehu was that that kind of man. He was a mere reflection of the whole nation of Israel. He was bloodthirsty, he was superficial in his devotion to God. He was open to idolatry if it served his purpose. That's exactly what the nation of Israel was like. He was a mere image of that whole nation. And God used someone just like them to judge them for their sins. But secondly, another thing that we learn here from this story is that godless fathers bring a curse down upon their own household. Ahab brought down a divine curse upon his house for generations because of his ungodliness, because of his disobedience. Just imagine how many in his family were killed. Not only these 70 sons and grandsons, but others were wiped out. Because of his sin. And this reminds us as fathers that we can either be a godly positive influence on our family for generations to come, or we can be a bad influence. It's according to our devotion to the Lord. How much we cling to the Lord. How much we love the Lord You know, what's interesting is that in this whole narrative there's another character that I kind of didn't have time to really dwell on, his name is Jonadab, the son of Rachob, and verse 15. His whole story is given in Jeremiah 35. This is a devoted father who teaches his children to walk after the Lord, and because of that, God blesses them It's almost like there's a contrast in here between the the Ahab and the way he led his family and Jonadab and the way he led his family, and how Jonadab's family was blessed and Ahab's family was cursed. But it's according to your devotion to the Lord. Here's number three. Be careful of doing the right thing in the wrong way. That's another lesson I learned from this. As we read of Jehu, we see in many ways, again, he was obedient to God. He was the instrument God used to cut away an evil dynasty and false religion. But he went beyond what God wanted in the killing of Ahaziah and his family, heaping up the heads at the city gate, terrorizing the citizens. It revealed that his motives were not godly. Godly zeal is commendable. We should be zealous of the Lord. In fact, the Bible commands us to be zealous. In Romans 12, 11, we're never to be lacking in zeal. It says, be not slothful, or be not slothful in zeal, but fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Jesus was zealous. You remember he went in and he cleansed the temple? And then when he did that, he quoted Psalm 69, 9, for the zeal of thine house has eaten me up. And the reproaches of them that reproach thee have fallen upon me. Jesus had a godly zeal for the glory of his Father and the glory of the name of God. And we should have a godly zeal. We should have the zeal of Jesus, not the zeal of Jehu. Jehu is an example of selfish zeal without godly restraint or without Control. It's possible to do the right thing in the wrong way. And it means that we might contaminate the results. The end does not justify the means. A zeal to protect the lives of the unborn has led some fanatical pro-lifers to take the lives of the born and have murdered. Abortion doctors. That is an ungodly zeal. No one hates abortion any more than I do, but it's wrong to take the life of anyone for that. That is a ungodly zeal. We need to be careful that the zeal that we have is not a selfish zeal, it's not a ungodly zeal like Jehu had. You know, a zeal for biblical morality uh has caused some people to be so fanatical in their acts that they actually oppress people that call themselves transgenders and homosexual. Again, we hate those sins, but we don't hate the people We want to reach the people. We want to love the people with the love of Christ. We certainly don't want to oppress people. We don't want to make the world our enemy. We want to reach them with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We can hate the sins. Hate the agenda that is against God and not hate people You know, so we have to be very careful. We need to learn to recognize the line between fanaticism and godly zeal. And Jehu crossed that line. But here's the fourth lesson. That we learn finally, God's mercy may delay judgment, but he will surely carry it out in his time. God will delay his judgment. You know why God does that? Because he's merciful. And sinners, they think because they God hasn't judged them or nothing bad has happened to them that maybe they're getting away with what they're doing. But the Bible says that the goodness and forbearance and long-suffering of God leads them to repentance. The fact that God hasn't taken out sinners who are disobeying God, who are rebelling against his word, the fact that God allows them to live is an expression of the long suffering of God so that they will come to a place of repentance. That's the reason. God is merciful. But the fact that God's mercy delays judgment does not mean that judgment is not coming. It will come. It will come surely, just like it did on the house of Ahab. Psalm 10 tells us how the wicked think. The way they they think in their mind. And in Psalm 10, 6 it says, the wicked says in his heart, I shall not be moved. Throughout all generations, I shall not meet adversity I'm just going to be able to go on and do what I want. I'm not going to meet with any bad things. In verse 11 it says, and he says in his heart, God has forgotten. He has hidden his face. He will never see it That's the way the wicked surmise in their mind. God's going to forget this. He doesn't see this. Oh yes, he does. Oh yes, he does. Let the sinner take heed, lest he try the patience of God and sin away the day of grace. The Bible says, because of your hard and in penitent heart, you're stirring up wrath for yourself against the day of wrath. when God's righteousness will be revealed. And so beloved, God's judgment will come. It will come surely. The vengeance of God will come against unrepentant, wicked sinners who shake their fists in the face of God and think they can get away with sin. No. That judgment will come. And my recommendation is to all who don't know Christ, you better hide yourself from the vengeance of God. And there's only one place you can hide. It's in the hill called Calvary. That's the only place you can hide. That's the only place you can run to for shelter. You see, because God's vengeance already fell there. It fell on his Son Jesus Christ. Because Jesus bore the sins of the world upon himself, and God's wrath and vengeance fell on Christ. For the sins that we pay for, that we we committed. He paid for those sins. And so, friends, you can either bear the vengeance of God yourself, or you can hide yourself in the finished work of Christ and allow Christ to be the one. to bear your sin debt. But if you're going to do that, you had better come repentant to him. You had better come humble. I love one of my favorite hymns in closing is the hymn Rock of Ages. Augustus Topley wrote this. The the history behind this is that he one day he was traveling along um a place called Barrington Combe, and he was in a fierce storm and he found there a a a rock, a gorge, and he kind of hid himself in a cleft of a rock that was there. And uh while he was there, as the story goes, he took out a pen and he wrote down the words to the hymn Rock of Ages, Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee. And in fact, you can go there today and there's a plaque that's written right there on that rock, and it basically says this rock derives its name from the well-known hymn written. in 1762 by Augustus Toplay, who was inspired while sheltering in this cleft during a storm. But if you want to be safe from the storm of God's vengeance, you better hide yourself in the rock called Christ. And you better have the attitude of repentance expressed in the lines of the song, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, this is a very sobering uh two chapters here in Second Kings. And we know that you are a God of mercy and grace and love, and how we glory in that. How we thank you for those wonderful Attributes, Lord, that are really beyond our ability to even comprehend your mercy and grace. Yet we also know that you're a God of justice, you're a God of wrath. You're a God of vengeance. You said in your word, vengeance is mine. Saith the Lord, I will repay. And Father, we certainly see this in this narrative. And it reminds us again, Lord, of how faithful we should be to be recipients of your forgiveness and mercy for the sins that we have sinned against you. And it should motivate us to continue to share the saving gospel with all those around who need to flee to Christ, to hide themselves in Christ And so, Lord, may all of this encourage us to do those very things. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.