Good to see you here tonight. Always good to be in God's house on a Wednesday night. And I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to the book of Ruth. We're going to go to the Old Testament book of Ruth tonight, Ruth chapter one Joshua judges, and then Ruth. And look in verse, we'll start in chapter 1, verse 1. And I'm going to do a series through this brief little Old Testament book during the Christmas season. And we'll kind of study about the message and the meaning of Christmas around the book of Ruth. Because this story in this book is really a major piece in God's redemptive plan. You know, in the Old Testament, we see God preparing the world for the coming of the Messiah. And there is the principle of progressive revelation, where God unfolds his plan of redemption to us piece by piece. And the story of Ruth is certainly an important piece of the drama of redemption. If there were no Ruth, there would be no David And if there were no David, there would be no Messiah. And so the story of Ruth is a beautiful part of God's plan of redemption. Now, someone has said that the book of Ruth has also been called one of the greatest pieces of literature ever written. Another person called this book in the story of Ruth the Cinderella of the Bible Because really the whole story talks about how a pagan girl named Ruth came to be part of the covenant people of God And also another interesting fact about Ruth, and that is this is one of only two books of the Bible that is named after a woman. Of course, you know what the other one is, right? Esther. Ruth and Esther. Esther, now it's interesting when you see the contrast. Esther tells us a story of a Jewish woman who married a Gentile man. Ruth tells us the story about a Gentile woman who marries a Jewish man. The book of Esther begins with a feast and ends with a funeral, but the book of Ruth begins with a funeral and it ends in a feast. Now, although it doesn't start out on a positive note, it certainly ends up on one. And the title of my sermon tonight is this, God's Answer to Man's Emptiness. That's really what Christmas is all about. Christmas reminds us that the emptiness of mankind is filled through a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And really as we come to chapter one, the problem that we see is the emptiness of a character in this story by the name of Naomi. She is a woman who is broken and she's embittered and there's an emptiness that is in her. In fact, look in chapter 1 And look down at verse number twenty-one. This is the words of Naomi. She said, I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again. empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord has testified against me. She speaks of the emptiness. She said the Lord made me empty. Now what we're going to see is actually it's the Lord who wants to bring fullness into her life. And it's the Lord who wants to bless her. And another key word It's not only emptiness that we see here, but also look in chapter 1, verse 9. Just mark down another key word in the story in verse 9, and it's the word rest. The Lord grant you that you may find rest. each of you in the house of her husband. The word rest is another key word really throughout the whole story of Ruth. You see this word used from time to time It's an important concept in the Book of Ruth, an important word. It's the word manuha, and it has the idea of peace and happiness. It kind of summarizes strength and security and material well-being as well as love and just blessedness. And friends, that's what God wants to do in your life and in mine. He wants to give us rest He wants us to be blessed. And so really the story of Ruth is a woman who goes from emptiness to blessedness, from emptiness to fullness. And again, that's what God wants to do for all of us. Now, with that in mind, I want you to see two lessons here in the story. And here's the first one. If you're taking notes, just write down, number one, the reasons for emptiness. Because as I said, the book doesn't open up on a positive note. There's an emptiness that we see here. And how does this emptiness come about? Perhaps you're here tonight and you might say, man, there's an emptiness in me. I just wish that God would do something in my heart, in my life. Well, friend, what what's the reason for the emptiness that sometimes we have? Well, here's one reason, a wrong decision a wrong decision. Just write that down. Look in chapter 1, verse 1. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi And the name of his two sons, Malon and Chileon, and Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah, and they came into the country of Moab, and they continued there. And so what we see first of all is a famine. Right in the very beginning of the book, there's a famine that hits the land. Now many times in the Old Testament, when God would bring a famine upon the land, it was a discipline that God was bringing against his people Many years later, during the time of Elijah, there will be a famine that will hit the land. And so it kind of opens up with this famine. We see it kind of opens up like a once upon a time type beginning. It opens up a verse one again in the time of judges Now let me ask you a question. When you think about the time of judges, what do you think of? It wasn't a high point in Israel's history. In fact, it was a low point. We could say the lowest point. in the history of Israel. And so this whole story takes place in a dark time in the nation of Israel. What was going on in the nation? Well Israel was a divided nation. There had been a huge civil war, if you read at the end of the book of Judges The tribes are fighting. In fact, they almost wiped out one tribe, the tribe of Benjamin, due to this war. It was a defeated nation. Enemy nations all around were coming against Israel and putting them into bondage It was a depraved nation. If you read through the book of Judges, you're going to find moral depravity on an incredible scale, some of the most shocking stories in the Bible we find in the book of judges. People are engaged in idolatry and immorality. There's a Levite priest who leads a whole tribe into idolatry. And later the name of that priest is revealed, and he is the grandson of Moses, just one generation removed from Moses. His grandson is leading them into idolatry. And so morality is turned upside down. It's also a dark nation. They're walking in darkness. They were not living by the word of God. The last verse in Judges kind of tells us look in the last verse in Judges, just look up the page In verse twenty-five of chapter twenty-one, in Judges, In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was what? Right in his own eyes. So when we think about the time of judges, we think about this story of Ruth. That's when this is taking place. Everyone's doing what they think they should do in their own eyes. So what happens here? There's a famine upon the land. And what does Elimelech do? He does the thing that is right in his own eyes. What does the Bible say happen? Verse 2, and the man named Alimelech, and his wife's name was Naomi. And notice what it says. Actually, we back up in verse 1. Where it says that they, or excuse me, verse 2 at the end of verse 2, and they came into the country of Moab and continued there. So we're introduced to this family in verse 2 that we read a moment ago. By the way, the man's name Elimelech, you know what that name means? It's Eli, my God, the Melech is king. My God is King. The mother's name Naomi means pleasantness. One preacher said she was Mrs. Sunshine. around the village of Bethlehem. Everyone knew Naomi. She was a very polite, pleasant person. They had two sons, Malon and uh Chileon, and Malon means puny. Chileon means pining You don't get the idea that these guys were physical specimens by those names, do you? And so this is the whole family. But what we see here is here's a family that gets out of God's will. Because the father makes a wrong decision. And we're going to see here that they suffer for it. Did you know that our decisions can determine our destiny? The decisions we make are very real decisions. They have very real consequences. They affect not just us, but those around us. And that's what we see here. So what does the limelect do? There's a famine that comes upon the land And Elimelech, the Bible says, decides to go to Moab. Moab was just across the Jordan River. It was about 50 miles away. And now let me ask you a question, what would have been the proper response to this famine? If this famine was indeed a judgment from God upon the land of Israel And we have every reason to believe that it was because of the disobedience of the people, what should he have done? He should have cried out for repent repentance and prayed for mercy Pray for his blessing. None of that happened. What does he do? Instead, he leaves Bethlehem and he goes to Moab. Now, by the way, Bethlehem, what does that mean? House of bread. He leaves the house of bread to find food in Moab. You know, a lot of times we're people that we run from our troubles. It's our nature to do so. I I I can think of times in my life where I've run from trouble in my life only to find the trouble waiting for me at the next location. We we can't run from our troubles when we When it comes to our troubles, we can either endure it, escape it, or embrace it and use it for the glory of God because God has a purpose. But here, a limit makes the wrong decision and he runs Why was this a wrong decision? Well, first of all, he's walking by sight and not by faith. Instead of trusting God in the famine, he decides to devise his own means. Remember, he's doing what is right in his own eyes And by the way, Abraham made the same mistake. You remember in Genesis 12, when a famine hit the promised land, Abraham went down to Egypt. And he suffered for that. No matter how difficult our circumstances might be, the sep the safest place to be is in the will of God. And so, but he leaves. And so he majors on the, or he walks by sight, not by faith. But here's the second thing. He majors on the physical, not on the spiritual. Now listen, every father, every husband wants to take care of his family, but we can never do that at the expense of the blessing of God. Here, this man, he's only concerned about physical, material things. He doesn't consider spiritual things. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you Elimelech was not concerned about leaving the promised land. And by the way, the land was God's special gift to his people. It represented his presence. This is where the tabernacle was This is where worship took place. This is where God's presence resided there at the tabernacle. How could you leave God's land for a place like Moab, however, he's walk he's more concerned about the physical than he is the spiritual. But here's another thing. He honored the enemy, not the Lord's. He honors the enemy, not the Lord's. You see, what again a limite meet means God is my king. Let me ask you a question. Is he acting like God is his king? Not at all. He's not acting like that at all. He's going to neighboring Moab. He moves in with the enemies of God. Now, by the way, who is who were the Moabites? You remember they were the s the descendants of Lot's daughter? in that incestuous relationship, that sort of story there in Genesis 19. They were the enemies of Israel during the time of the judges, the Moabites. oppressed Israel for eighteen years, so why turn to them for help? Why turn to the ungodly for help? In a time like that. What did God think about Moab? Write down Psalm 60 verse 8. God said, Moab is my washpot. That's a term of disdain. It was a despised thing. They're comparing, he's comparing Moab to a vessel that is used to wash the feet of the conquerors. who conquered that people. It's the lowest form of slavery. And so here's Elimelech. He moves from the house of bread. He moves to a washpot, we could say. Why go to the enemy? All these things say this was not a good move for Elimelech to make. But here's another thing we see in this story. He becomes a permanent resident. instead of a temporary visitor. He will die there instead of just dwell there. Now it's clear from verse 1. Look at verse 1, the word sojourn, where it says, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah went to sojourn. in the country of Moab. Now the the choice of the word there suggests that Elimelech only wanted to be there for a little time. He wasn't going to reside there permanently. He was just going to dwell there for just a little time. I mean he just wanted to stay there until the family was over in Bethlehem, and then he was going to go back to Bethlehem when it was over But he ended up staying there a lot longer than he thought. In fact, in verse 4 says he was there for ten years. He dwelt there for ten years. And there's some other bad decisions They came out of this one bad decision. What was it? Well his sons married Moabite women. Look down in verse number four, and they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of one was Orpan, the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelt there about ten years. Now it was forbidden to marry Gentile women, especially those from Ammon and Moab. It was the Moabite women that seduced Jewish men to commit immorality and cause judgment upon Israel. And so while he's there, other things are happening. And then tragedy strikes. Elimelech dies. Back up to verse number three. And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died. And she was left of her two sons. And then what happens to them? In verse number five. And Malon and Chileon died also, both of them And the women was left of her two sons and her husband. And so Naomi has a terrible, terrible heartache and sorrow. Her husband dies. And if that's not bad enough, then her two sons die, and she's left alone. So what happens here after a decade of disobedience, what does she have to show for herself? There's just three widows and three Jewish graves in this heathen land. That's not what they wanted. Someone said sin will take you farther than you want to go, it'll keep you longer than you want to stay, it'll charge you more than you're willing to pay. And so Naomi feels deeply the pain of this emptiness in her life. The emptiness that comes from this wrong decision. And it led to one thing after another. And there's this great pain in her life, this emptiness. And again, I say maybe you're here tonight. Maybe there's an emptiness inside of you. Maybe you look at your life and say, well, I've just made so many mistakes. And there's an emptiness from that. Well, I've got good news for you, friend. You know God. can take even the mistakes that we make and use them for his glory and his good. And that's what we see in this whole story of Ruth. God's going to turn around these mistakes and he's going to use it for his glory. That's what God can do. But we see the emptiness from a wrong decision. But also write down the second thing. There's emptiness that comes from a wrong desire. Now Naomi is backslidden, but she hears that there's food in Bethlehem. Look at verse 6. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the Lord has visited his people in giving them bread. Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was And her two daughters in law with her, and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah. Now she hears about what's going on in Bethlehem. And she wants to go back. But friend, her motives and desires were not exactly right for going back. What was her incentive? She was not returning because she was repentant. And we're going to see this as the story unfolds It's not because she wanted the Lord's presence and she longed for worshiping the Lord. She simply wanted the blessing. The blessing that she heard about. You know, there's such a thing as wanting the blessing and not the blesser. There's such she she wanted the land, but she did not want the Lord. Now her decision was right. But her motive was wrong for going back. You don't hear her confessing her sins to God. You don't hear her repenting, saying, Lord, forgive me. And notice the instruction that she gives to her daughters-in-law. There's something wrong here. Look at verse 8. And Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, Go return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that ye might find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice and wept, and they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy people. And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters, why will ye go with me? Now she didn't want her daughters in law to go with her. Now that's not that's a curious thing to me. Now if it was right for Naomi to go to Bethlehem, where the true and the living God was worshipped, where there were the people of God. Then it was right for Orpat and also Ruth to go. In fact, Naomi should have wanted them to go She should have wanted them to know about the real God, to find the true and the living God. They could have a good life there in Bethlehem. She should not have wanted them to turn back to Moab because what does that mean? Back to their idols. Back to the work worship of Kemosh, that false god, where they allowed the heinous practice of human sacrifice. But Naomi's not thinking about any of that. She's just thinking about herself. She doesn't want them with her. She wants to return by herself. Now why is that? Well perhaps she Doesn't want the responsibility of taking care of them. She has to take care of herself. In the ancient Near East, a woman without a husband was in a serious situation, and she didn't have the resources And so she wants them to find rest, verse number nine, but she doesn't want to be the person to have to provide that rest. And so she doesn't want that responsibility. And she basically says, I'm not going to be able to take care of you. Look again at verse 11. And then we said, Turn again, my daughters, will you will you go with me? Are you are there yet any more sons in my womb that they may be your husband? Turn again, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband, if I should say I have hope, if I should have a husband also tonight, and should also bear sons, would you tarry for them till they were grown Would you stay for them from having husbands? Nay, my daughters, for it grieveth me much for your sakes. For the hand of the Lord is going out against me. Why would you want to come with me? God has been against me. I can't give you any more husbands. If I were to get married tonight and have children, would you wait for them to grow up? There's nothing more I can do for you. So just move on and go back. Perhaps she just didn't want that responsibility, but perhaps also it was Naomi's pride. And here's the here's what I get from reading this. If she goes back to Bethlehem alone, she can kind of stay face some. But if she goes back with two daughters-in-law, who are Moabites, what does that say? That she allowed her sons to disobey the Lord and had broken the law of God. And she doesn't want that. There's I think that she's kind of filled with a bit of pride here. Where she doesn't she wants a safe face when she goes back. And so she says to these girls, just go back to where you want. There's a sense in which she wants to cover really her sin. The Bible says if we cover our sin, we will not prosper. You know, the proof that we are really repentant is a brokenness and a honesty and a transparency and a confession before the Lord. The Bible says the sacrifices of God are a broken and a contrite. heart. But there's no brokenness here with Naomi with respect to God. There's only bitterness. That leads to the third thing. So there's this emptiness that comes from a wrong decision and a wrong desire in our heart, but then there's a wrong disposition. Look in verse 19. So they went, and we'll we'll we'll we'll go back to Ruth here in a minute, but look at verse nineteen. So the two went, Orpah goes back, but Ruth stays with her. They went to came to Bethlehem, and it came to pass when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them. And they said, is this Naomi? The city was moved. So here's Naomi. She comes back. They make this difficult journey of 50 miles across the Jordan, back to Bethlehem And her whole her appearance causes a stir in the town. They say, can this be Naomi? They were remembering Naomi when she left. Ten years prior, but now she's coming back, and there is an observable change in her demeanor, and it's not for the better, it's for the worse. The years have not been kind to her and so she s it's all it kind of bears on her face and they see her and they say is this Naomi. But look what she says in verse 20. And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Myra. For the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. Now, there's a play on words here. The word Myra means bitter. Naomi means pleasant. And so she says, my name is no longer Naomi. Don't call me Naomi pleasant. Call me Myra bitter, because God has dealt bitterly with In verse 21, she says, The Lord has testified against me. Look at verse 21, I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord has testified against me and the Almighty has afflicted me. And so There's this, you can sense a resentment and a bitterness in her heart. It's God. She lays all the blame at the feet of God when she left That country, uh she had a husband and two sons and everything was well, but when she comes back, she comes back pretty much empty. All of her dreams and all of her s uh sorrows Uh and and all of the what she wanted is reduced to nothing. Basically three tombstones in Moab. And friend, let me just tell you this. When you get out of God's will and you go to Moab, it's always going to cost you something. It's always going to cost you something. And you can just feel the bitterness in her words. She's laying it all at the feet of God. You know, sometimes we make mistakes and we want to blame God for it. We want to say it's God's fault? The Bible says in Proverbs, the foolishness of a man perverts his way and his heart frets against the Lord. We make our own foolish decisions and mistakes and get out of God's will. And we want to blame God. Our heart frets against the Lord. That's what was happening here with Naomi. Now let me tell you something, dear friend. God doesn't want you to be empty. He doesn't want you to be in bitterness. He wants to bless you. He wants to give you rest. He wants to give you fullness. Again, that's the whole reason why God sent his son into this empty world to bless this world. To bring fullness to this world. So we looked at number one the reasons for emptiness. But I want you to write down number two the return to fullness. The return to fullness, because there are some hints in this narrative that I see that tells us how we can replace the emptiness with fullness in our life. And let me show you where I see them. First of all, in verse number six. And just write this down. It starts with believing in God's word. Believing in God's word. Look at verse 6. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab. Listen to this. For she had heard in the country of Moab how the Lord had visited his people. in giving them bread. She heard what was going on. She hears the word of God. And this is where it starts. It starts by hearing the word of God. Friend, you want to feel the emptiness in your heart? It starts right here with the Word of God. Just hearing God's word. God's Word has the answer. to the emptiness. God's Word tells us how we can be blessed. God's Word tells us how we can be full. You know the sad truth is there are so many people that turn away their ears from hearing God's word today. Paul told Timothy, he said, Listen, they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. So many are turning their ears away. I saw maybe you saw this report on the news yesterday where the atheists are putting up billboard signs all over, and this is what the billboard signs are saying. Make Christmas great again. And how do they say you can make Christmas great again? They have in big bold letters, all capital letters, skip church. That's what the atheists say. Make Christmas great again. Skip church. But let me just tell you something, dear friend. Atheists are the most empty people you will ever meet. They're empty. You know why? Because they ignore the voice of God. They ignore the inward witness of God that God puts in every man. That says that he's real. And not only do they ignore the inward witness of God, they push back, they suppress the truth of the Word of God, and they close their ears from hearing God's word And friend, that's a sad reality. There are some people that just don't hear and believe the word of God. That's why they're empty. Believing in the Word of God, but also here's another thing, returning to God's place. This is another way. Returning to God's place. Now the key a key phrase is the word return. Look again in verse 6 that she might return from the country of Moab. And by the way, we see this word return several times. We see it in verse 6. In verse 7, in verse 8, in verse 10, in verse 11, verse 12, and verse 16, there's the emphasis on return. Don't return to Moab, no, but return to Bethlehem. And so the emphasis on this verse or these verses is to go back to Bethlehem, leave Moab. This would be a long trip But they needed to return. Why? Bethlehem was the city of praise. It was Bethlehem, Judah, which means praise. This is where the Lord was exalted. This is where the Lord was honored. And uh Bethlehem was the city of God's presence. This is where that the uh God would be worshipped. Bethlehem was the city of God's provision. It was the house of bread, and God was visiting the people And blessing them. Bethlehem was the city of God's people. She would return to be with the people of God. You know, one of the first steps in backsliding is when you leave the fellowship of God's people When you get away from the place where God's people meet, where we meet with God in His presence, and we praise the Lord And sense his presence. When you do that, friend, you're on the road to backsliding. So she needed to return. She needed to get back to the place of blessing. You know, God wants to bless you, but sometimes we get out of that place of blessing. We sometimes pray, Lord, bless me. Maybe we should pray, Lord, make me blessable. Keep me in a place of Jude 21 says this, keep yourselves in the love of God. Does this mean that God will stop loving you? No. It just means that while God does love you and his love for his children is unconditional It means that while God does love you, sometimes you can get out of the sphere where God's love can shine upon you, where he can bless you. And that's what that means. You can remember the prodigal son? He ran, he took the he took his inheritance and he ran away and he and he lived a carnal life. And and lived a sinful life and ended up in the hogem. Let me ask you a question. Did the father ever stop loving him? No. But he got himself out of the place. of the love of the Father. And he paid a price for that. And sometimes we can get out of the place of God's love and we need to return to that place, that place of love. Now, maybe there are some people here tonight and you're having a spiritual famine in your life and it's because you've left that place of God's blessing. You've left that place where God is shining his love upon you and it happens very, very subtly. I'm talking about a spiritual famine That you might have in your heart. You know how it starts? You stop you're you're hit and miss in your church attendance, and then you stop reading your Bible. You stop praying the way you should. Maybe you start fellowshipping with the wrong people. And you start watching and listening to the wrong things. And you start doing things that you thought you would never do. You're out of the place of blessing. You're in Moab. You need to get out of Moab. You need to come back to Bethlehem. And that's where the fullness is. Believing in God's word. Returning to God's place, but also trusting in God's name. There's the third thing. Trusting in God's name. Look at verse 16. And Ruth said Now this is back when Naomi is trying to tell her daughters-in-law, go, go back to Moab. And Orpah, she goes back, but Ruth, she refuses. And really what was going to happen here is that God is going to use Ruth to teach Naomi a lesson. And that is putting your faith in God. Your full faith in God. You know, sometimes real genuine faith shows up in the most unlikely of places. Here's this Jewish woman, and she's not walking by faith. But here is this Gentile widow from Moab, this country where there are so many idols, and she has all that against her, her circumstances, her past. And yet what we see in her life is true faith. Notice what she says in verse 16. And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest, I will go. And whither thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. Thy God, my God. Where thou diest, will I die And there will I be buried, and the Lord do so to me and more also, if aught be but death part thee and me. These are beautiful words here. The word Leave in verse 16 is the same word used in Genesis regarding marriage, leaving, father and mother, and then the word cleave in verse 14 is the same word for cleave. In Genesis. That's why these verses, as you know, are read a lot of times at a wedding ceremony, because of the commitment that they that they uh show here in these beautiful words. But Ruth, he could not bear the thought Of going back to Moab, that heathen environment where she had grown up. And so what does she do? She turns from her life there. She turns from the false gods that are there. And she commits herself to the true God, to the living God. And she will hear no more. Of Naomi urging her to go back to Moab. This is true faith that she shows right here. She puts her full faith in God. You say, how do you know that? Look in chapter 2, verse 12. Later on, others are going to see it. Look in chapter 2, verse 12. Just fast forward there for a minute This is Boaz, and he sees her. Notice what he says to her in verse 12. The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel. Listen to this. Under whose wings thou art come to what? You have put your trust under his wings. You have come to him for refuge. He sees her faith in God in action. Ruth experienced the same trials and disappointments as Naomi, but instead of blaming God, what did she do? She put her faith in God. She cleaves to the Lord. And we see genuine faith where she turns to the Lord. And so this statement in verses 16 and 17 is one of the most magnificent confessions in scripture anywhere. She was willing to forsake father and mother. She didn't want to even be buried back in her homeland. She was willing to turn away from that. She's really like the Thessalonian Christians that Paul will write about where it says they turn From idols to serve the living and the true God. That's what she does here. And so the way to replace the emptiness with fullness. is to do what Ruth did. Put your full faith in God. Make a commitment to worship and love and serve the true and the living God. So it comes by believing in God's word, returning to God's place, trusting in God's name. But here's the fourth thing. Responding to God's grace. Responding to God's grace. Now let me just show you one more thing. Because I think there's a prophetic echo again in verse six. Go back to verse six one more time. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the Lord had visited his people. and giving them bread. I see a prophetic echo in that verse. The Lord visits his people and giving them bread. You know what that is? That's a foreshadowing of the first Christmas. Because God would visit his people right there in that very town, Bethlehem And he would give them bread, but this would be the bread, the bread of life, the Lord Jesus Christ. That would happen many, many, many years later. Where Jesus Christ would come. He would be bred for the world, born there to bring satisfaction and fullness to the emptiness that is in this world. And beloved, that's what Christmas is all about And so really the book of Ruth serves a prophetic purpose. What does it do? It prepares God's people for the coming of their king. They need a king. Look in the book of Judges. There was no king. And everyone was doing what is right in their own eyes. And so the book of Ruth prepares them for this coming king. And at the end of the book of Ruth, what do we see? We see a genealogy. And whose gene genealogy is it? It's the genealogy of King David. God's people are being prepared for his chosen king that is going to come. And by the way, this David At the end of the book of Ruth will point to a greater David, the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but I think we're living in a time like the time of Judges. I think people this is a postmodern world where everyone does what is right in their own eyes. Where God's word, God's truth is being rejected. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. We need our King. You know what Christmas also reminds us about? Jesus is coming again. Just as surely as he came the first time, he's coming again. And that song that um Jeriah sang, Joy to the world. The Lord is come, let earth receive her king. We sing that song at Christmas time and rightfully so. But did you know that Isaac Rock Watch, when he wrote that song, was really writing about the second coming of Jesus That's really what it's about. It's okay to sing it around Christmas because you know what? Christmas should remind us about the coming of our King. When he comes again. We are living in a world today where we need our King to return. And and Ruth prepares us for that. The reason for the emptiness of this world is wrong decisions, wrong desires, wrong dispositions. But the return to fullness is in believing in God's word, returning to God's place, trusting in God's name, and responding to God's grace. God, in his grace, gave to this world bread, the bread of life. the Lord Jesus Christ. And let me close with this. I was reading about Mark Twain. You know that name, a great writer. He had many tragedies in his life. His younger brother died in a steamboat accident. He blamed himself for that. His only son died at 19 months. He had two daughters that died, and he grieved bitterly over their deaths, and instead of turning to the Lord, he became bitter. He became pessimistic. And when he died at 74, he was desperately lonely. He was unhappy. He was hopeless. You know why? Because that emptiness that he felt from all the sorrows, he tried to fill that emptiness with the world, with popular things, with uh popularity, with money, with fame and none of that helped him. In fact, it made him worse. It only made him feel his emptiness all the more and the sense of loss he felt More acutely. You see, beloved, the only thing that can fill the emptiness in man is Jesus Christ. Him and him alone. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for your answer to emptiness. We find it in our Savior Jesus Christ. We thank you, Lord, around this time of year we're reminded again of the coming of our King. And how the He has taken away our emptiness. And He's given us rest. He's given us fullness. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here tonight that has never trusted Christ as their Savior, that tonight they would make that decision to trust in the Lord Jesus. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe you're here tonight, and you're not absolutely certain that Jesus is your Savior. You know what? The best decision you could ever make is this very moment to put your faith in Christ. That emptiness that you feel, it's not going to be filled any other way. Your heart was created. With him in mind. That hole that's in your heart can only be filled by Jesus' friend. And if you're willing tonight to turn to him, friend, he'll give you rest. He'll give you real rest, real peace. Real happiness, real satisfaction. Would you be willing to pray this in your heart? Just say this prayer. Say it to the Lord Make that place where you set an altar and pray this prayer to the Lord. Say, Lord, take away the emptiness that is in me. And fill it with yourself. Fill it with your grace. Forgive me, cleanse me, and Lord, save me. And friend, if you'll pray that immediately he will save you tonight. Father, take these words. Use them, Lord, to strengthen and bless your people. Lord, let there be fullness where there was emptiness. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.