Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 2 Corinthians? 2 Corinthians chapter 5 And we're going to be looking this morning at verses 11 to verse 17 of 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning as I read this passage to you? 2 Corinthians 5. 11. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences. For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance and not in heart. For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. For the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all then were all dead. And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Wherefore, henceforth, know we no man after the flesh, yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. And therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us this morning and give us understanding into his word. As we listen and apply. Let's pray together. Pray with me. Father in heaven, again, we thank you for this wonderful opportunity to worship. And Lord, we do it in the way that we hear God's word. May we listen with reverence, with a ready heart, ready to apply truth to our own life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever been accused of being crazy? Of being beside yourself Where being a religious nut, I like what one country preacher said. He said, yes, I am a religious nut, but I'm fastened to the right bolt. I'm fastened to Christ. You know, if you really live a godly devoted life to Jesus Christ, the world's going to think that you're crazy. They're going to call you crazy because they cannot believe that you believe what you do believe and that you act the way you act. Now if you've ever been accused of being crazy or not you're in good company, did you know that they accuse the Lord Jesus of being crazy? In Mark chapter 3, verse 21, it says, and when his friends heard it, they went out to lay hold of him, where they said, He is beside himself When they saw Jesus do what he did and heard him teach, there were some people back then that said he's beside himself. And also, this is an accusation made against the Apostle Paul. Look at 2 Corinthians 5. 13 again. He says, For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God. or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. Beside ourselves, this is the exact same Greek word that we saw that's been used, I should say, in Mark 3. 21. It is the word uh exic uh existimi or extimi, which is to literally means to stand outside of oneself. And literally uh Uh well I shouldn't say literally but figuratively it was used in that day to speak about being crazy. We use the word today uh schizophrenic Or another word is neuroses or uh to being neurotic, which is really a mental disorder where you temporarily lose temporarily lose touch with reality. Now, of course, there are people that suffer from these things legitimately, and we should have compassion on that. But it's also terms that are used to speak about believers, the enemies of the cross. Basically say about Christians, you know, they're they're crazy. They're beside themselves. The Apostle Paul was accused of this by his enemies at Corinth. That wasn't the only time. There's another time in the New Testament where Paul in Acts chapter twenty-six was standing before Felix um or should excuse me uh f uh standing before Festus and Agrippa and he was relating to them how that he was a Pharisee and how he met Jesus Christ and and the Lord changed his life And the Bible says this in Acts twenty six, verse twenty four, and he thus spake of himself, as he thus spake of himself, Festa said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself. Much learning doth make thee mad Paul, you're crazy. And along with that, you're also a maniac. The word for mad there means maniac. Paul, you're crazy. You're a maniac. But that's been an accusation that has been made against godly people who have been passionate about the gospel of Christ throughout the history of the church. For example, D. L. Moody, he uh could have had a successful business, but God saved him and he went and began to minister to pe young children in the inner city and built a big Sunday school and And a and a church after that and people called him Crazy Moody. But you know what? We still remember the name D. L. Moody. Those other people, we don't know who they are. But the truth of the matter is, when people of the world see you as a Christian living for Jesus Christ as you should, if you're committed, if you're devoted to Jesus Christ, they're going to think that you've taken leave of your senses. They see you getting up on Sunday morning, uh a day when which you could sleep in. That you they see you and by the way, they are peeking out their windows watching you. They watch you get dressed up and come to church on Sunday morning. And if that's not enough, they see you again coming back on Sunday night. And then worst of all, in the middle of the week they see some of you come on Wednesday night, and then They hear you speak about this one called Jesus Christ, and and when you share the gospel with others. They just don't understand that. They can't understand, first of all, the message of the gospel. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 1. 18, for the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness. And the word for preaching there is not Uangeleon, it's not uh Caruso, which are the normal words used for preaching, it's the word logos In other words, the logic of the message. They hear about this one called Jesus Christ, and they can't understand how a person who died on a cross 2,000 years ago is able to change someone's life today To them the message of the cross is foolish, the Bible says, or moronic is the literal word there. They just can't grasp it. That's why there are people that in the world, philosophers who make fun of Christianity. It was Nietzsche that said Christianity is a religion for weaklings. One time Josh McDowell was debated a well-known Muslim apologist, and at one point the Muslim tried to ridicule the Christian faith by saying, These Christians are riding on the back of a crucified man. And Josh McDowell responded by saying, Yes, that's right. We are riding on the back of a crucified man, and we're riding on his back all the way to heaven. And Paul says, Look, if I'm crazy, if I'm beside myself, it is because of God. Look again in verse thirteen. For whether we be beside ourselves It is to God. What does Paul mean by that? It means it's because of what God has done in my life. It's because what God has revealed to me If I'm beside myself, it's because God has opened my eyes. Or again in verse 13, he says, or whether we be sober, because there were some in the Corinth that were saying, no, Paul's not beside himself. He's not crazy. He is of sound mind. And so there was a debate going on among the Corinthians as to whether Paul was uh crazy or of sound mind. And Paul said, look, if I'm beside myself, it's God. It's because of God. It's because of what he did in my life. Or if I want sound mind, it's for you I'm trying to teach you or relate to you what God has done to me. And what has God done to me? God has opened, Paul said, God has opened my eyes to see Christ. To see the gospel of Christ, to see the beauty of Christ. But there are some other things that motivated Paul What is it that caused people to think that he was crazy? Well there are three I what I call these three motivating truths that if you really grasp these things, people are going to think you're crazy too. What are they? Number one, the fear of God. The fear of God. Look in verse number 11. Back up to verse 11. Paul says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. We persuade men. The word for terror here, phobos, where we get the word phobia or fear. It's normally translated in the New Testament as fear. And what Paul's talking about here is a healthy fear of God. And you have to remember that in the context, Paul has just been talking about judgment in the previous verses. He said, look, we all have to appear before the judgment seat of Christ. We're all going to be judged. Now, for believers, we don't fear condemnation because we are in Christ. We put our faith in Jesus Christ, and the Bible says that there's no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus. We don't fear condemnation, but what we do tremble about and fear about is commendation. Because we want our works to be acceptable to Jesus Christ. And one day when we stand before Jesus as a Christian, as children of God, we don't want to have to bear any shame because of our lack of commitment, our lack of passion for the gospel. Or the the works that we did, we did them with a selfish motive rather than a godly motive. And so there's a sense in which we fear the Lord, but But all men need to fear the fact that they're going to stand before God one day. And Paul said, knowing the terror of the Lord, notice the next phrase of verse 11, we persuade men. What does Paul mean by this? There are several interpretations. I think Paul has two things in mind. First of all, he's trying to persuade the Corinthians about his motives that they're sincere and pure. You have to remember that we said this in our study that the apostle Paul is being severely criticized by the Corinthians. They're criticizing everything about his character. They're saying he's not a true apostle and that he's got selfish motives. And they even criticize his physical appearance. And so Paul is concerned about this because As they're assaulting his integrity and ministry, they're causing some people to not listen to Paul. And because of that It's causing a split in the church, and it stunted their growth spiritually, and it's having a devastating effect on him evangelistically because if you If they can tear away at the credibility of Paul, then that means no one's going to listen to them. And if they don't listen to Paul, then they're not going to get the gospel. They're not going to get the word of God. And so there's a danger here. And so Paul's trying to persuade them that he's a true servant of the Lord. Look what he says in verse number 11 again, but we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences. In other words, Paul saying, look, you know, I'm my whole life is open and transparent before God. I'm not a fake, I'm not a phony. And again he says in verse 12, For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but that give you an occasion to glory on our behalf Paul saying, Look, I'm not trying to boast and brag Paul despised boasting. In another place in 1 Corinthians, he said, Let him who boasts boast in the Lord. In other words, we have nothing to boast about. And I'm not trying to boast before you. I'm not trying to exalt myself before you I just want you to know me, and I want you to have the ability to answer those who criticize me and who Attack my integrity. I want you to be able to answer them. And I want you to be able to be pleased with my ministry. I want you to be proud of me. Not proud in a negative way But I it what he means is I want you to have confidence in me. If if you don't ha uh uh let me speak personally here. In order for you to listen to me, you have to have conf uh a measure of confidence in me, right? You have to believe that I know what I'm talking about, right? And you have to have confidence in my life and in my integrity and in my ministry. If you lose confidence in me, then my ministry is pretty much over with. There's a sense in which I want you to be proud of me, not in a boastful way, but in a way where you can say, you know what, I have a pastor who preaches the Word of God and I know that he lives for the Lord. I've got confidence in that. And that's what Paul's saying here. Paul's saying I want you to be able to have that kind of confidence so that when people come and they attack my integrity Then you'll know how to answer them. So he's trying to persuade them about his own life and his own ministry. And look look in verse 12 again, the latter part which says, to answer them with glory in appearance and not in heart. Remember, they criticized Paul's physical appearance, but they didn't know his heart, is what he's saying. And Paul says, I want you to be able to express to them what I really am. But there's another way in which he wanted to persuade people, and that is He wants to persuade them about his integrity and ministry in order that he can persuade sinners with the only message of salvation, which is the gospel. He wants people to know the gospel. He wants people to understand the gospel. Why? Again, knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. You know why I want people to know the gospel? Because if people don't receive Jesus Christ and repent of their sins, they're going to die and go to hell. You talk about terror. I can't think of a more horrible thought than someone dying without Jesus Christ And going to a Christeless eternity. That's real terror. And you know what? Hell is not a doctrine that we hear preached a lot today because people They move away from that. There are some people that think, you know, surely God wouldn't send a person to to hell. We we like the expression God uh uh loves the sinner. He hates the sin, but he loves the sinner. Well, yeah, but It's the center that God's going to send to hell for eternity. When an when an evangelist named Vance Habner was beginning his ministry, he pastored a little church And the farmer didn't like the sermons that he preached on hell. And he said to him one day, he said, Look, why don't you preach about the meek and lowly Jesus? And Vance Habner said, That's where I'm getting all my information about hell from I'm getting all my information about eternal punishment from Jesus. Because there was no one in the New Testament that spoke more about hell than the Lord Jesus. He said at one point, do not fear them which are able to kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to kill both body and soul in hell The worst thing about hell is that it's eternal. That when a person goes there, there'll be no ending to that. And so we seek to persuade men. We seek to give the gospel unto men. I agree with Charles Spurgeon that If any person dies, they should have to step over, dies and goes to hell. They should have to step over a Christian who is pleading for them to come to Jesus Christ. We should be out there trying to persuade people to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. So when we share the gospel like we do, you know, the world says that they're crazy. No, we're not crazy. We just know the terror of the Lord. We have a healthy fear of God. But here's another motivating factor: not only the fear of God, but also the love of Christ. Notice what Paul said in verse fourteen, for the love of Christ constraineth us, because we thus judge that if one died for all then we're all dead. The word constraint here means literally to hold together. It's the idea of putting pressure on or urging or impelling someone. What Paul is saying is Christ's love Compels me, Paul says. It presses me. It urges me on. And the idea here is that we are continually controlled by the love of Christ, Paul says And the term love of Christ could mean either his love for us or our love for him. It could mean either one of those things. How do we know what it means? Well, I think the context can determine between these two possibilities. And the reference in verse 15, I think, makes it clear that it's talking about Christ's love for us because it says, for and that he died for all. The fact that Christ died for us, therefore it is his love for us. You ever stop to ponder the amazing love that Christ had for you, that he would die for you? And Paul said, it is that understanding that constrains me, it controls me, it urges me on. Look in verse again, verse 14, for he says, Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead. The word for all there, hooper in the Greek, in the place of. Christ died in our place. He redeemed us from the curse of the law because all of us had disobeyed God. We've all sinned. We've all brought the curse of disobedience from the law down upon us. And Christ became a curse for us, the Bible says. He was our substitute. He bore our sins. The Bible says God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And so Paul said we that we we judge, we discern this in our mind, that if one died for all, if he died in our place And verse 14, then we're all dead. And what did Paul mean by that? That term is synonymous with salvation. It means this: that when you get saved, you die with Christ, you identify with Christ. And here he's talking about believers, those who come to Christ by faith. When we come to Christ by faith, there's a sense in which we identify with Christ. We die with him. We're saved. Being dead with Christ is a term in the New Testament that is synonymous with salvation. Paul uses it in Galatians 2, 20 when he said, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. When your person gets saved, you die with him. Christ's death on the cross was sufficient for all But it's only efficient to those who believe. And when you believe in what Christ has done, there's a sense in which you die with him on the cross. You become a child of God. And so it's this reality of Christ's death for us that Paul says, this is what compels me, this is what motivates me. In 1858, Frances Habergale visited Germany with her father. He was getting treatment for an affliction on his eyes, and while she was there. She saw a picture of the crucifixion on the wall of a pastor's home that they were visiting. And that picture was so moving to her that she wrote the words on a piece of paper to a poem. I did this for thee. What hast thou done for me? That was the words that she saw under the picture. And so based on that, she wrote these words, I gave my life for thee My precious blood I shed that thou mightest ransom be and quicken from the dead. I gave, I gave my life for thee. What hast thou given me? Those are the words of the hymn that we sing nowadays that are that we love to sing. But that's the question. Since Christ gave his life for us, what are we giving for him? Paul said, look, I'm motivated by not only the fear of God, but the love of Christ. But here's the third thing that motivated Paul. The blessing of salvation. Look in verse number 17. He says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. You know, the world thinks Christians are crazy because they do not understand that when a person is born again, everything becomes new. When we come to Jesus Christ, our conscience, which is loaded down with guilt and sin, is completely cleansed. And we are a brand new person once we come to Christ. Two times in verse 17, Paul uses the word new here, canos. It's a word that means new in quality. We have a new quality of life once we come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice some of the new things that take place in our life. First of all, there's a new look. Back up to verse 16 when he says this Wherefore, henceforth, know we no man after the flesh. The word henceforth means from now on. Paul is saying, after I got saved, from that point on, from now on, I don't look at people the same way. I don't look at people based on the flesh. Paul's saying from then on, I don't judge people based on their outward appearance. You know, we we live in a world in a society today that is so obsessed with the outward appearance, so obsessed with what people look like on the outside And Paul said, when I came to Christ, I don't judge any man based on outward appearance anymore. What I do is I realize that they have a soul and I look at them in a spiritual way. Do they know the Lord Jesus Christ? You know, in 9. 45 hour, I'm teaching on personal evangelism and being able to share the gospel. with people. Every believer should know how to take the Word of God and share the gospel with an unbeliever. And if you don't know how to do that, you should learn how to do that. And you should be involved in doing that. Because Paul says, after salvation, we don't look at people based on physical appearance anymore. We need to learn to look at their soul. We need to ask the question: are they going to go to heaven when they die? What is their spiritual condition? That's what Paul is saying here. Now again, he's making a contrast with the false teachers. Remember, they criticize Paul based on his outward appearance. And the people at Corinth, they were obsessed with outward appearance because normally the teachers of wisdom back then, they all were all about outward looks. And how they carried themselves, and they judge Paul based on that worldly standard, and they said Paul doesn't measure up, he doesn't look right, he doesn't speak right, he's not very impressive. And Paul basically is saying, you know what? After I came to know the Lord, I don't judge people on outward appearance anymore. I judge people based on their soul. So Paul had a new look. He had a new Lord. Look again in verse 16. Yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. An example of this is how Paul judged the Lord Jesus. Before salvation, when he thought about this rabbi from Nazareth, he didn't think much about him. He judged him according to the flesh. He was just another religious teacher. That's what some people still say today. They talk about Jesus, they say, oh, he was a good teacher. A good religious teacher. But you're judging him according to man's standard, according to the flesh. When Paul came to Jesus Christ, He saw him for who he really was. The Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul saw that Jesus was the Savior, the Lord, the Redeemer. And when Paul got saved, he now had a new Lord. He realized that Jesus is the Son of God. That's what happens to a believer. When you meet the Lord Jesus Christ. But then also a new life. Look again in verse number 17. It says, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. We could literally translate that new creation. The key phrase here is in Christ. And again, this is the same argument Paul used in Romans chapter 5 when he was talking about the two, I call it the theology of the two atoms. You know, you're either in Adam or you're in Christ, one or the other. When God looks down from heaven, He either sees, or he only sees two men I could say. He sees that you're either in Adam or you're in Christ. And guess what? In Adam all died. But in Christ all are made alive. You become part of a new creation. In Adam, Adam's sin is imputed to your record. But in Christ, Christ's righteousness is imputed to your record. And when you come to Jesus Christ, therefore, you are a new creature, a new creation. You ever see someone who's been newly saved? You ever see the joy? And the thrill of knowing that they're now all their sins are forgiven. And you know the first thing they do is they go out and they start sharing Christ with everyone. And you know what the world says? They're crazy. They're crazy. No, they're not crazy. They're just a new creation. They're new in Christ. You see. You see, and and when Paul uses the word new creature and new creation, he's really relating it to the idea of God's recreation one day. We live in a world that's going to be recreated. You know this world is going to be destroyed by fire. And God's going to recreate all of it. It's not just a renovation, but a recreation. You know, not too long ago, about a year ago, we bought this house next door. We added to our church property. There was a house on it. And we thought, you know, we're just gonna we're gonna fix that house up and make it nice And when we started working on that house, we were just planning just kind of a minor renovation. But when we started into that project, guess what we found out? It was in bad shape. The boards on the floor were rotten, the studs were rotten, the roof leaked, we had to we had to do all kind of things that we didn't think about and what started out is kind of like a minor Renovation is now becoming a new creation, basically. Because it was too rotten on the inside. It had to be changed. You know what? When God saves us, he doesn't do a minor renovation, he does a complete recreation. You know why? Because we're too corrupt. God has to make us brand new. And that's what the Apostle Paul is saying here. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature, a new creation. All things are passed away. Everything has become new. And Paul realized that wonderful message of salvation brought This brand newness into a life of a person where they come to Jesus Christ, everything is made new, all of their past sins are forgiven, they're born again anew, everything is fresh and new in Christ. And again, it's wonderful. I've told you before about my father who passed away. He's in heaven now, rejoicing with the Lord, had his best thanksgiving ever. Just a few days ago. But I remember when I was a 14-year-old boy watching my father get saved and seeing this new man. That I didn't recognize after he got saved. God had done such a work in his heart, and I I I said in his funeral service I was talking about his life, you know, the first thing he did is he went around offending everybody with the gospel. Telling them they needed to receive Jesus. And there were some people that thought he had lost his mind. No, he hadn't lost his mind. God had done that work in his heart. And they said he was crazy. But I want to tell you something, friend. If you understand the fear of God, And the love of Christ, and all the blessings of salvation, and you act and you conduct your life according to those things. They're gonna make the accusation t against you that they made against Paul. You're beside yourself. You're crazy. You know what I pray for? I pray that God will send to Grace Bible Baptist Church a lot of crazy people. People that know Jesus Christ. People that are so committed to Christ that the world looks on us as being crazy. I take that as a compliment. In fact, you know what the problem is? The world doesn't call us crazy anymore. Sometimes in the church, because the church has become too much like the world. We've lost our passion for Jesus Christ and the gospel. And we're acting just like the rest of the world. God help us. How can God accept worship from a people who have lost their passion for what he has done for us? What what about you? You want to be one of God's crazy people? I do. I do. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we again thank you for the precious gospel. For the forgiveness of sins, for the fact that we've been saved from eternal punishment because Christ He who knew no sin became sin for us on our behalf. He died in our place as our substitute. He bore our curse. and satisfied your holy justice for sin and demonstrated his incredible love to us by being our substitute. Thank you, Father, that you have opened our eyes to show us the beauty of the gospel and the blessings of salvation. And these are truths, Lord, that we can't just sit passively by and receive. If we really understand what we have, it's going to change the way we live. And the world is they're not going to understand it. They're going to say of us, just like they said of the Apostle Paul, he's beside himself. And just like they said of our Master, he is beside himself. Father, forgive us for For not being as passionate and as devoted to you as we should. For forgetting how precious the gospel is. And what you saved us from. Lord, give us a passion, a love for Christ, greater than any other love that we have. Let there be no idols in our heart that diminish our love and our passion for you. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, I pray that today will be that day of salvation. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I just want to give a brief invitation If you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, I want to encourage you today, don't put it off, today. Put your faith in Him and what He did for you on the cross. He was your substitute, He became your Sin bearer. He took all of your sins upon himself. Salvation is by putting your faith in his finished work. And if you haven't done that, I encourage you to do that right now. If God's put that desire in your heart, act on it. Don't put it off, don't delay. And if you're hearing you're a child of God, maybe you just need to ask God to forgive you for allowing your love for Christ to grow cold. And for forgetting about the fact that we're going to stand before Christ in judgment. Ask God to stir your heart once again, afresh and anew. Let's all stand together with heads bowed and eyes closed. Please stand together with heads bowed and eyes closed Again, if you're here today and you don't know Christ and you want to know how to come to Christ or you want to pray, we're going to have ministers here in the front. to receive you, to pray with you, to take you aside, to show you how you can know him. And if you're here today and you just you just want to pray, I'm going to open up an invitation this morning. With heads bowed and eyes closed, as they're praying, you can just go ahead. If you want to just come to this altar and pray, or come here to the front and just Ask God to give you a greater passion. Ask him to use you to see others come to know Christ. You come. If you want to come to know more about Christ, you come. Our ministers are standing here in the front. As our heads are bowed and eyes are closed, why don't you just sing the song with me just as I am? You know the words to the song. Just sing it this morning. Just as I am with one but Washing and the most important thing. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Again, as we sing that through again, just as I am. While you're there, just just standing there in your pew, just Do business with the Lord. Ask God to reignite your heart and passion. Let's pray. Father, again, we thank you for the truth of the gospel. And we pray, Lord, that no one will leave here this morning without absolutely making certain that they're in Christ, that their sins are forgiven. I pray, Lord, that you'll open their eyes to see who Jesus is. And as a result of their salvation, that they will not look at people ever the same again, ever again. That they won't see Christ the same way ever again. That there'll be a new creature in Jesus Christ. Bless these words, Lord, to hear your hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.