Well, would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to the book of Romans, chapter one. I preached a sermon last week in Romans one. I had several people come out and goes, All right, you're gonna preach through Romans now, right? So we'll we'll do a few and see how it goes if you guys pay attention. But Romans chapter one tonight, I want to deal with verses eighteen to the end of the chapter, and I want to talk about a topic that Really, uh perhaps some don't like to talk about this the issue of God's wrath. This is what Paul talks about here from verses 18 down to verse number uh 32. I think you know the uh prop perhaps the most famous sermon in America preached by one of the most famous pastor theologians in America Is a sermon titled Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. You ever hear that sermon title? That was a sermon that was used to spark revival during the Great Awakening. Jonathan Edwards preached that sermon on July 8, 1741 in Connecticut. He was a guest speaker. And this, as I said, kind of sparked revival in the Great Awakening. I want to read you just a little excerpt of what he said in the sermon. He said this, O sinner, consider the fearful danger you are in. It is a great furnace of wrath, wide and bottomless pit, full of the fire of wrath, that you are held over in the hand of of that God. whose wrath has provoked and incensed as much against you as against many of the damned in hell. You hang by a slender thread, with the flames of divine wrath flashing about it And ready every moment to singe it and burn it asunder. And you have no interest in any mediator, and nothing to lay hold of to save yourself, and nothing to keep off the flames of wrath Nothing of your own, nothing that you could you have ever done, nothing that you can do to induce God to spare you one moment. That's just an excerpt. So you can kinda understand how that was considered a, you know, fiery sermon about God's wrath. The language and imagery here are so vivid that people historians say that people that were there that heard the sermon were crying out for mercy. And even some who may have fainted They were holding on to the pew because he made a picture of eternal judgment so very real Now, we today, we are our generation of Christianity, we're weaned more on Jesus loves me this I know, for the Bible tells me so. And by the way, that is so very true. Jesus does love us. And we revel and thank God for the love of Christ. But I think most people in today's generation would find this sermon that Edwards preached somewhat appalling. with some of the terms that he used. He's describing God in such terrifying terms. But we have to really understand Jonathan Edwards before we could really say that. He was no uh fiery emotionalists. He he basically uh had a whole manuscript and pretty much tried to stay away from trying to be too emotional in the delivery of the sermon because he was careful not to try to manipulate people But he put a straightforward message out about the wrath of God. And at the end of the sermon, he asked people to repent and to turn to Christ And historians say that that night that the the there were many people that turned to the Lord and they were strengthened and they were confirmed in their faith. And so the whole tenor of the service was really, and by the end of the service, it was very uplifting. But because of the sermon, Jonathan Edwards has had this uh caricature as being harsh, a pitiless preacher. who delights in frightening his congregation and terrifying them with thoughts about hell and the wrath of God. And people who believe that really, again, they don't really know the man. If you read a lot of his writings, what you'll find is that he actually spoke more about heaven than he did about hell. He was a very warm, uh loving, sensitive pastor. He was a meticulous theologian But Jonathan Edwards believed that God was indeed a God of love, but he was also a God of wrath. And that you had to preach both. You had to preach that God was a God of love, but you could not neglect the fact that That scripture is very clear about God being a God of wrath. And so he was not reluctant to preach. the unvarnished truth about the wrath of God. He believed that it was the responsibility of every preacher to declare both And so uh that was something that a lot of people didn't really understand about him, and I believe it is right. Now, years later there came along another preacher, very famous preacher, but he was really a liberal preacher. His name is Harry Emerson Fodsdick, and he was the pastor of the Riverside Church in New York. He was very committed to liberal theology And one time in a sermon he mentioned Jonathan Edwards' sermon about sinners in the hands of an angry God. And in the sermon, he pretty much slammed Jonathan Edwards, saying that he basically pictured uh God as being this terrifying God, uh and a God who preached or or bel who was a God of wrath And then he said this: obviously, we do not believe in that kind of God anymore. We don't believe in that kind of God anymore. We don't believe in a God who is a God of wrath. And he preached the love of God, which is we should preach the love of God. But friend, if you preach the love of God without the wrath of God, you're not getting a full picture of who God is. In fact, it is the wrath of God that makes the love of God so appealing. It is the bad news of God's wrath that makes the good news so good. Does that make sense? And I think that lost men is really not that concerned about the love of God. In fact, a lot of lost people, unsafe people, laugh and sneer about the love of God, and the reason for that is because their hearts are so hardened and they also do not understand. That there's also the wrath of God. And the Bible says that he that believes not is already under condemnation. Now it's interesting to me that when Paul begins his great treaties of the gospel, he doesn't begin with the love of God. Although that's a very precious truth. He begins with the wrath of God. That's where he starts. Look at verse eight uh verse eighteen of chapter one. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. And so what I want you to see here today is what Paul has to say about this wrath of God. And there are really three aspects of God's wrath that I want you to see. First of all, I want to talk about the revelation of God's wrath And then I want to talk about the reasons for God's wrath. And then I want to talk about the results of God's wrath. That's what we see here. First of all, the revelation, the definition of it. What exactly is the wrath of God? Let me tell you what it's not. It's not an emotional outburst, uncontrolled outburst. We talk about God's wrath. God never flies off the handle. He never loses his temper like man does. Some people, when they think about the wrath of God, they imagine, you know, the basketball coach Bobby Knight throwing a chair across the floor. That's not God. The Greek word for wrath is orge. It has the idea of a settled, determined indignation. It's not a moment, emotional, uncontrolled anger, which humans are prone to. No. It is a disposition that is settled. It's not a result of God having his feelings hurt, which I've heard theologians say that. The wrath of God is a result of God having his feelings hurt. This is the view of some theologians, namely open theists, who want to redefine the wrath of God under the rubric of God's love. And they exalt the love of God as being the key attribute. It's kind of the attribute through which we see all of the other attributes of God. And so therefore they define the wrath of God as being his love spurned. God is hurt. In fact, John Sanders wrote this: He that is God makes himself vulnerable. And that vulnerability has been betrayed, and the breaking of the relationship is like a divorce. And its impact on God is real, it changes him As grief turns to anger, God steps to change the situation, and divine suffering results in an attempt at reconciliation. In other words, God's wrath is a result of his own suffering. As if man could make God suffer. That's just a distorted view of God. It's a distorted, perverted view of theology. You can't make God suffer. God will choose to suffer with you because He's a merciful God But man can't inflict suffering on God. God does suffer with us. But They view wrath as God being hurt, like the spurn lover. And that's again a distorted view of God's wrath. That's not how the Bible defines it. Barnhouse wrote this many years ago. He said, It is strange that the bitterest foe of the doctrine of God's judgment and eternal punishment frequently seek to take refuge in the doctrine of the love of God and the love of the Savior to promote their errors. And that's very, very true. The Bible presents God's attributes all in a perfect, beautiful balance and blending together really that's far beyond my comprehension or ability to understand. But if you read God's self-revelation of himself in the Old Testament, when he revealed himself to Moses, when Moses said, Lord, show me your way, show me who you are, and God reveals himself. You remember in that passage when God declared his name, if you look at that passage very closely, there's a perfect balance between God's righteous judgment and wrath and God's mercy and love. They're in perfect blend. They're in perfect balance. So what is God's wrath? I think the key statement Is again in verse 17. Back up to verse 17. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith, as it's written, the just shall live by faith. And then he goes right on into verse 18, talking about the wrath of God. And so what is it? God's wrath, listen to this, beloved, is an expression of his righteousness. It's an expression of his holiness. Remember, that's the key idea throughout the whole book of Romans. Romans is revealing the righteousness of God, the holiness of God. And in chapters 1 through 3, we see God's righteousness provoked by man. Man has sinned against God. And his holiness and his righteousness are responding to the unrighteousness and the sin of man because that's what a holy God does. Holy God cannot judge sin. And so God's wrath is an expression of his righteousness because indeed he is. Look again in verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and of righteousness of men. The word ungodliness refers to a lack of reverence or devotion to or worship of the true God. Unrighteousness is the result of ungodliness. It is the sinful deeds that an ungodly man commits So when God demonstrates his wrath from heaven, we should be reminded that he is a holy God. He is a righteous God. But this is not the side of God that modern man wants to hear about Modern men would just as soon forget this fact that God is a God of wrath. And even today in some churches and some circles, preachers don't want to preach about the wrath of God because it's not really a subject that people want to hear. And it's almost like some who preach on it almost are doing it in an apologetic manner. As if we have to defend God somehow. But again, beloved, we don't have to defend the fact that God is holy. And God is righteous. And so we see the definition of it, but the demonstration of it, look again in verse 18, the wrath of God is revealed. Look at that word revealed. That's present tense verb We could say it's constantly being revealed. The word revealed, apocalypto, apocalypse. In other words, to pull the veil away. The basic idea is uncovering, bringing to light To make known. God's wrath is continually being revealed. It is constantly being manifested. It doesn't happen just at once. It didn't just happen in the Old Testament times, and that's all God's wrath, beloved, according to Paul here, is constantly being revealed from heaven. Now we do see it in the Old Testament, right? We see the fact that God destroyed the world with a flood because of sin God judged many of the Old Testament cities because of their immorality and their sin. In Psalm 2, the Psalmist said, Why did the heathen rage and the nations and the people imagine a vain thing? And then it goes on to say that God shall speak to them in his wrath and vex them in his great displeasure. In Psalm 21:8, it says this thy hand shall find out all thine enemies, thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger. The Lord shall swallow them up in his wrath. And by the way, you can go systematically through the Old Testament, even the Psalms, and you'll find one verse after another after another where God is expressing his wrath towards the ungodliness of men. The Old Testament prophets spoke of the wrath of God. Clearly, Isaiah spoke of it. Isaiah 9:19, through the wrath of the Lord of hosts, the land is darkened. Jeremiah also spoke of the wrath of God in Jeremiah 7:20. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, mine anger and my fury shall be poured out in this place. And again, we see it in many places. God judged his own people, Israel, because of their sin. And those are just a few passages, and I'm passing over a lot. He showed his wrath against nations, he showed his wrath against individuals in the Old Testament, against Nadab and Abihu, against Aaron and Miriam, against Abimelech, against the family of Saul, against Sennacherib, against Nebuchadnezzar and others who dared to defy God. God poured out his wrath. We also see it in the New Testament. Some people think, well, you know, the God of the Old Testament is a God of wrath, but the God of the New Testament is a God of love. There's no such dichotomy in Scripture, beloved It's the same God. And we see God's wrath also in the New Testament. John the Baptist began his ministry by warning people to flee from the wrath to come. You need to flee from that. John 3 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. And again, I don't have time, but I can take you verse by verse through the whole New Testament, where God is pouring out His wrath and revealing His wrath. We see it in the Old Testament, we see it in the New Testament, we see it in the world today. It's all around us. There there are several categories of God's wrath. There's eternal wrath. Beloved, when a person dies without Christ, the saddest thing I can think of is when they die without Christ, they go to a place of eternal punishment. That's eternal wrath that God is constantly pouring out. There's eschatological wrath that's in the final day. When the Lord Jesus Christ will come back and judge this world. There's consequential wrath. That is, we could call that the principle of sowing and reaping. When a person does wrong, the the penalty for that wrong is within the wrong itself. If you sow seeds of folly and sin, you're going to reap that. That's consequential wrath God has placed that principle in this world that if you sow corruption, you're going to reap corruption. You'll reap the whirlwind. And then there's cataclysmic wrath. floods and other types of disasters. Some people say, well, you know, when these things occur, is that really God's wrath? Well, Amos said this. Shall there be calamity in a city, and the Lord has not done it? Is it possible for their calamity to come and the Lord not do it? And of course, that's rhetorical. And you remember that in the New Testament in Luke chapter 13, when Jesus was speaking about some bad things that happened where Pilate uh basically slew the blood of some Jewish zealots that had gone to the temple to worship, and then a tower fell and people were killed by that tower falling And people kind of wanted to answer from Jesus and he wasn't very comforting in the way he answered him. He basically said this, look, if you don't repent, you're going to likewise perish. He was basically saying that those events were really a foreshadowing of the greatest tragedy that is yet to come, and that is upon people who do not repent of their sin. The real question is, why was it that this happened to these people? The real question is, how come that didn't happen to me? And how come God is so merciful as He is? Why did this power fall on them? Why not on me? Because I'm no better than them. And Jesus said, You better be ready. You better Repent, or you're all going to likewise perish. There's a future judgment coming. You better prepare for that judgment. And so it is God's righteousness revealed against the sin of man So there's the revelation of God's wrath. And Paul said it's constantly revealed. But notice the reasons for God's wrath. Look again in verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Now here Paul is going to give us reasons why God's wrath is revealed. And one of them he gives us is willful ignorance He says in verse 18, who hold the truth. And really the Greek word there hold is the idea of holding back, we could say, or suppressing the truth. Or pushing the truth away, holding down the truth. It's like being in a pool and you have a beach ball and you're pushing it down underwater. And what happens when you let it go? It pops back up. So you have to constantly, continually hold pressure to hold it down, to push it away. That's the idea behind this Greek word here, present indicative. You know why God's angry? You know why God has wrath? It's because mankind today is constantly suppressing and pushing away the truth about God. They do not want to know about God. So they're pushing it away. They're suppressing the truth. They're Holding it down, the truth of God. Modern psychology notes that this is what happens to people sometimes when painful or traumatic experiences come. They kind of push those things out of their mind They push them out of their deepest recesses or into the chambers of their mind. They try to repress those things. And that's the idea here with regard to the truth of God. Mankind is pushing Truth away. Linsky wrote this. He said, whenever the truth starts to exert itself and make them feel uneasy in their mortal nature, they hold it down. They suppress it. Some drown its voice by rushing into their immoralities. Others strangle the disturbing voice by argument and denial. I think he's exactly right. And so they're suppressing truth. What truth? The truth about God. Look at verse 19. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them. This is the inward evidence of God. Did you know that God has planted in man the knowledge of Himself? And people are born with that inward knowledge of God. That inward existence, or that inward idea of God's existence, I should say. And when someone says, Well, I'm an atheist, no, your problem is that you're you're just lying. Well, I don't believe in God. No, you're you're pushing back the truth about God. Because God has placed within every man that inward knowledge that He is there, that He is real. The theologian Augustus Strong said the scriptures both assume and declare that the knowledge of God is universal. God has inlaid the evidence of that fundamental knowledge in the very nature of Man. And it's there. I know you probably heard of Helen Keller, the little girl that had a disease and and uh sh that left her without sight left her without hearing and without speech, and through the heroic efforts of a lady by the name of Ann Sullivan Helen finally learned to communicate through touch. It was just an amazing thing. Even she even learned to talk. And when Miss Sullivan first tried to tell Helen about God. Helen Keller's response was, Oh, I already know about him. I just didn't know what his name was. But I already knew about him. Why? Because God has put the knowledge of himself in everyone. So there's that inward evidence that man is pushing back. But then there's the outward evidence of creation. Look at verse 20. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without what? Excuse. And here Paul's Referring to natural revelation. There is enough in the natural world of God's creation, enough evidence to show every man that God is real. And so much so that man is without excuse. How can any man look at the order and the design and the beauty and the power and all this creation and say there is no God? How is that possible? That's possible because man is suppressing truth, is pushing truth away about God. They refuse to acknowledge God They refuse to acknowledge him as their creator. That's why I say the most blasphemous, most dangerous lie ever that came from the devil to men is the lie about evolution. That's the most blasphemous thing I've ever heard in my life. How can anyone that has any rational sense hold on to that idea that something just came out of nothing? By chance? You know, how can nothing create nothing? I mean, you have to jump into the abyss of irrationality to even hold on to that idea. But yet there are men who do because they are suppressing truth. And Paul says, look, if you just look at the world and its glory, it all is a revelation about God, about who God is, the heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament shows his handiwork. You know, you can learn a lot about God just by looking at his creation. It's almost like this, you know, if if if I didn't know anything about you, and I came to your house one day and you weren't home. And I just let myself in and started looking around your house. You know what? I can learn a whole lot about you just by looking. Now don't be afraid. I'm not going to do that, alright? I don't have a key to your house and I'm not spying on anybody, all right. In fact, I don't want you to do that to me either, all right? But you know you can learn a lot about someone just by looking at their their s living space, right? I can learn what your favorite colors are, what your favorite foods are, what you like to read, whether you're neat or you're sloppy. You know what? I can learn a lot about God just by looking at His creation. I learned that He's incredibly giving. You know why? Because all of creation is just giving, giving, giving. The earth is constantly giving to us other three sources. He's incredibly wise when I see the design. It just blows my mind to see the incredible order and design and creation. He's a God of beauty because I see all the beauty. He's a God who loves variety because I see all the colors. I can learn a lot about God. Not enough for salvation, but I can learn this. He exists. I can see that through natural revelation. But what man is doing is suppressing that. That's why you have people who claim to be atheists, they're pushing that away. Paul said, Look, because look at verse 19, because that which may may be made known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it unto them. Verse 20, the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seeing, being understood by the things that are made, even as eternal power and Godhead, so that they're out they're without excuse. And so we see in verse 20, man's responsibility. The revelation of God is so clear that Paul says, no man can say, well, God, I just didn't know you were there. No man has that excuse. And so there's this there's this refusal. from man. This willful ignorance. Man is ignorant about God because he wants to be. But then not only willful ignorance, but then also warped imaginations. Look in verse twenty one because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imagination and their foolish heart was darkened Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. So here's the next thing, warped imagination. Man's refusal, part of the suppressing of the truth. Is the refusal to give God glory for all of his creation, and really man's chief end is to glorify God. To acknowledge him, to glorify him. But through this stubborn refusal, man will not glorify God. He will not acknowledge God. And I think this is the worst of sins, which is ingratitude. It's especially heinous when it's directed towards God. And then we see man's rationalization. He became vain in his imagination, his foolish heart was darkened. This turn in turn leads to rationalism. Man became vain in their reasonings, we could say. He became full of intellectual pride. He began on this intellectual quest to explain God away. That's evolution right there, beloved. That's Charles Darwin who said, I am determined to get away from a God at any cost. That's a quote from Darwin. Look it up if you don't believe me. He wasn't interested in giving God glory. He wanted to rationalize away from God. And so part of this suppression of truth was man's reasoned arguments about why God doesn't exist. And these brilliant thinkers came up with these intricate Complex systems of philosophical thought that was nothing but foolishness. Just plain foolishness. They were in opposition to the character of God. And Paul said, professing themselves to be wise. They became what? They became fools. They were fools. Moron is the w is the word there. Very appropriate. And then there was this willful ignorance, there was this warped imagination. But then here's the third thing, wicked idolatry. It's just kind of going down step by step. Look at verse 23. And change the glory. of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man and to birds and to four-footed beasts and creeping things. So what happened? Man, who is created, by the way, it's innate in man to be a worshiper. That's part of man's nature. And if you deny the real God, the true God, man's going to want to worship something. So you know what part of this suppression of truth is? Man, rather than acknowledging the true God for who he is, he comes up with his own view of God. He creates his own God. Let me tell you something, friend. Idolatry is committed in the mind before it's ever made with the hands. People fashion their own God in their own mind. And they say, Well, this is my God. You ever hear people say, Well, my God would never do this? Well, the only problem is, your God is not the God of the Bible. That's the God that you made in your mind. You are not allowed to fashion God. You understand that? The Bible declares who God is. Now you might not like the way God reveals Himself, but that's your problem. But this is the way God reveals Himself in Scripture. You have no right to fashion God in your own mind. Because when man does this. He brings God down, the true God, and he makes his own God. And so Paul kind of gives the digression in verse 23. First they make them unto an image made like unto corruptible man. The first thing we want to do is we want to take God off the throne and we want to make him like us. Someone said God created man in his own image and man returned the favor. Man now tries to create God in his own image. But that's not the real God. So they try to make him like a man. And that's what a lot of these false theologies and ideas do out there. They bring God down off the throne and make him like men. And then There's another step downward. Again in verse 23, an image made like unto corruptible man, and then what? Then the birds. You see, that's the natural trend of religion throughout history. It's not been upward, it's been downward. It starts with monotheism, then it descends downward into all kinds of polytheism. And and people worshiping all kinds of creepy things that they've made up in their own mind. This is part of the depraved nature of man. And so that's why you look throughout history and you find uh you know people worshiping these things. Among the Romans, they worshiped an eagle. The Egyptians worshiped the stork and the hulk. That's why, by the way, why the Jews would never allow any images of eagles anywhere around, because that was idolatry to them. And some American Indians still worship various birds, as seen on totem poles and things like that. And then Paul says it goes down further that they worship God as if He's some kind of a bird or animal In verse 23. And four-footed beasts, again, ancient idols come in the form of four-footed animals. Egyptians worship the bull god, Aethos. They worship the cat. Can you imagine worshiping a cat? I can't stand my cat by the way. Anything but worship that thing. I I probably shouldn't say that. You should blank that out of the tape, I don't want any phone calls. They worship the cat goddess, the Egyptians. They worship the cow goddess, Hathor, and the wolf god, and so on. And then you also find this among Canaanite religions, worshiping all these corruptible animals as if it's God. And even Israel committed that monstrous sin of idolatry by Putting their gold in the fire and remember Aaron's excuse, well out popped this cow. Just kind of popped out the fire, did it And God gets angry at that. Then four-footed crawling things, crawling creatures, and so on, insects. Egyptians even worship insects. They worship the dung beetle. If you can imagine that. And so this is this is the reason God's of God's wrath, his anger. Because rather than acknowledging who God is, Man in his depraved, willful ignorance suppresses that truth. In his worked imaginations, he reasons in his mind, supposedly educated arguments why there is no God, and those who believe there is a God create their own God. After wicked imaginations. So what's the result? We see the revelation of God's wrath, we see the reasons, but I want you to see number three the results of God's wrath. Look at verse 24. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness. That phrase gave them up is a key phrase here. We see it here in verse 24. God Paradidomai. This is a judicial sense. God committed them over. He committed them over to a prison, is the idea. He handed them over. As a judgment. We see it in verse 24. We see it in verse 26. It says the same thing. For this cause God gave them up. Again, he did them over. We see it again, look in verse 28. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over. Gave them over to a reprobate mind. So again, this is the idea of God just handing a person over. To his own judgment. And here, God is handing man over. What's the prison? His own lust, his own sinful inclinations, his own lusts. You know what this is? This is the wrath of abandonment, where God says, okay, you don't want me? You want to reject who I am? You want to suppress the truth? I've revealed myself in creation. I've revealed myself in Scripture. You don't want to acknowledge the God that I have revealed myself to be. Rather than that, you want to create your own God And you want to come up with all these warped imaginations and arguments against my nature and being? God says, okay, I'm just going to hand you over to yourself. I'll just give you over to yourself. That's the wrath of abandonment. That's one of the worst expressions of God's wrath. You know why? Because when God hands a person over to Himself, that person then is enslaved to their own lusts. God says Man says, I don't want you, God. God says, okay, you don't have me. I'm giving you over to your own sins. Hosea 4:17 said this: Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone Leave him alone. The worst thing that could happen to man is where God says, just leave them alone. Leave him to himself. In Psalm 81, verse 11, God said this, but my people would not hearken to my voice. Israel would none of me, so I gave them up to their own heart's lusts, and they walked in their own counsels I gave them up to whatever they wanted. It's kind of like Samson. They wish not that the Lord had departed, but God departs. And he leaves man to his own. Self. And you know what this is? This is the removal of God's restraining grace. You say, why isn't the world worse because of man? Because of God's restraining grace. It's the grace of God that keeps the world in check. But you know what? When God says, okay, you reject me, I'm going to remove my restraining grace. I'm going to turn you over to your own sinful inclination. You know what's going to happen? There's going to be a downward spiral that happens after that. A downward spiral. You remember in the Old Testament when Abig Abimelech had Sarah, Abraham's wife? You know, Abraham lied, well, she's my sister, and Abimelech took her into his harem. And then God judged Abimelech. And then Abimelech letter prayed and said, Lord, I you know, look, this wasn't me, the guy told me it was his sister. And the Lord said, in a dream He said, Yeah, I know thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart, for I also withheld thee from sinning against me, therefore I suffered thee not to touch her. God said, I restrained you from doing anything wrong. And that's the restraining grace of God. And the reason the world is not worse is because it's the restraining grace of God. But when man rejects God, it has nothing to do with God. God says, I'm going to remove my restraining grace. And things really get bad. What happens after that? Look again in verse 24. Wherefore God gave him up to uncleanness through the lust of their own bodies, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves And here he's talking about all types of sexual immorality. This is the first indication of a society that is under the wrath of abandonment. What is it? It's it's sexual immorality. When a society becomes pornographic, when the general character is immoral This is this is the wrath of God in effect. God gives them over to their own heart's lusts and their bodies following that. In a most dishonorable way, d defiling their bodies. So you look at it society today, do we see this? I mean all over the place. We have internet that is dominated by millions and millions of filthy, vile sites that Christians should have no business even getting close to It's just all over the place. And this leads to the destruction of marriages. It leads to all kinds of abuse, the abuse of children, and and and just immorality runs rampant all over. And look at verse 26. For this cause God gave them up to vile affections, that is, degrading passions. And here, notice again it says, for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. And here Paul is talking about homosexuality. And he starts with lesbianism. And Paul points to this as the supreme example of the loss of human dignity. And it's interesting to me that the Holy Spirit would mention women first because they're usually the last to go with reference to the decay of morals in a society. And why is that? Because women have this maternal instinct to protect their children. They're normally the last to go. But here, Paul mentions them first to show the extent to which this perversion has gone. And we see this in our culture. We're living in a day when we're being forced to accept this as being acceptable. We're being pressured and forced to accept it. As if it's just another legitimate way to live when the Bible makes it very clear. what it is. It is a moral sin. Now let me just say that as the church we need to be loving to everyone. And we need to share the gospel with everyone. And I think in many places and many times The church perhaps hasn't really shown that love to people that may struggle with this. But that doesn't that's not an excuse. We can't justify that. We can't get on board and say, well, this is just all right. It's not alright God has made that very clear. And so look at verse 27. And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burn in their lust one toward another, men with men. Working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meat. When he says receiving in themselves a recompense of error, what's Paul talking about here? He's talking about all kind of diseases That go with this sin. And so, and look in verse 28. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over. to a reprobate mind. What's a reprobate mind? And this is the next thing, mental perversion. We see moral perversion, verse 24. Now we see mental perversion He gives them over to a reprobate mind. What's that? It's a mind that that can't even function right. It's a mind that doesn't even know really what right from wrong is anymore. And it's a mind that doesn't even recognize God's standards. They accept whatever comes along. The word reprobate adocumus rejected after testing, useless, disqualified for its intended person or purpose, a non-functioning mind where real reason is corrupted. And truth is crippled because people can't think rationally today. And we're living in a day where people don't know the difference between right and wrong anymore. That they can't even really rationalise what's true and and what's not because we're living in this ah moral, do whatever you want I have my own standards and what I think is right, generation where there's no authority, they don't recognize the Bible as being the final authority. And friend, if you don't recognize the Bible as being the final authority, you're open to anything. And everyone it's just everyone's opinion after that, if there's no final authority. How can you function and reason correctly if you have no, if you reject the final authority? You can't You have no basis. You have no anchor for your soul, for your morals. It's a conscience that cannot function. And we're really out of time, and so I'm not going to belabor this, but so what do we see in verse 29 to verse 31? We see all the sins, a sewer of sins, that opens up and just runs freely Look at verse twenty-nine, being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy. Murder, debate, deceit, malignity, whispers, backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things. We're coming up with all kinds of new evil now. Disobedience of parents without understanding, covenant breakers without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful. So on And then look at verse 32. Who, knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in doing them. This means that people know the consequences of the sin, but they still do it. And they have pleasure in doing it. In fact, there's hearty approval for doing it. And we see that in the news media, don't we? We see a person that commits heinous sin, and what does the media do? Oh, they approve it. It's all good. It's exactly what's happening. When we see scandal, sexual sin in the lives of leaders, and people want to cover it up or approve it and say it's all right and go against the standard of God. This is what Paul's talking about here. And this is part of God's wrath of abandonment for man's sin. Now, you say, man, this really doesn't make me feel good tonight. I'm just preaching the word, beloved. I'm just trying to make it clear. But let me just say this: this is the bad news before the good news. Paul's going to get to the good news. This is on in the book of Romans. But you know what he's establishing first? He's establishing that God is righteous. He has righteous wrath against man because of man's sin, because of what a man has done. This is why the gospel is needed. The only hope for mankind today is the gospel. That's the only hope And so Paul's laying this foundation of man's sin. And he'll continue on in chapter 2. He'll talk about God's righteous judgment. And in chapter 3, he'll talk about man's depravity. And again, this is God's righteousness provoked against sinful men. But you see, if we don't realize the lostness of man, then people are never going to appreciate the gospel. They're never going to appreciate the good news until they first have a real understanding of the bad news. And that's exactly what Paul's doing here. But I hope that What this does for us is it just makes us more passionate about the gospel and the word of God. I, in all of my life, I have never believed in the power of the Word of God and the gospel like I do today. I believe that the Word of God and the gospel is the answer for men. And as the church, we need to be the pillar and ground of truth. We need to uphold it, stand firmly on the Word of God. It doesn't matter which way the winds are blowing in the world. Doesn't matter. We stand firmly on the scripture. And that's what God calls us to do. So let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, as we come before you, I pray that as we study these verses, that what it will do is it will forge in us an unshakable Conviction about truth, about who you are. When the winds of false thinking are blowing all around us And so many people are capitulating to that. And they give in to the pressure of the world. That Lord, as we go to the Word of God, that this will cause us to stand strong despite what the world may say. That Lord, we stand in the Word of God. God, we know who you are and how you have revealed yourself. And with all our heart, we praise you for who you are. And we receive the truth, never suppress it, but receive it with all our heart. And stand upon it and Lord, share the gospel with those around us, knowing that it's the power of God and the salvation. And so, Lord, use this to strengthen us tonight, our faith in Jesus Christ. And we pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen