All right, I want you to take your Bibles tonight. It's good to see everybody here. Open to 2 Chronicles chapter 7. 2 Chronicles chapter 7, a very familiar passage of scripture. We're going to look at verse 14 tonight. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, and I want to just call this God's wake-up call. And we all know this verse. Look at verse fourteen If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their s Several years ago the Associated Press released a story about a twenty year old man by the name of Gene Tipps. Texas on May the twenty-first, nineteen sixty-seven, Mr. Tipps was involved in a very serious automobile accident in which he suffered severe head injuries, and he was in a coma for three weeks But they could not bring him out of that coma, so he remained in a state of unconsciousness for eight solid years. Eight years. And during that extended period of time, this was pretty much his daily routine, according to And while he finished eating, they would comb his hair and they would talk to him for a while, and then they would put him back to bed. Eight long years, that was his experience there in the hospital. Then one day after all those years of slumber, Jean Tiffes woke up The nurse was startled. She was trying to give him some medicine when he was awakened. His parents ran to him. They shouted for joy. They couldn't believe what had happened. They called the doctor. Everyone was thrilled. And they were also just shocked that this could happen after eight years. Later someone asked them what it was like to be asleep for eight years. said. He said it's all very strange. My girlfriend is now married and has children. He said the war in Vietnam is over. To everyone else I'm twenty-eight, but in my mind I'm still only twenty He slept from 1967 to 1975. When he went to sleep, LBJ was president of the United States. When he woke up, Jimmy Carter was smiling in the White House. He slept through the whole Nixon administration. And so uh can you imagine being asleep for eight years? Uh when I read that, I think sometimes that uh there are God's people People in the church in America that are asleep and have been asleep for a long time and there needs to be an awakening that takes place. Someone has said I'm not a church uh uh expert of history but I was reading where it says it's been since the nineteen fifties since our country really saw a movement of God on a large scale. Others have come Along and said, Well, in the seventies, we've seen a genuine move of God in this nation. But it just seems like since that time that the church in America has been asleep with a sign on the door that says do not disturb Uh Billy Graham in his last days talked about his concern for the direction of our country, and he himself said that America needs a way That was some of the last things that he said. In fact, his daughter uh I think mentioned at her father's funeral that she believes that the death of her father was to serve as a wake-up call in America And who knows that may be true. But one thing is for sure, we do need a wake-up call. Several years ago, Chuck Colson uh issued a warning about the decline of our culture. He's basically And then he said the movement to legalize gay marriage and he went on to say it may be that we're headed for another dark ages in America. Maybe. We were on that slide. Well the wake up call that we see is here in 2 Chronicles chapter 7 verse 14. Now we all know this verse, and we can quote it by memory. It's perhaps the most quoted verse And it's a prescription, I think, for heaven sent revival. And I but I want us to stop and think Sometimes you can become so familiar with a passage of scripture that it maybe sometimes may lose its effectiveness with us. And so I want us to just stop and think about This one verse and think about it in the light of a wake-up call to God's people. This was certainly a wake up call for God's people in the Bible back in Israel, and I think that it serves as a wake-up call for us as well in America. Now there are th basically three things I want to show you then out of this verse tonight. And number one, I want to talk about the problem that prevents revival The problem that prevents revival. Look at verse 14. If my people, which are called by my name. Now I want you to notice that the emphasis is on my people. is on the people of God. God's people are the key to revival. Now if you ask the question what hinders revival, you might Come up with a variety of answers. Someone would say, Well it's the government that hinders revival. We have so many laws now that infringe upon the freedoms that we rightfully deserve as Americans, as believers. That tolerate sin and are hostile to Christianity. And some would say we need new leaders in government, and if we get just get new leaders in government and get the right people in the right position, then we can open up the avenues of revival in the church. And then another person would say, well it's the schools that are hindering revival after all the schools are not praying. They kick God out and they're teaching sex education and students can't read the Bible and schools are using curriculums that are anti-God that are hostile And we need to fire the administration and get spiritual teachers And if we do that, then perhaps we will have revival. And then someone else will stand up and say, Well what's hindering revival are these big corporations. Corporations that are supporting these anti-God agendas. Uh corporations, we need to boycott them. We need to boycott Walt Disney and Home Depot and Coca-Cola and Burger King. And and so people get out there and they get with uh you know on a rampage to boycott all of these big organizations and they say if we can just bring some attention to these things then perhaps We can open up the floodgates of revival. But I've got news for you folks. We can do all those things, but none of those things are going to bring revival We can you can't legislate revival. have uh a fear of God and or people that believe the Bible, I believe in putting good people like that in positions of government. But friend you can do all of that and it's still not bring revival. You can go And I'm not against that. If you want to do that, go right ahead. But friend, that's not going to bring revival. You know why? Because the focus of revival is not what the world does or what the government does or what the school does. The focus of this passage is on my people. God says my people hinder revival. It's not the wickedness of the wicked that hinders revival. It's the wickedness of the people of God that hinder revival. It's not the iniquity of The lost that hinders revival. It is the apathy of the saved. So instead of spending all of our time boycotting sinners for acting like sinners, we ought to spend time praying And asking God for mercy because saints are not acting like saints. The hindrance to revival in America today is the church. Heaven is shut up because God's people have sinned against God. That's why, in fact, if you look in 2 Chronicles, go back to chapter 6, the context of this passage is Solomon's prayer after he Built that massive, majestic temple. He's dedicated unto the Lord in prayer. And if you look in chapter 6 down at verse number 26, it says, When the heaven is shut up and there is No rain rain because they have sinned against thee, and if they pray toward this place and confess thy name and turn from their sin when thou Dost afflict them, then hear thou from heaven and forgive the sin of thy servants. Notice the focus there, it's on God's people. It's God's People that have sinned. It's God's people that have become apathetic. It's God's people that have not taken the Word of God and the things of God seriously and are not obeying the law of the Lord. So it's really all about the people of God. In fact, God said this in Deuteronomy. If you indeed obey my commandments, God said, I will open up the heavens and I will bless you. But if you disobey Disobey me and you put me aside. God said in the heavens will be brass, and there will be no blessing. And so this passage tells us that it's really about the people And so we have to look at ourself. We have to look in the mirror. Have you had your time with the Lord today? Have you been seeking the face of God? Have you been praying? Have you been in the Word? Have you heard from God today? Are you really praying for revival in your own life? There has to be a commitment to the word of God from the people of God. One evangelist who whose ministry kind of takes him across the country and he kind of has a good sense of First of all then, the problem that presents or excuse me prevents revival, and that is it's us, we have to look at ourselves. But here's the second thing I want you to see. There's the problem Notice what he says again in verse fourteen if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and see What is he really talking about there? We can summarize what he's talking about here in one word. He's talking about repentance. He's talking about genuine repentance What is repentance? It is a heartfelt sorrow for sin. It is a renouncing of it. It is a sincere commitment to forsake it and to walk in obedience Obedience to Christ. And when we think about repentance, really it has three elements to it. There's a mental uh element, there's an emotional element, there is a volitional element. Some people might regret their sin. And that's not real repentance. People might have remorse. That's mental and emotional. They might feel bad in their mind or be sorry in their mind and feel bad in their heart, but that's still not real uh repentance Judas uh cried tears. He was sorry for what he did, but he didn't repent of what he had done. But then repentance is being sorry mentally, emotionally And volitionally to the point where a person turns away from their sin. They absolutely forsake it. The sorrow that they have for their sin moves them to make a commitment to forsake it. Now, something else about repentance that the Bible teaches, and that is it's something that God gives us. Back right Down these verses here. I believe that just like God gives faith, God gives repentance. Acts 5. 31, it says, Him hath God exalted at his right hand to be a prince and a savior. Listen to this for to give repentance to Israel. In Acts 11, 18, it says that to the Gentiles, God has granted repentance. Second Timothy chapter two, it says the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves If per adventure God will give them repentance. So it's something that God does give us, on one hand, but now on the other hand, it's also something that we We have to work for. It is something that we have to do. In fact, there are other verses right down Acts 3. 19. Repent ye therefore. That's very clear. That's what it Imperative. It's command. Peter said to those on the day of Pentecost, Repent, every one of you. In Acts 26, 19, where Paul was talking to King Agrippa. He said that that they talking about the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God and do works meet for repentance. So what are we seeing here? On one hand, it is something that That God does give us on the other hand, it's something that we have to do. You say, Now, which of these you know is true? Again, this is both of these are true. We have to work for repentance God uses certain means to bring repentance to our heart, but yet in the end it is God who gives us true repentance. And there's a sense in which while we're seeking to We should also pray and say, God, give me a heart of genuine sorrow for sin and a turning to you, because that's a work, Lord, that you do in My heart. And so there's a sense in which we seek it. There's a process we must go through in seeking it, yet at the same time, we realize that God is the one who grants us repentance. And so what's the process? Well, we see it right here. It's very summarized in these verses. Uh distilled in this verse is really the process. First of all the There has to be brokenness. Look again in verse 14. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves. And so that's one part of the process. There has to be a brokenness. Now the word here For humble is a word that actually means to bend a knee. And when the writer here says we should humble ourselves, he's using a Hebrew word that's found in Judges chapter 8, verse 2. And there we read that when the Midianites were subdued under Gideon, it says they could no more lift their head. That's the type of brokenness we need before God, where we are so absolutely contrite and so broken over our sin that we do not even feel worth Just like the uh the publican that went to the temple, the Bible says he could not so much as lift up his head before the Lord, but he smote on his breast and said, God Be merciful to me, a sinner. The psalmist said it like this I will be sorry for my sin. There will be a element of brokenness in the heart of a person when Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. And what was Jesus doing there? He was describing true repentance. And what was he saying that when true repentance comes Comes, there's going to be this deep, deep sorrow. People will be sitting broken in sackcloth and ashes, which was symbols of great anger There will be great brokenness in the heart and soul when there's repentance. There's needs to be brokenness, but also write down prayerfulness. Look again in Verse 14, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray. Look at the word pray there. Did you know that there are 12 words used in the Old Testament for prayer? Twelve words But the one word that's used here carries the idea of self-judgment. It's from an Arabic root, which means to cut or to wound one's It's the idea of being thorough with yourself, dealing harshly with your sins. Robert Young, the great Hebrew scholar, says it means to judge oneself habitually. And so this is the idea behind this word here. You see, complacency is the deadly enemy against spiritual progress. If we're complain About our spiritual condition and not constantly warring against sin, then we are in a dangerous position in our spiritual life. Prayer that is a confession where we're judging our sins before a holy God. We say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. There's going to be a prayerfulness, a brokenness in our prayer. But then here's the third thing: there will be an earnestness And earnestness. Look again in verse 14. My people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. And here's the next thing: seek my face. And so To seek God's face denotes an earnestness in prayer. You know, many times in prayer, all we seek is his hand rather than his face. We want God to do something for us Rather than really just to seek the face of God. We don't necessarily want his fellowship. We want the blessing of his hands without the fellowship of his face. Seeking God's face is desiring to know God. It's an intimacy with God. Many would be happy to have his hand without his face. We want the blessings. necessarily the blesser, but when you're seeking God's face, you're seeking fellowship because when we see this expression used in the Bible, especially in the Old Testament It always is expressing a closeness and an intimacy with God. In the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve had face-to-face fellowship with God. Uh the Hebrew literally uses the word lapene before the face of God. Moses fellowship with God face to face, the Bible says. Psalm twenty seven Verse 8 says, You say, Lord, seek my face, and my heart says, Thy face, Lord, do I seek. You see, God wants people that That are not just going to seek his hand, although God is very gracious, and he will move his hand on our behalf. But he wants people that will seek his face, that want that closeness, that fellowship An interesting study was done in nineteen seventy-eight by uh pediatric researchers. They actually coined a term called This is very interesting. Let me just read you what the article says. It says through extensive experiments, experts have discovered that the normal Feedback infants receive from their mothers in face-to-face interactions is distorted by having the mothers face their infants but remain facially unresponsive. So they did this experiment and where mothers their face was basically non-responsive to the infant. And the article goes on to say the negative impact of an unresponsive Of face was significant. The study demonstrated how an infant needs a daily encounter with the loving face of a caring parent. Interesting, isn't it? You see, that baby needs to see the smile of that mother. That baby needs to see that that love expressed in a facial expression. And according to the study, this had to happen daily. This infant needed that face of the parent, showing that love. And you know what? Just like an infant needs that Loving expression from a parent, you know what? We need the face of God. We need to have that daily. We need an encounter with the face of our Creator, our Father in heaven. And God wants his children to know the blessing of seeking his face. There's a spiritual sense in which when we go to the Word of God, we're seeking the face of God You know, before Facebook, this was the real Facebook right here. You understand that? This is God's page right here. This is his wall. This is what he posts for us And every day we should be seeking the face of God in his book that he's given us. And so we need this. The Bible says when we go to the script Scripture and we seek God. We're kind of with an unveiled face, the Bible says in 2nd Corinthians, we're beholding the glory of the Lord, and what happens as a result of that? We're lifted to new levels of Glory ourselves when we're seeking the face of God in Scripture. So there has to be a brokenness, there has to be a prayerfulness, there has to be To be an earnestness, but then here's another thing. There has to be a holiness. Look again at chapter 7, verse 14. If my people shall, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, And seek my face. And here's the next thing, and turn from their wicked ways. We must confess, but we also must forsake those Because he would tell people to quit doing certain things. And at the meetings they would stand up and said, I'm I'm gonna quit this or quit that. You see, it's not true repentance. Without forsaking, without quitting something in our life that's hindering God from working the way He wants to work in our life. Now there are some who may manifest you know, crocodile tears about things in their life, but if a person turns back into that very thing that they supposedly repented of, that what does that demonstrate? That that's not true repentance In fact, hold your place here in 2 Chronicles and go to 2 Corinthians in the New Testament. We're going to come back to 2 Chronicles, but go to 2 Corinthians chapter 7. In the New Testament. And I want you to see what the Apostle Paul writes about this. Again, every great revival I've read about includes a turning from that sin. Where there's real brokenness. I was reading in the about the Shantung revival in China in nineteen thirty-two. Prisoners who would not confess their sins, even though they were tortured unmercifully By some people when they came under the power of the Holy Spirit and they got saved, began to publicly confess their sins. Men could not do the power of the Holy Spirit could do, because they were under such conviction about their sin. But look at Second Corinthians chapter seven. And but the what's going on here is that Paul Well you remember if you've been with us on the study in on First Corinthians on Sunday night, Paul had to write a severe letter to the Corinthians, and this letter was to really provoke repentance in some people that had had been very unruly and unsubmissive. And Paul, after he writes that letter, he wants to know what's happening. And finally Titus comes and gives him word that as a result of the severe Letter that Paul wrote that there were some people in the church at Corinth that were actually repenting, they were sorrowing over what had happened, and they were manifesting true repentance And so Paul writes this, look in 2 Corinthians 7. 9. Now I rejoice not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. In other words, what's Paul saying? Not only were you made sorr- sorry for your sin, but it led to true repentance. You know, it's not enough just to be upset and brokenhearted There has to be something that comes out of that. And he's talking about a true forsaking, something beyond just sorrow, because he says in verse 9, for ye were made sorry after a God Godly manner. So what happens when there is true repentance? There's several things that he mentions here. First of all, it produces a repentance without regret. Verse 10. For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. What's he saying? That when it's real repentance, it's a repentance that you don't repent of Say what does that mean? Here's a person, what does repentance mean? To turn so you turn away from the sin and you walk away from it, but later you're sorry that you repented, so then you turn back to it. You basically have done what? You've repented of your repentance. You've turned back to it. And Paul says that's not real repentance. A real repentance, a godly Sorrow produces a repentance that is without regret when you turn from that sin. You don't turn back to it. Once you turn From it, you forsake it. It's a once-for-all forsaking of that sin in your life. Then secondly, it produces an earnestness in righteousness. Look in verse eleven Where it says, For behold this selfsame thing that you sorrow after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you. Look at the word carefulness there. Spood a haste, an earnest Earnestness and earnestness in accomplishing something. It produces a zeal to do what is right. You see, when this real real godly sorrow brings True repentance, what will happen is you will have this earnest desire for righteousness to do what is right. There will be a zeal in that. There won't be apathy. won't be complacency that will be replaced with a zeal, a zeal about righteousness to right all of the wrongs that you have committed. But you know what else it produces? It produces a desire Desire to show your repentance is real. Look again in verse eleven where it says, What clearing of yourselves. Trustworthy once again to prove the legitimacy of your faith, to prove that your commitment is real, your commitment to Christ is real Someone one time asked Charles Spurgeon, a man who had failed. He said, Can God ever use me again? And Spurgeon responded by saying that when your repentance becomes as notorious as your sin, then God will use you again. And that's what Paul's talking about here. A desire to clear yourselves. A clearing of yourselves. But also, notice it produces an anger over sin. Look again in verse 11. What clearing of yourselves? What indignation And the word here it means to be angry. What are you angry about? You're angry about the sin. It's about being angry at that very sin, the very sin that brought you down. That that produced your fall, you get angry over that. It's a righteous, holy anger and indignation against that very Phobos, where we get the word phobia, and it's speaking here about a reverential fear and all of God. The Corinthians were uh had uh were bold in sinning, and Paul says now you need to turn That into a reverence towards God. You remember that you sinned against the Lord, and there needs to be a genuine fear of the Lord, a reverence towards God, and that's what true repentance will bring. But then also it produces a desire to have that relationship restored. Look again in verse eleven where it says, What vehement desire? What's he talking about there? This is a longing To see their relationship to Paul restored. Paul had written this severe letter to the Corinthians. This had caused them great pain. And there was a separation in that relationship. Now that repentance had taken place. There is this sincere desire for this relationship to be restored and to be what it what once was, to have that relationship again with that person. Uh not too long ago I was counseling a woman and she was wanting to divorce her husband. And uh she was talking about all the things That he had done. And I just said to the man to the lady, showed her scripture, you must forgive. Let that go. She said, Oh, I have forgiven him. I just don't want a relationship with him anymore Well, friend, that defeats the whole purpose of forgiveness. Forgiveness is to restore that relationship. And then also it produces a zeal for holiness. Look again in verse 11 where it says, What zeal. The Corinthians now wanted to live a holy life and a desire for restitution. Again in verse 11. It says uh what revenge, yay, what revenge the word revenge here is a word that could say avenging of wrong. It's a desire for restitution, you see. And people have a strong desire to see justice done, and they want to right every wrong that they ever committed. They want to make restitution as far as possible, like Zacchaeus when he repented. I'm going to restore those I've robbed, I'm going to restore them fourfold. And that's when Jesus said, Today salvation has come to your house. And so when it's real repentance, it's not just a feeling or An emotion of sorrow, it's followed up with righteous acts, righteous deeds. And so we have to look at this and measure our own life, our our own repentance by that. And so it will produce this holiness as well in our life. Now let me give you the last thing in our Message. Go back to 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14. And let me just show you the last thing. We talked about the problem that prevents revival. We talk about the process That precedes revival, there has to be that brokenness, that prayerfulness, there has to be that um earnestness and holiness. But now, let me give you the third The promise that produces revival. Look at the last part of the verse. It says, Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will hear their land. Heal their land. So there's a threefold promise from God. If God's people will meet the conditions prescribed, you know what? God says, I promise to do these things. I promise to do it. What will he do? Divine favor. God says, I will hear from heaven. And that expression in the Old Testament always suggests that God will grant The prayer. It's answer. When God hears the prayer, God is answering that prayer. And Isaiah 65, verse 24, it says, Before they call, I will answer while they are speaking Speaking, I will hear it's the idea that God will grant us the thing that we're asking for. And friend, this is not rocket science. If you just do these things, God said, I Will hear. I will give you divine favor, but then also divine forgiveness when forgiveness is granted, fellowship is restored God says, I will forgive, I will forgive their sin. I will hear from heaven, I will forgive their sin. And then notice the last thing. There will be divine fruitfulness. I will heal their land. Israel. God had closed up heaven. There was no rain. And this is the way God would bless them. He would He would open up the windows of heaven. There was in Israel there was a a financial depression and recession. This nation was being judged because of their sin, but God says, you know what, I'll turn it all around. I'll open up the windows of heaven I will bless you. And you know, the way we apply this for us, you know, there may be a drought in your life. There may be some kind of a sense where God's not blessing you You're not seeing answers to your prayer. There's difficulties and sorrows and things. I know that in our country we're having a drought. We're having a material drought drought. Don't let these you know spikes in the stock market fool you, dear friend. I believe that we're in bad shape as a country When it comes to our our our national debt and what we're leaving to our children. There's a marital drought, marriages and families are crumbling. There's a moral drought in our country We now in this nation call evil good and good evil. We're having all these problems. Everything is a sickness now. There's no more sin. It's all sickness. It's not much better in many places in churches because uh it seems like that preachers are afraid to preach against sin nowadays. There's a ministerial drought, and we need a wake-up call. And I believe that if God's people get serious, God will fulfill his word. God is always, always Always faithful to do what he promised. And if we will meet the conditions that God lays out, I believe God will indeed answer the way He said He will hear from heaven, He will I'm telling you the answer for our nation is not in any political agenda. It's in the wor it's in the God's people getting serious And seeking the face of God just like the Bible tells us to do. And so I'm asking you, where are you? You know, when God starts revival, he knows normally starts in a person, in an individual, and then it spreads to a group, then to a church, and then it just continues to spread Every great revival that I read about in history, it starts with one person who gets serious. And then there's it's kind of contagious. Where God uses that and it begins to spread. And so I pray that God will uh do that work in our hearts. Begin with us tonight. Let me just close I read about a married couple that were on vacation. They were staying overnight in a motel. They had to get up early the next morning and uh they needed A wake-up call from the front desk. And so they called in and they asked for a wake-up call, and sure enough, early the next morning, the front desk called, and the wife got up and began packing everything, but the husband stayed there in bed You you guys ever do that? The husband just stays or the wife gets up, she starts packing everything, and uh she she says to him, get up, and he just Stays there. And so she is got everything packed up. He's still in bed. She takes all the suitcases and she's getting ready to take them out to the car and she says to him, she said, I'm I'm gonna take these suitcases out. And she said, When I come back in, I want you up and uh get getting yourself ready because we gotta go. So she takes the suitcases out, puts them into the car, and And she comes back in and she opens the door and he's still laying there in bed, and she says to the top of her lungs, I said, get up. And then she looks around and realizes She went into the wrong room. The room right next door had left the door open, so she walked in, yelled that to the top of her lungs, she saw Oh, she was in the wrong room, so she turned around and walked out quietly and shut the door. The man in that room sat up in bed, waked asleep from the His eyes and he said, Man, that's what I call a wake up call. You know, uh this is this is a wake-up call. This is God's wake-up call to us, and I pray that we'll hear his voice. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Lord, I pray that we will take these things to heart. This is something that we need. Lord, help us to indeed fulfill the the Word of God, these these promises here that you give given us. Help us to meet all these conditions. And Lord, there there's probably some here tonight, including myself, that that need a wake-up call. So easy sometimes to go through the motion To get complacent, to lose heart, and to not serve you and love you with all our heart and passion. And we just need a wake-up call From you to bring us back to the place where we need to be. And so, Lord, I just pray tonight that you'll work in the hearts of your people and that Lord you will bring And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I might I wonder how many people will just say, be willing to say tonight, maybe just kind of take And draw an imaginary circle around you and just say, Lord, send revival here to this circle, to this place right here. I'm not asking right now that you send revival to our Holy Spirit nation. But just just put it just put it right here around in this circle. Right here. In my circle. Let me say that's my prayer tonight. Would you lift your hand? God send revival right here in this circle. Father, you see the hands of your people. And Lord, I pray that you'll grant that request Send revival to our heart individually, personally. That Lord, we would humble ourselves, that we would truly repent. We know that repentance is something that we do to enter into the kingdom, but we never really stop repenting. Every day, we're walking closer to you Let there be true brokenness. Let there be true prayerfulness and earnestness in our heart as we seek your faith and bring revival, Lord. to the circle that we are in. Father, we pray this in Jesus' worthy name. Amen.