Take God's word this morning, please. Open to 1 Corinthians 16. 1 Corinthians 16, and we're going to read a few verses. Will you stand for the reading of God's Word? 1 Corinthians 16, chapter 1, chapter 16, verse 1. Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store as God has prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, then will I send to bring you liberality unto Jerusalem. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. To pray with me today. Father, thank you for the word. It instructs us in every area of our life. So allow it to instruct us here today in this area. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Today I'm going to talk about godly giving. And what we're doing is we're wrapping up a campaign that we have started about faith promise that began a few weeks ago. If you're visiting here for the first time, And you hear me preach on money, giving, you're gonna leave and say, all that preacher ever preaches about is giving. But but please uh come back and uh Hear the Word of God and other sermons that I give, because this is not all that we talk about. However, money is a subject that the Bible does talk about often. And we've been doing a campaign because we have several needs here in our church. We need a new roof, we have to re-asphalt the parking lot, we need new HVAC units. A lot of things need a lot of work. And so We as a church were financially solid. We could go to a bank and just borrow two million dollars if we wanted to. We would get it. But we don't feel like that's a wise thing to do. We want to just do things as the Lord provides. And the way God does it is He does it through His people. And you know, whatever you decide to do as a as a as a congregation, as a people, we'll be content with that and we'll work with that And trust that God knows how to take care of his church and his work. He's done that all through the years. All that we have here is because of what God has given to us. And beloved, everything we have here is it's paid off. We're not in any debt. And we want to continue that way. It's good to feel no debt as a church. We want to be able to use that money for the kingdom of God. So we're going to talk about giving here. I know it's a tough s subject right now because we're in a financial crisis in America. And politicians are struggling to know what to do about it. Someone said not only is Washington's face on our money, but his hands are on it as well. Many families are feeling the devastating effects of this crisis. And in times like this, we have to look to the Word of God. What does the Bible say about things like this? Why do we have these kind of times? Scripture reveals several reasons why we go through famine. First of all, number one, sometimes famine was sent to a land as a judgment from God for disobedience. God warned Israel, the Israelites. He said, Look, if you're disobedient to my word, I'm going to send judgment upon you. In Deuteronomy 28, verse 23. And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass. And the earth that is under thee shall be iron. The Lord shall make the rain of the land powder and dust. From heaven shall it come down upon thee until thou be destroyed. God was very clear to Israel When you disobey me, you will experience famine Number two is another reason we see in the Bible why God sends sometimes financial judgment, and that is because to remind people to put him first. We see this in the book of Haggai, God sent a famine to the Jews who returned from exile. Why? Well they stopped building the temple When they when the Jews repatriated themselves into the land of Israel, their first task was to be to build the house of God, the place of worship. And they started off doing very well. They laid the foundation, they were on their way. But they got distracted. And the Bible tells us that they were more concerned about building their own houses than the house of the Lord. And God raises up the prophet Haggai to convict them and says, Look, you know, you're dwelling now in your paneled houses, but my house has lied in waste. For sixteen years the foundation of the temple was there, but no more work was done on it. And so God says in Haggai 110, Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stray from her fruit. I called for a drought upon the land and upon the mountains. And upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labor of the hands. God brought the famine to remind the people to put God first. In verse 9, God said, you look for much, and lo, it came to little And when you brought it home I did blow upon it. Why, says the Lord of hosts, because my house of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto your own houses. In verse 6, he says, You sow much, and you bring in little, you eat, but you have not enough. You drink, but you're not filled with drink. You clothe you, but there is none warm, and he that earns wages earnest wages to put it into a bag with holes. Wow. God said you guys are so f you're so caught up in your own life. You're so caught up in doing your thing, going to your house. You have totally forgotten about my house. That's why you don't have a good crop. That's why your your stocks are sinking. That's why you put money in your purse, but it there's a hole in your purse and the money leaks out. God said, I put a curse on your purse. You haven't put me first. And so what did God tell him to do? In verse 8, go up to the mountain and bring wood and build the house. And I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, says the Lord. God said, Look, all I want you to do is to put my house in its proper place. Where does worship stand in your list of priorities? The house of God. Is it a priority in your life? And God said to these people, Go to the mountain, get wood, build my house, go to my house, worship. God wanted his house to be a place where people come together and put him first. How God's people treat God's house was a spiritual barometer to measure the people's hearts towards God. Now there are other reasons why God might send famine in the Old Testament, but I want to move on into our passage. Of Scripture, because 1 Corinthians 16 is a very interesting passage. Paul is also asking people to put God's work first. He's telling the give it a priority. And what he's doing is, just to let you know that taking up an offering is biblical, this is exactly what Paul's doing here. He's taking up a collection. Again, look at verse 1 now concerning the collection for the saints. Paul is asking churches to give to God's work, and it was during during a time of great famine. I know some of you are saying, Pastor, you're sp you're speaking on giving, but you know how hard things are? Yes, I do. I really do. And I'll be honest with you, my heart goes out to so many people that struggle. My heart especially goes out to young families, young couples. I don't know how some of you make it nowadays. Takes both of you working, doing all you can just to pay the bills and to do all that. I I totally understand that. I know that a lot for a lot of folks you're doing everything that you can. And by the way, beloved, God knows that too. And you know what? There's a verse of scripture I have for you. The Bible says in Philippians That my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Did you know that after the Korean War ended, South Korea was left with a large number of children who had been orphaned by the war And relief agencies came in and they did all that they could and they they actually, you know, had places where they could house the children and give them good nourishing meals, three meals a day, and give them all that they needed But what they found out was that these children uh wouldn't sleep at night. They w they had trouble sleeping. And as they investigated they found out it was because they were anxious about next day. According to their experience, just having a meal today had no guarantee that they were going to have a meal for the next day. So they were anxious about what they were going to eat the next day. So the agency did something very creative. They before bed each night, a nurse would go around and give each child a little loaf of bread. And that child could cradle that loaf of bread in their arms as they were going to sleep that night. That loaf of bread became their security blanket. That loaf of bread basically said You're going to be okay tomorrow. You know what the local bread is for the child of God? It's the word of God. We have the promises of God's word that's going to take care of us. Now, and when Paul's taking up this offering, and in fact it was during a famine time, but the offering was to go for the furtherance of the gospel. The furtherance of the work of God. And what I want you to see with me here are three thoughts from this passage about godly giving First of all, a godly motivation for giving. Again, look at verse one. Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye. Paul encourages the churches to take care of hurting people during a crisis. On Paul's third missionary journey, he was going to Gentile churches and he was asking them, would you please take up an offering? What are you going to use that offering for, Paul? We're going to take it back to Jerusalem. They're hurting believers in Jerusalem. And we want to give that money to them. We want it to help them. And so Paul would go to these churches. Why? Again, there was a crisis in Jerusalem. Why? Well, there were many Jewish people there who now were saved. They heard the gospel in the day of Pentecost. Because of their allegiance to Jesus, many of them lost their jobs. They were kicked out of their community. Some of them traveled in from foreign places and they decided to stay in Jerusalem. Why? Well because the church was there and there was no other church in the world at that time. They wanted to stay in Jerusalem. And so here was this group of people that was lost their jobs, needed a job, and were very poor. There was also a famine at the at the time. It was hard for people to make money. And you know what the church in Jerusalem did? A lot of people there in the church began selling a lot of their possessions, bringing the money, laying it at the apostles' feet, and giving and letting the apostles distribute the money however was needed among the people. But pretty soon people were selling everything they could sell and there was nothing left to sell. And now all you had was a a a a large church, a mega church that were all poor. They were all poor people and they needed help And so Paul realized this. And he went to these Gentile churches, churches in Macedonia, churches in Galatia, all over the region, and he's saying, Would you please give in this collection? Because when you give this money, what we're going to do is we're going to gather it all together and we're going to take it back and we're going to give it to the church in Jerusalem to help them because they have such a great need. And this would be a wonderful opportunity to show the unity of the body of Christ. Gentile churches taking up a love offering for a Jewish church. That shows that the divide, the racial divide, has been torn down. And in Christ there's nothing but oneness. And there's nothing but unity. And so this was a it was in Paul's heart. He wanted this to be a good offering. And so that's the godly motivation. Why do we give? We don't give for ourselves. We give on the behalf of others We give so that we can share the gospel message to others. We give so that the work of God can go forward, not for my glory, beloved, but for the glory of God. We're not building a monument to any man around here. The church is the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Servants come and servants go, but Jesus Christ is Lord of his church. And we want his church to grow and to flourish. We want to send out the gospel for his honor and for his glory. We're doing it not for ourselves, we're doing it for others. But then here's number two, the godly manner of giving. Look what he says in verse 2. Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store as God has prospered him. That there be no gatherings when I come. So Paul says, here's what I want you to do. Notice the pattern here. According to the first day of the week. Now what was the first day of the week? Well that was Sunday, right? This is why we know the early church worshiped on Sunday. This was a day that Jesus came out of the grave. This became the sanctified day. The church on the first day of the week. Paul said on the first day of the week, when you come together on Sunday, this is when I want you to be a part of regular giving. And the lesson that we learn from this is that giving in God's work shouldn't be uh something that we do only when we feel like it. It should be something that it should be a regular part of our worship every Sunday when we come to God's house. Just a regular part. Worship includes a lot of things. It includes the way we pray. It includes the way we took the Lord's Supper and focused on Christ. It includes the way we hear God's word and submit to it The way we sing to the Lord, but a part of that is the way we give to God. That's all a part of the worship. It's a big part. One commentator wrote this: Our giving should not be based on periodic emotional appeals or feelings. We're on bonus income. We're on regular, willing, and grateful commitment to our of our possessions to the Lord, to his people, to his work. That forces every believer each week to consider the stewardship and sacrifice of giving. And he's right. But notice not only the pattern, but notice the people in verse 2. He says, Let every one of you Every one of you. Now some people might think, well, you know, giving, that's not what I do as a Christian. That might be for others, but that's not me. God says every one of you. Some you say, well, you know, I'm really struggling. Who is it? You say, well, does God expect that of me? The Bible's pretty clear. Everyone. Now, you don't have to give a lot, but anything that you give is an act of worship to God. God says, I want every one of you involved. Did you know in the Old Testament God made provision for people when they went to the altar? If you couldn't afford to bring a ox to the altar, God said in Leviticus, well then just bring a lamb. Well, if you couldn't afford to bring a land to the altar, God said, well then just bring two turtle doves or bring one pigeon if you can't afford two turtle doves. And if you can't afford that, then just take a handful of grain and bring it to the altar. God said, just bring whatever you can. He wasn't forcing people to do things that they could not do in the Old Testament. He's saying just do just everyone needs to be involved. I remember when Pastor Johnson told Faith Promise I was 15 years old. And uh I was, as I told you before, my first job here at Grace I was a janitor at Grace Bible Baptist Church. I cleaned up everything. And uh Pastor Johnson paid me fifty dollars a week. And when the buildings grew and it got bigger, he never gave me a raise either. I I got fifty dollars a week the whole time I worked here. I was grateful for it, don't get me wrong. But out of that I learned to tithe. And when Pastor Johnson asked the church to participate in faith promise, I learned that participate in faith promise. And I'm so grateful to God that I learned that as a young man because God sure has blessed me. Through the years. And I want to tell you, I want to testify to you. God has been so good to me. He's given me so much more than I've ever given him. So much more than I could ever deserve. And that's just the way God is. Everyone can participate. But then also not only the pattern in the people, but also the place. Notice where it says, lay by him in store. Lay by him in store. The Greek word here is theorizo, where we get the word thesaurus, means a collection. And it's the idea of a storage place, a place to store, safely store what has been brought. Now this was part of the ancient world. Even in the pagan world, pagans brought their offerings to their pagan temples. In the Old Testament, you brought your offering to the tabernacle. or you brought it to the temple. Paul's using the same principle here. He's saying you bring it to the church, the church had a treasury, a place for safekeeping. And that obviously had to have organization there to make sure that it was all done right, all done appropriate, all done above board. I'm so very grateful for the men in our church that do such a fabulous job with that We just went through an audit and we're we're just so so financially sound because of our men, our finance that do all of this work. And we're grateful to God for that because we have our stewardship, we have an accountability to make sure that whatever you bring to the Lord, we don't ever waste it. So Paul says, look, just bring it to the house of the Lord, lay it up in store. Let there be responsible people to take care and watch over. Make sure it's dealt with right. So he says, so that no collection may be made when I come. And so Paul was obviously not referring to storing up this in a person's home. Again, a special treasury. And Paul said, When I come by And we you have this collection. I'm going to take it and I'm going to take it to the church in Jerusalem. Paul is just going to stop by every Gentile church and he was going to take what they gave. And you know, that could pr pretty much add up. Church gives this much, it collects that, goes to all these other churches, they'll have a tidy sum there at the end. And what we'll see is that Paul also said to the churches, and you appoint trustworthy men to go with me. Paul said, I don't want to take all this on by myself. I want to make sure that be accountable. So take other men or appoint men so that they can go with me. And notice the portion in verse 2. Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store as God has prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come, as God has prospered him. Has God prospered him. So some you know, there are some preachers and scholars that have differing views on percentage that one should give to God. There are some that say, you know, you should give a tithe. Because in the Old Testament tithing is taught, and a tithe is ten percent, and that's very true. But if we went literally by the Old Testament, did you know that there was actually more than one tithe in the Old Testament? There is a tithe given to the Levites. A second tithe is commanded that was used for national feasts and holidays. Every third year another tithe was commanded to give and supporting the alien, the orphan, and the widow. So I mean if you took that literally, two tithes and one every three years, that's actually 23%. If you follow that literally. Okay? So those who want to be real, you know, say, you know, tithe, it's not just ten, it's more than that. Now I'm a I'm not asking that, please don't get me wrong. But you know, 10% is a good rule of thumb for God's people. Because that's what they did in the Old Testament. But actually in the New Testament, what is taught, and actually in the Old Testament as well, is free will offering. Just give out of your heart. Give according to your heart. That's the point. Another thing to think about Old Testament tithing was it was really a national tax. It was really more like taxes for Israel and its governing everything. And I've made this point before and I want to make it again. Please don't treat your giving in church like giving to the IRS. Because when we give to the IRS, it grieves us to do that. Maybe not you, but it does me. It grees me to no end. I'm looking for all kind of loopholes. But if you do that in church, you're paying if you pay if you bring your offering to church the way you give taxes, please, you may as well hold on to your offering. Because you're missing the whole point. The whole point is worship. The whole point is giving from your heart to God. The whole point is you you want to do this. You want to do this. You know, we don't go down the aisle, you know, pointing to people saying, you know, get it in here. And as I told you before, I I don't know what people give. I just want you to worship God. And I want you to learn to trust God. And I want you to obey what He says in His Word. Because if you do, He's going to honor you. He's going to bless you. And he wants you to learn to trust him. So we don't pay like we're paying taxes, but we give from our heart a free will offering from our heart. When Moses challenged the people to build the tabernacle in the Old Testament, Moses said, let him who is of a willing heart. Let those who have a willing heart. This wasn't required. This wasn't something that he forced. No. If your heart is willing and you want to do it, then do it. And do it as an act of worship. And the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 9 7, every man according as he purpose in his heart. So let him give not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. And the Greek word there for cheerful is where we get the word hilarious. Did you know that? I don't hear people laughing during the offering. It means hilarious giver. You know, give hilariously, joyfully. That's the whole idea. And what will God do for you? Listen to Luke six thirty-eight. Give and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, they will pour into your lap, for by your standard of measure it will be measured to you in return. And the symbolism there is of a near a Middle Eastern grain market where they had loose fitting clothing, they would have a sash and you would kind of pull up your and make a little pocket there when you went to the grain market and they would just fill your whole laugh with grain. And that's the whole imagery there. And Jesus is saying, look, if you give to God, your whole laugh is going to be overflowing with grain. God's going to give back to you. That's just what the Lord does. And the way He does it. But then also the protection. Look again in verse 3. And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters Then will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem. And again, what did Paul mean by this? It's just as I told you before. Those that are approved, those that are qualified, those that are trustworthy. Paul said, Whoever you approve by your official letters, those men that you have put in charge of this collection, they're going to go with me. And we're going to take this to Jerusalem. We're going to make sure everything is done above board. We're going to make sure that there's accountability. And have all this ready when I come. So this is the godly manner in which stewardship and resources should be taken care of in the house of the Lord. There's the godly motivation for giving. A godly manner. But let me give you the third thing: a godly measure of giving. Look what Paul says in verse 4. And if it be meet that I go also, They shall go with me. The word meet here is fitting. It's from the Greek word axios, which means worthy. What is in equal weight or right. And I think what Paul's saying here, look, if it's a worthy gift, I'll go with them. If it was an offering that indicated true generosity and love, I'll I'll accompany them, I'll go with them. If the offering is not an embarrassment, I will go with them and present it to the people in Jerusalem. Paul did not want To go to Jerusalem with an offering from Gentile churches and it'd be such a poor offering. Why? Well, what would that really convey? Would that convey love? Would that convey true worship? Would that convey hearts that want to do what's right before God? No. Paul didn't want to be associated with that sort of thing. And so Paul says, Look, if it's a worthy gift, I'll go with them. Now, why does Paul say this to the Corinthians? Well, because the Corinthian church was not a very spiritually mature church, let's say that. If you ever study 1 Corinthians, you'll know they had a lot of problems. There was a lot of carnality, there was a lot of selfishness, there was a lot of immaturity. And Paul may be indicating here by saying this that they were also a somewhat Even though they were well off, they were somewhat stingy. And Paul kind of alludes to this in this And then in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, what Paul will do is something really interesting. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 1, what Paul does He says to the Corinthian church, hey, I want you to look at the churches in Macedonia. He kind of holds the churches in Macedonia up in comparison to them. You know, y y y you have your parents ever do that to you to kind of you know get you to shape up. Look look at your elder brother. Look at him. Get your act together. I mean he look at him. Look at Look what he's doing. And you kind of feel shame, you know, like, oh man, I need to do better. This is what Paul's doing here. Paul's saying to the Corinthian church, hey, look, look at the churches in Macedonia. Look at the way they're giving. I mean, you know, they're in deep poverty. Second Corinthians chapter 8, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia, how that in great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded under the riches of their liberality. Paul saying, look, man, these churches in Macedonia, man, I tell you, they went through a great trial. They had deep poverty. At one point the churches in Philippi, Thessalonica, they that region was rich, but a war came, and you know with war comes all kind of um all kind of soaking up the resources of a region. It left the people broke. It left the people basically without any income. And they were struggling. A place that was once rich, people were now struggling. And Paul knew that because he was there and he started churches there. And so Paul was saying, you know, I want to tell you about these Macedonian churches. We've asked them to get involved in this collection, and you know what? Even in the midst of all their trials, even in the midst of all of their deep poverty, they gave liberally. And I think Paul's surprised when he talks about that. They didn't just do what Paul says I asked them to do. They went beyond. 2 Corinthians 8. 3, for to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. Praying us with much entreaty that we would receive a gift, take it upon us, the fellowship of the ministering of the saints. Paul said, Look, man, they they gave so much more than we ever expected. And in fact, they prayed. They asked us, please take this. So the implication there is Paul probably said to them, look, that's too much. I know what you're going through. You don't need to give that much. Make sure you take care of yourself. But they said, no, we insist. We want to do this. We insist on giving this. Please take it. And so Paul says they were willing of themselves. They were according to their own ability they gave, and then they gave beyond their ability. That's when giving becomes real worship because it involves sacrifice. They gave what they could, and then they gave something that really only God could give that to them to give to them. And this is gets back to the principle of faith promise that we've been telling you about. Faith promise is basically this. God I want to give, I want to help your work. If you give it to me, I'll give it to you. That's the principle. And that's what we've asked you to get involved with. And again, we're not taking up names. This is between you and God. Something that you do between you and the Lord. And all I'm doing is what the New Testament teaches. Talk to the church, let the church know, and then let God speak through his people. And then whatever the Lord does, we'll do. That's what we'll be content with, beloved. Um we want to just move forward in faith, trusting in the Lord. But again, the principle is if then. You know, again it with faith promise, you can only really get involved with faith promise. If first you're doing your tithing to begin with. If you're just tithing first, you have to do that first. But if you're tithing, we're asking now we want you to give by faith, give faith promise. If God You give it to me, then God, I'm going to give it to you. And the question is, how much can you trust God to give through you to the work of the Lord? Now, we have been doing this campaign for three weeks. It started with our banquet. And we're closing today with it. You're not going to hear me say anything more about it. All right, you're not gonna you're not gonna you don't need to come next week and say, Man, Pastor Harns is gonna preach another sermon on money. That's not gonna happen Um we're we're done with it. And you have you you know the the faithfulness flipping your bulletin, you do whatever the Lord leads you to do, whatever God puts on your heart to do. And whatever that is, God will honor you for it. It'll be between you and the Lord. And you know what? We go forward in faith. And we trust God to continue to bless his ministry here as he has done so many years. But I want to close with this. The greatest illustration of giving ever found ever Is the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know what? He gave himself for you. He gave himself for you. What was his godly motivation? We're talking about the godly motivation of giving. What was Jesus' motivation of giving so that you would be saved? So that you would come to know him as Savior. That's why he gave. He gave himself. What was the godly manner of his giving? Well, he left. Heaven. He left the glory of heaven. He came to this sin-cursed earth. He lived among us, among the world. What was the godly measure of his giving? He gave all of himself. He gave all of himself. The motivation was you. He wanted you to be saved. The matter was he came to earth. Took upon the form of a servant, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross, and the godly measure was he held nothing back. He gave all to me and you so that we could have salvation. The Bible says this. For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. And I'm rich today. I'm rich. Not because of what's in my bank account, but because of what Jesus did for me. I'm rich. And so are you, because of what he did for us. Do you know Jesus as your Savior? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ. It's all about Him. Everything we do in this church, all the ministries that we have, all the outreach we engage in, all the missions work That we endeavor to do. All of the projects that we have in this church and in Faith Theological Seminary to educate pastors on the field. People that can't afford an education, that we want to give the Word of God to. All of this, Lord, is for Jesus' sake. All of it is for his glory, so that the gospel can go out, so that people can know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And so, Father, I pray that you'll just touch the hearts of your people and Lord speak through your church. To do what you want to do, Lord, for your honor and your glory. But I pray, Father, that regardless of whatever amount people give, that what will be involved is a heart of worship, true worship. Where we honor you, Lord, that's what it's all about. It's not about the bottom line figure. It's about a heart that loves you that says thank you for Jesus. Thank you for grace. Thank you for saving me. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I want to ask today. Are you certain, dear sir, ma'am, that you are saved, that you're a child of God? Are you certain of that? If so, would you just take a moment and give thanks to God for his grace Thank Him for saving you. Praise Him for saving you. Where would we be without Jesus? And friend, if you're here and you've never put your faith and trust in Christ, I'm encouraging you, please. Don't let that opportunity pass by. You don't know when it might be your last. I don't know when it might be my last sermon. You don't know when it might be your last opportunity. We don't know when death will come. So we always have to be ready. Ready. Are you ready to meet Jesus? Have you trusted him? If not, would you just pray a simple prayer? Just reach out in faith. You're saved by faith, but it's expressed by prayer. Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me by your grace. Please forgive me for my sin. I repent. I come to you. Save me, Lord. Just say these words, Lord. I believe. And Lord, I receive. Lord, I confess you now. Save me. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts for your honor and glory in Jesus' name. Amen