And I invite you to take your Bibles this morning and open please to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter five. We're going to continue our series through Second Corinthians, chapter five. We're look at verses 9 and 10 this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word and as I read these verses? Second Corinthians five, verse nine and ten. Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God give us understanding in his word today. Would you pray with me this morning? Our Heavenly Father, how grateful we are for your precious word. It is the inspired word of God. We believe that, and it is therefore our authority. And we know, Lord, that uh in and of ourself we can't really understand the truth of it, even though we may have uh reasonable intellect and ability to discern, yet Lord, we can have all those things, and yet if we do not have the Holy Spirit of God, we will not understand. So please open our eyes. Help us to behold wondrous things out of your word. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to speak today on the subject of ambition. What is ambition? Ambition is an intense drive for success or power. A desire to achieve honor, wealth, or fame. To be ambitious in the worldly sense is essentially to be determined to have more than your neighbor. It's kind of like the motto, you know, whoever has the most toys wins. That's kind of the spirit of the world. There's an ambition for power, ambition for wealth. Ambition for fame or recognition, ambition for reward. But really we can say this. There are ultimately only two controlling ambitions to which all others can be reduced One is an ambition for our own glory, and the other is an ambition for the glory of God. Or another way to say it would be this our ambition is either selfish ambition or it is godly ambition. When man sinned in the garden, every part of him became corrupt. And whereas before this fall of man Man's ambitions may have been good and innocent. After the fall, every part of man was corrupted and affected by sin. And then was given an inordinate amount of selfishness in his heart after the fall. And so therefore the ambitions of Man became very selfish. And the Bible always condemns selfish ambition. For example, Jeremiah 45, 5 says this: Seekest thou great things for thyself? Seek them not. The Bible describes man's sinful ambitions in his natural state like this, among whom we all once lived in the passion of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. And so the ambition of man, because of his depraved nature, is all about fulfilling his own desires, his own selfish fleshly desires. His ambitions are worldly. And in line with the spirit of the world. And so the world that that spirit is all about you know having the biggest and the best, a bigger house, a fancier car, a larger paycheck. than anyone else. That becomes man's consuming passion. And the Bible condemns this type of ambition. Listen to Luke chapter 9, verse 25. For what does a man advantage if he gained the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? What profit is your life if you can get everything you want and let you yet you lose your own soul? 1 Timothy 6. 9 says, but they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition First John says, first John two fifteen, for all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is of the Father, but is not of the world. The lust of the flesh is an anything you desire with your flesh. If you can get all that your flesh desires and everything that your eyes sees that you want, every prideful ambition that you were able to attain, you've got the world. But the Bible says that's not of the Father. And in chapter 2, verse 17, it says, the world passes away, and the lust thereof, that is, the world is in the process. of all passing away. If your ambition is to live for the things of this world, just know this, the world, and everything with it is passing away. But in contrast to that, the one who does the will of God abides forever. When a person is saved, when they come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, part of what God does is he changes the ambitions of his heart. At least they should change if you know Jesus. You might remember the Apostle Paul, when he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, all of his ambitions were changed. All the things that he, all the previous uh worldly things that he thought were valuable after he met Christ, he said, that's all trash, that's all garbage. It doesn't mean anything. His ambition became new. His ambition became knowing Christ. His ambition became living for Christ and the glory of Christ. He later wrote to the Philippians and said this Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. He said to the Galatians, Am I now trying to win the approval of men or God? Am I trying to please men? His answer is, if I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ. So we must ask ourselves this. What is our ambition? What are your ambitions? Are they selfish ambitions? Or are they godly ambitions? They can't be both. You can't have both. And the Bible makes that clear The Bible says, Know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God The Bible says, for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. You can't have the worldly kind of selfish ambition and think that you're fulfilling in some way God's purpose. That's just not it. Jesus said it like this No man can serve two masters. Either you'll hate the one and love the other, or you'll be devoted to the one and despise the other. You can't serve God and money. So this morning your ambitions are either godly or they're selfish. They're either for God's glory or for their or they're for your own glory. They're either to please men or to please God. And quite honestly, sometimes it's hard to tell the difference. Sometimes we can make our ambitions sound so spiritual. What Paul wrote to the Philippians one time and he exposed the ambitions of some. He said, some indeed preach Christ of envy. But others of goodwill. That is, some people are preaching Christ not out of a sincere ambition, but more of a selfish ambition because they really want to promote themselves rather than Christ. So the question I want to pose to you is this. How do you know if your ambitions are godly or are they selfish? How can you know that And that's what Paul tells us here in our passage today. Paul is speaking about the issue of ambition. And look in verse number nine. He says, wherefore we labor? Look at the word labor there. That is the Greek word for ambition. We could say it like this. Therefore, we are ambitious. It is the word phyllo-timeo. It's a combination of two Greek words philo, which is love, timeo, which is honor, and so we could put it together. It's the love of honor. It was used in a negative sense in Paul's day to speak of people who loved honoring themselves. In fact, the English word ambition comes from the Latin ambitio, which is a verb that literally means to go around. And the word is used by the Romans to refer to politicians who went around canvassing the area trying to get votes for themselves to get elected. Does that sound familiar? It was used to describe those who had no convictions, who sought promotion at any cost, doing anything to achieve selfish ends. But what Paul does here with this word is what he does so many times we see in the New Testament. He'll take a secular Greek word and he'll Bring it into the service of Christianity. He'll kind of baptize that word, as it were, and he'll put a positive light to it. He'll use it in a Christian context. You can have a love of honor, but it's a love of honor not for your own honor, but it's a love for the honor of Jesus Christ. And that becomes, therefore, a godly ambition. This becomes a sanctified ambition. You love the honor of Christ, and you live in a way that loves honoring Christ. And this is how Paul uses the word here. In fact, this word is used only two other times in the whole New Testament, both times it's used by Paul, and Romans five 20 he says, yea, so have I strived to preach Christ. The word strive there, same word, phileo tomeo We could say it like this, and thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel. Paul had a godly, sanctified ambition to preach the gospel and to give honor to Jesus Christ. He used it again in 1 Thessalonians 4 11. He said that you study to be quiet. Again, the word study there, same Greek word, that you make it your ambition to live a quiet life and to mind your own affairs. And so by sanctifying this word, Paul is telling us that there is a good ambition. There's a godly ambition. Again, we have to ask ourselves, how do I know whether my ambitions are selfish or are they godly? Well, in our passage of scripture here, there are three distinguishing marks of godly ambition. Here's how you know. Here's number one. Godly ambition has a selfless attitude. It has a selfless attitude. Look again in verse number nine. Wherefore we labor That whether present or absent. What does he mean by that? This phrase connects with Paul's previous arguments. It's uh again the word wherefore, we could say therefore, therefore we are ambitious, whether present or absent. What is Paul speaking about there? If you've been with us on our study of 2 Corinthians, you know that in the previous verses, what was he talking about? He's talking about the possibility of death. Paul's saying, you know, it's possible that I die. Paul was always facing the threat of death. Constantly staring death in the face. When Paul wrote these words, he was facing death on a daily basis in chapter 4, verse 11. He said, We are always delivered unto Death, he says, in chapter 4, verse 12, so then death worketh in us. Always hostility was swirling about, Paul There was always people that wanted to kill him and take his life because of the gospel that he preached, because he was looked upon as a threat. In 2 Corinthians 11, 23, he says, I'm often near death But do you think that caused Paul to tone down the gospel? No. In fact, all it did was it emboldened him even more Why? Because he was confident about that. Look in Second Corinthians 5 6. Therefore we are always confident. In verse 8 again he says, We are confident, Thoreo, to be of good cheer, bold, courageous In the face of death, Paul was courageous. He was bold. Death wasn't a threat for him. In fact, it was very welcomed. Paul would say, you know, if you if I die, well that's just all the better. Paul was not intimidated by his enemies. Because he understood that that death, and we went over this before, but I'll just briefly mention it again. Death is moving into an eternal house. Look at chapter five, verse number one, for we know that if our earthly house or this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heaven. This tabernacle, this tent, Paul is a tent maker, he's using tent maker terms. If this tent, this body were Dissolved, cataleo, folded. That's okay because I have another body, not made with hands. Eternal into heaven. Death for a believer is moving out of a dilapidated tent into an eternal home You can't threaten a believer with death when the prospect of death is so much better. And that's what Paul is saying. Paul is saying, This is part of my eternal weight of glory. When I go to heaven, there will be glory. Death would be a welcome relief to Paul. Death was fulfilling God's eternal purpose. Look at verse 5. Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing as God. Paul says, you know, dying for a believer is fulfilling God's purpose. Because our salvation is fully completed when we die. We are absolutely perfect when we see the Lord Jesus Christ. Aren't you tired of wrestling with sin in your life? The work of salvation that God began in the believer will be completed at the moment he dies when he becomes just like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's part of the glory and the blessing of death. And that was Paul Paul says God's purpose. Paul longed for that glorified body and To be free from all his physical weaknesses and all the defects and blemishes of sin and wrestling with sin, he called this tent this body of death. Oh, oh, oh, oh, wretched man that I am, he said, Who will deliver me from this body of death? And he was talking about that constant war that he has with sin in his life. And that war will be over the moment a believer steps into eternity with Christ Death is fulfilling that eternal purpose, but death is also entering into God's presence. Look in chapter 5, verse 6. Therefore we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord For we walk by faith and not by sight. We are confident, I say, willing rather be absent from the body than to be present with the Lord. Paul said, you know, as long as I'm in this body, I'm absent from the Lord. But when I'm absent from this body, I'll be present with the Lord. So that so Paul had two options. I can stay in this body and I can keep serving the Lord. Or I can be absent from the body and be in the presence of the Lord. Out of those two options, which one would he prefer? Well he made it very clear in verse eight. Rather willing To be absent from the body. This is the same thing he said to the Philippians. When Paul was in jail and he had to face Caesar and give an account for the gospel, he knew Caesar had the authority to put him to death. And Paul said, you know, if I live it's Christ. If I die, well that's gain, that's all the much better. Paul said, you know, I'm in a no-lose situation. If I die, I'm in the presence of Christ. If I live, I live for Christ. It's almost like he flips a coin and says, Heads I win, tails I win. If it I I can't lose here. And Paul said, you know, actually, um It's better for me to go and be with the Lord. It's far, far better. But nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. It's better for you, Paul said, if I stay here, because I'll keep ministering, I'll keep working, I'll keep doing the Lord's work, but it's actually better for me to go and be with the Lord. This is what Paul meant when he said in verse 9, wherefore, therefore, based on all that, we are ambitious that whether present or absent, it doesn't matter whether I am present here. Or absent, and the word absent here, I love the word here, ek demo, away from home. Paul said, as long as I'm here, I'm absent from my home. You know, we we say of believers when they die, they went home. Well that's how Paul thought of it. We have a homegoing service You know, tomorrow we'll have a home going service for our wonderful, noble servant of the Lord, Brother Adam Cassell, who is so faithful to serve the Lord Jesus Christ and was such a blessing here. Well, we'll have a home going service because he literally went home. But that's how Paul says it here. As long as I'm present, and Paul says I'm willing to be present. When I'm absent, however, I'm home. And so that's the sacrifice, that's the selflessness here in Paul You know, we don't look at death that way today. We look at death as, you know, all this painful thing. We kind of, it's kind of like a foreboding type thing, but not for Paul. Paul said, man, I'm ready for that. I'd rather have that. In fact, it was a sacrifice to Paul to stay here. And he was willing to be here. Paul said, I'm willing to be here. I'd rather be there, but I'm willing to stay here as long as God wants me to stay here to do the Lord's work. That's the attitude Paul had I'm willing to do whatever the Lord wants me to do. If I'm here, I'm going to serve the Lord, but if God takes me, that's all all the better. You see, when you have a selfish ambition, death will be an intrusion to you. But when you have a godly ambition, death is a welcome friend. Death is a blessing for the believer. Godly ambition has a selfless But here's number two. Godly ambition has the right motive. Look at verse 9 again. Wherefore we labor, we're ambitious that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. What's the right motive here? To please Christ, to please God. That's what the word accepted here means. Your restos from two words, you well, resto, pleasing, to be well pleasing. Paul used this again. This is a Pauline word. I find this a lot of times Paul uses words that are unique in his own vocabulary, and this is one of those words. He used it in Romans 12. one and two when he says, you know, when you present your body a living sacrifice, it is holy and what? Acceptable, you restos, well pleasing to the Lord, to do that. He said to the Philippians when they gave him a financial gift that their gift was Urestos. It was well pleasing to God. He said to the Ephesians to try to learn what is, your restos, try to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. In Colossians 3. 20, He said that children are to obey their parents because it is Yoresto said is well pleasing to the Lord Godly ambition seeks to please the Lord in all aspects of life. Selfish ambition desires to please man and seeks the praise of man. Now you have to remember that when Paul wrote this, he was being severely criticized. Remember that? They criticized his preaching style. He didn't he he didn't perform according to the Greek rhetorical um s uh standards of the day, the Greco-Roman rhetoric that they loved. They criticized when he changed plans. They criticized even his physical appearance. He was under relentless and merciless attacks. from the false apostles that were there in Corinth. They criticized his apostolic credentials. They said, you know, he's not really one of the twelve. You know, they criticize his methods. They said, you know When you when you listen to him, he's just simply straightforward. What was Paul's response to all that? You're not the one I'm trying to please. You're not the one I'm trying to please. I'm trying to please the Lord that we might be Urestos, that we might be accepted by Him. In his first letter to the Corinthians, listen to what Paul wrote, 1 Corinthians 4. 3. But with me it's a very small thing that I should be judged of you. Or a man's judgment. Yay, I judge not my own self. The word Paul uses for judging here is fault finding. Looking for faults in which to criticize. Look, anybody can do that, you understand that, right? If you get down to fault finding. You can find fault with anybody and anything. And that's what they were doing with Paul. But Paul's response to that is, look, it's a really small thing what you think about me. And the word for small here, I love this, it is the Greek word mikros. And that's where we get the word micro from, as in microscope. As in something very small. You have to look at something through a microscope as it's really, really small and you can't see it with a naked eye. Micro And it's the superlative form of micro. So we can say it like this. Paul says, what you think of me is a very, very, very, very, really small thing. What you think about me. When it all boils down to it, it doesn't really what any man it doesn't matter what any man thinks, it only matters what God thinks. Paul said I don't man's judgment is so insignificant That I don't even judge myself. What did Paul mean by that? What he meant by that is not that we shouldn't examine ourselves because in other places in the New Testament we're called upon to examine ourselves to see that we're in the faith Or to examine our hearts when we come to the Lord's table. By the way, we'll be doing the Lord's Supper tonight. I hope you'll come for that. But when we come to the Lord's table, we examine our hearts to make sure that we are where we should be spiritually. Paul commands that in other places. So what does he mean when he says, I judge not my own self? What he meant by that is human verdict on his life and ministry matters so little that his own opinion of his ministry doesn't matter. You know, I might have a high opinion of my own ministry. Well, I'm I'm pretty good. I'm doing a really good job. Man, you know, like that one preacher who went home and he thought he preached a great sermon and he said to his wife, Honey, how many great preachers do you think there are in America today? And she said, one less than what you think That didn't happen to me, by the way, okay? Some of you are looking like that's that that happened to you, right? No, that didn't happen to me. Um I don't talk like that. At least I hope I don't, but What he means by that is look, my own judgment about myself really doesn't matter. I might think that I'm doing pretty good, but really I'm not in God's eyes. Or I might think I'm not doing so hot, and God says, you know, you're doing a whole lot better than you think you are. We look out into the world today and we say, oh, this is a great preacher, and this is a great preacher, and look at all they're doing. You have no idea what how to judge that matter. Your evaluation and judgment on men and servants of the Lord and their ministry doesn't matter. There's only one judgment that matters, and that's Almighty God. He's the one who knows. He's the only one who knows. There are servants of the Lord all over the world that are laboring in obscurity, sacrificing, serving the Lord, and they're excellent servants of Christ, and none of us know anything about them. Because they're doing it under the Lord. They're doing it with the right motive. And so Paul says, you know Man's judgment doesn't matter. In 1 Corinthians 4 5, he says, Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the heart, then every man shall have praise of God. The ultimate verdict on anyone's life and ministry will be rendered by the Lord. When Jesus comes back He will bring to light the hidden things. That is the things that nobody sees, nobody knows about, those servants of the Lord that are laboring in those hidden obscure places, God will bring all that to light And then he'll judge the motive of the heart. He will make manifest the counsels of the heart, the Bible says. Then every man shall have praise of God. Only God can see the heart, only God knows the heart. And when the day of judgment comes, God will bring to light those who have labored with a pure godly ambition. And so, godly ambition has a selfless attitude. Godly ambition has the right motive. But here's the third thing: godly ambition has an eternal perspective. Look at verse number 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or weather or bad. Godly ambition is motivated by the fact that we one day will appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And that's where we will be rewarded. Now remember I said that there were two judgments last week if you were here. I preached on the great white throne judgment. That is a judgment for sinners. That is a judgment for those who rejected the gospel. They have not called upon Jesus to save them. And that judgment will be a judgment for sinners where God will give them according to their works, he will punish them. There are different levels of punishment in eternity. And God will judge them according to the books that will be opened, according to their deeds, the sinful things they've done, and they will be given their punishment according to their works, the Bible says. I pray that no one here will ever go and stand before the great white throne judgment. Because if that if you're there, that means you've rejected Jesus Christ. That means that you will be punished because of your sin. That's one judgment. But this judgment here is a different judgment. This is called the judgment seat of Christ. This is a judgment for believers. This is a judgment for people who have trusted Christ. These are people who did respond to the gospel. And as a result of being saved, they begin to serve the Lord Jesus Christ after salvation. Their works will be judged, not in order for them to be saved, but their works will be judged because they are saved. And they're working out of gratitude and thanksgiving to the Lord for their salvation. God will judge those works And here the judgment will be determined what type of reward you will get, the level of reward. Whereas at the great white throne judgment, it'll be the level of punishment. Here at the judgment seat, it will be the level of reward that you'll get. What kind of rewards will you get for serving the Lord? You see, believers will not be judged for sin at the judgment seat of Christ. You know why? Because all of our sins have already been judged on Jesus Christ. And if you come to Jesus Christ and you've repented of your sin and put your full faith and hope in what He has done, the Bible says that all of your sins were judged there on the cross, and there is no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus. There's no condemnation. Because your sins have been forgiven. We have been redeemed from the curse of the law. Jesus Christ became a curse for us and redeemed us from the curse. of the law. He became our substitute. He bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might live to righteousness, the Bible says. And so therefore, when we appear before the judgment seat of Christ, this judgment will be to judge our works, to determine the level of reward. that we will get. Look at verse 10, for we must all appear. That is, all those who are saved must appear. Fanero. To make manifest, to make visible. Philip Hughes writes this. To be made manifest means not just to appear. But to be laid bare, stripped of every outward facade of respectability, openly revealed in the full and true reality of one's character. That is to say that God at this judgment will judge the motives of the heart. In that day the full truth about every Believers' life and character and deeds will be made clear. They'll be made clear to God. They'll be made clear to us at that time. Each will discover the real verdict on our ministry, on the motive that we had in doing ministry. All hypocrisy, all pretense will be stripped away. All temporal matters with no eternal significance will vanish away. It'll burn up like wood, hay, and stubble, the Bible says We'll either be judged with according to gold, silver, and precious stones, our works will be either that quality, or it'll be wood, hay, and stubborn, and it'll burn up, the Bible says in 1 Corinthians. So in verse 10, we must all appear before, look at the next phrase, the judgment seat. This is the word bhima, and the simplest definition is really it just describes a platform with steps. In the Greco-Roman world, they had these bimises uh all over. They were sometimes the seed of judgment where Uh judges would judge an athletic competition and if the athlete won, he would go up the steps to the BEMA seat and he would get his reward by the judge that was there on that seat. Sometimes it was used as a seat of judgment in a court of law. You remember in Corinth in Corinth there was a bemoseed. So the Corinthians would could relate to this very well. There's a beam of seed in Corinth, and Paul was brought before the Roman consul there at the Bhima seat to be judged by them there. So when Paul uses this word, everybody in Corinth understood it. And Paul was saying, look, there's going to be a Bhima seed in heaven. And God's going to reward those that are his for the works that they do according to the motives of their heart Now look again in verse 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body. Receive is a word that means to receive what is due. We will receive what is due for the things that we did in our mortal body. That is all the service that we rendered unto the Lord. That we did here in this present body. Remember we could say we give our body as a living sacrifice to the Lord, and we we we yield ourselves as instruments of righteousness unto God? We say, God, the rest of my life, this body is now yours. I want to use it in your service. I want everything that I do to be a service unto you, an act of worship to you. And Paul says, there are going to come a day when we stand before the beam of sea, and all these things that we did in this body that we gave to God will be evaluated. It will be judged. Notice where it says, whether good or bad. Now what does that mean? This is not a moral contrast, but rather it is a contrast between what is useless and what is Valuable. What is useful, what is worthless. The quality of what we do. In other words, there's some works that I might do here, and God says, you know, what you did was useless. The reason is because the ambition that you did it for you did it for yourself. You didn't do it for the glory of God. You did it somehow for your own recognition, for your own praise of men And that's useless. We it matters why we do what we do. That's why Paul said, if any man built upon this foundation, that is the foundation of Christ, now that you're saved, you have a foundation And you need to build on that sound foundation with gold, silver, and precious stones, not wood, hay, and stubble, because one day the fire of heaven is going to come down on that sacrifice that you gave, the sacrifice of your works to God, and if it were wood, hay and stubble, it's all going to burn up. If it's gold, silver, and precious stones, then it's going to last. So as a Christian, I don't fear the fire of hell, I fear the fire of heaven. I want my works to be quality. And God watches all we do, and He knows what we do, and He knows why we do it. And those things will be judged in that day. And believers will only be rewarded for deeds with motives to please and to glorify the Lord. So godly ambition has an eternal perspective. We understand we're going to be judged, and I want to be rewarded. And so everything that we do We do it as an act of worship unto God. It doesn't matter who sees it. It doesn't matter that we get recognized here. Because one day God will put the camera of heaven on what we did and he'll show it. And then we'll have praise of God, the Bible says. We'll have praise of God. I'm a football fan. Pray for me. But I remember uh one of the most famous games in the NFL history books Happened in 1967. This has been called one of the greatest games ever played. It was called the Ice Bowl. Some of you football fans might recognize that. The Dallas Cowboys were playing the Green Bay Packers. In Green Bay, if you ever been to Green Bay, you know it's a cold place up there. And this was one of the coldest days in history. The field was frozen solid. The players were literally playing on ice like a ring of ice. They were forced to suffer through all these difficult conditions. But on the last play of the game, the legendary coach Vince Lombardi called for his quarterback, Bart Starr, to run up the middle. They were on the one yard line He he wanted them to run into the end zone, one yard, and score. And of course, that's exactly what happened. Barkstar was able to squeeze into the end zone. They scored The fans cheered, the teammates cheered, they picked Bart Starr up, they carried him off the field because what they saw was Bart Starr run up the middle, and he got all the glory. And the guard that was right there in front of Barst Star, Jerry Kramer, walked off the field alone. But it wasn't until they were in the locker room when the trophy was given that a CBS analyst was interviewing Vince Lombardi and he showed them on camera a picture of that play and only then did Vince Lombardi realize that it was Jerry Kramer that pushed the defense back and opened up the hole. So Bart Starr could squeeze in there. It wasn't Bart Starr that won the game. It was Jerry Kramer that won the game. The thousands of fans in the stadium thought it was Bart Starr. But that camera revealed it was Jerry Kramer. One day, the camera of heaven Is going to reveal the works that God's people have done. The world has one opinion on who the greatest are, or who may be winning the victories, but God doesn't see the way man sees. God looks deeper. God sees things that man does not see. As a servant of the Lord, we have to do what we do for the glory of God. Willing to go unnoticed. We have to be willing to be unnoticed by our co-labours, by our friends. We have to be willing to serve, knowing that one day the camera of heaven We'll reveal our works, and then we'll get our rewards from God, because that's the only recognition that matters. That's the only reward that matters. Let's bow for prayer together. So I would ask you with your heads bowed and eyes closed, what kind of ambition do you have? Is it a selfish ambition? Or is it a godly ambition? Godly ambition has a selfless attitude. It has the right motive. It has an eternal perspective. But at the root of it, it's just we have a passion to give glory to the only one who really deserves any glory. And that's God, that's Christ. It's like Paul said, God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus. Maybe right now you just need to pray and say, God, cleanse me From any selfish ambition that is not worthy of you Help me, Lord, to serve you with a pure heart, with a heart devoted to your glory, just a desire to please you, because you are my Savior. Your gift of salvation is unspeakably rich in grace And if I lived every day of my life, for your glory, I still would not be able to pay back the rich blessing of salvation, this eternal life that you've given me. Take a moment and ask God to cleanse your heart and to give in you a passion to please Him. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I would just implore you, please, don't put that decision off. The Bible says, boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You don't know if you're going to be alive tomorrow. Are you ready to die? If right now you died and stood before the Lord in judgment, could you stand? Do you know Jesus as your Savior? That's the only way. Is putting your full faith in what Christ has done for you on the cross And if you've never done that, would you just reach out in prayer and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner, save me. The Bible says, him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out The greatest blessing ever is being saved, coming to Jesus Christ, having your sins forgiven Knowing that you have eternal life because of the finished work of Christ on the cross for you. It's putting all your faith and hope in Christ, in Christ alone. And if you haven't done that, do it right now, friend. Reach out in prayer and say, Lord, save me. Save me. Cleanse me. Father, bless all these words. To every heart that's here today, do your work, save souls and build your kingdom for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen