Well, it's good to see you tonight in the Lord's house. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to First Timothy chapter two. As we continue our study in First Timothy, we uh left off this um A few weeks back, but we're going to pick up now where we left off, and we're in chapter two, and I want us tonight to look at verses nine down to verse 15. First Timothy two, verse nine. And let me read these verses. In like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel with shamefacedness and sobriety. not with broided hair or gold or pearls or costly array, but which becometh women professing godliness with good works. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed, and then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. We're living in a day when womanhood is under attack by the culture and society. The result is there's confusion today on gender roles and gender. Although the Bible makes pretty clear those issues, it just seems like the the Bible is being cast aside by the world in the culture today and people were doing what it feels right. or what is right in their own eyes. But Satan is the author of perversion and he delights in taking God's designs and perverting them And so we see this happening all over in society today. The role of man, woman, husband, and wife is being turned upside down. It's being perverted The the roles are being redefined, gender is being redefined, the result is mass confusion and the destruction of the family Sadly, much of the confusion is seeping into the church. Now, the church is to stand firmly on the truth of God's word. But sadly, it just seems like today that much of the church is capitulating to the culture rather than being the pillar in the ground of the truth. That's why a passage like this is one that's so very important. And I want us to look at this passage today because Paul Paul in writing to Timothy and dealing with some problems in the church at Ephesus clearly defines the role of godly women in the church. And so that's what we're going to talk about. We're going to consider tonight in these verses that we read. And I want us to deal with this issue under three headings or three topics that we see here that Paul brings up. First of all, number one would be the modesty of a godly woman. We see this in verse number nine. In like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel. Now when Paul says in like manner he's introducing a new topic, he used this phrase often when he would transition from one subject to another. And it really refers back to verse 8 where Paul had been dealing with the role of men. What is men's role in the church? Well, men are to be men of prayer We're to pray for all men, for all those who are in authority. We are to lean down in prayer. And now Paul transitions to the role of woman. But really this refers back to the expression in verse 8 where it says, where Paul says, I will therefore that men pray everywhere. There the word will there, bulomai, which is n in the Greek not a comm uh refers not to a wish but to a command. So as Paul commanded the men in the church to be men of prayer Paul is now commanding these things he's going to talk about with regard to woman's role in the church. And first of all, he talks about her apparel in verse number nine in like manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel with shamefacedness and sobriety. Paul is saying, I want men to pray, but I want women to adorn themselves in modest apparel. Now what does Paul mean by modest apparel, and why is he bringing it up here? Well the word for modesty here, uh, means well-ordered or well arranged. It could be translated tastefully. Or we could say it like this, not in a provocative manner, not in a manner that's designed to draw attention to yourself. Actually the word apparel here is a word in the Greek that implies, again, the same idea of modesty. And so it encompasses the heart of the woman who wants to dress in a way not as to bring undue attention to herself, but in a modest way, in a humble way. And now why is Paul bringing this up? Well, keep in mind that he's correcting some issues that had come up in the church at Ephesus. There are some things in the church that had gotten out of hand. And Paul was dealing with those issues. Remember the key verse here in our study in 1 Timothy. is that Paul says that you might know how to behave yourself in the house of God. 1 Timothy 3 15. And whereas men were to stop quarreling and start praying, Women were to stop uh dress dressing in an immodest way or inappropriately, and they were to dress with modest apparel. Now what was happening in the church is again that women were uh kind of uh going over the line in the way that they were dressing and coming through church. There's nothing wrong with Dressing nice and looking nice in church. I'm a believer of that. There's nothing wrong with you know making yourself presentable. And by the way, you all look so beautiful tonight. I just want to tell you that Nothing wrong with dressing nice in church. But what had happened there in the church at Ephesus is that the women had gone beyond the line of that Coming to church had been more like coming trying you know, entering into a fashion show almost we could say, or some kind of a beauty contest where they were dressing in a way to turn heads. They were dorning themselves, especially the the wealthy women that were there in a part of the church at Ephesus, they were adorning themselves with rich apparel, and they were doing themselves up in a way that was really uh just You know, we could say gaudy, or we could say that was just over the top. And so Paul is is kind of correcting this problem here. And he's trying to say, look, when you come to church, just you know, dress modestly. Don't dress in a way where that's designed to draw undue attention to yourself. You're not to distract others in the worship service and the way that you come dressed. But you're to dress in a in a modest way. And he talks about her apparel, but also her attitude, because he mentions in verse 9, with shamefacedness and sobriety. We don't use that word shamefacedness today. But it's a word that just basically means with a sense of of uh bashfulness, we could say, or shy, uh a sense of, you know not wanting to incite uh any kind of lust in the way that you dress or distracting others from w worship This is the attitude of a godly woman. A godly woman is grieved over the possibility of offending God and will not do anything to cause someone else to stumble in her uh way that she presents herself is in the worship service. And so Paul's saying, look, just just be dress in a way that is honoring to the Lord, dress in a way that is modest. And by the way, God is concerned about modesty in the place of worship. I think back to the Old Testament when God was prescribing uh what the priests were to wear as they were to lead the worship service. If you read that passage in Exodus, 28, God is very careful to just go through the apparel that the priests were to wear, even down to their undergarments. I mean God was very specific. And why? Well, because He knew that they would be ministering up on a platform in front of people, and God wanted to make sure that the priests were dressed in a way so as to be modest and not to uh to distract the worshiper away from what was really uh important that they s that they get there in that time of worship. And that's why God goes through a litany of how he wants the priests to dress, because God was concerned about that very issue in the house of worship. And so Paul is saying, look, just when you when you dress, just make sure you do it in a humble way. with shamefacedness and sobriety. Um that is with sound judgment or a sound mind or self-control. In other words, use good sound judgment when you dress. Never dress it away. that would be uh a way that would be dishonoring to the Lord. Don't even try to don't even get close to that line. Now I'm glad that Paul didn't go through a list of of Clothes. I'm glad he didn't start n mentioning what clothes were acceptable. If he did it back then, it wouldn't be applicable today, right? Because clothes have changed. And I know we went through an era in fundamentalism where preachers wanted to get up and go through a litany of what people were to wear in church. But I don't think that that's God's will for me to do that. I think that you have the Holy Spirit, and I think you know the Word of God, and I think you can know what is appropriate and what's not appropriate. And and that's what Paul's saying. Look, just use sound judgment. Just use the sound mind. And then he goes on to talk about Not with broided hair or gold or curls or excuse me, pearls or costly array. Women were to dress in a way so not as to flaunt their wealth. The women back then would actually um weave into their hair um gold and and pearls and other things that was just uh really in incredible when you think about it. They were flaunting their wealth. This is a day when poverty was on the rise. And so it would be impossible for for other women in the church to match that kind of thing. You know, today clothing is relatively affordable, but back then it really wasn't. And only the wealthy could dress in this way. And Paul is saying, look, just be sensitive and don't flaunt your wealth. Don't fla Flaunt your fashion. Don't come to church to try to make some kind of fashion statement or to or to lord over the poor believers how much wealth you have. Don't do that. And so Paul's very specific here, and he's trying to, again, pull back the reins on some of the things that was going on there in the church at Ephesus. I think Warren Wersby had a good comment here. Let me just quote you what he said. He said, the contrast here is between the artificial glamour of the world and the true beauty of a godly life. Paul did not forbid the use of jewelry or lovely clothes, but rather the excessive use of them as substitutes for the true beauty of a meek and quiet spirit. A woman who depends only on externals will soon run out of ammunition. She may attract attention, but she will not win lasting affection. That's so very true. It's so very well said there. So we see first of all the modesty of a godly woman But I want you to see number two another topic that Paul brings up. We could call this the ministry of a godly woman Look at verse number 10. But which becometh women professing godliness with good works? Now notice, first of all, Paul talks about her deeds. And there's a relationship between her dress and her deeds. Women are to dress in a way that portrays godly reverence. But the idea here is that there's a connection with a woman's godly deeds and her dress. The way that she presents herself and the good works that she does as well in church. And Paul says, look, dress modestly and produce good works. Adorn yourself with good deeds, is what he's saying there. Let that be your adorning. What are some of the good deeds that the Bible gives with reference to women? The kind of ministries that women have in the church? Let me just give you a list of things that I found that, you know, just these are just a few, but first of all, demonstrating a reverence for God is one thing. The Bible says in the book of Proverbs, verse chapter 31: Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates. The gates were the well-traveled entrance to any city. That's where, you know, important men talked and Basically the idea is let your works be so uh well known that people talk about the good works that you do in those these important places. Let your life show your good works. But another thing is supporting the gospel work of the church. Women throughout church history have been so instrumental in supporting the work of the gospel in Romans chapter 16. Paul says this now I compend unto you Phoebe our sister, who is also a servant of the church. He goes on to say, in order that you may welcome her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints And help her in whatever task she may have need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of many, even myself. Paul commends this woman because she has been a great helper in the work of the gospel. She's ministered. She's served in the body of Christ. In the book of Philippians, Paul mentions women that were in the church there. He talks about their labor. Working side by side in the gospel together, how that they helped in the gospel ministry. And so women can have such an impact in the work of the gospel ministry. But then number three, being diligent in her vocations. Exodus 35, 25, when they were preparing the tabernacle, talks about skillful women who spun with their hands, and they brought what they had spun in blue and purple and scarlet. They were helping with the skill that they had to make the tabernacle there beautiful. But also there's just being a good wife. The Bible mentions that. We know that the Bible says that When God created man, he wanted to give man a suitable helper, someone that could be there his companion, be his wife. And we know that passage in Genesis 20, excuse me, two verse twenty-two. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother, hold fast to his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And so the role of a woman of being a good wife is a great work. And then carry for her household. The Bible speaks about this in Proverbs 14:1. A wise woman builds her house. It says in Proverbs 31, she rises while yet night and provides food for her household and portions for her maidens. And so it commends those kind of qualities where a woman cares for all the things in her household, but also just to be a good helper to her husband. The Bible says in Proverbs 31, 28, her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and praises her. Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all. Being a good helper to her husband. And then another work the Bible mentions is teaching what is good Again, we go to Proverbs 31, verse 26. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. And so here she's obviously teaching her children. And that's one of the great things that a mother can do is teach her children. And the Bible also says that Older women are to teach younger women, that's in Titus chapter two, verses three through five. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or Slaves to much wine, they are to teach what is good, and so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be And so these are just some of the good works that the Bible mentions that women can do that bless the church. So we see her deeds. And by the way, let me just say we are so very blessed here at Grace to have godly women that do a lot of these things. We couldn't do what we do without the help of women working hard here at our own church, and we're blessed for that. So we see her deeds, but then we see her discipleship. Again, we're in 1 Timothy 2 and verse 11. Notice the next verse. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. Verse 12, but I suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. We're gonna pray and end the sermon right here. No, I'm just kidding. We uh we come to a controversial few verses here. This is a very sensitive topic today, and it's respect to the position of a woman's role in ministry. Some of you may have heard that recently. This made, you know, the uh religious news, I guess I guess you could say, in religious circles, but uh the church, Saddleback Church out in California, a mega church we could say, uh former pastor is Rick Warney, still has a lot of influence over that church. But now that church believes in women pastors, and they, because of that, take taking that position, Rick Warren also takes this position, they were voted out of the SBC They were voted out of the Southern Baptist Convention. And there was a lot of controversy over that. And there are people forming sides on whether this was right or Whether this is not right. This is a controversial issue right now. The big question is, can women be pastors? Now there are two basic views in answer to that question. One view is called the complementarianism view. All right? Complementarianism. And then the other view is called egalitarianism. These are the two different views on this. What is complementarianism? This view states that men and women are equal in personhood. There's no difference in worth. But proponents of complementarianism believe that men and women have separate, though equal, roles in not only the church, but marriage, family life, and elsewhere. And so we get the idea of the woman complementing the man. That's where we get this idea of complementarianism from. We can say just like complementary colors work together to create beauty. or one aspect of a dish complements another, or the idea that men and women complement each other and form together a beautiful whole. It's the idea that women complement men in the and their role in uh fulfilling Certain things. Now, this view holds that masculinity and femininity were created by God, and that in itself has brought meaningful distinctions. The the actual difference between man and woman uh indicates these role differences. And then and so basically A complimentary interposition basically says that women in the church can do a lot of ministry. There's so many wonderful ministry things that they can do to help out the gospel, but one of them is not being a pastor. That's not their role. That's not what the Bible has called them to do or to exercise authority over a man. That's the complementariness position. But then there's egalitarianism. And what is egalitarianism? Egalitarianism would agree with the complementariness view that men and women are equal in worth. We all would agree on that. However, egalitarianism goes further to state that men and women are considered equal in role capacities as well. In other words, there are no gender restrictions on what roles men and women can fulfill in the church or home or society. There should be no role distinction. This view holds that the teaching and attitudes of Jesus and the New Testament abolishes gender-specific roles. That's the view on that. So there's really no role specific for women. She can fulfill any role that a man can. in the church, in the home, and so on. Now, let's go back to complementarinism for a minute. What are you know what are their basic beliefs? What is characterizes them? Complimentarians believe that only men should hold church leadership positions over other men. And usually women may hold positions that do not place them in authority over men. Women can serve, but they just can't hold a position that puts them in authority over men. A complimentarian also believes in the patriarchal view of the family with the father as the head of the home. The view that a man should love his wife as Christ loved the church, a woman should submit to her husband as the church submits to Christ. That's the basic complementarian view. But then the what about egalitarianism? What are what are their tenets? Well They believe basically that women men and women can both hold church leadership positions. Spouses are equally responsible for the family. Marriage is a partnership of two equals submitting one to another. Roles should not be b ability-based, or excuse me, roles should be ability-based, not gender-based. I mean, if you have the gift, if you have the ability, go ahead and fulfill the role. And the way this was translated into the church, if a woman has the ability to preach or to lead, then she should be given the role of pastor and let her preach. Now, what's the biblical support of this? Well the biblical support for complementarianism, a complementarian will take his case all the way back to the Garden of Eden and will point to The Genesis 2. 18, where God said to Adam, It is not good for man to be alone, I will make a helper suitable for him. A complimentarian will say yet that sure sounds like a compliment. Position there. God created woman to be a complement or a helper for the man. And this is to be the first instance of a differentiation of gender roles with Eve as the helper for man. And it's in matters of marriage, the complementarium will also point to Ephesians 5. 21 down to verse 33. Well we know this passage pretty well. Why submit yourselves to your own husbands as to the Lord? For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. His body, of which he is the Savior. Now the ch as the church submits to Christ, so also why should submit to their husbands in everything. Husbands love your wives as Christ loves the church. Those are the basic verses that a complimentarium will use to say this is the biblical position. What about an egalitarian? What verse will they use? Well the verse that they point to is Galatians 3. 28, which states, There is neither Jew nor Gentile Neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ. The Galitarians will point to that verse and say, Ha ha, there it is. We're all one. All the barriers, all the distinctions, all that stuff has been torn down. They will also point to the frequency with which God in the Old Testament and Jesus in the New Testament used women. And they'll s they'll say, you know, uh they were basically exalting women when they did that. And so they'll point to things like that. And so this is the big debate. What is the, you know, what position should you hold? A complementarian position or egalitarian position with respect to women in ministry in the church? Well the big question is, where does Paul line up on all this? What does Paul say about this? Or more specifically, what does the Word of God say. And we're going to see here in 1 Timothy chapter 2 that Paul does not sound like an egalitarian to me when you read these verses. Okay? Some of you that were hoping for that position, sorry. I don't see that in Scripture, beloved. We have to allow the Word of God to dictate what we believe. And so notice what Paul says here. Now again, remember that Paul is correcting some problems that were had risen up in the church. False teachers had come into the church. And like false teachers and false teaching does, it just presents confusion. It creates division in a church. And the false teachers had led some of these women astray. We see this in 2 Timothy chapter 3, where Paul mentions these false teachers who went into households and they they led captive weak women. Weighed down with sins, he says, led on by various impulses, always learning, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. These false teachers were appealing to women Under the load of guilt, who were living by their feelings instead of the Word of God. Now we know that's 2 Timothy, but I think the problem had already arose when Paul was writing 1 Timothy here. This was the situation that Timothy was dealing with, these false teachers that were leading these women astray, and there was kind of a feminist movement that was breaking out there in the church at Ephesus, and this is the problem that Paul is dealing with when he writes this. And so Paul gives some basic commands here to deal with the issue. But here's the first thing I want you to see. Women are to learn God's word, Paul says. Look again in verse 11. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. Paul is commanding here that women be taught. They are to be disciples. Let the woman learn. This is an imperative in the Greek, a command here. Paul commands for women to be taught, to learn, to be disciples of the Word of God. Now let me tell you why that's important, because in that culture, in that time, sadly, women were not held in the proper esteem. They were not held in high esteem. This was true in the Greco Roman world. They were not permitted to learn. Women were not permitted to uh to be a part of certain educational or academic things that were going on in the world. The scholar William Barclay said this, this is what he wrote. According to Jewish custom, quote, she was forbidden to learn the law, to instruct a woman, and the law was to cast pearls before swine. He says. Women had no part in the synagogue service. They were shut apart in a section of the synagogue, or in a gallery where they could not be seen. A man came to the synagogue to learn, but at most a woman came to hear. In the synagogue, the lessons from Scripture was read by members of the congregation, but not by a woman, for that would have been to lessen the honor of the congregation. According to William Barclay, the historian. That's the way they were treated at that time. And it was even worse in the Greek culture, how that women were disrespected. But Christianity changed all of that In Christ, women became exalted because they became disciples of Christ. And they had the privilege of learning God's word. And here Paul is commanding, let The woman learn. Let her come and learn the Word of God. They are to be discipled. They are to learn Scripture. But also it's to be marked by two qualities: silence. It says in verse 11, let the woman learn in silence. And this is the idea of a quiet spirit, a meek spirit. Silence, when we think of the word silence, we think of just, you know, don't say a word. But the idea here is a peaceful, meek spirit. This is the same word that is translated peaceable in 1 Timothy 2. 2. Some of the women abused their newfound freedom in Christ, and they created disturbances in the service by interrupting Or not having that kind of a meek spirit, and that was creating a problem in the church. Remember, they were being led astray by false teachers in the church. And Paul said, look, they can learn the word of God, but Do it with a peaceable, meek spirit. But also not only silence, he says in verse 11, but with all subjection. Again, this is the act of obedience with a submissive spirit. They are to learn and they are to be discipled. It's the Greek word hypotasio, to line up under authority He used to speak of soldiers in rank. Make sure they understand their role and let them learn the word of God. A godly woman delights in learning the word of God. And again, I say that the church has been blessed with many godly women who learn Scripture and who've been greatly used of God in the learning of God's word and the sharing of God's word with other people. I know in my own life I've been blessed by the godly women around me, how they have enhanced my life and helped me as a Christian. And so the bottom line, Paul says, don't shut women out of the learning process. Some of the greatest disciples in the church have been women. The greatest thing they can do is learn the Word of God so that they can teach it in the proper context. and the proper places that God gives them to teach the Word of God. And by the way, Timothy knew this better than anyone else. Remember what Paul reminded Timothy about? Timothy from a child, you have learned the holy scriptures. Which were able to make you wise unto salvation. By the way, who taught Timothy all that? It wasn't his father. His father wasn't even converted. It was his mother that taught him the word of God, and his grandmother, who was also a godly woman, that taught Timothy from a child, and really made Timothy the man that he was. He learned the word of God. Before he learned it from Paul, he learned it from his mother. He learned it from his grandmother. So we see her deeds. We see her discipleship. But then we also see her discretion. What I want to call her discretion. Look at verse number 12. But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. Another quality of a godly woman is that she understands her role. She understands there are certain things that God did not intend her to do. Just as there are certain things God never intended a man to do, there are certain things that God never intended a woman to do And so Paul says, I suffer not a woman to teach suffer, or we could say, uh permit It means to allow something to do uh it means to allow something someone to do what they want to do. But by his choice of words here, Paul implies that some women at Ephesus had the desire to leave the church, just like perhaps some do today. And so Paul is saying, look, I don't want to allow that. I don't permit that. And again, this idea here is the choice of words here is Paul's not making a suggestion here, he's giving a command. I do not permit, I do not suffer a woman to lead in the church, that's the idea, to teach or to usurp authority over men here. There have always been women that are not content in the role that God has given them, but they want to get out of that role and they want something more. But that's not what God intended. That's not what God says. And by the way, this all goes all the way back to the fall. Part of the curse of the fall. The Bible speaks about this in Genesis 3, 15 and 16 is that when the fall came, there would be a conflict over the role of the sexes. Paul talk uh excuse me, uh Moses talked about that in Genesis, in Genesis 3. 16 where it says, her desire shall be to her husband. And he shall rule over her. That word desire there, that's not talking about s sexual desire. That's talking about a desire to usurp his authority, to lead him to control him. That's what the word there means. And in his response, he'll become a tyrant to try to keep her down. And that would create a conflict in that relationship. This goes all the way back to the fall where women want more than what their God-given role ordains. They desire to have control. And men, the part of their curse is they can be a a tyrant. That's the thing that they have to resist, becoming like a little Napoleon, a little dictator, instead of a gentle, godly leader. And so those are the things that that each gender will wrestle with. Women want control, men can become a tyrant. And that's the problem there. And so this is certainly true in churches today. There are women not content with their role and they seek more of a position of prominence. of exercising authority over a man holding a position of pastor. Now again, this is not based on ability, because quite frankly, there are some women that can preach better than men. But it's not a question of ability, it's a question of God-given roles. It's not a question of gifting or intellect. We we know that women some women are smarter than men, uh brilliant in their ability to reason and discern and to uh present things, but that has nothing to do with it It is what does God give in that role? And here, Paul forbids women from taking the authority of pastor, teacher in the church. And again, he's very clear here. I don't know how much clearer he can be. Again, we see, but I suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. Usurp authority, a word that's used only here in the New Testament. And I'm not going to give you all the technicalities of this word here, but it basically means to be in authority over, to have authority over. And again, apparently some of the Ephesian women We're taking that position of having authority over men, and Paul is saying you can't do that. That's not the role of women in the church. But to be in silence. Now again, what does this mean here? When it says to be in silence. Let me just tell you some things it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that women are can't pray. I don't think Paul's referring to that. Or that women are never can never teach because there are certain contexts and places where women can teach other women and children and so on. Under certain circumstances they can teach. We see that in the Bible. It doesn't mean that women do not have spiritual gifts because God gives women, some women, the ability to teach. That's spiritual gifts that God does give. That means if God gave the gift, he certainly intends for a woman to use that gift in the proper context. It doesn't mean that women are inferior to man in any way. This is just simply a different role that God has ordained for women. In the church, men are to be the ones in authority. Men are to be pastors, not women. And again, I think Paul makes it very clear here. Now, what is the reason for this? Now some will say, well, that was a cultural thing in that day. That Paul is speaking about that particular time and that particular culture. Well, I'm sorry, the arguments that he gives basically debunks that whole idea. You say, how? Well, look at verse number He's going to tell you why. I mean Paul it might sound harsh here. Paul may sound harsh by saying, you know, no women in authority. Women cannot be pastors. That's not their role. I would not I don't permit a woman to usurp authority over the man but to be in silence. And that that might sound harsh to us, but Paul gives the reasons in verse 13, in for verse 14. For Adam was first formed, then Eve. So what's his argument? His argument is from the order of creation. Adam was made first and then Eve. And so Paul's pointing to the fact that women had a subordinate role in the very beginning, in the order of creation. Her role was to be a complement, a helper. She was to be subordinate to man, and this is demonstrated. in creation. In First Corinthians 11, 8, 9, Paul writes this: The man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man, neither was man created for woman, but the woman for man. She was his helper. And so she's to follow his lead. She is to live on his provision, find safety in his strength, protection in his courage. The tendency to follow was built into Eve But when the fall came, that all came into conflict after the fall. And so this subordinate role of a woman is not a cultural issue. You can't explain it away on mere bias on Paul's part because it's based on the order of creation. But then we could also say another argument that Paul used was the order of corruption. Look in verse number fourteen e again and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Another reason Paul gives for this was not only creation, but corruption. When we think about the fall, we usually think of it in connection with Adam. Romans 5 speaks of the one man, that's Adam, who brought sin and death into the world. And so Adam bears the responsibility for the fall, since he is the head of the human race. But we we do have to keep in mind here that he didn't fall first. It was Eve who did When Eve got out from under the protection of Adam's leadership and attempted to deal independently with the enemy, the serpent, she was deceived. And so that reinforces the truth that women were designed with the need for a leader. And the word for deceived here in verse number 14, this is a very strong term. It refers to being thoroughly deceived. And so we can conclude that when women leave the shelter of her protector, she has a certain amount of vulnerability And Paul points that out. The fall was a result of not only of disobeying God's command, but also violating God's divinely appointed roles in the sexes. Eve acted independently and assumed the role of leadership. Adam violated his role by abdicating his leadership and following Eve's lead. And that's what brought the sin and the fall of mankind. We're all vulnerable in different ways. That's the reality here. But as we examine Paul's position here, he certainly, again, sounds to me like a complementarian. It certainly sounds like that that's the right position. Now I realize and uh we're almost it's eight o'clock, give me five more minutes. I realize there's probably a lot of questions in your mind that you probably have, and there's probab no possible way I can answer all these questions in one sermon. There's a lot of questions that come up about this. You know, what about Doing this and and that and you know and please be merciful to me after the service. And and you know, I'll answer some questions, but I'm not gonna stay here at twelve o'clock answering your all of your questions, all right? But there's a lot of questions that come up, and I I probably can't answer all of those questions, but what do we know from this passage? We do know this. In the public assembly of the church. A woman should not teach men, nor should she do anything else to exercise authority over men. And the office of pastor, elder, shepherd is limited to men. In fact, in chapter 3, verse number 1, just just just fast forward a little bit, look at chapter 3, verse 1. This is a true saying, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desires a good work. Paul didn't say, you know, if a man or a woman desires this office, it's a good thing. No, he limited it to a man if a man desires the office of bishop It is a good work. So we know that from this passage of Scripture. Let me just give you one more thing quickly. We talked about the modesty of a godly woman. We talked about the ministry of a godly woman. Let me just talk to you really quickly about the maternity of a godly woman, because look how Paul ends this in verse fifteen. Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. Now what is Paul saying here? And basically what he's basically explained in verse 14 was that because the the the fall of Mankind came about because Eve was deceived, there is a bit of a stigma that rests on womanhood. Because she kind of brought the fall of the human race because of her deception. And so we would have to say because of that there's a certain dishonor that womanhood must bear due to Eve's deception. Because Her being deceived was into transgression, Paul said. But not only her stigma, but we see her salvation. Um how is that stigma removed? How is that that dishonor That rests on womanhood, how is that removed? How is womanhood exalted again? Let me tell you how it's not it's not exalted by a woman leading her God-given role and seeking out positions of authority that were never intended by God, trying to build her own career that's not in harmony with the Word of God. That's not that does not exalt womanhood. Let me just give you an illustration. Red of one Hollywood actress who was receiving a Golden Globe Award, and when she got up to receive her award, she basically You know, basically said, you know, uh that she had had an abortion and how glad she was that she had had an abortion, because if she had the baby she would not have been able to to be an actress and she would not have been able to receive this Golden Globe Award And how that her abortion basically was the pathway that led to her being exalted as a great actress and getting this award. It was the most evil thing I'd ever heard in my life. Let me tell you something. You know how womanhood is exalted? It's not exalted by some woman receiving an award for pretending to be someone that she's not on a big screen somewhere. And then in order to do that, to to kill her baby to do it. You don't exalt womanhood that way. You know how you exalt womanhood? For a godly woman to have a child and to raise that child in the nurture and the admonish admonition of the Lord. And Paul makes it very clear that mothers who raise godly children, that exalts womanhood That removes the stigma that was on womanhood because of the fall, and womanhood is it is exalted through motherhood. Look what Paul says in verse 15. Notwithstanding she shall be saved, in what way will she be saved? That's not talking about salvation from sin or sanctification. In other words, the stigma will be removed in childbearing if they, that is the children, continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. The greatest The greatest exaltation of womanhood is to be a godly mother and teach your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That's what exalts womanhood. Not any of these other things that the world would suggest. And so that's her salvation. Now we know it's not God's will for every woman to have a child. We we talked about this before that God gives the gift of singleness to certain people. But but but for the for for the rest, for the most women who get married, being a mother is what exalts womanhood more than anything else. And that's what Paul is saying here. That the greatest thing you can do is to raise godly children, children that continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. And so that's that's the role that that Paul's talking about. So we see then the modesty of a godly woman, the ministry of a godly woman, her discipleship, and all the good deeds that she does. We see the maternity of a godly woman. And again, let me just say I thank God for the the great and godly women that God has given us here at Grace. I pray that we'll take this word and that we'll understand the roles that God intended for the church and that we'll be blessed by it. Let's go off a pair together. Father, we again just thank you for the Word of God. It is our guide, it is our source, it is our authority. And Lord, we receive your word as it is, the authoritative word of God. And Lord, in a world, in a day, in a culture that is totally against the scripture. Where things are going contrary to your will and to your way in a day when there's so much confusion about the role of men and women. Lord, I pray that you'll help us as a church to stand firmly without apology on the Word of God. And Lord, may it lead us and guide us in our life and our activities. May we understand Lord, that the greatest blessing that the church can have is to have people that fulfill their God-given roles and serve in a way that pleases you. So Lord, I pray you'll use this word to instruct our hearts tonight. Thank you again, Lord, for how you teach us and how you haven't left us without an authoritative word on these issues that are so very important. May we submit May we glorify you in all the ways that we serve you. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.