Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take God's word tonight and please open to the book of Genesis, chapter thirty seven. We are uh brought the title of the conference, The Providence of God. This was uh just an idea that uh some had about a t a theme that we could uh speak about that really is a theme that uh we need to learn about more in the church. To me, I believe it's something that we don't talk about enough. God's working in our life. And so tonight I want to talk about the providence of God in our suffering. The providence of God in our suffering. In Genesis 37, it teaches us that God is in control of the sorrows in life that we have to endure. There's a purpose for our sorrows. It's impossible to live in this world and not be hurt. It's impossible to live in this world and not be hurt by someone else's sin. You may have been verbally abused or physically abused as a child, or God forbid, maybe sexually abused as a child. Many have been damaged by someone else's drinking or perhaps drug abuse. If you're married, you may have been hurt by a spouse that was not faithful. Your children may have rebelled and caused you deep pain. Most of us have been victims of crime in some way. And uh when you've been wounded by someone else's sin, you probably wonder, where is God in all of this? If God is all powerful and loving, then uh why is he allowing me to have to go through this terrible this ordeal. Why is why is there sins against me? If he's in control, why do wicked men seem to literally get away with mur murder? If God is sovereign, why the sorrow in my life? Now Joseph could have asked this question. Due to his brother's sin, he was thrown into a pit. And from there things didn't get better for him. His brothers didn't kill him as they originally planned, but they did sell him. Seventeen years old, they sold him into slavery in a foreign land. And as uh Joseph was in that caravan making his way south towards Egypt, perhaps he passed by um his home in Hebron. And maybe at that time he was overwhelmed with grief and loneliness and wondered if he would ever see his father again. He had to wrestle with fear and anger and feelings of rejection for what his brothers had done to him And he may have even wondered, if God is sovereign, why am I going through this? Why am I uh in the pitch? Why am I being sold uh as a slave? Now what's interesting is you look in Genesis 37 that God is not mentioned at all in chapter 37. Now a skeptic might say, see, God isn't there when you need him. We don't see God's name at all mentioned in this whole chapter. If he cared about you, he would stop sinful men from carrying out their terrible plans. A skeptic might say, you know, we don't see God in this chapter if God is so powerful He would stop all these things from happening like they did to Joseph. But even though God is not mentioned by name in Genesis 37, his sovereignty and providence runs like a strong river through this chapter. And it carries even the sinful plans of men downstream in his overall purpose, even though Joseph's brothers did what they wanted to do. What they didn't realize is that what they did of their own free choice didn't thwart the purpose of God, but actually it accomplished the purpose of God Now before we talk about providence here, we have to get a definition of what is sovereignty and what is providence. Sovereignty and providence go hand in hand. We could say that they're two sides of the same coin. We talk about sovereignty. What we mean is that basically it contains three ideas. God is uh uh is over everything he uh that is ownership. We think about the idea of ownership, he owns it all. We think about authority, he's in con he's in uh uh uh an authority over all and then also we think of the idea of control. God created it all, he owns it all, he is overall, and he controls it all. The Bible says in Psalm 135, verse 5, I know that the Lord is great. And verse 6, whatever the Lord pleases, he does, in heaven and on earth, and in the seas and in all the deeps. God does whatever he wants, the psalmist says. He earns it all. He does whatever he wants. Psalm 115, verse 3. Again, our God is in the heaven. He does all that he pleases. That's sovereignty. He's in the heavens, he owns it all, he does whatever he pleases. In Psalm 103, verse 19, the psalmist said, The Lord has established his throne in all the heavens. And his kingdom rules over all. In Psalm twenty twenty-four, verse one, the earth is the Lord's And the fullness thereof, he owns it all, the world and those that dwell it therein, for he has founded it upon the seas, he has established it upon the rivers So beloved, we have a big God. He's bigger than you can imagine. He's big beyond the universe. And this God is in complete control. He not only controls the movement of the galaxies and the stars, he also is in control of your life. This means that when you look around and get the very strong sense that the world and our lives are out of control, We're wrong. It's not. When we look at events in our life, and it seems like everything is jumped off track, that everything is going wrong, that we're headed over the cliff. They're not. Everything is moving according to God's plan. Everything is more moving according to God's schedule. uh according to his divine purpose and plan. That's the sovereignty of God. Now what is providence? Providence is the idea that God executes his plan. His sovereignty makes the plan, and his providence executes the plan that he makes. He has a plan, and he has the power to execute that plan. That's what we mean when we talk about providence. Again, Isaiah 46, verse 9, remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none other. I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, from the ancient times, things not yet done, saying, Listen to this, my counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. That's the providence of God. God will accomplish all his purpose. Have you ever heard the saying the devil's in the details? That's absolutely incorrect. God is in the details. God is in the details of your life. Isaiah 25, verse 1, O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you, I will praise you, for you have done wonderful things. Plans formed of old, faithful and sure. God, what you've done in my life, these are the things that you planned of old, and these things are faithful and they are sure. The Bible says in Proverbs 16 verse 9, the heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. You can go ahead and plan whatever plan you want, but just recognize this: God is the one who's going to establish your steps. Proverbs 19, verse 21 Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand. Again, you can make your plans And that's okay to do that. We find planning in the Bible. Paul makes missionary plans and so on. It's okay to do that, but you need to understand that, like James said, if the Lord wills, we'll do this or that, because it's his purpose that will stand. Jesus said it like this in Matthew 10, 28, the very hairs of our head are numbered. And that's not hyperbole. Each hair is important to God. And the idea that Jesus was teaching there is that nothing in your life is left to chance. There's no such thing as chance or luck Or coincidence, you've heard me say before, there are no accidents, only acts of providence. God is a micromanager. God's sovereignty plans your life. to the very detail, and his providence carries out that plan. Job said it like this in Job 24, verse 14. He performs what is appointed for me. He performs what is appointed for me. John Murray summed it up well when he said this. He wrote: Quote, The plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive. The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. God hides it from me until it happens. I discover it day by day as it unfolds. End quote. That's why sometimes the best way to understand God's providence is by looking backwards, not necessarily forwards. We can look back and see. And say, okay, I can see now God's providence in my life in that. It was John Flavel, the Puritan, who said to us congregation in England many hundred hundreds of years ago, he said, some providence of God, like Hebrew letters, are understood backwards. You know, you understand you read Hebrew the opposite way? John Flavell said that's the way you look at providence. You look at it backwards. Now, as far as Joseph is concerned, his life didn't really make sense until at the end of his life he was able to look back over it. And he could see the sorrows that he had to endure. And yet in all those dark providences, Joseph could say, You may have meant this for evil against me, but God, God meant this for good. To bring about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. Providence then means that what God creates, He continually sustains and provides for, and nothing, great or small, is outside of his absolute control. He is king, he has a plan, he sustains and works out that plan in your life and in mine Now, with all that in mind, we see here in Genesis 37 something happening in the life of Joseph that we would look from a human standpoint and say, boy, this is not good. But the basis for seeing what's going on here in Genesis 37 is really to go all the way back to Genesis 15. And you might remember that in Genesis 15, God was making a covenant with Abraham. He's making a promise. And this is what God said to him. You remember that God caused Abraham to fall under a deep sleep, and the Bible says that while he was, while the sun was going down and a deep sleep fell upon Abram. In verse 13 it says, And he said unto Abram, this is God speaking, and he said, Know of surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterward, they will come out with great substance. Here is God telling Abram what's going to happen many, many years in the future. Abram, your seed, your family, they're going to go and live in a foreign land, a land that is not theirs. They'll be strangers in that land, and they'll become slaves in that land, and they'll serve there. But don't worry, I'm gonna bring them back out. I'm gonna do great things and bring them back out. And I'm gonna make a nation of them there. I'm gonna judge that that nation that they're in. And I'm going to bring them out. And they're and they're going to but they're going to be there for 400 years. But when they come out, I'm going to bless them, I'm going to give them great substance. Here's God outlining the plan for the nation of Israel many, many years earlier. So the question that we ask is, God, how are you going to do that? How are you going to get the the family of Abram and Jacob at this time down to Egypt? God had all this planned out. In fact, Genesis chapter 38 reveals why God wanted to get his people down to Egypt, because in Genesis 38, what you see is that Jacob's family is being corrupted by the Canaanites. And so God needed to get them down to Egypt where there he would um they would become slaves for four hundred years. But this would solidif solidify this people under God. and prepare them to be his nation and bring them out and they would conquer Canaan when it when the the time was right for God's judgment on that country. But the point is clear. God was sovereignly orchestrating all these events according to his eternal plan. And so now God, his sovereignty planned this. But now God's providence has to put it into effect. And this is what we see here in Genesis chapter 37. Genesis 37 is a story of evil. Genesis chapter 37 is a story of sin in a family. We see hatred here. We see envy. We see violence here. We see deception. But we also see that God works all of these things together for good, for an overall good purpose. The life of Joseph is a perfect illustration of Romans 8. 28. Now someone might raise the question, but doesn't that make God responsible for man's sin? I mean, if Genesis thirty-seven is uh God putting into pro uh uh his plan into effect, it's God's providence to put in his sovereign plan into effect, and it's all about bad things that happen, doesn't that make God responsible for man's sin? And the biblical answer is clearly no. No. Man, men are responsible for their Men are responsible for their own sin. God might use men, he might use the free choices that they make. Even though those choices might have evil intents, but he'll use those to accomplish his divine sovereign purpose That's what we see here in this story. George Bush, not not the former president, but a um a commentator from the nineteenth century He describes God's providence as, quote, the overruling power which is wonderful in counsel and mighty in operation, which controls the free and voluntary action of intelligent creatures. even when prompted by a spirit of malevolence and rebellion, so as to render them subservient to the accomplishment of those very plans which they are intent upon defeating While the guilt of those agents remains resting upon them in all its unabated aggravations. Say, what does he mean by that? Well, in other words, God doesn't coerce people to do things. God doesn't manipulate people to do things. He doesn't force people to do things. They do what they want to do of their own free agency and choice. Yet if you think that man's choices can thwart the eternal purpose of God, you've got another thing coming. That just can't happen And God can use the evil intents of men to accomplish his sovereign purposes. That's what he's saying here. We call this concurrence. Both of these things are happening. God is sovereign over all things. He's sovereign over events. And yet man is responsible for his choices, so much so that he will be judged for those choices, the things that he intended. So we can say that the event that happened was 100% caused by man, and yet at the same time it was 100% caused by God, or God was over it. It was his intent that it happened. Now, if it boggles your mind as to how God can grant man free freedom of choice, and yet turn man's sin so that it accomplishes the very thing they were trying to thwart. Then you can join the Apostle Paul who exclaimed, Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his ways, his judgments past finding out. The bottom line of this marvelous story in Genesis 37 is simply this. Since God is sovereign over all, We can trust him even when things seem to be going against us. Even when things are not going our way, we can still trust in God So notice six lessons I see here. We're talking about God's providence and our sufferings. We'll see Joseph suffer here, and yet we'll also see God's providence. Over all of that. But God is sovereign. One lesson I see here is God's sovereign over the parental mistakes we have to endure Look in Genesis chapter 37 and look at verse number three. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. Let's face it, none of us had perfect parents. Many times we have to pay for some of the mistakes that our parents made with us. Jacob was not The world's greatest father, if you read about it in Genesis. He made a lot of mistakes with his family. He was married to more than one woman at the same time. He allowed his wives to engage in a war over who could have the most children, thus creating a climate of rivalry in the family. Uh he had a daughter, Dina, and he he let her uh mingle with the pagans in Shechem, and but and then she was later raped. And uh and then his sons got up to do something about that. They they went to that that place basically and just committed, you might even say genocide. They just killed so many people. And and Jacob did nothing about it There's a lot of things we could catalog about Jacob, a lot of mistakes he made as a parent. But here's one. He makes a mistake by showing favoritism to Joseph. He loved Joseph more than all the others. And and he didn't have to announce that. They could see it very clearly. How could they see it? Well, he made for Joseph a coat of many colors. And that coat may have uh demonstrated the fact that he was uh appointing Joseph to be uh heir over all of what he had, that he was setting him apart to receive the birthright and perhaps a double portion of the inheritance And so he would be treated like the firstborn. Reuben, after it all, forfeited that privilege through his own sin. And so Jacob, I think, is placing Joseph in charge of all the brothers. And Joseph was going to act as the firstborn. And because of that, he had responsibility to make sure that the other brothers acted right. And the it says in verse 2 that he brought an evil report against his brothers. And so, in verse number two. And so by favoring Joseph and setting him over the other sons, Jacob was provoking this hatred, this rivalry among all of the brothers. Now you also have to remember that Joseph's brothers, they were bullies. They were murderers. They went out and they committed terrible murder. These are guys that you don't want to mess with. All right. These are not the typical big brothers. These guys are murderous in their intentions. And uh Jacob obviously was blind to all that. He couldn't see it. And so one day he sends Joseph out to check on his brothers. You know, these bunch of rowdy guys. They don't fear God. They're just like all the Canaanites around them. But Joseph is this good kid, this obedient, responsible son who loved the Lord And Joseph's brothers hated him. Look at verse number four, where it says, And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him. And could not speak peaceably unto him. As we could translate that, they could not so much as greet him. They could not abide in his friendly speech. They rejected every attempt by Joseph to try to be friendly. They loathed his presence And Jacob seems to be strangely blinded to the hatred which his favoritism has provoked among his sons. Uh it is easy for a parent to do. Uh parents, we need to be careful that we don't show favoritism, that we love each child for their for who they are. But the point is this, even when parents make mistakes, God is still sovereign. Jacob was responsible for his foolish mistake, but God was still in control Again, maybe I'm talking to someone here tonight, your parents did or are doing some things that are foolish towards you. You can get mad, you can get bitter, or you can even blame God. You can blame God for maybe for the fact that they didn't protect you from all the things around you, that maybe some of those things damaged your life because they were passive parents. Or you can trust that God has sovereignly put you in that family. Even though you don't understand everything that happened to you, you can give them thanks, knowing that all things will work together for good. You can ask God to take away that bitterness that you might have against perhaps the foolish mistakes that they made. But here's another thing we see here. God is sovereign over the foolish things that we do. Now the situation for Joseph gets worse because look down at verse number five. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. You you thought already they hated him to the limit, but here they He ended up hate him even more. Verse six, and he said unto them, Hear I pray you this dream which I have dreamed, for behold we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheaf arose, and also stood upright, and behold your sheaves stood around Stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheep, and his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words Listen, if you're a younger brother in a family and you have a dream that you're gonna rule over your other brothers, I recommend you not tell them that. But they're not gonna take kindly to that. Especially these kind of guys here. These brutal, brutal guys. And he wasn't done with that. He had another dream. Look at verse nine. Then he dreamed yet another dream and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more, and behold the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars made obeisance to me And he told it to his father and to his brethren, and his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the same. Now here in this dream it's another dream where it seems like all the family members are are again bowing down to Joseph. You know, and so he he's telling these dreams. Again, he's 17 years old, and he kind of lacks some wisdom here. He kind of lacks some maturity. To have shared these dreams and confidence with his father or an old trusted friend, that's one thing. That would have been wise. But to share them with his brothers, who are already threatened by his favored position and already hated him. And perhaps at this time wanted to kill him? That that wasn't wise. We could say that maybe Joseph is a bit naive here. He seems innocent of any wrong motives. I don't think he he's I don't think he's trying to um gloat. I just say, hey, I had a really interesting dream. Guess what? And they hated him for it. They hated him. And so now, later on, and by the way, that that wasn't that was kind of a foolish mistake on the part of Joseph. But now he's supposed to go out and check on his brothers. Look at verse 12. And his brother went to feed their father's flock and check them. And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock and check them? Come and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I. Go check on your brothers. Now Shechem was that place where The brothers basically did all of that killing. It was not it was a place where trouble happened. And so perhaps Jacob is worried about that. So he says, go look at check on your brothers. Watch over them. See what's going on. And uh and again this was not smart, the fact that he went out there and he was wearing the coat that they hated so very much. Probably should have left that coat at home. They saw him coming and they they weren't glad to see him coming. They hated the fact that he was coming. So he he does some foolish things. He makes some mistakes. Maybe out of naivety, maybe just innocence But he made some mistakes. But you know what? God is still sovereign, even though at times we make mistakes. Even though we do foolish things. These things were necessary for God to fulfill his plan to make Israel a nation. Did you know that the great missionary David Brainerd, I don't know if you ever heard of David Brainerd, one of the greatest missionaries in America, missionary to the Indians. His book, uh, the The Life in uh of David Brainerd um was is one of the books that's inspired so many missionaries. But when he was a young man, did you know that he was expelled from Yale for saying some foolish things? There was a revival going on there at Yale. Students were really getting right with God. But there were some of those students who looked at some of the professors there and said, you know what? These professors are not very spiritual. And on one occasion, David Brainerd was overheard saying, talking about one professor, that he has no more grace than this chair over here. Grace meaning, you know, saved. I don't think this man is any more saved than this chair right here. Well, you probably shouldn't have said that. Shouldn't have said it out loud. You may have thought it, but and you know it was overheard. And they wanted to make an example of that kind of talk. And so David Brainerd was expelled from Yale. And because of that, his entire life was changed. Total direction of it changed. He wanted to pastor a church in a small town, but at that time you could not be a pastor unless you graduated from Yale, Harvard, or a European university. If you didn't graduate from one of those schools, you couldn't be a pastor. Now, there were some men that loved David Brainerd, and they began to plead for his cause, but they would not hear it. He was expelled. That was it. It was over. And so David Brainerd couldn't be a pastor. So he decided to go out and to be a missionary to Indians. And by the way, these men that uh pleaded his cause and they decided that because David Brainerd was expelled, they would start another seminary just for him and maybe they could gather some other students in it. It started out real small in a man's library. But that college was called the College of New Jersey, and later that college was named Princeton. That's how Princeton got a start, because David Brainerd was expelled from Yale. And when David Brainerd went to be a a uh a missionary to the American Indians, he journaled everything that took place. And Jonathan Edwards, his father-in-law, later took those journals and wrote a book, and that's been the most read book by missionaries and pastors. It has influenced so many people. John Wesley said that every preacher carefully read over the life of David Brainerd. This this book inspired so many men to go onto the mission field, men like William Carey, Robert Morrison, Robert Murray McShane. And we can just go on down the list all the way down to David Livingston and then Jim Elliott, one of the modern missionary martyrs. Another man got a hold of that book and he read it, and he got such a burden for the Indians. He decided to start a school for the Indians, and that school later became Dartmouth College. So think about that, because David Brainerd was expelled, uh he became a missionary to the Indians, and two other universities were started because of that. And he had a great missionary life, and the journals from that inspired so many else others to go into the mission field. You could say that he made a foolish mistake, yes. But God touched it and He used it for His own purpose. And He made it good. God is sovereign over the parental mistakes we endure. He's sovereign over the foolish things that we do. He's sovereign over the incidental people that we meet. You know the thing about this story here that's always fascinated me is the man that Joseph met when he went to Shechem to check on his brothers. Look at verse number twelve. Or excuse me, drop down the verse um. Number 15. And a certain man found him. So here's actually back up to verse 14 we get the context better. And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren. And well with the flocks, and bring me word again. So he sent them out of the Vale of Hebron and came to Shechem. Verse fifteen. And a certain man found him, and behold he was wandering in the field, and the man asked him, saying, What seeketh thou? And he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me I pray whether they feed their flocks. And the man said, They are departed, hence, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren and found them in Dothan. Think about this. Here is Joseph. He's gone to Shechem. He's looking for his brothers. They're not there. He gets there, they're they're all gone. He's he's wandering around the field looking for them. And a certain man, we don't even know who the man's name is. He just happened to be there at that time and see Joseph and say, hey, what are you looking for? Oh, I I'm looking for, you know, uh Eleven guys, you know, they're kind of brutish, brutal looking, you know, rough rough guys, you know, they're my brothers. They they're taking care of the sheep. You wouldn't happen to have seen them, would you? Oh yeah, I saw them. In fact, I happened to overhear That they're taking the sheep down to Dothan. You think it was an accident that Joseph bumped into that guy in the field at that time? He had to be there at just the right time. Here's Joseph coming down to Shechem, here's this guy. Sees them wandering in the field. They kind of bump into each other. Have you seen my brothers? Oh yeah, yeah. And I actually heard what they said. Took him down to Dothan. Now, if Joseph would have never bumped into those guys, he would have never been thrown into a pit. He would have never been mistreated. He probably would have just went back to Jacob and said, Look, I went to Shechem and they weren't there, Dad. Sorry. Couldn't find him after that. But that certain man just happened to be there at the right time and tell Joseph where his brothers were. Doesn't sound like an accident to me. Had that man not been there, again, Joseph would have never been sold into slavery to Egypt. All these details had to line up This man is that incidental person that Joseph met that changed the course of his life. Had he not met that man, things would have been a lot different for Joseph. You know, God is sovereign over the incidental people that you meet in your life. Those things are not just accidents. The seemingly insignificant people that you meet. Just like big doors swing on small hinges, even so great life-changing events can happen when you meet incidental people in your life. These people are hinge people. I think about my own life, you know, if there are certain people that I would have never met, I wouldn't be where I am right now. I mean I I wouldn't have had some of the things that have happened to me in my life Are all those things accidents? No, they're not. It's God orchestrating, putting into effect His own plan I read about Charles Spurgeon, one of the great Baptist preachers. He was just a young man at one time speaking to a little a little Sunday school class, and a man happened to overhear him speak. And never forgot it. And then he had a friend who lived in London, and this friend happened to mention they're looking for a young man that could come and help the church in London. He goes, Oh, I just heard the guy Seemed to be pretty good, down in Cambridge, name is Charles. Said, Yeah, find that guy for me. Bring him up here. And he went to New Park Street Church at that time and they made him the pastor, and the rest is history, of course. That's where Spurgeon had his great ministry there. Again, it wasn't an accident. What incidental people has God placed in your life that kind of changed? The direction of your life. God is sovereign over the frontal mistakes we must endure. He's sovereign over the foolish things we do. He's sovereign over the incidental people that we meet. He's sovereign over the ungodly evil that we have to encounter. Look down in verse number 18. And when they saw him afar off, this is Joseph's coming now to his brothers, when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said to one another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now for and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit. And we will say some evil beast has devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams. The brothers see Joseph coming from a distance. They recognize him because he was wearing that special coat that they hated so much. Oh, here comes this dreamer. And they plotted to kill him and to throw him into a pit. The pit here is actually a cistern. Archaeologists find a lot of these over in Israel. They're kind of like a hole in the ground, like a well, but they're bottle-shaped. They kind of widen out below. They can be anywhere from 6 feet to 20 feet deep. And it when and when there's no water in it, when it's dried out, it's a perfect dungeon. Uh when I was over uh digging in a Curve del Micotar, we found cisterns like this all over, and they go down deep. You wouldn't want to fall into one of those things. And they said, let's put him in this pit. Now at this point, Reuben the Otis intervenes in verses 21 to verse 24. He kind of persuades his brothers not to shed blood, but just throw him into the pit. I think he planned later on coming back and getting him and restoring him to his father. Maybe that was Reuben's plan to get on his dad's good side. So they stripped him of his coat and they throw him into the pit. And once Joseph was in the pit, Reuben went off, perhaps, to check on the flock, while the rest of the brothers, they all kind of callously sat down to eat their lunch. But even in this evil that was done to Joseph, God was in control. He didn't allow him to be killed. That was not part of God's plan. Ruby intervened, no, let's just put him into this pit. And so that's what happened. They could only do to him what God allowed. You know, God uses the sins and the evil committed against his people for their ultimate good. We have all, again, at times been the victim of maybe a person's malicious behavior towards us. Um and you know what there's we don't even know uh the evil that God has protected us from at times in in our life. But God uses things, those evil things, to accomplish his purpose. Think about everything that happened to the Apostle Paul. Think about how he catalogues all the all the evil against him. Every every time people, you know, try to ruin Paul in the Corinthian church where he was in prison, people were speaking against him. And yet Paul Realize that all these things were really just a way of refining him and helping to sanctify him. Think of the Lord Jesus Think about the evil done to Jesus. I would propose to you that the most evil sin ever committed was the crucifixion of the innocent Son of God, Jesus Christ. That was the worst thing ever committed. A worst sin ever committed against a person. And yet, out of the worst, most heinous sin ever committed, became the greatest blessing to all mankind. Because Jesus was crucified, we now have salvation. We now are freed from sin through Jesus Christ. And on we can go. All these things that happened. One person wrote this, the English divine Henry Law. He said, quote, He moves the ever-moving wheels of circumstances No sparrow falls, no least decays, but in accordance with his ordering mind. He wills and things occur Chance is a figment of a dreaming pillow. It never was, it never can be. Thus to the child of God there is no trifle or unimportant event. Momentous issues often hang on rapid words or on sudden looks or on unintended steps. And so God is sovereign over even the ungodly evil we have to encounter. But then number five, God is sovereign over the changed plans that we experience. Look down at verse number 25. Here's the brothers. And they sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead, and their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, and going to carry it down to Egypt. And Judah said unto his brethren What profit is if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. Let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content. All of a sudden Judah's acting a little bit righteous now. Oh, let's not kill 'em. I got a better idea. We can make money off of 'em. You know, these Midianites are just passing by as they're sitting there eating their lunch. They're traveling south to Egypt. Remember what God's plan was? To bring the family of Jacob down to Egypt. All this had to happen. These merchants are not traveling north, they're not traveling east, they're not traveling another direction, they're traveling down south to Egypt. And then Judah has this idea. Let's sell them to these traders. That way they won't have the guilt of killing their brother, and we can make a little money on the side, he says. That's the plan. It strikes everyone as a great idea. Isn't it amazing how sometimes people can salve their consciousness by against some terrible sin by rationalizing and saying, Well, it's not as bad as it could have been. I mean, you know, at least we're not killing 'em. We might be selling 'em off, but at least we're not murdering 'em. You can hear them saying it'll be better for Joseph. It'll be better for us. Meanwhile, Ruby comes back to the pit and doesn't find him there. He kind of panics a little bit. until he realizes what happens. But all of this was a change in plans. A sudden change in plans. Have you ever experienced in your life a sudden change of plan? Something that boy looked like this was going to happen and all of a sudden at the last minute, boom, it just fell through, plans changed, it didn't happen. Ever cause you to wonder why? Again, the Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it's the purpose of the Lord that will stand. I remember one time I was candidating in a church up in New Hampshire, large church. This was years ago. They flew me there several times to preach. One of the few times I flew first class. This all looked good. Big church, wonderful opportunity. They were ready to vote. Everybody was all for it. They were going to do it. But then suddenly the door just shut. Just shut. Couldn't understand why not. I mean, we were ready to go. It looked like everything was going to happen. And then suddenly at the last minute, one person blocked that thing from happening and it didn't happen. I was left very disappointed. But you know what? God, it was not his purpose for me to go there. Had I gone there, I might be a New York Yankees fan. I'm an Oriol fan, beloved. No, I'm kidding. But it just happens. God is in control of the change, the sudden changes and plans that we might experience. But then also God is sovereign over the sorrowful deceptions we hear. Look down at verse number twenty-nine. And Reuben returned unto the pit, and behold, Joseph was not in the pit, and he rent his clothes, and he returned to his brethren, said, This child is not, and whither shall I go? And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of coats and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors and they brought it to their fam father and said, This have we found Know not know now whether it be thy son's coat or no. And he knew it, and he said, It is my son's coat, and an evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph with is without doubt rent in pieces In verse 34, Jacob ran his clothes, picked up sackcloth upon his loins, mourned for his son many days, and then he refused to be comforted, it says later on. We see the hypocrisy of the brothers trying to comfort them in verse number 35. How about just telling him the truth? That would be a comfort. There are times in your life when someone will lie to you and deceive you, and this deception might result in deep sorrow. But God will use even that pain for his purpose, for your good and for his glory ultimately. God can use even that The mistakes that others make against you, the deceptions that others do to you. Did you know that Fanny Crosby, the great hymn writer who wrote songs like Blessed Assurance? Did you know that when she was just a little baby, she had a little bit of an eye problem, and they called a doctor, and he came, and the treatment that he gave her caused her to go blind. It was a mistake of a doctor. When he tried to put something on her eyes to fix her eyes, the baby screamed with pain. And as a result of that, she lost her sight as just a baby. Many years later, Fanny Crosby was being interviewed, and uh in the interview she said, you know what, I have absolutely no she was asked about that. She said, I have have absolutely no bitterness against the physician. In fact, she said, if I could meet him now, I would say thank you for making me blind. She felt that her blindness was a gift from God to help her write the hymns that she wrote. She wrote over 8,000 hymns. Hymns that comforted people. And so God used that even that in her life. Now we're out of time, so I'm going to wrap this up. But what I want you to see is that God's providential hand and the things that you have to endure in your life. Again, it may be that some bad things have happened to you lately and you might Think, you know, my life is over. I think Joseph probably had that thought when he was on his way down to Egypt, having been sold into slavery. Joseph probably had the thought, my life is pretty much over. It's over. But you know what? What he didn't realize is that his life was really just beginning. And that God was going to do use all of that to do something incredibly great. And we all know the rest of the story. How that he again is uh lied about While he's working in Potiphar's house, he's thrown into prison. He's forgotten there. But then eventually God brings him out of that prison and makes him prime minister of Egypt. So that he, through his wisdom, is able to bring salvation to so many people. I mean, it's just an incredible story. But Joseph could have said, you know, my life is over. No, it's not over, Joseph. It's just beginning. God is doing great things. And later on, as Joseph looks back, Over all the things that happened in his life after Jacob died, after the families all moved down to Egypt according to God's sovereign plan, Joseph realizes that all those things had to happen And it was not God being harsh or mean to him, it was God bringing about good in his life. Not only for him But for many, many other people around. And later J Joseph could say to his brothers, You meant this for evil against me. But God meant it for good. Well, who did it? Did the brothers do it or did God do it? Yeah, they both did it. The brothers are responsible for what they did, and yet what they did did not thwart the purposes of God. It confirmed. The sovereign purposes of God. And they were responsible for their choices, and yet what they did was all according to God's sovereign plan. And Joseph could say, You meant it for evil. But God meant it for good to bring about these present results. May we see the reason for God's dealing after a few years. after a few years, maybe not even until eternity, but you can know this. We can trust God no matter what happens. Because his sovereign loving hand is on us, even in the little happenstances of life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Just take a moment and think about your life. Think about God's providence in your life. We can think about the lightful providences. We can also think about dark providences Some of those things, we may not understand why right now, why they happen, but we can know this. God works all things together for good. To those that love God, to those that are called according to his purpose, he'll work it all out for good. He'll touch it and he'll turn it to gold. That's the promise of God's providence for us. Promise of his providence. Even in our sufferings, God will make it for good. He'll turn it to gold. He'll use it. Father, thank you for this truth. May it uphold us and carry us through the difficult times that we sometimes face here in this life. To know, Lord, that you are in control. And when it seems like that others are in control of our life, we can know that the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, and Lord, you turn it whatever way you want. That no one can make a decision about our life that is out of harmony with what your will and plan is for us. That Lord, you're the one who's ultimately in control of the circumstances, the events that take place in our life. And Father, we can trust you. No matter what happens, we can trust you. Lord, thank you for this reminder. And we pray this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.