And open to the book of judges. As you know on Wednesday night we're looking through the book of judges and we've titled this series, Being Faithful in Faithless Times. And this was definitely a time of faithlessness in the life of Israel, and yet in that time there were people that remained faithful to the Lord. And this is a call for all of us, because we live in faithless times as well. And uh God's concern with Israel was they they not capitulate to the culture around them that they obey his commandments and Israel struggle with that. And there are many that seem to struggle with that today here in our world. And God is looking for people that will be faithful to him. Now, when Israel got into trouble, God would punish them, and you know the cycle that we have studied here in Judges. When they disobeyed, God would raise up an oppressor, and then they would cry out, and God would raise up a judge, and they would be delivered, and then they would go right back into that same cycle again. It just seemed like Israel never got the point they could not learn. And uh a lot of times we're like that, aren't we? We don't seem to really get it that disobedience is a huge problem. And we need to be obedient to the Lord And tonight I want to talk about God's strength and our weakness, because what we see in chapter 6 of the book of Judges, this is where we are tonight, Judges chapter 6. It opens with another low point in Israel's history. The Midianites were ravaging the land, and Israel was hiding in caves. They were paralyzed by fear. And in the midst of this crisis, God will raise up another judge. He's not going to be a formidable man. He's going to be a very fearful farmer, not necessarily a fearless warrior. But the chapter reminds us that God specializes in using ordinary weak people. In fact, if uh that's all God has to choose from He has weak people, uh weak, hesitant people, but yet people that are willing to trust God even in their weakness. I think it was Spurgeon that said that God doesn't need strength. He doesn't need your strength because God already has all strength But he doesn't have any weakness, so he'll take your weakness. And he'll take your weakness and he'll make it strong because it's really his strength working through us. So I want you to look in Judges chapter 6 tonight, and what we're going to look at here are five crucial steps that God takes to overcome our weakness and use us for his glory. Now every person here tonight, if you're saved and you know the Lord, God wants to use you in his service. He didn't save you so that you can do nothing. He wants to use you. You might be thinking, well, I I'm a pretty weak vessel. Well welcome to the club. We all are This story here is about a man who was weak, and yet the Lord is going to confront his weakness and use him. And this is what the Lord does with all of us. So here's the point number one that I want you to think about is that God confronts us in our weakness And we see this in the first ten verses of Judges chapter six. Notice verse one. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made the them the den uh the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains and caves and strongholds. And so what we find here in these first two verses is that Israel again had turned from the Lord, and as a judgment, God allows the Midianites to devastate the land. Now who were the Midianites? Well they were by the we see them several times in Scripture. They were enemies of the Lord, but the first time we see them, they're really distant relatives of Israel. They are the descendants of Abraham through his second wife, Katira. And uh the the Midianites were the one that sold Joseph into uh to Egypt, as you might remember that story, but they were looked upon as a positive light in the book of Exodus because Moses' father-in-law, Jethro, was a Midianite, and it was from Midian that Moses received the call. And uh however that relationship with the Midianites deteriorates because in Numbers chapter 25 Balaam uses the Midianites to draw the people of Israel away from God. And then in numbers thirty one there's an all out war against them And so from there, from that point on, there was animosity between Midian and Israel. Now at this point, the Midianites grow to be strong. And now they're oppressing Israel. So much so that the children of Israel are hiding in caves and in dens and in the mountains. They're fleeing from these people And uh uh uh how did they oppress them? Well look at verse number three. And so it was that when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the East, even they came up against them. So whenever the Israelites would plant their crops, the Midianites along with the Amalekites, another group from the uh from the east, another group that hated Israel, they would get together, they would come and they would invade the land and they would steal the harvest, they would steal the produce. One commentator, Donald Campbell, says, crossing the Jordan, the invaders slashed their way across the rich. uh playing plundering the threshing grain, the harvested crops, the flocks, the domesticated animals, employing a scorched earth policy, these commando attacks drain the land of its food And it left the Israelites in a state of terror and devastation. And that was going on. In fact, the Bible says in verse 5, it compares the Midianites to Locusts. And what do Locs do? They strip the land bare. They're numerous, they're destructive. And they would also use kind of a new weapon in that time. And verse number five says they had camels with them, for they came up with their with their cattle and their tents. uh they came as grasshoppers for multitude for both they and their camels were without number. This is the first time used for an organized military raid they used these animals. Camels possess endurance and speed They could travel a hundred miles per day and without food and water they could carry heavy loads and so they would come in with uh these animals, they would take their produce, take their harvest, and Israel was terrified. The people ran to the mountains, to the caves, to the strongholds. And this went on for seven years. Can you imagine this? Year after year. They came in like hordes of locusts. It was a national disaster. Look at verse number six. And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord. The word impoverished here means to become small or become low. And this speaks not just about their economic state, but also about their emotional state. They begin to cry out unto the Lord. Now, the question we need to ask is why were they oppressed? Why? And before God sends up uh raises up a deliverer and a judge First he raises up a prophet to remind them why they were in this sad condition. You see, before God rescues, he confronts And before he lifts us up, he humbles us. A doctor that just treats the symptoms doesn't really get to the problem. He has to get to the disease. What's the problem? That's where the healing happens. And here God is going to tell them the pro the Midianites were simply a symptom. Israel's sin was the disease. Look in verse number eight Actually verse 7. It came to pass that when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites, that the Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt. I brought brought you forth out of the house of bondage. I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and dragged them out before you and gave you their their land, and I said unto you, I am the Lord your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites. In whose land ye dwell, but here's the point, but ye have not obeyed my voice. This is kind of a classical form of a judgment speech in that day. God rehearses his grace to them. This is what I've done for you. And then God reminds them of the stipulations. I told you when you come into the land, don't worship or fear. Really reverence, sir, God. It's the idea of worship And then God says, but you've disobeyed. You haven't listened. And verse number 10, that's the basic message. You haven't obeyed my voice. And so Israel refused to obey God and they end up living like animals in caves running from their enemies. You know, many of the weaknesses that we have in our life is due to our disobedience to God. Many of the problems we have in our life is because we're not obeying God fully as we should. So first of all God has to confront our idols before he strengthens our hands. He's got to remove those idols out of your heart. He's got to remove that disobedience from you before he strengthens your hands. But here's number two. Not only does God confront us in our weakness, but number two, God calls us despite our weakness. And in verse number 11, we're introduced to a new character in the book of Judges. We meet another judge, verse eleven, and there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak, which was in Ophra, that it pertained unto Joash the Abbey, and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it. uh from the Midianites. So we meet Gideon and he's threshing wheat, but he's doing it in a wine press. Now just to give you an understanding, when you normally thresh wheat, what would you where would you be? You would be high on a hill. Why? Because when you throw The wheat up into the air you want the wind to blow the chaff away so that the wheat would fall down. So normally you would do that on a high place on a hill where the wind was able to get it. But here he is, he's stretching wheat. And where is he doing it? He's doing it in a wine press. Don't get the idea he's kind of hiding behind a wine press like a b Like he's hiding behind a barrel. That's not the idea here. When they would build these wine presses, they would they would cut them out of rock, normally on the side of a hill. The rock was cut out. And so to be in a wine press meant he was down in it deep, a few feet down. So that means he was hidden. While he's freshing weed, he's hiding in this wine press. The reason they would build these into cut these into slopes or into the hilltops is because the gravity would help the juice load down And and grace would grow on these terraced hillsides there in Israel. And here he is, he's hiding inside this sunken rock. uh that that was used for the wine press. And what is this a picture of? It's a picture of fear, it's a picture of weakness. And this is purposeful on the on the on the part of the writer. He wants us to see that Gideon is not a a brave man He's a weak, cowardly person. And uh the grapes in the wine press normally trampled on and crushed. I think again there's some There's some imagery there. This is a picture of the spirit of the people of Israel. They were trampled under the foot by the Midianites. They were crushed. They were weak. And so, but here God comes to Gideon. And the Bible says in verse 12, the angel of the Lord appeared to him. And by the way, this isn't just an ordinary angel. This is an appearance of God Himself. This is what scholars call a theophany, or we could call it a Christophany, an Old Testament appearance of the Lord. The Lord comes to him. You say, how do we know it was the Lord? Well, because in verse number 14, it says, the Lord looked upon him and said This is God coming to him in the form of this this messenger. And it is God speaking to him. The Lord is the Yahweh, the divine name. And notice how the Lord greets him in verse number 12, in the latter, the second part of verse 12. And said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. Now this greeting is meant to shock Gideon and shock the reader. You're reading along here and you say, what mighty man avour? This guy this guy is hiding. He's hiding in a in a wine press. This had to be a surprise to Gideon Because again, his location contradicts the greeting. He's thr threshing wheat secretly. He's acting out of fear. There's nothing about his posture that says he's a man of valor or someone that's courageous. But to hear that the Lord is with them, I mean that was that was really surprising to Gideon. But this is also surprising to the reader. You would expect the Lord to say something like, you know, you deserve what you get. You would expect a rebuke. You would expect a word of judgment. But that's not what happens here. Instead, you read of assurance. You read of God calling this weak man. And this is meant to provoke the response of, on our part as a reader, saying, Wow, what does this tell us about God? He's incredibly gracious and kind. And he comes to Gideon as he is. He doesn't say, why are you hiding? He doesn't say repent. He doesn't say, well, you're a weakling. He says, the Lord is with you. What an incredible promise in the midst of fear. This is not a rebuke. This is a comforting word. And you know, as a reader, you would expect, you know, here's another judge. You would expect some kind of a hero. But no, God chooses a weak man. He chooses a frightened man. And this uh is because God is going to you give him his strength. This is a message to all of us that God uses weak people. And so we see Gideon's response. Look down at verse number thirteen. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles which our fathers told of us, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt. But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites. And so Gideon responds with all these excuses, you know, if the Lord is with us, then why does all this happen? And verse 15 will say, my family is poor and I'm the least in my father's house. But God continues to uh give assurance to Gideon in verse sixteen. He says, Surely I'm going to be with you. You see, here's the whole point God's going to use Gideon now to be a judge, a deliverer, and Gideon's strength is not going to be of him. The deliverance is not going to be cause be because of Gideon or because of his strength, but who's it going to come from? It's going to come from God. And Gideon is a mighty man of valor, not because of his bravery, but because the Lord is with him. That's the key right there. God doesn't call us because we're strong, he calls us because he is strong. He is strong and we're the weak ones. He sees us not as we are, but as we will be when his grace takes hold of us. God doesn't call the equipped, he equips the called. And so God confronts us in our weakness. God calls us despite our weakness. But here's the third thing I want you to see here. God confirms his presence in our weakness. And we see this in verses 17 down to verse number 24. The writer is going to show us that Gideon's faith is weak. Not only is he cowardly and hiding and a weak man, but his faith is weak as well. Gideon is going to ask for a sign. I call this the assurance he requested. Look at verse 17. When Gideon says this, he says, And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. Gideon asked for a sign. He wanted to make sure it was really God talking to him. I mean he's wrestling with some possibilities. Is God really speaking to me, or am I mistaken here? I mean there was no prophet speaking publicly, no visible uh manifestation of God for a long time in Israel. And so he's wondering, you know, is this truly a divine encounter? Is this really happening? Or, you know, it could be, you know, uh do you have the right person here? Are you sure you have the right person here? Or is this some kind of a a vision or a dream that I'm having? And so he says, I need a sign And so notice in verse number 18, Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And I love this. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again. So Gideon is going to bring an offering before this angel of the Lord and set it before him. Why? Well, because presenting a sacrifice and waiting to see whether God would consume it was a way to know whether it was of God. And that's this is something that we see in the Old Testament. um that when a sacrifice was prepared, sometimes God would answer by fire from heaven. This was something that was uh expected, in fact, sometimes in the Old Testament. This was uh uh uh uh the the world view back then in the old testament that fire belonged to God. Only God could ignite a true sacrifice or true uh fire of Apart from human means, only God could do that. We see this in 1 Kings chapter 18 on Mount Carmel. Remember, the prophets of Baal prepared their sacrifice. Elijah prepared his, and Elijah said, Let the real God answer from heaven with fire. And God answered. We see this again in 1 Chronicles 21. At the threshing floor, David prepares a sacrifice, and the Bible says, And the Lord answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar. We see this also in the book of Leviticus, chapter 9, in the inauguration of the priesthood, at the very beginning of Israel's sacrificial system, the Bible says, there came a fire out from before the Lord and consumed the altar. And so this establishes a pattern. If you want to know something is of God, if it's pleasing to the Lord, or if God has favor on it, you would prepare a sacrifice and God would answer. So this is what giving is doing here Gideon is saying, look, uh, I'm going to prepare a sacrifice, and if this is really you, God, then you can answer. And notice The answer of the Lord to him in verse 18, he said, I will tarry until thou come again. That just fascinates me, that God is willing to wait. You know, he's willing to wait. God is so patient. He's so gracious. He's willing to wait for Gideon to get all the uh sacrifice ready, which would take time. And by the way, God's willing to wait for you. Did you know that? He's willing to wait for your faith to grow. He's willing to wait on us, even though at times we're not willing to wait on him, he's willing to wait on us. And so notice in verse number 19, and Gideon went in and made ready a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah flour, the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it. So he prepares this young goat unleavened bread, broth poured out. Again, this is this doesn't this is not quick. This is gonna this takes time. And this also tells us Gideon is serious. He's not mocking. He's very sincere. He's very reverent in the way he does all this. He wants a sign. And so look at what happens in verse 20. And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so. The angel tells them to lay it all out. Verse 21 Then the angel of the Lord put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh in the unleavened cakes, and there arose a fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh in the unleavened cakes. Then the angel of the Lord disappeared out of his sight. So here the angel consumes this offering by fire, and then he vanishes. Well, Gideon, you wanted a sign, you got one. There's no better sign than that. This is a miraculous proof here. It doesn't get a whole lot better. And by the way, we'll see this test used again in Judges chapter 13 by Samson's parents. But this teaches a profound truth. God graciously condescends to human weakness and And surrendering even to his holiness, God just comes down, he waits upon Gideon, he graciously gives him this sign to bolster his faith, to give him this encouragement. And what's Gideon's response? Look at verse 22. And when Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face. Verse 23, and the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee, fear not, thou shalt not die. Gideon suddenly understands that the messenger is a divine encounter and suddenly he's terrified and he says, You know, I've seen God face to face, and many people in the Old Testament understand that when that happens You know, people die. You can't just enter into the presence of God, but God assures them, it says, look, let there be peace. Um I'm not gonna you're not gonna die. And uh so Gideon knows now that this is the Lord, that this is God And God gives them that wonderful word of assurance. And Gideon builds an altar, the Bible says, where he names it Jehovah Shalom, the Lord is peace. There in verse number 24. And so God's presence turns his fear into peace. Now this whole encounter that Gideon has with God, it changes him It doesn't remove his fear completely, but it does reorient it some. He's no longer afraid of the Midianites like he was. Now he has a fear of God And that's what God wants. We need to fear God and not man. We need to keep our eyes on the Lord and not worry about the fear of man Gideon was still fearing God, but uh he didn't fear the Midianites uh like he did. before. And so Gideon has this newfound fear of the Lord. He knew that the Lord was going to be with him. This is the greatest assurance in our weakness. It's not that our circumstances will change, but that God will be with us. The Midianites are still there, but yet Gideon knew the Lord was going to be with them. So let me show you the fourth thing. We see then that God confronts us in our weakness. God calls us despite our weakness. God confirms his presence in our weakness. But here's the fourth thing I see. God commands obedience in our weakness. Now Gideon asks a test of God, and now God's going to ask a test of Gideon. It's Gideon's turn now to be tested. And so God's going to give him some orders, some things he wants them to do. So look at verse number twenty-five. And it came to pass that same night that the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that is by it So God is going to give him an order that very night. He's going to give him a task. And he's going to test Gideon's dedication. And God's first assignment for Gideon was not to face the Midianites, but to tear down his father's altar that was devoted to Baal, and to build an altar to the Lord. But even more than that, he was supposed to sacrifice his father's special bull. You see, the problem really was not the Midianites, but the real problem was idolatry in Israel. That was the problem. Now listen, until you get things right in your own home, you're not going to be useful anywhere else. And so God says you've got to first of all tear down that altar in your father's house. You've got to get rid of it. You know, what what good would it be to defeat the Midianites if Baal is still enthroned in people's homes? So here's the first thing that you have to do. Military victory is meaningless. Reform is superficial unless you get your idols out of your home. You get rid of them. You see, God insists there is no salvation without true repentance, no deliverance without loyalty. Now, evidently, Gideon's father Uh Joash had this altar of Baal on their property, and it had to be a large altar there, because uh it was it's going to take about ten men to tear it down. And also ten men and two bulls. Look at verse 26. And God tells him, tear it down and build an altar unto the Lord thy God upon the top of this rock. in the ordered place, and take the second bullock and offer it as a burnt sacrifice with the wood of the grow which thou shalt cut down. And verse 27, then Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the Lord had said unto him And so, again, this this was uh must have been a really big altar there for Gideon had to tear it down and then build an altar to the Lord and use some of the wood from that old altar and Use it to burn the sacrifice and and and the and the prized bull that Gideon's father was saving to sacrifice unto Baal, Gideon was to take that bull and sacrifice it unto the Lord. And so I've been to Israel in a place called Megiddo, just a few miles west of Gideon's home that's described here. An archaeologist uns uncovered a an altar to Baal there. It was about twenty-five feet across, four and a half feet high, made with some really heavy stones So this is a huge altar that they uncovered. So no wonder it took Gideon, two bulls, and ten men to tear down this altar. But he does it. And this altar at his father's house obviously was an instrument that was being used to spread Baal worship all over. And so this was the first test for Gideon Now, so Gideon obeys in verse number twenty-seven. The Bible says he did that, but he does it at night. Look at verse 27. Then Gideon took ten men of his of his servants And did as the Lord had said unto him, and so it was, because he feared his father's household and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, but that he did it by night. Now, he did it by night because he was still afraid. There's still some fear there. But he obeys. And what does this tell us? Even trembling obedience is still obedience. You ever do something and you were and you you're doing it because you're obeying the Lord, but yet you were afraid, and yet you still do it? Well let me tell you something, God honors that. He honors obedience, even though you may be trembling, even though you may be fearful. God doesn't wait for perfect courage. He honors real obedience. Faith can tremble and yet still act. And really this thing of destroying this altar actually was harder, I think, for Gideon than fighting the Midianites because it risked so much. It risked family conflict, it risked community backlash, social isolation, even death. He was risking his own life by obeying the Lord in this way. And yet this is his first public act of faith. He's going to trust God. He's going to obey God. And when he obeys, God honors him. You see, before God will give us public victories, he calls for private obedience. That we obey him privately. And we can't expect God to use us in great ways if we're not willing to obey him in small ways. God tests his servants privately before he will use them publicly. But then we see the opposition as a result. Look at verse 28. Then the men of the city arose early in the morning, and behold, the altar of veil was cut cast down, and the grove was cut down that was by it. And the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built. So the next morning the men of the city they're in a uproar Because of what Gideon had done. Now, evidently they were up early for their morning devotions to Baal. Some pagans are more devoted to their false God than Christians are to their true God. These guys are up early for their morning devotions. And they find out that what had happened. This altar of Baal was torn down. Another altar built unto the Lord. This prized bull sacrifice to the Lord? And they inquired about who did this, verse 29. And they said one to another, Who had done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, has done this thing. They investigated and they found out that Gideon was the one who actually did this. Uh we the Bible doesn't tell us how they found out. Maybe one of the ten men ratted them out. Or maybe someone saw them. But it doesn't tell us. But notice verse 30. Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son. Listen to this, that he may die. Because he has cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the grove that was by it. This tells you how bad things were in Israel. They were so given to the worship of Baal and idolatry that when an altar to Baal is torn down, they're ready to kill the guy. That that's incredible that they were wanting to do that. Obviously, Gideon was still living at his home in this uh patriarchal society. Um and The father then, Joash, was held accountable for everything that Gideon was doing. And so that's why they assembled at the door of Joash. Evidently Joash was a man who uh Who had some leadership there, and they said, deliver your son to us. You know, whenever you take a stand for the Lord, it's going to have both a negative impact and a positive impact. You understand that? Whenever you take a stand for God, you have to be willing to pay the consequences for it. Doesn't guarantee that everything's always going to go right for you. But you'll have a negative impact, there are going to be people that want to get at you, and you're going to have a positive impact. You're going to influence a lot of people And that's what happens here in this story. Because what happens is Joash begins to defend his son. I see a conversion here by Gideon's father. Look at verse 31. And Joash said unto all that stood against him. Will you plead for bail? Now, this is a really interesting part here. Verse 31 is really a legal dispute The men gathering together, that's kind of a judicial assembly. This is not a mob uh chaos here. This is a legal confrontation at a cultic site And Joash, as the owner of the altar, head of the household, has the legal authority here, according to ancient Near Eastern customs. And Joash then asked two questions followed by two statements. Here's the first question. Will you plead for bail? And the word here is a legal defense. Does bail need a legal attorney? Does he need a defense attorney? Are you Baile's legal attorneys here? Now think about this. Gods are supposed to be the judges, not the defendants in a case. A deity that needs legal counsel is pretty weak But then also, will you save him? is the next question he asks. And the word here is the same Hebrew word used to speak of the role of the judges who deliver Israel. And the and the irony here is obvious. Instead of the people needing deliverance, it is Baal who needs deliverance. Are you going to deliver Baal? Are you going to save Baal? What kind of God needs to be delivered? That's the idea here. Baal needs saving. That means he's not a very strong God. If he needs an eternity, he needs someone to save him. And then he says this, he that defends Baal, let him be put to death. Look again in verse number 31. Where it says, He that will plead for him, let him be put to death whilst it is yet mourning. And as the owner of the site upon which these legal proceedings are being conducted, he has the legal right to pronounce sentence against his own. And so here Joash, with legal authority, his property, his household, his altar, his jurisdiction, makes a ruling And what's the ruling? Anyone who defends Baal, let him die. Let him die. Well, that's that's a That to me is a statement of repentance. He has seen the folly of his idolatry. He's seen the courageous act of his son. That has had an impact on him. And now he's turning to the Lord. So much so that he makes this legal declaration Again, when you make a stand for God, you're going to influence other people for good. There might be some negative things that happen, but there's also going to be some positive things that happen. And Joash is publicly disowning Baal here. This is an open renunciation. And then he says this in verse number 31. The last phrase, if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because one hath cast down his altar. And I mean if Baal's a god, let him defend himself. I mean, Baal was depicted as having lightning bolts in each of his hands. He was the god of fertility, and the idea was that, you know, let him wield one of those lightning bolts. If he wants to answer by fire, let him do it. Let him defend himself. Let him answer from heaven. Again, this reminds us of Elijah in Mount Carmel If Baal's real, let him answer with a lightning bolt and defend himself. If he doesn't, what does that mean? He must not be real. He must not be real. And so this was a crushing blow here. Case dismissed, over with. Based on this, Gideon's name is changed. Look in verse number 32. Therefore, on that day, he called him Jerubbabel, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he has thrown down his altar. So this is a derisive name. This is why Gideon is renamed this, let Baal contend his own case. The idea here is that he never does. He never answers for himself. And so really this whole name was a mockery. It was a public ridicule. He's a God who doesn't respond. He's a God who can't defend himself. So this wasn't a flattering name. It was constantly a challenge and a ridicule against Baal. And from this point on, anytime that name is used, the idea is, has has Baal answered yet, by the way? Anybody hear anything from Baal of him in that case? No, he's still silent. So again it was just mockery. And every day Gideon lived, the answer was the same, no. No. And so that name Mock Baal became a monument to Baal's silence and the fact that he is not really a God at all. So here God is using a weak man, Gideon, to overturn false worship and to have an impact. So let me get to the last point quickly here. God confronts us in our weakness. God calls us to spite our weakness. God confirms his presence in our weakness. God commands obedience in our weakness. But here's the last thing tonight. Just write this down. God confirms faith in our weakness. Now we get to the end of the story here. We see this in verses 33 down to verse 40. This is the time of the year for the harvest. And Midian is now coming to do what they normally do, to ravage the land, to steal the crops. The Midianites are gathered together for battle, and Gideon is now, he's the deliverer, but he still has some doubt He still has some hesitation. He still has some fear. So notice verse number 34. But the Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon, and he blew a trumpet. And Abbeazar was gathered after him. So the Bible says, literally, the Spirit comes upon Gideon. I love this expression, clothes himself with Gideon. Gideon is now empowered to lead, but again it's God's strength. And he blows the trumpet and he assembles an army. He sends messengers all throughout the tribes, and thousands respond. They all come together and they form this army. Now later on we're going to find out that God's going to trim that army down, but that'll be for another time But you know what Gideon does again? You're not gonna believe this. Maybe you already know the story. He's gonna ask for another sign. Now he's already asked for a for a sign from God and God gave it to him, but here he's going to ask for another sign. And you know this story here, I know you do And look down at verse number 36. And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said, behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor. And if the dew be on the fleece only, and if he dry on the earth aside, then shall I know that thou will save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said. God, if you're going to save Israel by my hand, I'm going to put this fleece out here in the wine press and in the morning Let the fleece be wet and the ground be dry. And you know what happened the next day? The fleece was wet and the ground was dry. Just like God said. And Gideon says, Okay, thank you, God. Let's go I'm ready to go. No, that's not what happens. God says, okay, again, he says, okay, uh God, just to make sure I didn't get this wrong, let's try something different. Look down at verse number 39. And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, Lord. And I will speak this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only upon the fleece and upon all the ground, let there be dew. Next day let the fleece be dry and the ground be wet. And the next day the fleece was dry and the ground was wet. And God answered, I got that right, didn't I? Or did I miscon And then God answers again. The next day the fleece fleece was dry and the ground was wet. So, uh notice verse 40, and God did so that night, for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground. Now the pe the question that people ask when you come to this passage is, was this a good way to know God's will? Is this good? Because I've had people ask me this, was Gideon right to do this And really, there's several views on this, and I'll have to give them to you quickly here. First of all, the one view is that this fleece was a commendable act of faith, some people say. He was exercising childlike trust, and God honored him sincerely seeking. And this is a legitimate model for us to follow and find God's will. Go ahead and lay out your fleece before God to find the will of God. Well, the problem with that is that Gideon already knew the will of God. There was no question about what God's will was. There was no question about what God told him to do. And God had already promised the victory, and God had already given him a sign. He had given him a direct word. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. So this is not Gideon trying to find the will of God. This was driven by fear, not ignorance. Scripture never encourages us to put out a fleece to find God's will. There's another view that says, well, the fleece was really just it's neither good nor bad, you know, God just accommodates uh but Gideon, the way he asked for this, understood that this wasn't really the right thing to do. Why? Because he said, let not thine anger be hot. God, don't be mad at me. For asking this, because he already had a sense that this was this was not acting really in faith. This was really the weakness of his faith. And so Gideon here, uh, he's still being controlled somewhat by his fear. But that again is a lesson to us. You know, even though we have faith, fear sometimes can rise up in us. And we we need not to allow our faith, or excuse me, our fear to dominate us. We need to act in faith. But the third view is that uh the fleece was weak faith tolerated by God. And I think that's the correct idea here. Gideon is wavering. This fleece is an act of fearful faith And God answers without approving his method, which shows what? The patience of God, the grace of God. Dealing with us. And so it really this should cause us to just thank the Lord for his patience and kindness and loving kindness to us when we don't deserve it. And God encouraging us when we at times really don't deserve it. So the fleece doesn't not teach us how to discern God's will. It teaches us how wonderful and patient God is. That's really the whole lesson behind this thing here. And so God does not rebuke him for asking. He meets him right where he is because our God is merciful. And God is willing to meet us where we are and to bring us along so that he might take weak people and make them strong and use them for his glory. And that's what God wants to do with all of us. He wants us to trust in Him. He confronts us in sin. He calls us despite He confirms his presence. He commands obedience. He confirms our faith. He encourages our faith. Why? Because God's strength is made perfect in our weakness. And that's really the lesson. And that's what God wants to do in your life tonight. Let's bow for prayer together as we're out of time. So while you're there, heads bowed and eyes closed. Just remember that God delights in using fearful ordinary people who are willing to trust him. God takes weak, fearful people step by step, confronting them, calling them, confirming them, until they learn that his strength is made perfect in their weakness. So maybe you're here tonight and you just need to reach out to God in your weakness and say, God, help me to trust in you. Maybe the Lord is calling you in a certain area of your life, and fear is keeping you back. God wants your weakness. He wants your weakness and he wants to show himself himself strong in your weakness. Because when we're weak, that's when he is strong. Honest narrative about a weak man that Lord did not limit you in any way. Lord, you're never limited by weak people. You're you're limited by proud people. Sinful people. But Lord Gideon teaches us that trembling obedience is still obedience. And weak faith, resting in a strong God, that's enough. So Father, help us to place our faith in you. Help us to be strengthened by your presence, knowing Lord, that you're the one that does it. You're the one who gives the victory. And we pray in Jesus' name In Jesus name Amen.