Beautiful. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to Second Thessalonians. We're studying this letter. 2 Thessalonians, we're going to be looking at chapter 2 this morning. Starting in verse number one. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Verse number 1. We'll read a few a few of these verses. Starting at verse 1, chapter 2. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him. that ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and the man of sin be revealed the son of perdition. who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worship, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you I told you these things? And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your word. This passage before us is a difficult passage, Lord. I pray that you'll help me to make it clear to these your precious saints. Lord, may we leave today being edified and built up, and Lord, may we be warned, duly warned, of a coming wrath. And if there's someone here that has not yet fled to Christ for refuge from the wrath to come, I pray, Lord, that today would be the day of salvation. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. One day a man bought a barometer from a place called Abercrombie and Fitch. This was a very expensive and minutely calibr calibrated barometer. And uh when he unpacked it Uh the needle, and of course the barometer tells you the weather, and he he looked at the needle and the needle was pointing to the sector on the barometer that said hurricane. Well, he shook it And it still said hurricane. He thought, as much as I pay for this, I got a defective barometer And he lived on Long Island and and yet he worked in New York, so he was a commuter. So that day on the way to work he decided that he was going to write a scathing letter to Abercambe and Fish for getting a defective barometer When he came home that day after work, the barometer was gone. In fact, his whole house was gone. Because that was nineteen thirty-eight, the year of the great hurricane that came through, and there was nothing wrong with the barometer. He just needed to believe it. I could say the same thing about God's Word. You know, there's nothing wrong with the barometer of Scripture. We just need to believe what God's Word says. The barometer of God's word is pointing to a time, a day, when God's wrath will be poured out upon this world. It's telling us that a storm is coming. When Jesus comes again, he will come again in judgment. Now here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, we have a warning about this coming storm. And the Bible calls it the day of the Lord. Now normally when we use the word day, it means a twenty-four hour period. But sometimes the word day in the Bible can refer to more than just a twenty-four-hour period. It really it's the context determines how the word is used. So we do this all the time. For example, if I said to you, back in my father's day Well what I mean by day there, I would be talking about a era in time past, you know, when my father was young. Or if I said, I only drive during the day. Well what would that mean? That means I only drive during the light hours, you know, during the day. So the word day can be um defined by how it's used in its context. And sometimes when the Bible uses the word day, specifically when it's talking about the day of the Lord, it's not talking about a 24-hour period, rather, it's talking about an era or a season when Jesus Christ will judge the world. And so the Bible has much to say about this coming day. It's referred to as that day or the day. Or the great day. The the old testament prophets often referred to this. They used the phrase the day of the Lord In fact, the day of the Lord occurs 31 times in the King James Bible, 26 times it's used in the Old Testament, five times in the New Testament. For example, Joel 1. 15. Alas for the day, for the day of the Lord is at hand, as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come. And then in Amos five eighteen, woe unto you that desire the day of the Lord, to what end is it for you? The day of the Lord is darkness and not light. And then in Zephaniah 1, 14 and 15, The great day of the Lord is near, it is near, and hasteneth greatly. Even the voice of the day of the Lord, the mighty men shall cry there bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness Now, the day of the Lord, as I understand it in Scripture, be will begin after an event called the rapture of the church And it continues through the tribulation, even up until the time of the Battle of Armageddon, and when Jesus sets up his kingdom, his literal physical kingdom on earth. Now, Paul is writing this second letter to the Thessalonians to correct a problem that had come up. The Thessalonians had received some bad information. Somehow they received word that they were already living in the day of the Lord. They were told that they missed the rapture, that they were in the tribulation period. The fact that they were going through severe persecution at the time only added to this lie. And Paul wrote to correct This problem. And he wanted to comfort these troubled believers. Paul wrote to him to let them know that they were not in that time that was called the day of the Lord. And in order to convince them of this Paul was going to talk about some events that had to happen before the day of the Lord was fully at hand. Now the question is, how did the the Thessalonians receive this lie, this bad information? Well, this teaching probably came first through a prophetic utterance. Someone in the assembly stood up and proclaimed through prophetic utterance that they were in the day of the Lord, and the believers were instantly shaken by this. And then Further, there were some people there in the church that began to teach this, and then there was even a letter that supposedly came from Paul himself. that said that they were in the day of the Lord. So these believers were troubled. They were instantly shaken. Had God changed his program? Did Paul change his eschatology? Had not Paul promised that they would be delivered from wrath, they would be delivered from tribulation. So to calm their hearts and to stabilize their faith, Paul explains to them that they were not in the day of the Lord Now how did Paul know this? Well the reason is simple. That day could not arrive until other events had first taken place. And Paul then stated for some Uh, stated for them there that there were some major prophetic events that had to come. And these prophetic events would make up part of the end of the day. time. Notice chapter 2, look down in verse number 1, where he says, Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, by our gathering together unto him, that ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled. Neither by spirit or by word, nor by letter as from us, that the day of the Lord is at hand. The word trouble there In verse number two means a continuous state of alarm. They were nervously anxious, a state of agitation, and they were in turmoil. This lie was spreading throughout, causing this. And notice he says by spirit, that would mean by prophetic utterance. Again, the early church still had prophetic utterances in their time. Someone stood up in the assembly and claimed that they were in the day of the Lord. But then also by word in verse number two, this is a Greek word logos, some oral teaching, someone got up and taught this So there was a false teacher there teaching this. And then by letter, someone forced a letter and made the people believe it was from the Apostle Paul that the day of the Lord had come. This is why, by the way, in the New Testament, many times, Paul would sign the letter with his own unique signature to show authenticity to a letter that was uh dictated to an amen uh an amenus or someone who would a scribe who would who would basically write the down what Paul said and he would sign it himself at the end. So Paul said in verse 3, let no man deceive you by any means. You see, beloved, how crafty and how deceptive Satan is, how he can hatch a convincing lie. That's why the Bible says we have to test the spirits to see whether they are from God. We've got to constantly be uh testing the spirits. And so Paul begins to talk about prophetic events that will be a part of the day of the Lord that have not yet happened. To comfort the hearts of these troubled believers and to let them know that the day of the Lord is yet to come. And by the way, the fact that they were troubled implies to me that Paul taught a pre-tribulation rapture. If Paul taught that Jesus was coming at the end of the tribulation period or the day of the Lord, that means that that everything would be just as they expected. There would be no reason for them to be troubled. They would only be troubled If Paul had told them earlier that they would be caught up to the Lord Jesus and they would miss this day of the Lord, they would miss this tribulation or wrath that was coming. And so they're troubled because Paul taught them in 1 Thessalonians 4 that Jesus was going to come back and they were going to be raptured out. In fact, go back to 1 Thessalonians, look in chapter number 4. And and look at verse look start at verse 16. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. And verse 18, wherefore comfort one another with these words So they were troubled because Paul taught them that there would be a rapture before the tribulation. Or another way to say this, after the rapture of the church, the time, the day of the Lord, will begin. So now Paul is going to speak about three events that will happen in God's prophetic timetable. Here's the first one. Number one, the rapture of the church. Now I believe that Paul alludes to the rapture of the church twice in the first three verses of chapter two here, once in verse one. Notice again where he says in verse one, by our gathering together unto him. This phrase conveys the idea that all believers again will meet together with the Lord Jesus, just like we read in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, where Jesus will call the church unto himself. He will gather his believers unto himself. That is the term called the rapture. When Jesus comes in the air, believers will meet him there. And that passage in 1 Thessalonians 4 is clear on that. I mean, it's clear on it. Now with the rise of amillennialism and post-millennialism, there are people who question this idea of a rapture. And some people who question the idea of the rapture will say something like this, well, you know, the word rapture doesn't appear in the Bible. Well that's true. But the word Trinity doesn't appear in the Bible either. has a the is a word that includes the theological concept. Systematic theologians did the church a favor by coining words that encompassed theological concepts to make it understandable, to make it simple. And this is one of those words. Trinity is one of those words. Rapture is one of those words. That conveys this theological concept. Jesus will come and receive his people unto himself before God's wrath is poured out upon the earth. Jesus spoke about this in John 14. Verse one, let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. Listen, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. This was the event that the Thessalonians were anticipating. This is the next event on God's prophetic timetable. There will be a rapture of the church when all of God's people will be gathered unto the Lord Jesus Christ. Now there's a distinction that needs to be made between rapture and when Jesus comes and touches down on earth at his return At the rapture, Jesus comes to meet, uh to gather his people to be with them. At the return, Jesus will come with his people to the earth. So at the rapture, Jesus comes for his saints. At the return, Jesus comes with his saints. And this will be a time of tribulation on the earth. And the rapture will happen before the beginning or before the day of the Lord is ushered in. And notice verse 3. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and that man a sin be revealed. Notice especially the word in verse 3: falling away. This is the Greek word apostasia. Apostasia. And I believe in that word, Paul is again referring to the rapture. What do I mean? Some pre-tribulationists like myself think that the noun apostasia is a reference to the rapture. Now let me give you three reasons for this. You might not you might when I say that at first go, what? All right. Let me convince you Let me help you out. And at the end you may not still agree with this, and that's okay, you have your right to be wrong about things. Let me give you some reasons why I think what Paul is Paul is still referring here in verse three to the rapture with this expression falling away. I don't think he's referring to a The great apostasy. We know that's happening. That's going to happen. In fact, we see that happening right now. In fact, in every century in the history of the church, there's been a falling away. That's something that continually is going on here. This Greek noun in verse number 3, apostasia, it's only used twice in the New Testament. It's used once here, it's used once in Acts 21. 21. And uh the Greek word is a compound of two words, apo, which means from, and istumi, which means to stand. And so it has the meaning of away from or departure. The Little and Scott lexicon defines the word as a defection, and then secondly as a departure or as a disappearance. Gordon Lewis explains how the verb, this the verb form from the noun apostasia supports this meaning of departure. He wrote this. The verb may mean to remove spatially. That is a physical departure. There's little reason then to deny that the noun can mean such as facial removal or departure. And so, um, and by the way, since it's only used two times as a noun form in the New Testament, you really can't use the Bible as uh the how it's used since it's only used twice. The verb form of this is used fifteen times in the New Testament, and only three times is it used to talk about a departure from the faith Only three times is it used to talk about that. All the other times is talking about a departure from other things. Departure from ungodly men, again a physical departure, departure from the temple, departure from persons, kind of a physical departure. The scholar David Davy wrote this. It's with full assurance of proper exeget exegetical study and with complete confidence in the original languages that the word meaning of apostasia is defined as departure. So the best way to translate that word is departure. So read the verse like this in verse 3. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come first, except there come the departure. And the man of sin be revealed. And by the way, the article the is there in the Greek. Not just a departure, but the departure. All right? So that's one thing there. But another argument I would use would be the translation history of the word. Did you know that there were seven other English Bibles before the King James Version? Seven others? And all of these seven translations, when they translate the word apostasia, they always translate it departure. Or departing. The Wycliffe Bible, the Tyndale Bible, the Coverdale Bible, the Cranber Bible, the Breaches Bible, the Beasle Bible, the Geneva Bible, all In fact, Jerome's Latin translation, the Vulgate, written around A. D. 400, uses the Latin phrase of decisio, which is again departure So it's always that. Why is the King James Version the first version to rather than translate it departure as it is? basically renders it falling away. Well, there's no good reason that was ever given for that. And so really the because all those who translated this word recognize that the basic definition of that word is to depart or departure. But then there's another argument I would give you, and that is the use of the definite article. Again, it's not just a departure, but the departure. The definite article serves to make a distinction. It serves to draw attention. It's used here to refer to a particular event. In other words, emphasis is given here about this distinct event that Paul previously had referred to. And again, I think the definite article also kind of implies this is something that Paul had already talked about. Okay. So he's giving emphasis here. Again, another scholar, Gordon Lewis, wrote, the departure Paul previously referred to Was our being gathered to him. That's verse 1, we read that. And our being caught up with the Lord. 1 Thessalonians 4, we read that as well. Dr. Lewis went on to write, the departure was something that Paul and his readers clearly had a mutual understanding about. I think Paul was just simply referencing something he had already talked to them about, and he talked to them about this in 1 Thessalonians. four. Look in chapter two here and verse number five of our text where he says, Remember ye not that when I was yet with you I told you these things? And again, Paul says, look, you remember I was with you, I told you about all of this Paul again is referring to departure to the departure of something he had previously taught them. He had spent some time discussing this very issue with them. And when you look at the first letter. To the Thessalonians, he never mentions a falling away. He doesn't mention apostasy, but he does in every chapter of 1 Thessalonians mention the rapture. He mentions it in chapter 1, chapter 2, chapter 3, chapter 4, and chapter 5. He mentions it in every chapter. Let me give you another argument. The goal of comfort. You remember Paul's purpose? Why is he writing this letter? He's comforting them. He wants them to be comforted They were confused because the lie was being spread that the day of the Lord was at hand, that they would go through the day of the Lord before they would see Christ, or that they'd miss the rapture. What would bring them comfort? Paul saying, well, don't worry, there's a great apostasy coming. I don't think that's the idea there. What would bring them comfort is where Paul said, look, there's going to be a departure. Before the day of the Lord is unleashed, there will be a departure. Remember, I told you about this. So telling them, reminding them again of the rapture, that would be comforting. It's comforting to me to know that I'm not going to be here in this world when God pours out his wrath. That's a comforting thought. So after that, after God calls his believers unto himself, then the man of sin will be revealed, then God's wrath, the day of the Lord, will be poured out upon the world. And so this understanding of apostasia, of the departure, makes much more sense than the view that they're to be comforted by a massive defection from the faith. I don't think that's what's comforting them. And then the man of sin comes. It's only comforting if they will depart from this world. And again, the whole letter of 2 Thessalonians is designed to bring them comfort, just like 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and 5. And then another argument I would give you is that the apostasy of the New Testament had already begun. It already started. If he's talking about an apostasy, which one are you talking about, Paul? Because already in the New Testament times, apostasy had come. In fact, that's why Jude wrote his epistle. Beloved, I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation. It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you to earnestly contend for the faith, because some have slipped into the church already. Certain men crept in unawares. The apostasy had already come to that first century church. And again, I tell you that an apostasy had been a part of the church in every century in the history of the church. It's been around. Peter warned about it. And 2 Peter. So we're warned to be aware of apostasy. We're to be aware of it even in our day. But how could the Thessalonians or Christians in any century be able to recognize the apostasy when it comes and it's been going on ever since the beginning? This again argues that what Paul's talking about here is a physical departure of believers to be with Christ before the dreaded day of the Lord. Alright? Guys still with me? All right. So I rest my case. I think this is talking about the rapture. Now, what happens after the rapture of the church? Then there's the removal of the restrainer. Look at verse number six. And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. Verse 7: For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way. There is something in this world today that is restraining sin and evil. The reason that the depravity of man has not reached its full measure is because something is restraining it. And notice Paul calls this the mystery of iniquity, verse 7. The mystery of iniquity was already at work. It's already at work in Paul's day. Certainly at work today. There are two programs at work in the world today. There's God's program of salvation, and there is Satan's program of the mystery of iniquity. Those two things are at work. And then a few verses later, Paul will speak about the coming man of sin. I believe this is the Antichrist spoken of in other places in Scripture. Paul is saying that there is a force at work. called the mystery of iniquity. And it's this force that energizes the Antichrist. And Even John said in John in 1 John 2. 18, even now there are many Antichrists. 1 John 2. 18. Little children, it's the last time as you have heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists, whereby we know that it is the last time. John speaks here of a program and a person. The spirit of Antichrist was at work. And by the way, beloved, I see that spirit in work today in the world. is certainly there. I as I look out across this world, I see the stage being set for someone who will come that meets all the criteria of what the Bible calls the Antichrist. But in some measure, this force is being restrained today, at this moment. The question is who or what is restraining this evil or sin in the world today? Now this is a somewhat of a difficult and controversial topic. There's a lot of different translations or excuse me, interpretations as to who or what the restrainer is. What what or who is restraining sin and evil? Some say it's human human government is the restrainer. Some say it's the preaching of the gospel. Some say it's the binding of Satan, some say it's the providence of God, some say it's the Jewish state, some say it's the church, some say it's the Holy Spirit, some say it even that it's Michael the Archangel So who or what is the restrainer? Well look in verse number six again where it says, and now ye know what withhold. It's just circle the word what. That what there speaks speaks about a thing. This word is is is neutral. It's neuter. It's neither masculine nor feminine. It's speaking about a thing. So there's something in verse 6 and then in verse 7, for the mystery of iniquity doth already work only he who now leteth Look at the word let it, that's catcha echo, ca echo, which means to prevent someone from doing something or restraining Or hindering. And then there's a he in verse 7. There is a he that is restraining until he be taken out of the way. Just circle the word he. It's used twice there in verse number 7. Now, I would submit to you today that the what in verse number six is the church, and the he in verse seven is the Holy Spirit. You see, it is the Holy Spirit working through the church that is restraining iniquity and evil today. It is the work of the Holy Spirit in and through the Church. That's restraining evil. As long as the church is here and it continues to preach the gospel and preach the word of God through the power of the Holy Spirit. Evil is being restrained. Even the church with all of its faults, of all of its blemishes, is still a restraining force in this world today. Can you imagine the world today without the church? Can you imagine what the world would be without the influence of the preaching of the gospel and the word of God? Jesus said, This, you're the soul of the earth. You're the salt of the earth. What does salt do? Salt cleanses, salt purifies, salt flavors, salt penetrates, salt preserves. And when salt is taken out, corruption begins. And so when the rapture comes, the church is taken out. Therefore the purifying, preserving influence is gone. And this leads to the question: will the Holy Spirit be gone from the world? When the rapture comes, the church is taken out. Will the Holy Spirit be gone? Well, no, the Holy Spirit will still be here. Why? Well, because God is omnipresent. The Bible says in Psalm 139, Whither shall I flee from thy spirit? You can't get away from the Holy Spirit, will still be here in the world, will not be taken out of the world. Because the Holy Spirit is everywhere and the Holy Spirit will still be doing some work, but the preserving influence of the work of the Holy Spirit through the church will be Gone when the rapture comes. The restrainer will be removed. And let me just quote to you from Alan McRae. He is the former president of Fay Theological Seminary, ironically. He wrote a letter to Schuler English and he said this about this verse. He said, I wonder if you've noticed the striking parallel between verse 3 and verses 7 and 8. A little further down, according to your suggestion, verse 3 mentions the departure of the church as coming first, then tells of the revealing of the man of sin. In verses seven and eight we find the identical sequence. Verse seven talks of the removal of the church. Verse eight says, and then shall that wicked be revealed. He says, thus close examination of the passage shows an inner unity and coherence if we take the word apostasia in its general sense of departure. While a superficial examination would easily lead to an erroneous interpretation as a falling away. And I agree with that. I've never met Alan McRae. But I I agree exactly that's what it's talking about. And there are other guys that I could talk about, but I'm already out of time. I can't believe that. I I'm only one third of the way through this sermon. So when the church is taken out, the Restrainer than is removed. The Holy Spirit will no longer restrain the mystery of iniquity. And this opens up uh the way for the third event that Paul talks about here in chapter two, verses eight and nine, and that is the revealing of the Antichrist. Look at verse 8. And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth. and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs. and lying wonders. There will be the revealing of the Antichrist then at that time. I I'm glad I won't be here. I'm glad I won't be here for that. For you I'm millennialists and post-millennialist, good luck with that. But I will not be here, and neither will you if you're part of the church. And so really the option is you can receive Christ or you can have Antichrist. I choose Christ. I want to be a part of that that church. Now rather than trying to force this in, um, I've already given you a lot to think about. So get back to me on that, okay? But I'm gonna I'm gonna cut it off right here and we'll finish this later. Let's let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, beloved, I just want to remind you of the wonderful salvation that we have in Christ. Jesus came Virgin-born son of God, lived a perfect life, fulfilled all the righteousness of the law, and on the cross took upon him the sins of the world. He took upon himself your sin and my sin. And with his death on the cross, he satisfied the wrath of God the Father for sin. God's holy justice was satisfied. And now salvation is a gift to those who will put their faith in Christ and who will repent of their sins. Friend, that's what I pray that you'll do if you haven't already done that. If you haven't already done that, the Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. There's going to come a time where that opportunity is gone. But right now, God commands all men everywhere to repent. And God loves you, friend. He wants you to come to His Son, Christ, and find forgiveness of sin. Find eternal life through Christ. And if you haven't made that decision to put your full faith in Christ, I'm encouraging you, I'm pleading with you today, don't put it off. Right now, right where you are, you can reach out in faith and say yes. to Jesus Christ. Is that you, sir? Is that you, ma'am? How many of you here with with heads bowed and eyes closed? I don't want to embarrass you, but it How many of you say, Pastor, that's me. I want to trust Christ today. Right now, I want to put my faith in Jesus as my only salvation. Could I pray for you? Anyone here? I'm looking around. I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. God bless you. God bless you. Would you just in your heart just reach out and say, Lord Jesus, please save me. Come into my heart, be my Savior and my Lord. And friend, the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Father, thank you for the word of God and the gospel of Christ, salvation that we have in Jesus. And I pray, Lord, that everyone that are here under the sound of my voice will make sure of their own salvation, that they'll put their faith in Christ, in Christ alone. Bless this word to every hearing heart, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen