Thank you. Take God's word this morning, please. Open to the Old Testament book of Proverbs, chapter 29, verse 18. And this morning I want to preach on this topic, God's vision for God's people. And I just want to use this one verse here this morning and look us to look and think about this one verse of Scripture, Proverbs 29, verse 18. Where there is no vision the people perish. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. There are a few verses in Scripture more commonly quoted. and more frequently misused than Proverbs 2918. You may have heard the name David Taylor. He is the self-proclaimed apostle and founder of the Joshua Media Ministries International. that's based in Missouri, he claims to receive direct relation revelation from Jesus in bodily form. He regularly promotes himself as God's end-time prophet with a divine mandate to leave a to lead a global movement. Taylor uses Proverbs 29, 18 in much of his preaching, saying that without his apostolic vision the church and the world will perish. He launched a $30 million global face-to-face Move of God campus to house ministry headquarters. International crusades, luxury living quarters, and TV production. Donors to this were told that Jesus personally appeared to Taylor and commanded him to build this campus to prepare the world for revival And supporters were promised that if they give, they would get miracles and breakthroughs. If they sowed seed financially, they would get it back in return in great abundance. In 2019, Taylor was subpoenaed in a deposition during a child custody case involving one of his ministry partners, and under oath he admitted to spending hundreds of thousands of ministry dollars on designer clothes Living in a multimillion dollar mansion paid for by donations, traveling in private jets and luxury limousines, all justified by the God-given vision that he received. And that deposition went viral. And his credibility was damaged. And he became known as the false prophet, exploiting people's trust. But Taylor continued to say, if people stop giving, the vision can't go on, and that means millions of souls will be lost. And the aftermath of that, of course, was uh his ministry is now repeatedly being investigated and for misusing funds. This is just one example of how this verse of scripture has been misused and abused. That's just one. There are many other examples From Orl Roberts in the 80s with his $8 million ultimatum. Some of you might remember that where he said if Jesus would kill him if he didn't raise eight million dollars. And then t all the way to Jim Baker, who used this verse to justify his vision of Heritage USA in the nineties. From the Benny Hens to the Creflow Dollars who talk vision language using this verse to to pay for their jets, to justify their world vision, their expansion projects, their ministry crusades. All of them use this verse. To get people to support their God-given vision. And many people, especially the poor, the vulnerable, have perished financially and spiritually, being deceived to give under false promises. This is nothing new. Jeremiah spoke with men who claimed to have a vision from God, saying in Jeremiah 23, 16, The vision they speak a vision of their own heart and not out of the mouth of the Lord. But it's not just false prophets that misuse this verse. Sometimes this verse is misinterpreted and misused by well-meaning leaders It's often cited at vision casting type meetings or sometimes it's printed on the ban on banners for stewardship campaigns. Sometimes it's referenced in leadership seminars to justify ambitious strategies and goals. But is that what this verse is about? Is that what this verse is talking about? The book of Proverbs is, of course, is one of the wisdom books of the Bible A proverb is the Hebrew word is meshaw, which basically means uh we could call it a parable or a comparison. Proverbs are short, memorable. witty pieces of wisdom and the skill is to pack in as much wisdom into a short phrase, a concise statement, that as much as possible. And one that's easy to remember. They're designed to give advice on how to live wisely or righteously You see, wisdom in the Bible is not abstract, it's concrete, it's practical. You've heard me say this before. It is skill and living. Wisdom is all about making the right choices. Our lives are the sum total of the choices that we make. A wise person is someone who makes good, righteous choices. And Proverbs are designed to aid the reader in making wise and righteous choices. And so they're general principles, they're not promises, they're general principles based on human observation that We are expected to read and look at and understand and unpack the wisdom of the proverb. And proverbs uses what is called Hebrew parallelism. This is a literary device in where two lines correspond in structure. In English, we rhyme words, but in Hebrew poetry they rhyme thoughts. And there's three types of parallelism. There's first of all there's comparative, where the first line, the writer will write out a first line, then the second line will compare Uh that thought of that second line will be compared with the thought in the first line. Or sometimes it'll expand on that thought. But And uh those two lines are normally joined by the words and. For example, Proverbs 16, 6, by mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. That's the first line, second line, and by fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. Then there's the completive type proverb where a thought is given on the first line, on the second line, it completes that thought. And again, these two lines are normally joined by the word so. For example, Proverbs 27, 17. Iron sharpens iron, first line, second line, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. And then there's a third kind of parallelism, what is called contrastive. The first line will present a thought, and the second line will contrast that thought. And it's normally joined together by the word but And that's what this proverb that we just read comes under. It's a contrastive proverb. Read it again, Proverbs 29, 18, where there is no vision, the people perish, but He that keepeth the law, happy is he. So we see the first line gives that idea, and the second line contrasts the idea. So what's the bite-sized piece of wisdom that the writer wants us to remember? Well, it's generally true, without vision, specifically God's vision, people wander into destruction. And with it, however, they flourish in obedience and are blessed. So I want us to think about this proverb this morning, and I want us to kind of unpack it and kind of keep that in our heart. And so there are two ideas I want to give you. The first idea, what I want to call the price of replacing God's with uh vision, where there is no vision Now the question is, what is the vision that the writer is talking about? This verse is not about having a personal goal or a dream board. The vision spoken of here is not a human strategy or a five-year plan. And don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with planning, nothing wrong with using wisdom and foresight. Nothing wrong with having a ministry calendar and making astute plans. In fact the scripture encourages good planning. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 12, A prudent man foresees the evil and hides himself, the simple passed on and are punished. Turning to the New Testament, we see the Apostle Paul making plans. He planned missionary trips and so on. And so planning can be good. Someone said he who fails to plan plans to fail. So we need to plan wisely. However, the Bible tells us that when we do make our plans, we need to do it in a way where we are submitted to the sovereignty of God. James warns us about this in James 4, verses 13 to 17. Go to now ye that say today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and buy and sell and get gain, for what is your life? In other words, don't when you make your plans, don't do it without God. Don't think that you can make a plan and everything is going to go exactly the way you think it should go. When he says go to now, that's that's kind of a negative uh uh reaction. In other words, he's saying, now look here, those of you that think you can go out and make your plans and you do it without including God in it Then he said this in verse 15, for you ought to say, if the Lord will, we will live and do this and do that. Any plan that we make should be submitted to the soft People perish because they lack. People perish because God's word. Charles Bridges and his Commentary on Proverbs wrote this, vision is not some vague impression or hopeful dream, but a divine communication, a clear, authoritative message from God. Matthew Henry wrote, where there is no vision, no revelation of God's will, no preaching of the Word of God, the people perish Spurgeon said this: The people do not perish for want of wonders, but for one of the word. Where there is no faithful preaching or teaching of the truth of God, the people like sheep are like sheep without a shepherd. They perish. And Spurgeon, in his exposition of this verse, basically warned against replacing Scripture with sensationalism or human ideas. So no vision here equals the absence of God's word being proclaimed or replacing it with something else, which it happens a lot And when that happens, people perish. That's the point. What does perish mean? The phrase here, people perish, it can be translated cast off restraint or run wild. It means death or disorder or lawlessness and destruction. The absence of God's word doesn't lead to some kind of moral neutrality. It leads to spiritual and moral chaos. During the uh time of the Judges era, that's Israel's dark ages. The Bible says this in 1 Samuel chapter 3, verse 1. And a child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days, and there was no open vision. This was the introduction of the ministry of the prophet Samuel, and this verse kind of sets the context of that by giving the spiritual climate. What was it like in Israel in that day? There was no open vision. There was no preaching of the Word of God. And what was the result of that? Chaos. Judges 21, verse 25 says, every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And the whole book of Judges presents the chaos of people who did not have the vision of God or they did not have the word of God. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. That expression can sum up the way that many ministries and churches are run. That's because men replace God's vision with their own, and they govern according to their own inclinations and desires. Or they use God's word to support their own message or vision, rather than giving the correct interpretation of Scripture. Giving exactly what God's word says. Let me tell you something, beloved. The meaning of the scripture is the scripture. If you get the meaning of this wrong, you don't get the message of God. You you get it wrong. So the meaning of the scripture is the scripture. So we have to get it right. When churches or individuals misinterpret God's vision or equate their their own personal goals or self-made strategies with God's vision, then they basically substitute divine authority for man-made agendas. And when this happens, people suffer. People suffer. And I want to tell you something, beloved. This is happening all over where the word of God is incorrectly given. Or maybe rather than a preacher preaching the word, he uses God's word to support his own agenda. And that's an abuse of Scripture And we've seen this throughout church history. For example, in the post-apostolic period, right after the apostles, there seemed to be a lack of expository preaching. And this was because of the influence of Greek philosophy and rhetoric. The literal interpretation of Scripture was lost among the preachers of that day. There was kind of a turning away from the teaching and preaching of God's word, and in its place came what was called the art of the sermon. There came the development of the allegorical method of preaching, and for a time the literal interpretation of God's word was almost lost. You see, according to some back then, the literal interpretation of Scripture was the husk that had to uh basically you had to strip away in order to arrive at the kernel of the deeper hidden spiritual meaning behind the literal interpretation. And so the art was to go below the literal meaning of Scripture and to get some hidden spiritual allegorical meaning of scripture. In other words, you're able to see things that no one else sees. You ever hear a preacher preaching and say, man, I I never, ever saw that before. Well that's probably because it wasn't there and it's not there. And so the art back then became to Get below the literal meaning and find that spiritual meaning. There rose up a whole school of interpretation like this called the uh at the school of Alexandria led by a man by the name of Clement who taught that allegory was the way to preach and interpret scripture And in that school, the the allegory of Philo was baptized onto Christ, they would say. Plymouth was followed by Origen, one of the early church fathers, who believed that Scripture was one vast allegory in which every detail is symbolic Origen believed that just like a man had three parts, body, soul, and spirit, even so every passage of Scripture has three meanings to it. There's the literal meaning, the moral meaning, and then the hidden spiritual meaning that you had to get to And when you approach the Bible like that, the Bible becomes like a wax nose where you can make it mean anything that you want it to mean. And what was the result of that? The loss of sound doctrine, the loss of sound theology. Allegory replaced clear doctrinal truth. It obscured the plain meaning of Scripture And what happened after that? Well the ordinance of believers' baptism rapidly shifted to the doctrine of baptismal regeneration. Suddenly have people believing that baptism is what saves you. That you're saved when you go under the water for baptism. You've heard me say many times before that baptism does not save you. You're not saved by going by water. Uh uh I've said before, if I believed that water saved you, I would get a fire hose and blast all of you. But that's what happened in the church. Baptism became baptismal regeneration. Then came infant baptism. I mean if water baptism saves you, let's just baptize all of our children and get that done, get it over with. And the Lord's Supper shifted from being a memorial for believers to being viewed as a sacrament of saving grace That you could save by taking the Lord's Supper. And Christian leadership in the church shifted from the biblical offices of pastor and deacon to a hierarchy of priests that you can't find anywhere in the Bible. The gospel of grace was overshadowed in the medieval church, and mystical readings took priority over the clear reading of books like Romans and Galatians. There is the erosion of biblical authority. You see, when Scripture is no longer interpreted based on its grammar, based on its context, based on its historical setting, the authority shifts from the Bible to the interpreter. All of a sudden I have the authority now to tell you what this says because you can't see what I can see. And the effect of this was that the church And their leaders became spiritual gatekeepers who claimed to have secret or hidden meanings in the Bible that they were able to see that no one else could see. And since you can't say that, you might mishandle the word, so you can't have God's word, only I can. And what happened was the Bible was taken out of the hands of the average lay person. Because they didn't have the spiritual know-how to interpret Scripture. One Catholic Church council said this: quote, We prohibit that the laity should be permitted to have the books of the Old or New Testament We most strictly forbid their having any translation of these books. And it was against the law for people to have your own Bible. And what happened was the true gospel was lost. And you know what happened? People perished. Where there is no vision, the people perished. And people perished. I read a book when I was 19 years old that had a massive impact on me. It was a book written by W. A. Criswell. Plato, why I preach the Bible literally true. And in that book, Chriswell passionately defends the literal interpretation of Scripture. He said it was essential to the health and authority of the church. And in that book, he warned against this allegorical method that was widely adopted not only in the medieval church, but also among liberal theologians, he said that method undermines the authority of God's word by allowing human opinion to replace divine revelation. Allegory in Chriswell's view was not merely a method of interpretation. He said it was a means of distortion. You're distorting what Scripture says. And by turning clear scriptural truths into vague symbols, men impose their own ideas into the Bible, eroding confidence in biblical inerrancy. And it weakened the church's foundation. In contrast to that, the literal approach to Scripture treats the Bible as God's actual authoritative word, historically grounded, doctrinally clear, and spiritually powerful. Chriswell argued that wherever the literal preaching of the Bible is recovered, spiritual vitality, doctrinal clarity, and evangelistic fervor return to the church. The issue is one of obedience to God's vision versus the substitution of man's thoughts. And there's a lot of that going on today. A lot of it. It's damaging to the church. Equally damaging is this type of topical or textual preaching where a a pastor or someone, a teacher, will lift a verse out of its context and and use that verse to say something that it really doesn't say. And and and when they do that, you know what they're doing? They're putting words in God's mouth. I hate to be that preacher one day when you have to stand before God. Said, You told the people I said this and I didn't say that. It's the kind of preaching that says this, Oh I have a great thought. There has to be a verse in here, someone to back that up And they and they try to find a verse to back up the thought that they have. And they look as if they're being really original and creative and innovative. God hasn't called up me to be creative or innovative or original. He's called me just to tell you what this says and to make it clear. That's why sometimes textual preaching or topical preaching can be dangerous to the church if the verses are not correctly used. That's why one Old Testament's scholar that had a influence with me, Walt Kaiser, said that the preacher should preach a topical sermon only once every five years, then immediately repent and ask God for his forgiveness. Expository preaching, when I say that, some of you may not be familiar with that term. It just simply means that I'm telling you what this says. It is letting the Word of God speak. It's kind of me getting out of the way. I'm trying to make clear what God's Word says. Without me imposing any of my own ideas on it. It is proclaiming exactly what God intended for you to know when He gave us the Word of God. I don't want to be guilty of replacing my thoughts or my vision with God's vision. So important. So that's there's the number one, the price of replacing God's vision. But then here's the second thought. The power of restoring God's vision. But look at the rest of the verse, verse 18. But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. The word keep here, which means to guard or preserve or to watch over It's a strong active word. To be faithful to attend to. The only way God's people can keep God's word as if they know God's word. And the only way they can know God's word is if it is correctly given. And you understand it. So it has to be correctly interpreted. It has to be faithfully given. The prophet Samuel was a man who kept God's vision. Listen to 1 Samuel 3. 19. And Samuel grew and the Lord was with him and did let none of his words fall to the ground. That's a Hebrew idiom, which means everything Samuel spoke from God came to pass. Nothing proved false or proved wrong or empty. It was like saying all of his arrows hit the target. Everything he said came to pass. You know why? It's because Samuel wasn't giving his own thoughts or ideas. He was giving what God said. And because he gave what God said, it all came to pass, and it proved that he was a true prophet of the Lord. He spoke what God said There are many sermons that miss the miss the target or their words fall to the ground because it's not God's word, it's not God's vision, it is something that a man dreamed up in his mind But when God's vision, when his word is proclaimed correctly, and the people can know it, Then that's when they're blessed. That's what the Bible says. Happy is he, the word happy here, blessed, fulfilled. And so we are to keep the law. We are to watch over God's word. We are to guard it. When I read that, I hear echoes of Paul's exhortation in 1 Timothy 6:20. Oh, Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you. And what has what was entrusted to Timothy? The message of God's word, the clear word of God. And so Ministry is all about not being innovative or coming up with something new to keep people interested. But ministry is all about being faithful to God's vision for God's people. Paul warned Timothy about this. His final charge to Timothy was this: preach the word. Be it's an in-season, out-of-season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. That is the greatest vision that the world needs and that the church needs. Every generation rises and falls with the strength of the pulpit. And Paul commands this to Timothy, Paul, these were his last words. Very soon he was going to lay down his torch. He was He knew that he was going to die. So he gives this charge to Timothy. And by the way, the context of that is by is right after Paul said all scripture is given by inspiration of God. and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. In other words, because you know that the Bible is God's word, then preach the word. There's a lot of people that say you know, a lot of preachers that say, I believe the Bible is the inspired word of God, but their preaching betrays that conviction when you hear it. You let me hear a guy preach, it only takes me five minutes to know whether he really believes the Bible is God's Word or not. It comes out in the way he preaches it. The power, beloved, is in the message. It's not in me. It's not in my personality. It's in the message itself. It's in the Word of God. That's why Paul meant when he said, look, just preach the word. It does the work. It reproves, it rebukes, it exhorts. And you do with all long-suffering and doctrine. It takes a lot of patience and a lot of doctrine for people to change. God's Word does all of that work Remember that Paul wrote to the people at Corinth, because they were so enamored with philosophy, they were enamored with man's wisdom. And Paul had to wean them away from that. And he did it by pointing to the wisdom of God found in the cross of Jesus Christ. You see, when God wants to save someone, when God wants to change them, he doesn't use human philosophy to do it. He uses the straightforward preaching of God's word. And so Paul wrote to the Corinthians, and he said, Look, you know, for after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. You think people learn about God through man's wisdom? No. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. God's vision or God's word is not communicated through man-made ideas or human philosophy, it's communicated by the simple Proclamation of the truth of God's Word, the Bible. And that's what God uses Paul said this, look, he said to the Corinthians, look, when I came to you, I came to you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. I mean by by the time Paul arrived at Corinth, he had been beaten and run out of other cities. And when he went to Corinth, he wasn't really all that bold. I mean he was he was shaking. And he said, when I gave you the gospel, I did it with fear and trembling. And he said, when I spoke to you, I didn't use uh w man's wisdom. I didn't use excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Paul said, I just wanted you to know the gospel. I just wanted you to know God's word. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words with men's wisdom. but in demonstrations of the spirit and power that your faith should not be in the wisdom of man, but in the power of God. I think I I told you this before, I'll tell you again. I I know I bore you sometimes with telling the same illustrations, but you need to look like you're hearing it for the first time. Years ago I was invited to speak at a psychiat a psychiatric facility known as Crossroads. And that was a fitting name for that hospital because a lot of people there were at the crossroads of life. A lot of them were broken. emotionally, they were had gone through such terrible trauma. They were bearing all types of things. Some of them were teetering on the edge of despair, some suicidal. And I'll never forget the first time I walked into that room. A large group gathered were was gathered there. Some were uh just staring at me, wondering what I was going to say, others were visibly agitated, but all of them were broken. And as I stood before them, I wasn't going to try to give them some new coping therapy or some kind of clinical theory. I came with only one message. The message I know heals broken people. And that's the message of the gospel. And I began to share the gospel. And this one woman interrupted me right in the middle of it. Her name was Deborah Baptista. And she had a trembling voice and she said, God can't forgive me. And I paused and I looked at her and I said, Deborah, I don't know what you've done, but I know what Jesus has done. And because of what he did on the cross, he will forgive you. And she said, Well, I murdered my boyfriend. Well, God forgive me. And the will and the weight of the guilt that she was carrying was very visible. I mean she was suffocating under the burden of sin. And I share with her from scripture about murderers that God redeemed. I talked to her about Moses who struck down the Egyptian. I talked about David who orchestrated the death of Uriah. And I talked about Saul of Tarshus, who persecuted Christians and dragged them into prison, which ultimately led to their death. All of them were men who were redeemed by Jesus Christ and used for God's glory. And when it began to dawn on her about God's mercy, she did something unusual. She she went to her knees immediately And she began to pray. She began to cry out and confess her sin. And she prayed and she said, Jesus, forgive me. And it there was so much emotion involved that even the people that were there, they were shocked to see what they were looking at. But also they were moved to tears. Just by her prayer. And when Deborah finally stood up, I'll never forget the look on her face. I mean, the torment was gone. It was as if the chains of guilt had fallen off. I mean, her eyes That were once shadowed with despair, it was like they sparkled. And the peace was there. And it's as if heaven had kissed her soul. The following week, as I returned to the hospital, I was met at the door by some doctors who had concerned looks on their face. And they said to me, What did you tell Deborah last week? I mean they they could see it. They could see there was something different about her. They could see that there was a peace, that the guilt was gone. And I remember I I this is what I w I I wanted to say this. I wanted to say, let me tell you what I didn't tell her. I didn't give her Freud's philosophy about suppressing guilt or projecting blame onto someone else. I didn't give her These coping techniques from man-made wisdom. I didn't tell her that she's merely a victim of her environment and that the answer to all of her problems is buried somewhere in her subconscious. I simply said this. I said I told her one thing. She could be forgiven of her sin because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And the blood of Jesus Christ was powerful enough to remove her deepest guilt and sin. And that Jesus Christ, Son of God, was crucified for her and is mighty to save. And you know and you know what they said to me? They they said, that doesn't make any sense. And they turned and they walked away. But what they said, they didn't realize it, but they were actually saying what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 1 18. For the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is what? It is the power of God The world, they don't get it. They don't understand it. But to us who are saved who know Jesus, it is the power of God. What philosophy could have done that for her? What therapy could have made her clean? Only God's vision, only the gospel, only the cross. So that's why Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, preach the word. Just preach the word. And that same charge has to ring out today. Because in every generation, every new generation, there will be the increasing temptation to replace expository preaching with forms of communication that are non-offensive. With sanctified TED talks, removing the offense of the gospel and all that sort of thing. Or men who rely on charisma or teach what people want to hear rather than what they need. Or try to build a following following rather than build a flock. And Paul warned him that he said, Look, the time's going to come. Well they will not endure sound doctrine, and they'll heap to themselves teachers having itching ears And he was saying, Timothy, don't capitulate to that. Don't bow to that. There is a danger that faces every generation in the church, and that is of losing out on God's vision and people not getting the clear word of God So let me just close with this one illustration and I'll be done. Imagine a time when most people could never had seen a Bible in their own language, a time when sermons were delivered in Latin. Filled with superstition and allegory. The people sat in darkness, not because they were disinterested, but because the light was purposefully withheld from them That time was 14th century England. And into that darkness, God raised up a man named John Wycliffe. John Whitecliffe was a scholar at Oxford, but more than that, he was a man who believed that the Bible was the Word of God. And the vision he had was God's vision. And what he wanted, and what he knew had to happen, was that God's people had to have God's word. That was his passion. He said it's impossible for any part of Scripture to be wrong. And Holy Scripture is is all the truth. And as he studied the scripture, he realized the abuses of the church, the Catholic Church in that day. He believed that what the Bible said that Christ was the head of the church, not the Pope. He was very bold in his pronunciation against the Pope. And we have to remember that was in a day when to speak against the Pope was to take your life into your hands. He also rejected indulgences. He rejected transubstantiation. That's the doctrine that believes that the elements of the Lord's Supper literally turn into the body and blood of Christ. Which the church thought he he saw that that was not in Scripture. He rejected that. He rejected baptismal regeneration. Which led him, I think, eventually at the end of his life to reject infant baptism. He knew that baptism was not something that saved you. It only happened after you got saved. That was after the point. He understood the gospel of salvation by grace through faith. And so he was passionate about people getting the truth, getting the Bible in their own language. But the people didn't have a Bible. All they had was Latin, the Latin Vulgate, and and the common people couldn't read Latin. And so John Wycliffe dared to do something that was against the law at that time. He dared to translate the Bible from Latin into English. So that the common people would have the Word of God. And they didn't have printing presses back then, so every Bible had to be handwritten, translated from Latin to English and handwritten. I uh when I was over in London a few weeks ago, I went to St. Mary's Church, Luderworth. That's where John Wycliffe. That was the last church he pastor before he died. He was there for ten years. And that's where he finished the product of the Wycliffe Bible. And uh I just wanted to see that church, just kind of inspiration for myself. And so At that church I was surprised to see that uh the pulpit that he preached one from is still there. You're talking about something in the 14th century. I mean they built stuff over there to last Now it wasn't all original, it was refurbished in some parts, but it was still there. And that was the pulpit where he preached the Bible, not in Latin but in English, and he gave people the Word of God because he knew that they needed it. And not only did he preach the word, but he trained men to do the same thing. And he took these copies of Scripture, handwritten copies of Scripture, and he put them in the hands of men, and he sent them out into the villages. Where people could hear the Word of God being read to them. And they went from village to village giving the gospel to people who desperately needed it back then. And that's why he was called the morning star of the Reformation. And he's rightly named that, but really the real morning star of the Reformation was the Bible. that he had translated into English so that people could have the Word of God, because where there is no vision, the people perish. So he gave them the word of God. The Catholic Church hated him. I mean, they hated him. But they couldn't get to him because God protected them providentially. But finally he did die of a stroke. They carried him out the when he when he had a stroke conducting a service there in the church. Uh they carried him out the side door of that church. He was later buried in the church graveyard, but he didn't stay there long because the Catholic Church was still afraid of him, even though he had already died. They were afraid of his ideas. They wanted to stamp out his influence. So they at the church council declared him a heretic. They had his bones dug up Burned, and they took his ashes and dumped them into the river swift nearby. That's baptism by full immersion, a baptist at last. They wanted to stamp out his influence, but uh they could not. And the ideas of John Wycliffe continued to spread. William Tyndale picked up Wycliffe's torch. He himself died to put the Bible into the hands of the people, translating it not from Latin but from the original languages. And then after that came an army of expositors of the word. There was Luther in Germany. There was Knox in Scotland. There were the Puritans in England, all of whom opened the Word of God and preached it verse by verse. And others followed after them. And from that time until this, there has been a remnant, a chain of faithful preachers of the Word of God in the church. And I can name a bunch of them. But you know what? A lot of those men are now gone. And there needs to be a new generation of expositors of the word who are dependent upon the Holy Spirit to take the Word of God and use His Word to build His church because that is what God uses. He uses his word to build his church. Where there is no vision, that's when people perish. Beloved, we don't need entertainment today in the church. We need the exposition of God's word. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for your word that you've given us. Thank you for the gospel of Jesus Christ that is powerful to save. And I pray, Lord, that you will help us to understand the desperate need that people have is to hear from you, to hear your word. To have you speak to hearts through your inspired word. That's the need. That's the heart cry. I pray, Father, that you will lay this on our heart, to take it upon ourselves, to be committed to giving people the truth of Scripture. For where there is no vision, the people perish. So, Father, help us. Help us to be faithful to the truth, faithful to your word. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ. Friend, He is mighty to save. And if you come to Him and you say, Jesus, I'm a sinner, I realize it. I realize that on the cross you bore my sins. You took my sin debt and you paid for it with your own life and shed your precious blood. And it's through your work that I'm saved. Friend, if you'll come to Christ today, putting faith in his finished work for you on the cross. Call upon him to save you. Know what the Bible says? Him that comes to me, I will know I is cast out. Come to him in faith, friend, he will save you. If you're here and you've never done that, I want to encourage you to do that right now, right where you are. God can hear your prayers. He can hear the prayer of your heart. To say, God, be merciful to me as sinner. Save me. And if you've done that, friend, let us know. We want to encourage you in your Christian world. Father, use your word to speak to hearts. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name.