It's good to see you in the Lord's house. Would you take God's word this morning and please open to the book of Second Thessalonians, chapter two? We want to continue our series in Second Thessalonians. And I would ask you, please, as you find that, would you stand for the reading of God's Word? 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, and we'll start. And verse number down in verse number four. Actually, well, verse five, excuse me. Remember ye not that when I was with you I told these you these things? And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. Then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved. Thank you so very much you may be seated. May God bless His word, our hearts today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the joy that we have of worship. And part of that, Father, is to come and to hear from the Word of God. truth, Lord, that you want us to know. And so Lord help us today. Give us attentive hearts and minds. And Father help me to make the Word of God clear. And may Christ be exalted. May the church be strengthened. Through this, we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. I'm actually finishing a sermon that I uh began. Um Let me see, uh before Easter, before Palm Sunday and Easter, when we were in 2 Thessalonians, and uh it was the title of the sermon is God's Prophetic Timetable And we're going to kind of pick up where we left off and we'll review just a little bit of what we talked about the last time. But today the focus of it will be on the coming man of sin that is talked about in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. How did a man like Adolf Hitler rise to power? Well, history tells us that the economic conditions of Germany after World War I helped catapult Adolf Hitler into power. Uh the uh poverty was terrible in Germany. Uh the Treasury was low in gold. Uh in 1919 the German mark was worth 25 cents. The German middle class lost their all their savings. The value of every pension was wiped out. At that point, the desperate German people were ready to listen to any demagogue who would voice their bitterness enter Adolf Hitler. Hitler is kind of a preview of the coming world leader where he promises peace, he has great power, and he persecutes the people of God. The Bible tells us about a coming man of sin that is mentioned here in 2 Thessalonians chapter number 2. He's going to be revealed in a time that the Bible calls the day of the Lord. Now, what is the day of the Lord? It's a time that begins when Jesus Christ comes back to take his church out of this world, the rapture of the church. That begins the day of the Lord. And that goes into a period of where God pours out his wrath on the earth. Then there's the battle of Armageddon that we read about in the Bible in the book of Revelation. And then it kind of culminates where Jesus will set up his throne in Jerusalem, a literal throne, and reign there. Now when Paul writes to the Thessalonians, let's remember the background of this, he's writing this letter to comfort these troubled believers. Why were they troubled? And the Bible says that very specifically about them being troubled. Look in chapter 2, verse number 2. He says, that you be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled. neither by spirit nor by word nor by letter as from us as that the day of the Lord is at hand. The reason they were so very troubled was because they had received bad news, or actually we should say wrong news That the day of the Lord was at hand. Many in the church at Thessalonica thought that they had missed the coming of the Lord Jesus at the rapture, and that they were experiencing the day of the Lord. And of course the persecution that they were going through also kind of gave evidence that maybe they were experiencing they were in the tribulation period, and so they were very troubled by this. How did they get this bad information? Well, first Paul says by spirit in verse number two, someone stood up with a prophetic utterance in the church and said that the Lord Jesus had come. And then by word, this is the Greek word logos, someone was teaching this. They began to teach that they were in the day of the Lord. And also by letter. Someone forged a letter as if it was from the Apostle Paul saying that the day of the Lord had come. So this troubled the believers there at Thessalonica. Now Paul had already written them one letter, and he had told them in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 that the Lord would come and receive his people unto himself, chapter 4. He would descend in the clouds. There would be the sound of the trumpet. The dead in Christ will rise first, and then we'll all be reunited there together with our loved ones that have already died in Christ. And that would be a wonderful gathering. Paul said, comfort one another with these words. Now all of a sudden they get this information that the day of the Lord had come, and they felt that they had missed it. That's why they were troubled. So Paul writes basically to to calm their fears, to dispel the lies that were being taught, and to tell them and give them kind of a timetable of when things would happen at in the end days. And remember we told you there are three events that must happen in order for the day of the Lord to be at hand. The first one was number one, the rapture of the church. And I believe that Paul mentions the rapture here in chapter 2, verse number 1, where he says, Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus. and by our gathering together unto him. That phrase conveys the idea of all believers meeting together with the Lord. And again, this is the event that Paul described in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. This is also the event that Jesus describes in John 14, where he says, I go to prepare a place for you. If I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. This was the event that the Thessalonians were anticipating. The very fact that they were troubled implies to me that Paul was teaching that the rapture would come before the day of the Lord. Otherwise, why would they be troubled? Why would they be shaken? You know, if things were happening just the way Paul said, that's why I believe in a pre-tribulation rapture. Because if Paul was saying, you know, the Rachel it all happens at once, like some people say, you know, the tribulation and then Jesus comes at the end of that, if that's what Paul was teaching, why would they be worried about that? They would be saying everything's happening just the way Paul said The reason they were shaken is because I believe Paul was teaching that before God's wrath is poured out on the earth, before the day of the Lord that they would be received. There would be a rapture of the church. And I think that, as I told you last time, he refers to this in verse number three. Look at verse three of chapter two. Let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin will be be revealed, the son of perdition. Notice the expression the falling away. Now, if you were here last time when I preached this, I propose to you that what Paul is referring to in verse 3 by a falling away is the rapture. Now, why do I say that? The Greek word apostasia is a word that actually means departure. That's the meaning of the word here. This is a Greek noun. It's only used twice in the New Testament. However, the verb form is used 15 times. Three of those times, it's talking about a departure from the faith. All the rest of those times, it's talking about a spatial departure. And so you could say that this is referring to a physical, spatial departure. And also another thing to consider, by the way. Th there are translations of the Bible before the King James that translate it that way. The departure. The Wycliffe Bible, Tindale Bible, Colorado Bible, Biza Bible, Geneva Bible, and so on. All of them take this Greek word and they translate it, the departure The King James Version is the first English version of the Bible to translate it falling away. And it may be because of the influence of a Swiss reformer by the name of Biza. who took the Greek word apostasia and he transliterated it into apostasy. And maybe the translators of the King James followed that idea and therefore they translated it falling away. But I think the more accurate translation is departure. And also in the Greek, the article is there. So it's not just a departure, it is the departure. And when you read the verse in that way, to me it takes on a whole new meaning. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come the departure. Think about it like that. Paul says the fear of the Lord isn't going to come until first there comes the departure. Now I know that some people say, well, it's talking about apostasy of falling away from the faith. Well There's been an apostasy from the faith in every century in church history from the first century until now. How do you know which apostasy that he's talking about there? And so I think to me it makes more sense in the context. And also remember that Paul is trying to comfort these believers. I don't think he's comforted by saying, hey, look, don't worry about it. There's going to be a massive falling away. That's not comforting. But it is comforting to say, look, before the day of the Lord comes, there's going to be the departure. And then he says this, look at verse 5. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you, I told you these things? Paul is reminding them of something he had already told them. If you go back to 1 Thessalonians, we don't read anywhere in 1 Thessalonians where he talks about a falling away from the faith. What he does mention in every chapter of 1 Thessalonians is the rapture. So I think that Paul is referring to the rapture here in this passage. There's going to be the rapture of the church. But then number two, the removal of the restrainer, look in verse 6 And now ye know that what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time, for the mystery of iniquity doth already work, only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way And I also spoke about this, so I won't go into detail, but just remind you that the restrainer that will be removed, I think, is referring to the church under the power of the Holy Spirit. In verse 6, where it says, what withholdeth? And then in verse 7, it talks about he who now letteth or restrains. until he be taken out of the way. I think the what in verse 6 is the church, the he in verse 7 is the Holy Spirit. And when the rapture comes, the church will be taken out of this world. The Holy Spirit, of course, will still be here, but he won't be working through his church the way he is now. And I would propose to you that the greatest one of the greatest restraining forces against evil in the world today is the Holy Spirit working through his church. The church is here. God's godly people saved, hearts transformed by the power of the Holy Spirit, are one of the greatest re resistance or hindrances, I should say, of this world going into full depravity. Jesus said, you are the salt of this world. Salt preserves. And when the salt is taken out corruption takes place. And so I think that this is what Paul is referring to here. He's referring to the fact that the rapture comes, there's the departure. The restraint that has been in this world through the the work of the Holy Spirit through the church will be taken out. Now the Holy Spirit won't be gone because the Bible says, Whither shall I free flee from thy spirit? The Holy Spirit is everywhere. God is omnipresent. And after the church is taken out, the Holy Spirit will still be in the world. And I think that there will be massive people being saved during That time when God's wrath is poured out on the earth. He'll still be working, but he won't be working through his church because the church will be gone. So we see then two events that Paul mentions here, and I give these to you by way of review. There's the rapture of the church. Then there's the removal of the restrainer. The Holy Spirit will no longer restrain the mystery of iniquity. And this leads into the rest of the sermon. Number point number three, which will take the rest of the time here, and that is the revealing of the Antichrist. The revealing of the Antichrist. Look in verse number 8, where it says this, and then shall that wicked be revealed. Whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. And so the next event that Paul talks about here is the revealing of the man of sin or the man doomed to destruction, we could say. Now, that the Antichrist was going to come, that was common knowledge among the early Christians. John and his epistles writes about the Antichrist. John said to his readers, you heard that Antichrist shall come. Now Paul is teaching the same thing to the Thessalonians. There is coming into the world. a man of sin. Now believers were already experiencing persecution from his forerunners, those who manifest the spirit of Antichrist. And we need to be careful to say there's a difference between the person and the spirit of Antichrist. Already in the world, we see that spirit around us. The spirit that is opposed to Christ. The spirit that uh wants to replace Christ with itself That started in John's day. John said, even now there are many Antichrists, whereby we know it's the last time. And Paul says the same thing here. He says The mystery of iniquity is already at work. There's two powers working today. There's the power of God working in the church with the power of the gospel. There is the mystery of iniquity, Satan trying to do his thing in the world. The Antichrist Spirit. That's already here today. We see that. But Paul here now is going to be teaching the Thessalonians. that this man of sin, this Antichrist, will come. There's going to be a time when the church is taken out, when the restrain is gone, that this man of sin, this Antichrist, will be revealed to the world. Now, we're living in a day where people are actually starting to laugh at this idea of an Antichrist. There are some people who are omillennial or post-millennial or a preterist. What is a preterist? We talk about this a little bit in our Sunday school hour, but a preterist is someone who believes everything's already happened. It's already happened in the past. The book of Revelation is not future, it's history. And that all the prophecies of Jesus' second coming, that's already happened. The Antichrist was uh, you know, Nero or some other person they identify in the past. So they kind of laugh at the idea of an Antichrist coming. They don't believe in a future, literal kingdom of Christ. They say the kingdom of God is right now. They say Satan is bound. I don't know about you, I look around, I don't think Satan's bound. If he's bound, he's got an awful long rope. But I don't think Satan is bound. And so they don't believe in a person called the Antichrist. Why? Because it doesn't fit into their eschatology. So they say there is no Antichrist that is going to come. They say that, you know, they'll take a passage like I'm preaching today and they'll say, well, the word Antichrist is not mentioned here. Only John uses the word Antichrist. And my response to that is simply this. That's true. John is the one who uses the term Antichrist And listen to how he uses it, however. Look at you don't have to look, but just listen. First John two eighteen. Little children, it is the last time As ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists, whereby we know it is the last time. So John does use the word Antichrist. It occurs only five times in Scripture, every time John is using it in his epistles. But when John says Antichrist here, the first time he you he says this, again he uses the definite article, so he says it like this, little children, it's the last time. As ye have heard, the Antichrist shall come. Not just Antichrist, but the Antichrist shall come. Shall come as indicative, that's that's a fact It is singular, referring to a person. So we can say it like this, the person, the Antichrist, shall come. That is going to happen. So John is telling us that there will come an Antichrist, and already the spirit of Antichrist is around. That's what he's saying there. Now Paul doesn't mention the word Antichrist here in our passage, but that doesn't mean he's not referring to the Antichrist. He doesn't have to use the term that John used because it's very obvious who he's talking about here. If this is not the Antichrist that he talks about here in the verses that we read, in verse number um eight again, look at verse eight, or actually verse four, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. And then in verse 8, and when that wicked shall be revealed. So the Bible tells us here's a man who presents himself as God, in verse 3, he's called the man of sin and the son of perdition. If Paul's not talking about the Antichrist, who's he talking about here? Well The Omillennials and Postmillennials, they have an answer for that. They say, well, everything Paul's talking about here in 2 Thessalonians, all of this happened in 70 A. D. Again, they relegate all of it as history in the past. They say this is when the Romans invaded Jerusalem and destroyed the temple. Well, who is the man of sin? Well, this is what they say. Well, the man of sin is the personification of Roman imperialism. So it's not a man at all. It's Roman imperialism. And here's an example of abandoning the literal interpretation of Scripture. for a spiritualized meaning or allegorical meaning. So the man of sin is not a man at all. Some say he is actually a symbol that means Roman imperialism. Again, because they're trying to fit everything into 70 AD when the Romans destroyed Jerusalem. The man of sin is Roman imperialism. And they go on to say That the withholding, the restrainer, is the presence of the Jewish state, not the church, the presence of the Jewish state Now there are other views that they hold. They say, for example, another view of the man of lawlessness, they say, well, that's Nero. A preterist like Kenneth Gentry say, well, that's Nero. Uh that's who this is. He's following the interpretation of the early church father Augustine, who wrote, What means the declaration that the mystery of iniquity already works? He always expected that he said would be understood as applying to Nero. So he's just repeating what up what Augustine said. Augustine who is a father of premillennialism, or or I should say omillennialism, excuse me, and who also is the one who believed in allegorical interpretation of scripture. So they say, oh, this is Nero. That's what he's talking about. But my question would be to people that take that interpretation is, did Nero go into Jerusalem, go into the temple, and declare himself to be God No. In fact, Nero died in 68 A. D. before all the events of 70 A. D. were completely fulfilled. There's another interpretation as to who the man of sin is by those who don't want to take a literal interpretation here as far as um This all happening in the future. They again want to push it all to the past. Here's another one I thought this was interesting. According to one scholar The man of lawlessness was a first century man named John Levi. I don't know where you got the name. There was a guy running around named John Levi. who was a leader among the Zealots who was trying to overthrow the Roman government. He writes, his lawlessness in the sense that he rebelled both against Jewish and Roman rule. When Paul wrote this letter to the Thessalonians, John Levi was active in Jerusalem, stirring up the Jews to rebel against Rome, but he was restrained because of the priests. And in particular the high priest. He goes on to talk about all the things that he did. He was a man of rebellion. He was a man of wickedness. And so um This man of lawlessness, this man of sin was John Levi, a man of the past. But again That doesn't really fit into the full scope of what Paul is trying to say here. So what you're trying to tell me is Paul's writing to the Thessalonians, and he comforts them by telling the Thessalonians about things that have happened in Jerusalem that doesn't really affect them. And a local event in Jerusalem, how does that have any effect on the Thessalonians, how does that bring comfort to them? But then there's another interpretation that is that the man of lawlessness is the carnal man. Again, this is another illustration of not literal interpretation, but figurative. The man of lawlessness represents the sin nature. The temple talking about here represents the body of Christ. So again, what they're doing is rather than holding to a literal interpretation of Scripture, They're symbolizing or figure or using figurative language or allegorical interpretation to try to explain how that all these things had to happen in 70 A. D. So the bottom line is because preterists and omillennialists and post-millennialists believe the return of Christ and judgment all happened in seventy AD, they either have to abandon the literal interpretation of Scripture or Find a man in history and say it was him. And they they would have us to believe that all these things already happened and that this is what Paul's talking about. But again, the question I would ask is how does this bring comfort to the Thessalonians? Did the dead in Christ rise in 70 A. D. and meet their loved ones in the air, like Paul said? None of those things happened in 70 A. D. And so if we take this literal, we would have to say that Paul is talking about future events. Future events, things that have yet to happen. The Antichrist has not yet come, but he is going to come. Now again Ahmills, post-mills, preterists, they like to make fun of believers who say that, you know, the Antichrist is coming. And sometimes they're justified in doing so because we Under every rock. I've I've had this happen so many times where people say, well, you know, they try to identify who the Antichrist is. I remember when I was growing up as a Reagan was the president. That was one interpretation. Now it's, you know, King Charles of England Or AI, artificial intelligence. Please stop asking me who the Antichrist is. I do not know. I don't know who he is. And please stop looking for him all over the place. I reject the wacky world of headline exegesis where people try to find fulfill for prophecy in any little event that happens. We need to be careful about doing that. Stop trying to predict the Antichrist. But as as wacky as that is, it's no more wacky than people trying to fit everything into 70 AD. That's even worse. If you interpret this passage literally, you come to the conclusion that Paul is writing about a sequence of worldwide events that will offer comfort to Christians In Thessalonica as well as Christians all over the world, he's talking about the rapture of the church when Christ receives his people After that, God's wrath is poured out on the world, and there will be an Antichrist that will be revealed. The comfort is in the fact that we won't be here for that if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus will come to receive his own. Now, Paul mentions a few things about this man. First of all, his debauchery. Look again in verse number eight. And when that wicked shall be revealed. whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan. with all power and signs and lying wonders. This man of sin will be a person who is so given to sin, he will be the embodiment of it. The man of sin. Man of lawlessness, Christ was the righteous one. The man of righteousness, Antichrist will be the man of sin. He will be the embodiment of sin, the epitome of evil. And he's called also the son of perdition, which means he will be judged severely by God. Again, back up to verse four, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worship. So that a as God, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. This is why God judges him so severely. Because this man will present himself as God. He'll try to eradicate the worship of the true God. And then present himself as God. You see, Satan has always wanted the worship of man. Martin Luther called Satan God's ape because, you know, an ape tries to imitate Satan is always trying to imitate God. And Satan's burning ambition has always been, I will be like the Most High. He wants converts. He doesn't want casualties. He wants people worshiping him. And this Antichrist, when he comes, by the way, the prefix the prefix anti means instead of or in place of and also against, and that's how he will come. He will come against Christ But he will present himself instead of Christ. He wants the worship of man. And he will sit in the temple of God, declaring himself to be God. Now some people will say, how can he Do this, how will he be able to get away with this? Because he will be inspired by Satan, the Bible tells us here Look in verse 9. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. Now another issue that comes up when you preach on a subject like this is people will laugh and say, how can he sit in the temple? There is no temple. The temple was destroyed. This is one of the controversial topics when you talk about Bible prophecy. There's no temple in Jerusalem. So how can he do that? Well, if we take this literal, beloved, we would have to say then that there will be a rebuilt temple. That's why that is such a big issue. Now, again, people laugh at that idea. But let me ask you a question. Why is it that the eyes of the world are on Israel? Why is it that it just seems like they're always in the headlines? They never go away. It just seems to be that they're always there. This ancient people that are still preserved by God, because God is not done with them. You know, the same people who laugh at us because we believe that there will be an Antichrist that will come one day, and one day he will enter into that temple, a rebuilt temple. They're the same people that laughed at believers who said that Israel would become a nation. There were certain Amil theologians. years ago that said a sure sign that premil premillennial theology or dispensational theology is false is this prediction that Israel will become a nation. They laughed at that. They said, you know, that's laughable. And that's also a true Evidence that they're wrong and God doesn't have a future for Israel. Well, guess what? In 1948, Israel became a sovereign nation. And then a few years later in Jerusalem, they took possession of the city. And that left Amils and Postmills mystified. Amazed. In fact, R. C. Sproll, who is a partial preterist, he was perplexed when this happened. This is what he wrote. This is what he said. He said, I remember sitting on my porch in Boston in 1967 and watching on television the Jewish soldiers coming into Jerusalem, dropping their weapons and rushing to the Wailing Wall, and weeping and weeping. Immediately I telephoned one of my dear professors, a professor of Old Testament theology, who does not believe that modern-day Israel has any significance whatsoever. I asked him, what do you think now? From 70 AD until 1967, almost 1900 years, Jerusalem has been under the domination and control of Gentiles. And now the Jews have recaptured the city of Jerusalem. Jesus said that Jerusalem will be trodden underfoot by Gentiles until the fullness of the Gentiles be fulfilled. What's the significance of that? He's asking his Old Testament professor. And his reply was I'm gonna have to rethink that. He said, I'm gonna have to rethink this situation. He said, it's indeed startling. But what is startling among those who don't take a literal interpretation of the Bible fits perfectly with a premillennial understanding of the future. The survival of the Jews, the survival of the nation of Israel is exactly what we would expect if we take this the literal interpretation of Scripture. Sure. It's exactly what we would expect. Now the same ones laugh when someone like me stands up and says there will be a rebuilt temple and the Antichrist will enter in one day and declare himself God. Friends, the ones who were laughing in the past are laughing again, but guess what? There's going to come a time where they won't laugh. Did you know that right now Jewish boys are studying how to offer animal sacrifices? They've got all their Levitical sacrificial tools in order. They got the robes in order. They got blueprints already for a new temple. If you don't think these things are going to come to pass, friend, I got news for you. The Bible is true. And the Bible says that this Antichrist one day will enter into that temple. declare himself God because he gets his power from Satan and he wants worship. But also notice his deception again in verse number nine. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. You might think people will not believe him Or they won't follow him. That's wrong. This man, when he comes, will have the ability to deceive multitudes. And besides that, the Bible says God will send a strong delusion. Look at verse 10. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion. That they should, excuse me, believe a lie. Paul says that God will send this delusion. So that people will believe what is false. Why would he do that? This is all part of God's wrath being poured out upon a world of people who are unrepentant over their own sins. And God is basically saying, look, you don't receive the true Christ, you don't receive my son Christ, then you can receive the Antichrist. That's your only choice. You either take Christ or you take Antichrist. And if you reject Christ, God will send a strong delusion. And there will be people that will believe a lie, the Bible says. And verse 12, that they all might be damned who believe not the truth. But had pleasure in unrighteousness. Again, why does God do this? Because they refuse to believe the true gospel. They refuse to believe in the true Christ. And this is all part of God's judgment. For not receiving Christ and obeying the gospel. And they had pleasure in unrighteous. You know why people don't receive Christ today? Because they love their sin too much. They have too much pleasure in unrighteousness. And when you give the gospel call to repent, turn from your sins and turn to Christ, they say, Uh-uh, I don't want to do that. Because they don't want to let go of their sin. They don't want to give up on their sin And this is why God's judgment comes. And this is why strong delusion will be sent in that day. But then notice finally his demise. Look at verse number. eight, go back to verse eight. And when that wicked be revealed, upon whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, And shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. What will happen to this man of sin, the Antichrist, when Jesus returns after this seven-year period the Bible calls the tribulation? Paul says Jesus will come and destroy the Antichrist with the breath of his mouth and the brightness of his coming. I love that. This certainly didn't happen to Nero or John Levi. When Jesus comes, he will destroy himself, that man of sin, with the breath of his mouth, with the brightness of his coming. You know what the Bible says, no man can stand before the full glory of God and live. I think it will be the glory of Jesus Christ that that just absolutely devastates and destroys the Antichrist. And also the Bible says the breath of his mouth. What is that? That's the words that come from his mouth. When Jesus comes, the words that he speaks and the brightness of his glory will destroy the Antichrist. Now, so let me give you a clo just how this is all going to happen. Let me just quickly try to piece it together, what the Bible says will happen when Jesus comes at this time. The Antichrist, after signing a peace covenant with the Jews, will return, will turn on the Jewish nation, I should say. This will be during the tribulation period. He'll sign the peace treaty at the beginning of the seven-year period. And then in the middle of it, he will break it. Israel will realize they've been betrayed, and all Satan's fury will be poured out upon God's ancient people. The Antichrist will have the world's rulers and all those armies. He'll have all that at his disposal, and he'll gather together a continuum of all those armies at a place He'll mobilize them at the place called Armageddon, the Valley of Jezreel, that place that Napoleon said was the greatest natural battlefield in the world. And they will be ready to destroy Israel and finally exterminate all of uh God's people, Israel And just at that time when Antichrist has all these armies mobilized, has all this power, he's ready to destroy, Jesus will come. The Bible says he'll come with the armies of heaven. Now we don't want to confuse the rapture with return. The rapture, Jesus comes for his saints. At the return, he comes with his saints. And he'll come back. The Antichrist, he'll have all of his weapons, he'll have nuclear warfare, nerve gas, and all the other things and that hell that you know modern armies will have. But that's not a problem for Jesus. When Jesus appears, the Bible says he'll come in the brightness of his glory. These armies will be overpowered by the glory of Christ Himself. And remember the Bible says he'll overcome him with the breath of his mouth. I think Jesus will just speak two words. I can't prove this. This is a theory. But I think I'm right. He'll speak two words, drop dead. And when that happens The battle's over. The spirit of his mouth, the words of his mouth, the brightness of his glory, Antichrist and all his armies will be destroyed. And Jesus will reign over a literal kingdom, and we'll be there with him. And the lion will lie down with the lamb. And there'll be justice and peace. Jesus shall reign where'er the sun does its successive journeys run. His kingdom will stretch from shore to shore, till moons shall wax and wane no more. So you have a decision here today. You can receive the Christ. And if you don't, there's a possibility. If you reject the gospel, you don't repent, you open yourself up to Antichrist. God's will for you here today is that you receive His Son. That you repent, obey the gospel, put your faith in Jesus Christ. and receive him as Savior and Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word and the clarity of it. And I pray, Lord, that the hope that we have in Christ Will encourage and comfort believers that are here. I know that under the sound of my voice, there are people here that have lost loved ones in Christ. May we be comforted with the idea that we will see them again. That we will be reunited when Christ comes. That we will reign with Christ. That we will be a part of that literal millennial kingdom where Christ rules and reigns And we'll live together in peace and joy. All of the pre-Eden conditions of the world will be restored with the second Adam Christ. And Lord, what a wonderful hope that we have in the future for those who know Christ. And I pray, Father, if there's someone here that's never truly repented of their sin and turned to Christ, that they'll do so today. Put their full faith in the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, dear friend, before we close out this service, can I just invite you, if you haven't already, to turn from your sin? And put your faith in the risen, reigning, coming Savior, Jesus Christ. Just as surely as Jesus came out of that grave, he's coming again, friend. And when he comes into rapture, he'll receive to unto himself his own. To judge sin. He'll set up his kingdom on earth and we'll be a part of that. If you haven't trusted Christ, I would encourage you to put your faith in Christ. You know what you get? You get forgiveness of sins and eternal life. The promise of eternal life. Anyone here say, Preacher, that's my prayer. I'm putting my faith in Christ this very moment. I put my faith in him. Alright, Father, thank you for your word again. Bless your word to hearing hearts, we pray in Jesus' name.