Take God's word today. Would you open to the Old Testament book of Malachi? The Old Testament book of Malachi. Go to the book of Matthew and take a left. And you come to Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? We're going to look at the first chapter, and I want to read a few verses out of chapter one, starting at verse number one of Malachi. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. I have loved you, saith the Lord. And yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord, Yet I have loved Jacob, and I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places, thus saith the Lord of hosts. They shall build, but I will throw down. They shall call them the border of wickedness. and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, the Lord will be magnified. from the border of Israel. A son dishonors his father, excuse me, a son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts, unto you, O priests, that despise my name? And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say the table of the Lord is contemptible. This is God's word. May we obey it, may we heed it. Thank you, you may be seated. Let's pray together Father, we thank you for your word and we pray that you will give us instruction here today, words for us to live by. Help me, Lord, to make this this passage clear and help us Lord to apply it to our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I heard of a story of a cathedral in a big cathedral in the hometown of a place called Vancouver, British Columbia. The cathedral there has stained beautiful stained glass windows They were donated after the Second World War, and each of the windows illustrates pictures of soldiers that had died during the war. One day uh the pastor of the church overheard a conversation between a mother and um his her little boy, and the little boy asked his mother, Mommy, who are those people pointing to the stained glass window? And she said, these were people who died in the service. He said, mommy, was that the morning service or the evening service? There's some worship services that are that way. They're so mechanical, they're so dry, that people seem to be dying in churches. The problem is not the Word of God because the Word of God is alive. The problem is a lot of times the people. Some people when they come to church have the same problem that the people in Malachi's day had. They're simply going through the motions of worship with no real heart. No enthusiasm, no excitement to be in the house of the Lord. You understand that when you come to church, you bring your worship with you, right? Some people like to come to church and allow for the service to simulate them to worship. I guess that's okay, but the truth of the matter is we bring our worship when we come to church. And sometimes people just go through the motions of worship, and God is worth more than that. The Jews living in Jerusalem were going through the motions of their worship, and Amalachi arrives on the scene. And that the the prophet Malachi, you know, he's kind of shrouded in mystery. Uh little is known about him except his name, which means my messenger. And Malachi was offended at the attitude that he saw in the people of God when they came to get the house of God to worship. His heart's desire was to restore genuine worship, the worship of God, worship that was exciting, worship that had heart. And so when we came on the scene there in Jerusalem, he was a fearless reformer who spoke without hesitation, without embarrassment, to call people out on this issue of worship. What had happened was the people of God were Jews that returned back to Jerusalem. They were in exile for many years and they began to come back and repatriate the land. They rebuilt the temple. They again established the worship of God. Everything looked good externally But internally, the cancer of complacency had begun to eat away at the heart of many that had Come to the house of the Lord. And so Malachi arrives on the scene to point out to God's people that they needed to get their hearts right. That they needed to get their heart back into true worship of God. And so he tells them here in the book of Malachi how to do that. Now, the book of Malachi is a book where really it's kind of a dialogue where where God speaks to the people and the people kind of answer back to God in kind of a cynical way. We see this in verse number six. Again, where it says in verse 6, a son honors his father and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts, unto you, O priest that despise my name. And here's their answer back. And ye say, wherein have we despised thy name? God say, you don't honor me, you don't worship me, you don't really reverence me. Where is my honor? Where is my fear? They're saying, how do we despise your name? In verse 13, we see the same kind of thing in verse 13. Ye said also, behold, what a weariness it is. Anyone ever feel that way? Oh, what a weariness to come to God's house. What a weariness to worship. That's how these people felt. What a weariness. And ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of hosts, and ye brought that which is torn and lame and the sick, thus ye brought an offering. Should I accept this of your hand, saith the Lord? One scholar says when it says you snuffed at it, what does that mean? It means they turned up their nose at it. They were simply going through the motions outwardly. But there was no real true worship from the heart. I think this is one of the greatest problems in the church in America, anyway. Is the lack of true worship? Is it really worship from your heart? The thrill seems to be gone in some places, the excitement is gone, the zest of knowing God. The joy of serving the Lord. Friend, if you're in that predicament, let me just say it's a dangerous place to be. And what we need to do is examine our heart and to make sure that we're not just going through the motions. But that our heart is in the service of the Lord, the worship of the Lord. Now, how can we know that? What I want you to see from this passage today are just several indicators that we might be just going through the motion. And hopefully that's not us, but let me just give you a few. Number one, when we doubt God's love, we may be just going through the motions. Here's the first thing that he brings up. Look again in chapter one. Look down at verse number two. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Malachi was writing to a group of people who were doubting God's love. They heard about God's love, but they just questioned it. And the prophet Malachi says, you know, through the prophet, God says, I've loved you And they're saying, Lord, where? Where is the love? Maybe you feel that way today. Maybe you're doubting God's love like the people in Malachi's day. Maybe you're here and Maybe a divorce is ripping your heart out, or maybe you lost your business, or you were unjustly fired, or you were mistreated. Perhaps you've been diagnosed with an illness that is life-threatening. Perhaps you Have a prodigal that's breaking your heart, or you have been a victim of some kind of injustice, and you're questioning whether God really loves you. Well, God sends his messenger to remind you that he does love you. God is saying through his messenger, I have loved you, saith the Lord. And by the way, this was the burden that Malachi wanted to get off his heart in verse number one. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel. It was weighing on his heart. God wants you to know that He loves you. Don't doubt it. If you doubt God's love, it might make you mechanical in your worship. You're maybe just going through the motions. You say, how do I know that God loves me? Very simply, there's God's spoken promise. How do we know? Because in verse 2 he says he says it. You know how you know God loves you? Because God in his word tells you he loves you. You want to doubt God's word? For some people, that doesn't seem to be enough. In fact, again, for these people in Malachi's Day, they were constantly answering back to God. They were constantly disputing back Again, this whole book is arranged in a dialogue, or we could say really a disputation, where God is speaking and the people are answering back and they're they're doubting what God says. They ask this question, wherein? Wherein? God says, I love you, and they say, you know, how have you loved us? Friend, when God says something, he means it. He means it. And God in his word says he loves you. And if you don't believe that, you're calling God a liar. There's nothing more steady than His Word. You say, well, I sometimes don't feel it. Well, it shouldn't be based on feelings, it should be based on the Word of God. And don't let your circumstance sometimes cause you to doubt it because we all go through the dark, cloudy days, and we all go through difficulties. But friend, that doesn't mean that God doesn't love you. Behind those clouds, the sun of God's love is still shining. He still loves you. Our love should be based our understanding of God's love should be based on the fact that God's word tells us of his great love for Listen, write down Jeremiah 31. 3. The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. God does love you. Not only God spoke in promise, but there's God's special people. Look in verse number two again. I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet you say, wherein hast thou loved us? And here's God's response, was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord? Yet I loved Jacob and I hated Esau. So what does that mean? The word hate here You can't define this as a positive expression of the wrath of God. It's really a term of comparison God's love for Jacob was so great that in comparison, the love that God had for Esau looked like hatred. That's the idea there. And we can read accounts of the life of Esau in the in the book of Genesis, and what you'll find is that God was pretty good to Esau. God blessed Esau. Read it for yourself. He did some good things for him. He gave him blessings in this life. Esau was the recipient of God's common grace and blessing. But compared to the love that God showed Jacob, the love that God had for Esau looked like hatred. How does that apply to us? Well, God loves everyone. He loves the world. We know that, right? Everyone is the recipient of God's common grace and love. But if you are a child of God, you are the recipient of his special love. You are his beloved. His love for you is is much greater. In fact, God loves all people, but if you're his child, the love that he has for you, in comparison, all the love that he has for just other people is it looks like hatred. He loves you with that special love. You know, I love all people, but Carolyn is my beloved I love all children, but my children, they are my beloved children. God loves everyone. But if you're a child of God, he has a special love for you. John said this in 1 John 3:1: Behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us that we should be called the children of God And John when he says that he is just amazed. There's a lot of emotion in that. He's astounded at the great love of God. In fact, the word what manner is what one word in the Greek And it literally means from what country is this from? What alien love, this unheard of, out-of-this world love that God has given to us that we should be called the children of God. God loves you, friend. Don't doubt that. Because if you begin to doubt it You may have empty worship. You may have shallow worship. You may be just going through the motions. When we doubt God's love, but here's number two, when we lack due reverence. When we lack due reverence. Look at verse number six. A son honors his father, and a servant is master. If then I be a father, wherein is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts, unto you, O priests? You see, first the priests and the people were not giving God his due reverence and respect. They were frivolous in the way that they came to the house of the Lord and worshiped, like many people today. They don't really treat coming to God's house as something special. Something unique, something that is separated from any other activity that you do. It is a sanctified event. Some people come to God's house with the same attitude they go to a ballgame or go to a movie. No, this is something that is incredibly special. God says to the people of Malachi's day and to the people even today, where's your reverence? Where is your reverence? Where is your respect? What's amazing is that God is not just talking to the people in Malachi's day, he's talking to the priests, the leaders, who should be setting the example again in verse 6, O priests that bear my name. You should be the trendsetters. You should be the ones giving me respect and reverence. And what does that include? Well, as a father, he's to be honored. He says in verse 6, If I then if then I be a father, where's my honor? You know, first of all, it's just nature to honor your father, right? At least it should be. I know it's not getting that way in society lately. But you should have a natural desire to honor your father. But I want to tell you, even your father is an imperfect person and a sinner, we know that, but you should still give honor to your father. But however, we have a heavenly father that is a perfect father. And we were his children. And God says, Where is my honor? The word honor here, Kebed, literally means to be heavy, to attach weight to something. It's the idea of something that is serious. When you honor someone, it means you treat them with with substance. We could say it like this, uh they're a heavyweight, they're important. You treat them like a VIP And the Bible says we are to give great honor to our Father, much more so to our Heavenly Father. Are we honoring him in the way that we worship him? Jesus taught this. Jesus said, look, when you pray, here's the first thing you do. You say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. That's not a request, that's a command. I hollow your name. You hollow the name of the Father. You treat the Father with respect. So when you come in prayer, the first thing you ought to say is, Father, I hollow your name. I honor who you are. As a father, he is to be honored. As a master, he is to be feared. Look again in verse 6, the second part. If I be a master Where is my fear? There seems to be a lack of the fear of the Lord in worship today. And uh God says you ought to be fearing me. There's this kind of lackadaisical, indifferent attitude. And God says, you should be fearing me. This is a fear of the Lord. This is a healthy fear. Not an unhealthy fear. You know what the fear of the Lord is? It is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. That's why the Bible says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? Wisdom. It's a reverential attitude that leads to right action. It's not a cringing dread of God. It means just giving God due reverence and worship and praise and To be in all of who he is, this reverential attitude. But God says, look, here I'm a father and you're not honoring me, and I'm a master, and you're not giving me reverence, you're not giving me fear. Don't treat me with contempt. Don't treat me the way you treat others. God wants a heartfelt honor and reverence and respect and recognizing who He is. You're here for Him You're not here for anything else. You're here for him. You know, I heard of a famous preacher years ago, big church, very famous preacher, and one Sunday he wasn't there, he had a guest speaker there, and when people found out it was a guest speaker, a lot of people got up and they started to leave. And the guest speaker got up and said, All the people that came to worship your pastor, you can go ahead and leave. Those who want to worship God, you stick around. Very good. People come to worship for a lot of different reasons. Very superficial. To hear a certain preacher, watch their children perform, to visit their friends, fulfill an obligation, find out what the Joneses are doing. What everyone's wearing, there's only one reason that's acceptable. That is to honor and reverence God, to worship God. And if you're not coming for that reason, you may be just going through the motions. When we lack when we doubt God's love. We may be just going through the motions. When we lack due reverence to God, we may be just going through the motions. But here's number three, when we give God second best, look down at verse seven. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And that ye say the temple the table of the Lord is contemptible. The people were bringing God their leftovers instead of their best when it came time for the offering. God says, You're offering me polluted bread. God says to the priests, you're offering polluted bread. Now, any sacrifice that was given on the altar, whether it was an animal or whether it was a vegetable, it's all called bread here. Bread is just one word that stands for any offering that a person might bring. And God says these offerings are Mago all. They are polluted. These are polluted offerings. Why? Because they were unqualified. They were unfit. According to God's standard, they were not offering according to what the Word of God said. The priests recognized that um when you bring a polluted offering to God, that you actually are you're it's tantamount to polluting God Himself. Because look at the priests how they answered in verse seven. He says, uh they say, Wherein have we polluted thee? Here God says, You bring bread upon mine altar that's polluted. And they say, How we polluted you? You see, when you bring a polluted offering, you pollute God Have we polluted thee? And God answers, you say the table of the Lord is contemptible. Now they weren't saying this publicly. But it was in their attitude and their actions, and actions speak louder than words. And they were doing it by bringing their second best. Look at verse 8. If ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? If ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it now to thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee? Or accept thy person, saith the Lord of hosts? When they brought their lamb to the sacrifice, it was supposed to be what? The best of the flock, right? Instead they brought the blind. They brought the sick, they brought the the lame or the dying animal. Here's going to die anyway. This animal's no good anyways blind. They were offering their worst. And the priests were actually encouraging it because the priest is the one that had to look at it, say, okay, this is acceptable. They were uh Basically saying to people, you know, that doesn't make any sense to to give a perfectly good lamb. I mean all we're gonna do is just kill this lamb and put it on the altar anyway. It's gonna die, it's gonna burn. Why don't you just bring us your your your blind or your sick or your lame? Oh, don't worry about it. It's all going up in smoke anyway. But God had a problem with that because that wasn't the way they were supposed to honor the Lord. And so God Through the prophet Malachi, he confronts these priests. He calls it evil. Look again in verse 8. And ye offer the blind for sacrifice? Is it not what? Evil? When you give God your leftovers, you maybe think you think you're doing a service, but God calls it evil. This is evil. Try that with your governor, he says. Try that, you know, around April fifteenth. Why don't you send the IRS a letter? Just write to the Internal Revenue Service and say, you know what? It's been a rough year. We had a really bad streak or a streak of bad luck. You know our children have been sick, I've been out of work. And so we're not going to be able to send those taxes this year. I know you understand. It's not that we don't love you, we love you. It's not that we're not concerned about you. We are very concerned about you. We're concerned about our government. God bless our government. But I just can't send my taxes in. You think that'll work? You think the RS will be okay with that? No, I don't think so. But why would you try that with God? Is not God better or bigger or greater than the government? And sometimes people do that with respect to the way they treat God in their worship. Now, let me just qualify this because I know when You start talking about money, it's a very sensitive issue. And someone said the the most sensitive nerve in the human body is the one that goes from the hand to the wallet. Our finances are wonderful and people here are wonderful. If we have a financial problem, I don't know about it. This has nothing to do with that. It has to do with your heart to God, your worship. And when you put something in the offering plate, it is an act of worship. Don't give an offering like you're paying taxes. You do it out of a heart of worship. And stop using excuses. Just worship the Lord. Just give to the Lord from your heart God says, I want you to give from your heart. And God is insulted sometimes by the way people worship in this way. Try that with your governor, God says, or try that with your boss at work. Give him the excuses that you give God and see how that works. Yet you expect God to accept this? Look down at verse number nine. And now I pray you be beseech God that He will be gracious unto us. This has been by your means. Will he regard your person, saith the Lord of hosts? Malachi in Essence is saying in verse 9, do you expect God to be satisfied with this? You ask me to entreat God for you Oh God, be favorable, God, please understand this. No. What about in church today? What kind of offering do you bring God? Are you giving them second best? Now today we don't bring animals to the altar. We understand that. What we bring is our worship. The Bible says we offer the sacrifice of praise from our lips. That's one thing we bring. The Bible says in Hebrews 13, 15, By him therefore Let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is the fruit of our lips, and giving thanks to his name. Do you really come with a heart where you give thanks to God, or are you just merely going through the motions? Are we presenting ourselves as a living sacrifice because of the mercies of God? Because of all that Jesus did for us? When you come and worship, are you actually saying, God, here I am, I'm giving all of myself to you Because that's what God wants. Are we giving our service to God or are we rendering unto him? God says, if you're not going to give me your best Then it would be better just to close the doors of the church, nail the door shut in the house of the Lord, and don't even come. Don't even come. That's what he's saying. Look at verse 10. Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for naught? Neither do you kindle fire on my altar for naught. I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord of hosts. Neither will I accept an offering at your hand. Look, if you ha if you have half-hearted worship where you want to come and just go through the motions and give me your second best, the best thing for you to do is just shut the doors of the church and nail it shut. Or don't even worry about kindling a fire on the altar. I'm not going to accept your your offering. I'm not going to accept your Your worship is worthless. It doesn't really count. If you're going to worship God, You better make sure you're giving them your best. You better make sure you're doing it with your heart. Quit playing church, God says. Better to have no worship than empty worship. Better to have no religion than vain religion. America would be far better off to have some of these churches just go out Just just just leave. Just close the door. You might as well not even kindle the fire. Your sacrifices are vain. Your worship is worthless. God says, I have no pleasure in your worship. And so this forces us to ask the question to ourselves today: does God take pleasure in our worship? Does he take pleasure in it? Are we really giving him our heart? So just a few things here. First of all, we're to give God the best. God wanted the best of the flock, not the worst. After all, the lamb that God gave you, it was his best. How dare you return a sick lamb to him when he gave you his best? You know what the Bible says about these offerings? Listen to Exodus 22, 31. And ye shall be holy men unto me, neither shall ye eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field, ye shall cast it to dogs. In other words, if they go out into the field and they find a sheep that is sick or maimed or blind or lame, God says, you know, don't use that sheep, just give it to the dogs. So basically what the people were doing by bringing blind and lamed and wounded sheep to the altar, they were giving God dog food according to the Old Testament. Here God, here's our dog food. You can have that. And and so we're to give God our best. We're to give to God first. What does the Bible say in Proverbs 3:9? Honor the Lord with thy substance and with the first fruits of all thine increase. Give God to him first. Give him your best. Give to him first. If you're going to give something to God's service or God's house. Make sure it's your best. Make sure it's not second rate. Don't give God leftovers. Next, we're to give God what cost us. What cost us? Remember when David wanted to give an offering to the Lord in the Old Testament, 2 Samuel 24, a plague had hit the land? David knew that a offering to the Lord would cause it to be stopped. And so in 2 Samuel 24 Uh Aruna sees David coming, he bows to him, he says, What can I do for you? And David says, Well I want to I want to blith uh buy this plot of ground, I want this threshing floor, I want to build an altar to the Lord, and I want to Give an offering on the altar so you can stop the plague that's on the land. And and Aruna says, You don't have to buy anything here, just take it. And David says, Oh no. I'm not going to offer anything to God that doesn't cost me anything nothing. If it costs me nothing, I'm not giving it to God. I want my offering to cost me. I want it to be costly. I will not offer anything that costs me nothing. If your gift means little to you, it will mean little to God. God wants our give our gifts to be our worship, our giving, our sacrifice to be costly, and then we're to give God ourselves. Because really that's the whole issue. The issue is not That God you know, I say this all the time, you know, God God is not poor. God already owns everything, you understand that? He's only lending it to you for a little time. You're not going to be here forever. What you have is already God's But what God wants is He wants your heart. He wants you. And if you hold back and you're stingy on God, what's that a sign of? It's a sign of your heart. That's where your heart is. Where your heart is, that's where your treasure is going to be. God wants you. Paul said of the Macedonians, they first gave themselves unto the Lord. So if you're not giving to God and worshiping God in that way, you're just going through the motions. We're going through the motions when we doubt God's love, when we lack due reverence, when we give God second fast, and here's the last thing: when we forget who we serve. We forget whom we serve. Look in verse 11. For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. That is, we would say the world, the the law, so people that don't know God. When when when the world looks at you, do they see someone who worships God and honors God. Do they see someone who treats God's name as great? Other than that, we're taking God's name in vain. We wear his name when we call ourselves a Christian. But if you're not showing the world that he's a great God, You're taking his name in vain. And God is saying to these people here, My name shall be great among the Gentiles, and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name. a pure offering, for my name shall be great among the heathen, says the Lord of hosts. And this is one key phrase that we see all throughout the book of Malachi. My name, my name. God is referring to my name. Why? Because The name of God is who God is. It's referring to his character, referring to his person. And his name shall be great, God says. Are you treating God among those who watch, your neighbors, your people you work with, people that watch you come to church, and even people that are here in church? Are they seeing someone who treats God's name great? Who puts God first, who honors him. God should be treated great among all people. And yet here we have these people, look at verse 12, but ye have profaned it. That is, you profane my name And that you say the table of the Lord is polluted, the fruit thereof, eating his meat, is contemptible. You profane God's name in the way that you worship him, or you don't worship him. You're profaning him. In verse 13, and ye say also, Behold, what a weariness it is. What a weariness. You come to church worshi not worshiping God, going through the motions with that empty, shallow worship. And you know what? People know whether or not you really mean business. People that are watching. Are you treating God's name as great rather than saying rather than saying what a weariness it is, are you saying, man, what a joy? I'm excited about coming to God's house and worshiping God. So, the greatest this is the great this is the greatest reason why we worship, by the way. To promote God's glory among the world. Among the nations, among the heathen. We are saying to the world, our God is a great God. That's why I try to expound scripture to you because I believe that the more the depths of Scripture I give The higher I can exalt God, and the more people see his glory, that's why we worship. We must honor Him by giving Him the best. that we have the best of our lives. So do you worship God that way or are you simply going through the motions? Let me just let me just close with this. Um it's illustration. You know, I heard that when Jimmy Carter was president on several occasions he would go to the home of just common Americans. He would just pick 'em at random random and he would just go to their their home. Um let's just suppose the president and his wife decided to come to your house and that big event arrives and then maybe there's crowds along the street and the presidential limo pulls up and in front of your house There are these motorcycles, police, escort motorcycles, squad cars, Secret Service agents get out. President gets out with his wife, they come to your door, and you answer the door, and you're there and you're in your t-shirt and jeans. Oh hi, I've been working in the garden. President steps in the living room. It's cluttered. Sorry about the mess, uh, Mr. President. You know, we just uh been really busy here Dinner's almost ready. We uh it's in the microwave. Uh we're heating up some leftovers we had from the other night. Trying to get rid of them, Mr. President. Trying to get rid of them. So that would be absurd. That would be absurd. And you're right. Someone of that dignity, of that weight, we would say deserves better. How much more God. How much more God. He deserves so much better. He is a great king and a great God, and his name is to be feared among the heathen. And they should see us worshiping and honoring him with all our heart. So if you've been guilty of half-hearted worship, just repent and tell God you're sorry. Ask God to restore the excitement and the joy of knowing and worshiping Him. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we uh we come before you asking first, Lord, for your forgiveness. And we confess before you at times, Lord, that our heart has been distracted and we haven't really worshiped the way we should. And we've given you second best so many times. And Lord, we forget how great you are. Forgive us, Lord. Forgive us. You are a great king. And a great God. And your name is to be reverenced. And you are holy. And we honor you and we reverence you. And Lord, may that not just be empty words, may it be Words that express the true feeling of our heart, and may it be demonstrated in our attitudes and in our actions in the way that we treat you and we honor you Forgive us, Lord, for treating worship, public worship in the assembly of the saints like something that's not that important. We need to be be forgiven for that Forgive us, Lord, for being lackadaisical and careless in the way we approach worship. Just strolling in casually rather than coming in with a reverence Lord, forgive us for offering a sick lamb. When you have given us the blameless Lamb of God, the Son, your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, I pray that we will say from our heart, like Paul said, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. To present your body a living sacrifice. May we present ourselves to you in return for your mercies, ourselves, in worship. As a living sacrifice holy unto you. Help us, Lord, and forgive us And let me just say with heads bowed and eyes closed, you may be here today. And I want to just ask you, do you know the Lord is your Savior? Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, sinless Son of God, was Sacrifice on the cross for you, so that you can have eternal life in heaven. He is the way, the only way, the way, the truth, and the life. And because of the sacrifice of Christ on the cross, salvation. Was given to you. Would you be willing to turn from your sin and put your faith in Christ? Would you reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, save me, make me your child? Would you pray that and mean it? Let let not that be an empty prayer. Let it come from your heart. And you know what, friend, he'll save you. And if that's your prayer, let us know. We want to rejoice with you. We want to encourage you And the same things of God. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.