All right. We're going to get right into the scripture tonight. I invite you to take your Bible, please, and open to the book of Revelation, chapter number 18. And we want to look tonight at this passage of scripture. as we continue our study through Revelation. And this is a very challenging book, as you know, of interpreting the book and making sure you try to get the the book right and the way you uh interpret it. And so uh as we study this, um we study it with humility and prayer and asking God to help us and open our eyes and give us light. And we come to another challenging chapter. This is Revelation chapter 18. We're going to look at this chapter tonight. I've titled it Goodbye Babylon, because it's really all about the fall of Babylon and what the Bible has to say about that. Now, I know that there's a big concern about the economy in the U. S. In fact, there's a concern about uh the economy across the world. As I had said before, we're living in a time of global commerce and global economy Um we're all tied together. What happens in another country affects us and what happens here affects other countries. Because that's just the way things are. We're much more tied together now when an economic crisis comes It comes not to just one nation, it comes to many nations. And I say that because this seems to match the scripture. It all fits very well with the final prophetic picture in the book of Revelation. Because did you know that in the end days, the Bible prophesies that there will be a World Banking Center, a Center for World Commerce, and for a global economy a kind of a world capital where literally one person can, one man can literally rule the world. And as we interpret the book of Revelation literally, we come to the the uh understanding that the Antichrist will rule from the city and will control for a time the world's economy. We saw this in Revelation 13, verse 17, that tells us that during the tribulation period You will not be able to buy and sell without the mark of beast. That all suggests his control over the economy of the world. And did you know that God is going to destroy it all in the end God's judgment will come upon the city and it will go up in smoke. So you talk about an economic collapse that is yet to come. God will show his hatred for the evil of greed, for the evil of materialism, for idolatry, for covetousness, the love of money, which the Bible says is the root of all evil. God will show his judgment on all of those things. Now, where and when will this happen? Well, again, it's recorded here in Revelation chapter 18. Now the whole chapter is about God's destruction on commercial Babylon in the end days. Babylon in the end days will be the World Trade Center, the headquarters of banking and commerce for the world. It will be the place where the Antichrist will govern. Remember, we talked about this. Remember we said that basically uh many agree that there are three major signposts that point to the last days. Number one, we said was the rebirth of Israel as a nation. The Bible prophesied that before the Messiah would return, uh Israel would be reborn as a nation. That's Isaiah 66, 8-10. And that happened on May 15, 1948. The U. N. formally recognized Israel as a nation. Another signpost would be the revival of the Roman Empire. Beginning in 1957, the nations of Europe began coming together to form one political and economic union, that is the EU. There are presently 27 countries that are apart. of that union. And another signpost that points to the end days is the rebuilding of Babylon Now, we showed you from God's word that Babylon in Revelation is the literal city. We said there are several ways you can look at it. Some people look at Babylon as speaking about symbolically of another city. There are some that interpret this as Jerusalem. There are some that interpret this as uh Rome. There are some that interpret this as America, you know There's different ways, diff different symbolisms that speak about Babylon. The symbol is a woman, and the woman stands for The literal city, and we gave you some reasons why we approached this literally. First of all, when John uses a city symbolically, he'll let us know in the context. For example, we saw when John names the cities, the seven cities of Asia Minor, he's talking about literal cities there. He names them. But in Revelation 8. Excuse me, 11. 8, when he refers to Jerusalem, he calls Jerusalem Sodom and Egypt, but he makes very clear in that verse that he's referring to the city that our Lord was crucified in. So when he speaks about Jerusalem as a symbol or uses a symbolic name for Jerusalem, John will tell us what it is. But six times in Revelation 17 and 18, what we saw was that it refers to the to the city of Babylon. It's to be taken literally. Again, notice chapter 17, verses 4 and 5, we see a woman, and she is a harlot. This is a symbol. Every symbol again has a literal meaning. But notice the literal meaning in verse eighteen of chapter seventeen, and the woman which thou sawest is that great city. What city? The city that is upon her forehead, Mystery Babylon the Great And verse 18 it says, It is that great city. How else am I supposed to read that? That is the city of Babylon. The location of Babylon fits the description and criteria mentioned in Revelation 18, and we're going to look at that. Henry Morris takes a literal approach and he says this, it must be stressed. Revelation means unveiling, not veiling. So he's trying to reveal to us something, not necessarily hide something from us. And also, when we studied this before, we looked at some of the voices of the past of men who are scholars who in the past taught that the city of Babylon will be rebuilt in the end. And this was long before Saddam Hussein and then the Gulf War and what's going over there now. Um we we quoted some great men who basically all come to the same conclusion when they study That in the end days there will be a rise of Babylon. That will be a place where it will gain power, political and economic power. But also the most compelling, however, piece of evidence for me is that Babylon has not yet been destroyed the way the Bible prophesied it to be destroyed. Now we know that under Cyrus Babylon was taken over and Babylon was conquered. But the big question is, was it destroyed the way Scripture says it would be destroyed? And I say no. If you look at the scripture, it's very specific about how God was going to destroy Babylon. And it has not yet been destroyed the way the Bible says. And if that's true, that means that It lies yet in the future. It's going to be destroyed yet one day in the future. And if it's going to be destroyed one day in the future, that means it must rise. You see. So for example, how is it will it be destroyed? Well, again, look at these verses with me. I just want to review this again with you. Isaiah 13, verse summer 19. It tells us of this it will be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. It says in Isa Isaiah chapter 13, verse number 19, it says this And Babylon, the glory of the kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldeans' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. Now how did God overthrow Sodom and Gomorrah? That was pretty sudden, wasn't it? That was pretty clear. That was a judgment from God, so much so that everybody there knew it And then Jeremiah went on to say the same thing in Jeremiah chapter fifty, verse number twelve and thirteen. But in verse thirteen of Jeremiah fifty he said, Because of the wrath of the Lord it shall not be inhabited. But it shall be wholly desolate, everyone that goeth by Babylon shall be astonished and hiss at all of her blag her plagues. That hasn't really happened just yet. In chapter 50, down in verse number 26, it says this come against her from the uttermost border, open her storehouses, cast her up as heaps. And destroy her utterly, let nothing be left. And then in chapter fifty of Jeremiah, verse forty It said, As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighboring cities thereof, saith the Lord, so shall no man abide therein, neither shall any son of man dwell therein. It'll be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. Another thing the Bible specifically says is that when Babylon is destroyed, Israel will dwell in peace and safety. Isaiah chapter 14 and verses number 1 to 4. And then in verse number 7 he goes on to say, the whole earth is at rest. And is quiet. And so when Babylon is destroyed, Israel will be safe and all the earth will be at rest. Has that happened yet? I don't think so. Babylon will be overthrown in a time that the Bible calls the day of the Lord. That's Isaiah 13. Again, verse 1 and then verse number 6. How ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand, it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty And so this is referring to the time when God will judge the earth in that time frame that the Bible calls the day of the Lord. And then when Babylon is destroyed, the Bible says in Isaiah 13, verses 20 to 21, that it will never be inhabited or lived in again. No one will ever go back into it. It'll be totally wiped off the face of the earth and never inhabited. And the question again is, did this happen? No. Nothing like this has ever happened in the long history of the city of Babylon. People continued to live in that city for over a millennia. after it was conquered, after these prophecies were given, Arabs pitched their tents there. In 539 BC, the the Persians under King Cyrus conquered Babylon, but the city wasn't destroyed. The Persians simply captured the city. Later on in four fifty B. C. , Herodotus, the father of history, visited the city and he described it in grand terms. It's still had a lot of its l its its glory that was still part of that city. He said the inner walls were eighty five feet feet thick, three hundred and forty feet high, with one hundred gates. So at the time of Herodotus, Babylon was still a flourishing city. And then later on, Alexander the Great came into the city in 323 B. C. And he he kind of made it a little bit of a headquarters there, and he actually died there in the city. And then on we could go through history, on through 35 A. D. , on the day of Pentecost, there were Jews from Babylon in Jerusalem. On 500 A. D. , the Babylonian Talmud, which is a commentary on Jewish law, was basically promulgated from Babylon. And also archaeologists that went in to dig in that area confirmed that there were basically people living still in and around the city of Babylon. So none of that has been fulfilled the way the Bible says it was fulfilled. Again the Bible says when Babylon will be destroyed, it will be destroyed suddenly. Again, Jeremiah chapter 50, verse number 44, just mark this down. Behold, he shall come upon Come up, excuse me, like a lion from the swelling of the Jordan unto the habitation of the strong. In other words, the idea is that God compares himself to a lion pouncing suddenly on its victim. That's the way that Babylon will be destroyed. Again in chapter 51, verses 8 and 9 of Jeremiah, Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed. Howl for her, take balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed. And so it's sudden. And when it happens, she will not be able to be healed, verse 9. We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed. Forsake her. Let us go everyone to his own country. For her judgment reaches unto the heavens and is lifted up even to the skies. And then again the Bible says in the Old Testament that when Babylon is destroyed, no stones would ever be taken from her. And that's Jeremiah chapter 51, verse 26. And they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations But thou shalt be desolate forever, says the Lord. Has that happened? Again, no, that has not happened. The archaeologists who have gone in there have testified that they found entire sections of the city being mined for the bricks that were made there. those those fine bricks that were uh that were put in ovens and and and made built to last, excellent for building In fact, according to one source, it's reliably reported that at least six cities bear the marks of having used parts of the ancient Babylon for their buildings. And so all of these things are specific prophecies that God gave that would happen when Babylon is finally destroyed. And again, we we we don't see that happening. That has not yet happened, which again leads me to believe that there will be a rise of that city. And we also showed you the prophecy about that in Zechariah chapter 5. The prophet Zechariah was born in Babylon during Judah's 70-year exile there. He returned to Judah under the leadership of the rebel, and he he gave a prophecy concerning Babylon. And basically in that prophecy, and He he talks about this vision where there's a woman in a basket, there are two angelic beings that carry that basket, deliver it to the land of Shinar, there's a lead lid on the basket, which means this this woman who is the personification of evil in the vision will be kept there until the proper time when she will be released and the idea there is that Babylon would be rebuilt. It would become uh a force again, but it would be evil. It would be something that would be evil. And so all that to say that I don't believe that Babylon has been destroyed the way some say. And so that's the reason some people say, well, the Babylon in Revelation chapter 18 can't be the literal city because it was already destroyed. No, my friend, not the way the Bible says. So we take we take a literal approach to this and with all that background, let me just give you then four voices. That John hears in Revelation chapter 18. That kind of sets the stage. So look in Revelation chapter 18 now. And let's look at how the fall of Babylon takes place. I call this four voices As John John hears as he describes the fall of the city, I call this number one the voice of condemnation. Look in chapter 18 of Revelation verse 1. After these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power, and the earth was And so John sees another angel come from heaven. He lights up the whole earth with his shining glory. I don't think it's necessary to interpret this as Christ, as some have tried to do. The word another is aloes of the same sort. This is just another of the same angels that we've seen already in Revelation. But he's a mighty angel, he's a glorious angel uh great in power, that is great in authority, that was given to him by God. And he's delegated by God to speak with authority. And the angel cries out in verse number two, and he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the greatest fallen, has fallen, and has become the habitation of devils. And the hold of every foul spirit and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. And so the angel cries out that Babylon has fallen. The angel also names the sins that basically caused her great fall. And let us remember about our our God. He's a holy God. And that He's a God of judgment. He's faithful to judge sin. And he always acts according to His holiness. Therefore, no sin will go unpunished And we see here God's judgment. And here are the sins. It's become a den of demons in verse number two. Unclean spirit, this speaks of demons. It's a city infested with Satan and demons. Demonic activity takes place in many cities, but Babylon is the center here. It's filled with Satanism. It's filled with the occult. This will be the headquarters of the Antichrist, so this is not surprising. The church is the bride of Christ. That's the habitation of the Spirit. Babylon is a harlot. And the habitation of Satan. It's a cage for birds in verse number two. As we saw, cage of every unclean and hateful bird. I think that again that speaks of of of uh demonic activity, but If you go back to the prophecy in Isaiah 13, 21, talking of Babylon, it says, But the wild beasts of the desert shall lie there, and houses shall be full of doleful creatures, and owls shall dwell there. And and Satyr shall dance there. I think all that refers to demonic spirits. But it's filled with immorality. This is another reason for God's judgment. Look at verse 3. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Fornication here is a word that speaks of participation in False worship. False religion. Remember, Babylon is the mother of heartless. All false religion, all false worship came out of her. Uh all false religious systems started there. We all we looked last week at Genesis ten and eleven where this whole city w originated in rebellion against God with the humanistic spirit of we can do this on our own, we can build a tower to heaven. We don't need God, this independent rebellious spirit that also fostered uh false religion and false worship. And we we trace some of that how that the the whole uh legend of uh Samiramis and Timmuz, this is the wife of Nimrod, the dictator that started Babylon, and supposedly she had a son that was that was divine. And that kind of false heard a false religion that spread throughout the world, and there's still remnants of it that we see even today. But another reason for God's judgment is it's materialistic to the core. Look again in verse number three. For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies Delicacies here is a word that just simply speaks of a strong desire. Some translate this wealth of her sensuality And I think this is here speaking of financial terms, the world will cash in on Babylon's financial prosperity. They will throw off any restraint. and indulge in unbrided materialism. One man wrote this, sinners will indulge in a wild materialistic orgy. And do we need to be reminded that materialism is a sin, a great sin in the eyes of God, that the love of money is the root of all evil. God hates a materialistic heart. That was the characteristic of the church at Laodicea. They said, We're rich, we're increased with goods, we have need of nothing. If you're if you're your heart is on money and material things, then God doesn't have your affections and you can't serve two masters. And so that becomes an idol in and of itself. And God will judge it. Its sins are as high as the heavens. Look at verse number 5. For her sins have reached unto the heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities. Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double under her, double according to her works in the cup which she has filled, filled to her double. Her sins have ascended high to God, and they will receive a double portion of God's wrath upon the city for her sins. Remember in Genesis 11 they wanted to build a tower that reached under the heavens. But here in Revelation 18, the only thing that really reaches to the heavens are our sins. The only thing piled high to heavens are the sins of Babylon. And so double unto double, literally in the Greek, double the double things is the idea here. Her double has been her iniquity, and double shall be her punishment before Almighty God. You know, oftentimes in the Mosaic law, wrongdoers were often required to pay double restitution. For the wrong that they did. And the prophets note that Israel received double for her sins a few times. And here Babylon will receive double the judgment of God. But another reason for the judgment is her it's it is totally proud and arrogant. Look in verse number seven. How much has she glorified herself and lived deliciously? So much torment and sorrow give her. For she has said in her heart, I sit a queen and am no widow, and she shall see no sorrow. She's enjoying her season in the sun We say she we would say, you know, she's living high on the hog here. God is getting ready to judge. She's living gleefully. She's living gloriously. She's thinking nothing bad can happen. And uh but but God's judgment is about to fall. Let me just say this. Just because God's judgment is waits and God is patient doesn't mean judgment is not coming. The Bible says God is long suffering. And uh however there's comes a t a point in time when God's long-suffering ends. And when judgment does come. And so don't mistake the patience of God as a license to continue to sin. Here Babylon is thinking, oh, I'm getting away with this. We're living deliciously. Everything's going our way, and nothing bad possibly can happen. But they forget that there's a holy God in heaven who, according to his holy nature and character, will judge sin And then she'll be destroyed in verse 8. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day. Notice that. When do they come? In one day. That's an expression that means it's going to happen quickly. It's going to happen suddenly. Death and mourning and famine, and she shall be utterly burned with fire. For strong is the Lord God who judged her. Notice in verse 8 the manner in which she's judged. It'll be quickly, and she'll be burned with fire. Suddenly destroyed. Look down in verse number 10, where it says at the end of verse 10, for in one hour is thy judgment come. We see this also down in verse number 19. At the last phrase of verse 19, for in one hour is she made what? Desolate. In one hour is she made desolate. And so remember when we went through the Old Testament prophecies about Babylon, many of them said Babylon would be destroyed when? Suddenly. It'll happen quickly. And here in one day has the idea of that same thing, suddenly, quickly, this judgment is going to come. This is why I say this this can't be referring to Jerusalem in 70 AD because you know how long it took for that for that city to be destroyed? Five months. Five months of that city being sieged. Here Babylon is destroyed suddenly, quickly, and one day. In fact, in verse 19, it says, For in one hour is she made desolate. That makes it even shorter. Now we're not to take that literally, but it all speaks about it happening very quickly. And not drawn out over a long period of time. The judgment is going to come quick, suddenly, and it'll be over. There's the voice of condemnation, then there's the voice I call of consecration. Look back in verse number four of Revelation 18, and I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people. That ye be not partakers of her sins, that ye receive not her pledge. John hears another voice, only this voice is not directed to Babylon. Who's this voice directed to? It's directed to believers. Believers who may be in Babylon, friend, we might have to live in Babylon, but we don't want Babylon to live in us. We don't want to be a part of that system. We're to reject the religious economic system. Remember, I said it is a literal city, but it is also a system, a philosophy, a whole idea, a whole mindset. And we don't want to be a part of that because the sins of Babylon are contagious, and so we need to uh beware of that. Remember when the city started in Genesis 11, remember the pride, the self-dependence? the self-sufficiency, the rebellion, the idolatry, the materialism, all of that, God's people are to reject God wants people wholly given to Him. Their hearts are wholly dedicated to the Lord. What did Paul say? Be not conformed to this world. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you might prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 6. 14, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? God's people are not to be a part of the world system, they're not to be a part of Babylon. They're to flee from it. They're to run from it. Just like Lot was told to run from Sodom. And he and he he was he uh neglected to use the diligence to run the the the way he should. In in the process of that he lost his wife and his family His daughters got out of Sodom, but Sodom didn't get out of them. And so it cost him his family. So the Bible says, don't be partakers of Babylon. Partakers means to be joined in fellowship or partnership. You don't want to be a partaker of Babylon. You don't want to receive her plagues. If you're a partaker of Babylon, you'll receive her plagues also. And so make sure that you're living a life that we might be in the world, but not of the world. Our hearts are totally dedicated and given over to God. So there's the voice of condemnation, there's the voice of consecration. But here's the third voice that we hear in this, and that's I call this the voice of consternation. And this we see this in verse 9 down to verse 19. When all the world sees what God does to Babylon, they're in shock. I mean, they marvel. They're stunned. They're in awe And what John does in this section is he gives the reaction of the world to the fall of Babylon, that great city. Every once in a while there'll be an event that will cause the world to stop and to pay attention. We we saw that even this week, right? The death of the Queen Elizabeth, and now all the world has kind of stopped and paid attention to what took place. We remember on 9-11 what happened when that took place, how all the world just kind of was shocked and in awe of everything that took place. And this will be the same kind of spirit that when Babylon is finally destroyed, all the world will be shocked. All the world will be in awe. It will be plastered on the T V news on all the stations as this city is destroyed. Notice monarchs will wonder in verse number nine The kings of the earth who have committed fornication and live deliciously with her shall be well her. And lament for her when they shall see the smoke of her burning. The kings, this includes uh we saw in chapter 17 the ten kings who rule under the Antichrist kingdom. But I think it speaks of the world leaders standing far back because of the smoke of the furious flames that burn in that city, that kings will gaze and their mouths will be open and they'll be shocked. Tears will be running down their faces they see this. And I think that verse ten implies that they see it as an act of God. And verse number ten, standing afar off her fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, thou mighty city, for in one hour is thy judgment come. Suddenly it's come. In one hour. This is not an accident, but a judgment. They will know that God did this. Just as surely as they the world knew that God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. God will know that the world will know, excuse me, that God judged this city as well. Iraq hasn't seen the real desert storm yet. But then here's the next thing: merchants will weep. Monarchs will wonder. Merchants will weep. Look in verse 11. And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her. For no man buyeth their merchandise any more, the merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones and of pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet and all fine wood and all manner of vessels of ivory and all manner vessels of most precious wood and of brass and iron and marble and Cinnamon and odors and ointments and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and beasts and sheep and horses and chariots and and so on. It just gives all these things. Looks like a shopping list here, doesn't it? And the fruits that thy soul lusted after all departed from thee. And all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee. And thou shalt find them no more at all And the merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing. So here are the merchants, those who made all this money over Babylon, over buying and selling And economic prosperity. They're going to stand back as Babylon is destroyed because of the torment and the fire of the destruction. They're going to stand back and they also will weep and wail. Look in verse number again, verse 15. The merchants of these things which were made rich by her, standing afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing in verse 16, and saying, Alas Alas, that great city that was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls. Verse 17, for in one hour So great riches has come to naught, and every shipmaster and all the company and ships and sailors, as many as trade by sea, stood afar off And so this is the idea that there are those in boats that are watching this from the sea, that see this whole city just go up in flames. And they weep and they wail over this. This is the next part. Mariners will wail. Merchants will weep. Mariners will wail. The shippers, the transport companies, the airlines, and the freight haulers will all be sitting on their hands with nothing to do, because all of this will be destroyed. The sailors and the longshoremen will just sit and weep. They had all decided that materialism was the most important thing in the world, and in one hour it's all gone. It's all gone. And the word whale here means to cry out and a loud lament, just like you lost a loved one. John Phillips writes this. He said this uh talking about this prophetically, the ships entering the Persian Gulf standing hastily back out to sea, giant convoys of ships displaying flags of hundreds of nations. Ride at anchor far from the the rishing center of the fiery doom. He kind of pictures it what it might be like of these ships in the Persian Gulf watching this whole city just go up in flames. Because God destroyed it just like he said in one hour, like Sodom and Gomorrah, suddenly it comes in the day of the Lord. All of this just seems to fit those Old Testament prophecies about the destruction of Babylon. But then there's one more voice here. That we need to look at. There's the voice of condemnation, the voice of consecration, the voice of consternation, but number four, the voice of celebration. Because look at verse number 20. Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God has avenged you on her. And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city, Babylon, be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all. And the voice of harpers and musicians and of pipers and of trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in thee, and no craftsman of whatsoever craft he be shall be found any more in thee. And the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee. Now, that's pretty clear there, isn't it? Again, when it's destroyed, it won't be inhabited anymore. This is again what the Old Testament said when Babylon is destroyed. It will not be inhabited anymore after that. And here is the fulfillment of that. There's the violence of God's judgment we saw in verse 21. It's like a millstone that's being cast Down, thrown down and shall be found no more. You know what a millstone is, right? It's a great big stone that uh is shaped like a wheel and it sits on the top and it grinds on a on another foundation stone. Um, just it's a huge stone. And uh the the uh the stones weighed, you know, just hundreds and hundreds of pounds. And when you cast a stone like that into the sea, it's going to go to the bottom. It's going to be gone. The millstone. Babylon will be like a great millstone cast into the sea. This shows the violence of God's judgment. But then the vastness of his judgment we saw in verses 22 and verse 23, when that happens, no joyful music will be heard in the city. No more craftsmen working at their trade. Lights will be blown out. Another way is to say the lights will be off. Nobody will be home. The city will be desolate It'll be uninhabited. No wedding celebrations, the activity of daily life will all be gone. And then the vengeance of God's judgment, verse number twenty-four, and in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all that were slain upon the earth. God takes vengeance on the city because of all the blood on her hands. The blood of prophets and saints have stained the city. And again, this is a false religion that has slain so many of God's servants, and God said enough is enough. Sin will not win in the end. And so again, I say that Babylon will come full circle. It'll come full circle. And the city and the system that rebelled against God Will experience the wrath of God and the judgment of God. So these are the voices that we hear: the voice of condemnation. The voice of consecration, the voice of consternation, the voice of celebration. Now, again, let me just make one application and we're done. I want to again emphasize verse number four, where God says again to us, come out of her. I heard another voice from heaven saying, come out of her. The spirit in the system of Babylon is already in this world. And again, God wants his people to be different, to come out. And if you're flirting with Babylon, if you're dancing with the devil, you're headed for serious problems. What does the Bible say? Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. For if any man love the world, what does it say? The love of the Father is not in him. And John there was making a distinction between true believers and false believers. If you're still in love with this world system, you don't have the love of the Father in you. The Bible says, for all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. That is not of the Father, that is of the world. And you know what's happening in this whole world system? Verse 17: the world is passing away. This whole world and the whole world system is in the process of all passing away. Listen to this. Here's the contrast. But he who does the will of God abides forever. So make your choice. You want to be a part of this world system? It's very temporary. Oh, there's a lot of glitter and gold and glamour and luxury and all those things that fulfill the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. But I want to tell you something, friend, it's very, very temporary. It's all going to go up in smoke. You know who are the ones that abide forever? The ones who are committing to doing the will of God. And you know who they are? Those are people that know Jesus Christ as their Savior, Jesus Christ as their Lord. Those are the people that are absolutely, totally committed to doing the will of God. That's the mark of a true believer, a true child of God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. As we uh bow for prayer, I just want you to examine your own heart in light of what you heard tonight. Ask yourself this question, where am I in all of this? Is there still a love of the world in my heart, a love of this world system? And when we talk about the world, we're not talking about the planet. We're not talking about the people. Because the Bible says God loves, God so loved the world, he's talking about the people there. Not talking about the the nature and the planet or anything like that. We're not to hate nature. The Bible says love not the world. It's talking about a system, a philosophy that is in rebellion against God. A spirit that would replace God with things, the things of the world. That would try to fulfill make you happy by giving you these material things. And I want to tell you something, friend, there's no happiness in that. Those things become an idol. If your heart's filled with the love of the world, then the love of the Father is not in it. What you need to do is repent. Put your faith in Christ. Ask God to give you a love for Him that far surpasses any former love of the things of this world. And you know what you'll find? When you seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, you know all these things will be added to you. But at that point there'll be gifts that God gives you. They won't be idols They won't be things that you make a priority. They'll be gifts from a loving father to his children. Then God can trust us with those things. things because he knows our love for him is supreme. So where is your heart? Where are you? Do you know that you know Christ Would you just pray tonight, Lord, take away any love in my heart that might be there for the things of this world. And give me a strong, surpassing love for yourself, Father, for Christ. A love that so supersedes any love for these temporal passing things. Lord, please do that in our heart. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.