Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of 2 Timothy, chapter 2, verse number 1. 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 1. And uh as you know, I've been uh just going through a uh a series on sunny night called um Echoes from Puritan Pulpits where I basically am uh Just kind of giving you lessons that I have learned by reading from the Puritans. There's a spiritual depth about them that I think that is lacking in the church today. And um I'm just picking out selective books that I were really have spoken to me and helped me and these are sermons that are uh books that are based on sermons or passages of scripture expounded by these great men of God. And I just want to just kind of bring the truth out to you that will be a blessing to you in your life. And tonight I want to speak about a man that you probably have never heard of. His name is Christopher Love He is a Puritan that's not known as well as some of the others. But he's a man that had a unique life, a short life, because he was executed in his thirties on August the 22nd in 1651 He was taken to Tower Hill in London and uh he was executed. And this had been after he had been in the Tower of London for weeks being held there as a prisoner. And there were petitions that came in from all over England from other ministers and even from other government uh government uh men, g men in government positions, I should say, political leaders that were really uh asking for his pardon, but the government decided to execute him nonetheless. Uh before his execution, um the night before he was in his cell, he sang psalms, he preached to those that gathered. His wife, Mary, who was pregnant at the time, also pleaded for his life. In a letter to her he wrote, Though men separate us, yet God unites us. And though I leave you in a sea of sorrow, yet I will leave you in the bosom of faithful God. On the next morning when he went to the scaffolding, he prayed publicly. He forgave all of his enemies. And then he said this: quote, I'm going from a prison to a palace, and from a scaffold to a crown. And then he declared publicly, I bless God, I can look death in the face with comfort. And with that he was executed. But you think about the assurance that this man had. He had an absolute assurance. He knew exactly where he was going. The question I ask when I read an account like that is, could I face death with that type of grace and courage? Now the subject that he had written upon, sermons that he had preached upon, were this issue of assurance of salvation. Years earlier he did a whole series on two verses basically that really seemed to haunt his conscience. One was first Kings chapter fourteen, verse thirteen. Because of him because in him there is found some good thing toward the Lord God of Israel. The second verse is 2 Timothy 2. 1, this passage here. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. So these two verses that he meditated upon. And it was based on these two verses that he built his theology of grace. And he really answers two questions in his theology of grace. One of them is is there any good thing found in you towards God? And then the second question, is the grace in you growing stronger? Those were the two questions. And so based upon all of that, he he preached and he wrote this book that that is titled Grace, The Truth, Growth and Degrees, and Different Degrees in Grace. And so this is a very convicting book. I I I read this years ago. This was helpful to me as a as a younger minister, and I hope that it's been a help as I tried to relate some of these things that Christopher Love taught here in this book. But Christopher Love, like many Puritans, had a fear. And that fear was that there were many people in England that were a part of religion, but they did not have real regeneration. That was something that he saw very commonly. In fact, many of the Puritans that I read also seem to have that same concern. Uh they had a burden that there were many that were being uh s that were being uh swept along by the enthusiasm of religion. They had all the outward appearances of being a Christian, and yet there was not real change in their life. There was not real regenerations. Churches were full. Many wept under conviction, but still he felt like there were many that did not have true salvation, true grace. And so that was the motivation for this. So I want us to just, I want to kind of summarize what he taught, and in just four points here to the sermon tonight, all about grace. First of all, number one would be the truth of grace. Is it real? That would that was the first area where he interacted in his book Christopher Love wrote this. There's a great deal of difference between common grace and saving grace. Common grace is the love and grace that God shows everyone indiscriminately, everyone, believers or unbelievers. The Bible says that the rain falls upon the just and the what? Unjust. That's common grace, right? God just shows his love to everyone. But then there's a different kind of grace called saving grace. And that's a grace that's for those who are God's children, those who are truly saved. And he says there's a great deal of difference between common grace and saving grace, between gifts and graces, between temporary faith and justifying faith. And again, his age was very religious. But he feared again there were many who were not regenerate. He warned that many mistake conviction for conversion. They mistake tears for real transformation and fear for faith. He said this, many go very far in religion and yet fall short of Grace. Judas preached, he said, Herod heard John gladly. The foolish virgins carried lamps. And he said, A man may tremble under preaching and yet never be changed. True salvation or true grace doesn't just mean leaving off sin. It doesn't just mean adopting religious habits in your life or feeling stirred in worship. So how do we know when there's been true grace? How do we know there's been the truth of grace in our life and that it's real? He gave several things. First of all, a new heart towards God. True grace produces a new heart towards God. Not just fear of punishment, but a love for God Himself He says religion again can polish the outside, but grace renovates you. It changes you from the inside. It produces a love for God, for who He is. It produces a delight in holiness and a hatred of sin as sin. He said saving grace alters the bent of the soul. But there's another area where he said that shows what that your grace is real, that your salvation is real, and that is a universal respect for God's commandments. A universal respect. Now what did he mean by universal here? That true grace or true salvation has a respect for all of God's revealed will or all of God's commandments. So He says the sincere believer may fail often, but he does not reserve the right to disobey deliberately. And uh he says a sincere heart is impartial in obedience. And he talks about the problem that some that he sees in some as what he calls selective obedience. What is selective obedience? Well, it's an obedience that says, you know, I I uh I I like these commandments. I can obey these, but these others over here I'm not going to It's it's kind of like a smorgage board, you know. I I like this but uh I'm gonna bypass that. I'm gonna ignore this Love says to have selective obedience. I'll choose the commandments I obey. I'll choose the commandments of God that I'll ignore. He said what that does is that reveals a counterfeit heart. And uh a counterfeit heart will ignore certain commandments, it will justify cherished sins, and they'll only obey when it is convenient to obey. For example, he says this, a man may be generous but prayerless. You could be very good in giving, but you don't have a prayer life Orthodox but unloving. You might be solid doctrinally. You might have it all squared away. Everything's correct in your doctrinal notebook. But you may have no love towards others. Absolutely not no loving spirit towards others. You may be strict in public, but lax in private. You may be very strict with your convictions when you're out among others, but when you're by yourself, those convictions seem to fade. Passionate, he says, in worship, but careless in speech. And love would say, if obedience is selective, by design, it is suspect If you, by design, only choose what commandments you will obey, he said, that's a reason to be alarmed about whether that grace is true grace. Because counterfeit religion obeys where obedience costs little. And then he quotes this verse, right down Psalm 119, verse 6. Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. Notice the word all, not favor commandments. Lord, I'm going to have respect for your f my favor commandments. Not culturally acceptable commandments, but all of your commandments Selective obedience subtly says, I'll submit where I agree. But true grace says, I submit because God, this is what you said. It's what you said. So Law saw that this selective obedience really reveals your heart. What is really in your heart? If I obey only because it benefits me, or because it enhances my image, or because it aligns with my temperament or my personality, there are certain commandments that are easier for me to obey because it just happens to match my temperament or my personality. If I only do that because of those reasons, that means I'm sovereign, not God. But when I obey, even where it costs me Or even where it humbles me, or even where that commandment contradicts or goes against my preference. Then, if I obey at that point, he says, grace is at work in me, if I'm willing to obey when it costs me. And then he said this, quote, where grace is sincere, it makes a man careful in every known duty. And when he means duty, he's talking about uh spiritual devotion or spiritual discipline are are obeying the Lord. And so The believer may be weak in prayer, but he will not despise prayer. Now some of the commandments might be harder for you to obey, but it doesn't mean that you don't try. It doesn't mean that you're not You know, at least they're trying. And again, you may be weak in prayer, but you're not going to despise prayer. You may struggle with forgiveness, but you will not justify bitterness. That's what he says. There's a danger in having favorite duties or favorite commands that those are the commands, those are the things that you will obey. And so he would ask, are there commands you quietly exempt yourself from? Is there just certain things that in the Bible you say, well, you know, I I can't do that, so I'm just going to ignore that? Is there a not this one in your obedience? Yeah, this one, this one, this one, oh, not that one. Because the heart that reserves territory is not fully surrendered to God. It's not fully surrendered to God. And so he means a universal surrender A universal obedience to all of God's commandments, universal respect for all of God's commandments. Then there's another sign that your grace is real, and that's war against indwelling sin. That there will be a war in you if that grace is real, he says. Indwelling sin is not merely outward acts. It's Pride that is in the heart, it is envy in the soul, it is lust that may be in our imagination or bitterness in the spirit, self-will in the desires You see, before salvation, sin reigned unopposed. But after grace, sin remains, but it is resisted. It is constantly resisted. And it's this resistance that is war. And so he's saying if your grace is real, there's going to be a warfare in you. There's going to be a warfare in your soul And there's a difference, by the way, between restraint and warfare. And Christopher Love is very clear in this distinction. It's very crucial. You see, a false believer may restrain sin. It's possible for a person to not truly be saved and yet restrain sin in their life. They want to avoid a scandal. A false professor may manage his behavior. It's possible to do that. He may suppress outward expressions, but he doesn't really hate sin for sin. For what it is. He hates the consequences of sin. He hates the embarrassment, perhaps, of being caught in a scandal or in a sin. He hates the exposure But he doesn't really hate the sin for what it is. Love would say, grace makes a man loathe that which he once loved. If you're truly saved, you're going to loathe that sin that you once cherished. Restraint is behavioral, but grace, true grace, has warfare. Warfare is spiritual. So there's a difference between restraint and warfare. Restraint says, I must not, but grace says I would not and I will not. And it is a constant war And that war will be evidence in your life. And the reason for that, as love said, and you've heard me say it many times, and that is uh dead men do not struggle. If you're dead spiritually, you're not going to have any struggle against sin in your life. Before generation, there's no conflict with sin in your heart. There's no conflict there. An unregenerated heart might feel guilt, but it will not have a holy warfare against sin. And so that means that every true believer is going to have that Romans 7 experience, right? We're going to understand what Paul means when he said the the good that I would do, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do There's the presence of this constant inward contradiction is what love calls it, and it proves the two principles are at work, the flesh and the spirit. Where there is no conflict, then there is no spirit. Because if you're truly saved, there's going to be that conflict. And what does this war look like? He kind of describes it. He says that it's grief after sin. After you fail the Lord and you sin, there will be grief, not merely regret, but there's going to be that godly sorrow. The believer feels wounded By his own failure after he falls. David cried out and said, Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. This is warfare language, he says. There will also be manifested by the resistance before sin. There'll be the grief after sin, but there's also going to be the resistance before sin. Temptation produces a tension. There's a hesitation. There's a prayer. There's a conflict. And he also said it's evidenced by no peace treaty. So the believer does not negotiate with cherish corruption. He doesn't say, well, you know, I will keep this one. And uh he might fall repeatedly. But he does not justify the sin and he does not defend his sin. He will condemn that sin even while he may be struggling. And uh and this is important to understand because I I know time uh there's times when believers come to me and they they're very discouraged and they question their salvation because they say, if I struggle so much over sin, I must not be saved But the truth of the matter is the struggle shows that there's life. If you did not struggle, then you should fear. Because the absence of struggle is a reason for cause uh for doubting whether that grace is real. But the presence of warfare is a proof of grace. And so the unbeliever can be comfortable in sin, the believer cannot be And comfort in sin is deadly. Conflict with sin, he says, however, is hopeful. And so There's this constant warfare that we have. And so he would ask us then, do you grieve over sins? Over sins that others never see when When you're having an inward battle with sin and you fail in that battle, do you grieve over that sin that no one else can see but only you and God Do you fight sins that bring you no public shame? Do you feel tension between the flesh and the spirit? Do you have this inward longing to be free from the corruption? that is in you. If yes, that is war, he says. And if there's war, then that means there is life. But there's another sign that that grace is real, and that is perseverance under trial Perseverance under trial is another sign of what he says is true grace, the truth of grace. That is, he says temporary faith fades w uh when the sun rises or when you're under hot it's hot under trial or t temptation. Perseverance is the evidence that so is that evidence is uh perseverance is the evidence um that your salvation is is real. And so when the trial comes, you're not going to quit on God. You're going to continue on. You will allow God to refine you. It'll be a refining work that God does in you. And you will not walk away from the Lord. He wrote this: affliction is the touchstone that discovers whether grace be true or it be counterfeit. So, first question, the truth of grace, is it real? Here's the second thing. The growth of grace, the growth of grace, is it increasing? And and love asks this question, is grace increasing? He's not asking whether emotions are heightened or whether your religious activity is busier. He's not saying, oh I'm, you know, if you're busier for the Lord, that that's not what he's asking Or if you have more emotion, he's asking whether the inward principle of spiritual life in you is maturing. That inward spiritual life is growing and maturing. Because grace, he says, is a living principle. If grace is real, it's alive. And if it's alive, that means what? It means it's growing So grace should be growing in you. And you would often compare grace to to a seed in the soil. You put the seed in, and it's going to continue to grow by degree, little by little. Even so with God When God plants grace in you, that grace is going to grow. It's going to be like a spark that will eventually become a flame. He compares it to the morning light. At dawn, the light shines brighter and brighter as the day goes on. And that's the way grace is going to operate in your life if you're truly saved. Then the dawn, the day star has arisen in your heart, the dawn has come, and that light is going to gradually increase and the darkness gets faint. So he says that's grace. That's how grace works in your life. But growth is often, he says, however, invisible. And here I think that Christopher Love becomes very, very comforting. He says the growing Christian often feels weaker than before. He feels weaker than before. Why? Well, because growth produces a greater self-knowledge. The more you grow in grace, the more you know yourself. And that means that you see in you more corruption. The more light that enters into your soul, the more corruption that you see about yourself. And so he says a new believer often feels strong because he sees little of his remaining sin. However, a mature believer feels weak because he sees much more. It's not that sin has increased, it's just that his awareness has deepened So the good news is this, as you grow in grace, you're going to become more like Christ. The bad news is you're going to feel worse about yourself. And why is that? Well, because you're going to see have more of a self-awareness. You're going to see your sin more clearly. The room may be cleaner, the light brighter, but the brighter light reveals more dust. You know, it's like have being in a room and you have four walls and you paint one wall white and it shows how dirty the other three walls are. Then you have to paint those other walls and it's it's the way it is spiritually in our life. Young believers often speak boldly about their strength. That's because they don't know any better. But seasoned saints speak carefully about their weaknesses because they've come to know them. That's not regression. That's sanctification. And that is so encouraging me when I read that because I I the more the longer I live in Christ, the the weaker I feel And the more I realize how I fall short, and the more sinful I feel before God. And I wonder that God would ever use me at all. And and when I read something like this from Christopher Love, it's very comforting that that's not regression. That is sanctification. He would say this, the more grace a man hath, the less he thinks he has. The more grace you have, the less you think you have. Humility grows where grace grows. There's a sharper awareness of sin. So a mature believer mourns pride in his motives. He mourns the impatience that is in his spirit. Whereas before earlier in Christ he wouldn't think about these things, but now he sees them clearly. He mourns his wandering in prayer. He mourns his coldness and affection. What once went unnoticed now pierces the conscience. And again, that sensitivity is not decline in your spiritual life. That's more of a refinement. That's more of a sign of growth. And so the paradox is that weakness felt is strength growing. You say, man, I feel so weak. Well, that's good. That's a good sign. Because that's a sign that your strength is growing. This is the paradox that love wants us to grasp. The believer who feels weakest may be the strongest. And why is that? Well, because true strength is dependence on Christ. That's true strength. True strength is distrust of self. When you start really trusting yourself, you're on dangerous ground there. Real strength is this trust of self, and it's a clinging to grace. Spiritual maturity is not self-assurance, it's Christ assurance. It is clinging to Christ all the more. The young Christian says, I can. The mature Christian says, he must, because I can't. That's the difference. The felt weakness that drives you to Christ, that is spiritual growth. And so we see then this paradox. But also the means by which grace grows. Love never treated growth as automatic Growth happens because of the means of growth and what is that? And you've you don't need me to dwell on this because you heard me say it so many times. What are the means that God gives us so that we can grow in our grace and sanctification? There's the Word of God, of course. That teaches us, that reveals Christ, that exposes sin, that feeds our faith, that strengthens us in every way. But also there's prayer. Prayer shows our dependence on God. Growth and grace often means shorter prayers of self-confidence, deeper prayers of reliance, absolute reliance upon God. But then also obedience. Just like he says exercise strengthens the muscle, obedience from a Christian strengthens your faith. It strengthens your growth and grace. That's another means of growth. And then he uses the word sacraments, which we would just simply call the Lord's Supper. It deepens the love for Christ. He said communion refreshes faith and renews our covenant awareness or our awareness of salvation. But then he he mentions another one, affliction, and he says this is especially true. Here he lingers. He said, affliction is not accidental interruption. It is divine refinement. Gold does not grow brighter on the shelf. It grows purer in the fire. And so God will afflict us, to detach us from the worldly comforts, to expose hidden idols, to drive us to our knees in prayer, to show us our weakness, to strengthen our reliance upon Christ. He does all of these things. So trials are not proof of decline. It is necessary in our life. A lot of times believers, when they go through a trial, they think, you know, God, I must not be where I need to be spiritually, and that's simply not true. In fact, it's the opposite It's a means that God is using to bring you where He wants you to be. And so we have to understand that. So let me move on here to the third one. There's the truth of grace, is it real? There's the growth of grace, is it increasing in your life? Do you see it increasing? But then there's the different degrees of grace. Why do believers differ? Why is it that believers are on different places in their spiritual walk and their grace and their growth in grace? And love says that grace differs in degree, but not in kind. We all have the same saving grace. We all have the same kind of grace in us, but it differs in degrees. You see, that's the point. And he he Christopher Love says that when grace differs in degree, not in kind, he is protecting believers from two destructive errors. That is, God, uh this is orchestrated by God because he's protecting us. First of all, from the strong despising the weak, and secondly from the weak despairing of themselves So let me speak about the distinction here, degree versus kind. And again, love is very precise. He does not say all believers are equally mature. He says that the variation, there is a variation in levels of maturity and grace, but the variation is one of measure, not of nature. Again, um uh of of not of kind, but of of of of variation or of degree. So just as an illustration, a spark And a flame have the same nature. It's just different in degrees. Alright? He says a trembling believer and a triumphant. believers share the same kind of grace, same kind of union in Christ, but it's there's a difference in in uh intensity, not in identity And he said this, the least measure of saving grace differs from the greatest common grace. In other words, an unbeliever can have common grace, but A believer may be weak in saving grace, but the distinction, the difference between that common grace and this weak saving grace is much bigger than that who has weak grace and a believer who might have strong grace grace. So, but the question is, why do believers differ? And he's and he he gives several reasons why. He says, first of all, because of God's sovereign dis distribution. Because grace is a gift, and God distributes spiritual strength according to his wise purposes. And so some people are given more. They're stronger in grace. They're stronger in assurance. They're greater in their boldness than others. They're deeper in spiritual stability. Others They they may be a little bit visibly weaker or slower in their growth. Or they might it might take longer for them to grow. And mature in their grace. But Kirch Christopher Law says both of these are designed by God, the strong believer and the weak believer And why? Why? Well, because the variety magnifies the giver. It magnifies God all the more. And it also makes us codependent, dependent upon each other, you see. And so he says another reason for this is the differences in temperament. It might be because of a difference in personality or temperament. Some personalities are naturally cautious. Others are naturally confident. Grace sanctifies temperament, but it does not erase it. In other words, your personality is not erased when you get saved. You have the same personality, it's just that grace will now uh work through that personality, and because your temperament may be different. A cautious believer may doubt more, or a bold believer might appear stronger But personality is not the measure of grace, and so that's the reason there's a difference there. But there's also differences in experience. Some just go through different trials, and trials have a way of refining us differently. Some have endured severe persecution and severe affliction and deep loss. And these experiences may cause them to have a deeper spiritual strength They plant deeper roots in God because of those experiences. And so there's differences because of the different experiences that believers have gone through. But another reason why there's differences is because the use of means. And what he simply means by that is if you're in the Word of God more and you pray more, what's that going to mean? You're going to grow more. If you're not using the means that God has given you, then obviously you're not going to be on the same level as somebody else. You're not going to have the same grace as someone else. If you neglect the word or prayer or self-examination, that can stunt your growth. Faithful use of the means that God has given you to grow will strengthen that grace. And he says, yet even here, growth remains God's work. So he also remarks that there's a danger for the strong, the that is pride. Love warned that the spiritually strong, you need to be careful about pride. The mature believer may be tempted to think, you know, he might look at a weaker believer and say, you know, why is their faith so weak? Or why Why do they doubt so much? Or why do they struggle so often? And his answer to that is because God has measured differently. God is measured differently, so don't be proud or lifted up, because you may be stronger in grace. The strong are not self-made. It wasn't because of you. It was God who did that in you. You are divinely sustained. God has given you more of that grace. He would remind the strong, you were once weak, and you may be weak yet again. Your strength is borrowed. You think you're so strong? God has a way of weakening you. So you better be careful not to be too proud. And spiritual pride contradicts the very grace that produced that maturity. But also there's the danger for the weak, which is despair. Equally serious is this despair of the weak. The believer may think, I just doubt too much. I struggle too much. I must not truly belong to Christ. And here Christopher Love speaks very gently. He says, weak grace is still grace. Your grace may be weak, but it's still grace. A mustard seed is not a cedar, but it is alive, just like the cedar. The smallest faith unites the soul to Christ as truly as the strongest. And then he just goes and he through the scripture and he gives This uh support and the Word of God for these degrees of grace in Romans 14. He talks about the weak in faith and those who are strong. He goes to first John and talks about the young men, the little children, and the young men and the fathers, talking about the different levels spiritually that John mentions there. And so there's degrees in this grace. But let me move on to the last point here. So There's the truth of grace. Is it real? There's the growth of grace. Is it increasing in your life? There's the different degrees of grace. Why do believers differ in this grace? But then here's the last point, the assurance of grace. The assurance of grace. How do we know? How do we know? And here uh love speaks of assurance, and he kind of walks a road between Two dangers we could say, presumption without evidence. A lot of people just presume they're saved, but there's no evidence in their life of salvation, and dis and despair despite evidence. There are some people who have plenty of evidence, but they despair despite that. And so he refuses to comfort the hypocrite. On one hand, the one who presuming. And then on the other hand, he refuses to crush the weak saint that is so introspective. But first of all, assurance is possible, he says it, but it's not automatic. Love does not treat assurance as a rare mystical privilege. And the reason I say that is because there's a tendency on some Puritans to teach the experience of assurance of salvation is some mystical experience. And Christopher Love does not do that. He believes that And by the way, there are some Puritans that believe that you can't really attain assurance, which again is wrong. That's not biblical. But here, Christopher Love believes that it's attainable. But he says it's not automatic. It could be that you truly are saved. You truly do have grace, but you don't have that assurance. And so he would distinguish between faith, trusting in Christ, and assurance, which is knowing that you have trusted Christ savingly. A believer may have faith and lack of that assurance. But he writes this, assurance is not the essence of faith, but the well-being of faith. And uh Why that would a believer be uncertain? Well, because assurance grows through examination. And it grows through fruitfulness. That's how you get your assurance of salvation, he says. It's through examining your heart and through fruitfulness in your life. And so there's the role of evidences. He urges believers to examine themselves, like I have been doing when we've been going through 1 John. I'm on good ground there, Christoph does this. He says, you know, you need to ask, is there faith in Christ? Is there repentance from sin? Is there love for God? Is there growth in holiness? Is there perseverance under trials? He said evidences are like spiritual footprints. They do not create life, they simply reveal life These evidences don't make you saved. They reveal that you already are saved, you see. So, but evidences therefore are not the foundation. They're simply re w what reveals that your faith is real. He gives a threefold uh foundation of assurance. And no, I did not copy copy Christopher Love when He talks about a threefold assurance. He gives what he calls a threefold foundation of assurance, and he says it rests on three pillars. What are they? Christ-finished work. He says the ultimate ground of assurance is not inward but outward. It's the outward accomplishment of who? Of Christ. Christ's obedience. Christ's atonement. Christ's righteousness. If salvation depended on the strength of grace, no one would stand. If my salvation depended upon how strong grace was in me, I would not be able to stand before God. But thankfully it's not dependent on me It's dependent on Christ, on the strength of Christ. Even the weakest believer can rest upon the strength of Christ for their salvation And then also another evidence is the promises of the covenant, or we would say the promises of salvation. God has promised to forgive sin to preserve his saints, to complete what he begins, and assurance grows as we trust God's promises You put your faith and trust in those promises, and your salvation is that those promises of your salvation are stronger than your doubts, he says. And then the third pillar is the Spirit's inward testimony. And that's where the Spirit bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. He said, this is not mere emotion, it is a settled persuasion produced by the Spirit of God. through the Word of God working in that person's life. And so again, evidences do not save. Christ saves. Evidences confirm that we are truly saved. And so uh he he tells us to be careful between these two extremes. This presumptive assurance To have claim that you're saved, to claim that you have transformation, and it rests on a past decision or a verbal profession or emotional memory, but there's no growth in your life. There's no war with sin. There's no obedience. Love would say this. He would say, that's not assurance. That's presumption. But also he he cautions us against this morbid introspection. He says others examine endlessly, they search for perfection, they magnify every flaw, they never rest. And he would correct, he would gently correct that person. And he would say, the purpose of self-examination is confirmation, not torment. You're examining your heart not to torment yourself. But once you see these other evidences that are true in your life, then simply look to Christ. He would comfort the trembling believer, and he would say this, if you hate sin, if you love Christ, if you desire holiness, if you grieve when you fall. If you return when you wander, he says then grace lives. And if grace lives, Christ is yours. That assurance may be weak. But that union is secure. A weak hand, again, can hold upon hold on to a strong Christ. And that is assurance. And so he says that this assurance will create increase in our life as sin is dealt with, as our communion deepens, as our confidence strengthens. And as we walk more and more in grace, the clearer the light comes, the more assurance that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so um he he he I'll close with this. He says this final exhortation. If you see no evidence at all, if there's no war If there's no repentance, if there's no desire for holiness, don't seek assurance. See Christ. See Christ. But if you see even small evidences, see that even small evidences, do not despise them Bring them to the promises, lay them before the cross, ask the Spirit for confirmation, and then rest. Rest in the Lord. So let's bow for prayer tonight Your heads bowed and eyes closed. Just ask yourself, is my grace true? And is it growing? And do I see even the smallest spark of divine life? If you find hatred of sin and love for Christ and your grief over failure and those things, don't despise those small beginnings because the weakest grace is still saving grace. And our Lord does not quench a smoking flax. Father, thank you for men like Christopher Love, who uh spent so much time studying this important issue and and teaching people of his day and and because of what he wrote down we are blessed to be able to read and gain spiritual insight today. And Father, I pray that you'll use this to strengthen our own faith, that we would examine our own heart. That we would know that we our grace is true grace, and that it's growing, and that you'll give us strength to continue to war against sin and increase our love for Christ. So that when our final hour comes, we can have the same confidence that Christopher Love had when he looked death in the face and said, I can bless God. I can look deaf in the face with comfort because I know. I know whom I have believed. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.