2 Timothy chapter 1. I want to talk about pressing on in the faith. You know, we are as Christians, we know that we are not just saints, but we're soldiers, aren't we? And we're in a spiritual warfare. So I want us to look at this tonight. While you're finding your place there, two elderly, godly women, grandmothers. were talking together. They were kind of comparing notes rema reminiscing about when they were young and how things had changed. This is what they said. He said, we were born before TV, penicillin, polo shots, frozen foods, xerox plastics, contact lenses, frisbees in the pill. We were born before radar, credit cards, split atoms, laser beams, and ballpoint pens. We were born before dishwasher, clothes dryers, electric blankets, air conditioners, drip-dry clothes before man walked on the moon. We got married first and then lived together. In our time, clauses were for clothes, not for coming out of. Bunnies were small rabbits, and rabbits were not Volkswagens. Having a meaningful relationship meant getting along well with our cousin. When we were born, we were born before house husbands, gave rights, computer dating, dual careers, and computer marriages. We were born before daycare centers, group therapy, and nursing homes. We never heard of FM radios, tape decks, electric typewriters, artificial hearts, word processors, computers the internet, yogurt, and guys wearing earrings. For us, timesharing meant togetherness, not computers and condominiums. A computer meant uh excuse me, a chip meant a piece of wood Hardware meant hardware and software wasn't even a word. In 1940, made in Japan meant junk. The term making out referred to how you did on your exam. Pieces, McDonald's, and instant coffee were unheard of. In our day, grass was mowed, coke was something that you drank, and pot was something that you cooked in. Rock music was a grandmother's lullaby. And we may do with what we had. And we were the last generation that was so dumb as to think you needed a husband before you had a baby No wonder we are so confused and there is such a generation gap today. But we survive. We just wonder if this new generation is going to survive. Well, that's a good question. And uh I say all that because the title of the sermon tonight is Grandma's Faith or Grandmother's Religion. That's what the Apostle Paul is referring to. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 1 and look down at verse number 2 He says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in the also Paul of St. Timothy. I want to remind you of something, and I do this to encourage you. Now The whole letter of 2 Timothy was written by the Apostle Paul. The whole purpose of it was to encourage his young son in the faith, to encourage him to fight a good fight. Paul, you might remember if you studied this, or you've probably heard this before, that Paul was in prison in Rome, and while he was in prison in Rome, he wrote several letters, and this is one of the letters that Paul wrote And uh in fact, the Apostle Paul is facing certain death, and just a little while an axe head will flash in the sun, and Paul's head will be severed from his body, and he will die as a martyr for the Lord Jesus Christ. But he wasn't concerned about himself. He was concerned about his associates. He was concerned about his young son in the faith, Timothy. Look in the fur look in 2 Timothy chapter 4. We'll give you a little bit more background and look at verse number 9. He's all by himself. He's writing to Timothy, 2 Timothy 4, 9. Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me For demon has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and has departed on the Festonica, and then down to verse eleven, only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for ministry. So Paul is in a it's a very dark hour for him, but again he's not concerned about himself. He's concerned more about Timothy. He wants to encourage him. So he sends this letter with Tychicus. This letter is in his hands, and Tychicus is going to go replace Timothy at Ephesus, and then he will go and see the Apostle Paul. And again, this whole letter is one of encouragement. It's one of challenge. It's designed to stir us up. It's designed to challenge us, just like the song that was sang just a moment ago, to what? To press on. We're to press on in our faith. And that's what the Apostle Paul wants Timothy to do. Now, this book, just a little survey real quickly here, it's four chapters Each chapter gives an appeal to be strong and to fight a good fight. In chapter one, he gives a pastorial appeal. In chapter two, he gives a practical appeal. In chapter 3, he gives a prophetic appeal, and then in chapter 4, he gives a personal appeal. And if you ever read this letter, what you'll notice is this is one of the warmest and most personal of all of Paul's letters that he writes to his young son in the faith. But what he writes is so needful for us today. We need this encouragement today, right? I mean I see many Christians that are kind of faltering. They're kind of going AWOL. They're not encouraged. They're not pressing on in their faith. And so we need this reminder. In fact, when I read the life of Timothy, I see some of myself there in Timothy. Notice some things about him. He he was a timid young man. Look in chapter one, look in verse number seven He said, for God has not given us the spirit of what? Spirit of fear. And that's a word it just means to be timid, to lack confidence Timothy was a young man, some older men in the church were trying to take advantage of him because of his youth, and Paul would later say, Let no man despise thy youth. He was reluctant sometimes to exercise his authority. But also he was tender. Look in verse number four. Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears. Timothy was a very sensitive young man. The last time they parted, there was it was a tearful parting Timothy was Paul's protege. Paul had invested a lot in him. On Paul's missionary journey, he saw Timothy in the city of Lystra a saved young man and saw a lot of a young man who was gifted for ministry and took him along and he was a tender young man with a pure conscience who had a heart to serve the Lord at one place. Paul wrote it to the Philippians and said, I have no man like-minded that will naturally take care of you. But not only was he timid and not only uh timid, not only was he tender, but also he was talented. Look at verse number six Says this, wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee. God had given Timothy a gift for ministry and Timothy wasn't really using and utilizing that gift the way he could. He was holding back some. Perhaps he was going through the motions and he wasn't really putting his heart into what he was doing. So it's obvious that he needed encouragement. It's obvious that he needed to be stirred up and to be pushed on. So what does the Apostle Paul do? One of the things that the Apostle Paul does to encourage his son in the faith is to point to Timothy's grandmother and to his mother. He says, Timothy, I want you to remember them. When you're prone to discouragement, when you're prone to quit, when you are just going through the motions, I want you to remember the faith of your grandmother and the faith of your mother. I want you to notice them. And so that's why I call this sermon Grandma's Religion. That's exactly what Paul's saying. Look at their faith, Timothy, the faith of your grandmother. and the faith of your mother. She evidently was a godly woman, the first one to have salvation in that household, evidently. Because look again in verse five, I call to remembrance the unfaint faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. You know, thank God. As uh pastor was preaching this morning, thank God for godly grandparents. Amen. And godly parents, godly mothers. Uh I want to encourage grandmothers and mothers that the greatest thing that you can leave is a godly heritage to your children. You know one of the greatest forces for salvation in this world today is godly women. Do you understand that? That is one of the greatest forces for salvation. That is one of God's instruments and God's tools to turn this world to Jesus Christ. In fact, while I'm talking about this, I want to show you one verse real quick. Look in 1 Timothy 2, and I want you to look at verse number 13. This is a passage we've read several times. But notice what it says. For Adam was first formed, then Eve. Here Paul is referring to the creation order. And he said, Adam was made first, and then Eve, in verse 14, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived, the woman being deceived, was in the transgression. Now here he's referring to the fall of man in the garden. And when that time came of the fall, Paul says very clearly, Adam wasn't deceived. He knew what was going on. But the woman Eve, she was deceived. And you know the story. She ate of the forbidden fruit, and she gave to her husband who was with her. And what did he do? He also ate. Remember that next time you women think you don't have any influence, you do have a lot of influence, right? And she gave to her husband, and he ate, and that brought the downfall of the human race. Now notice what Paul says next in verse 15. Notwithstanding, she shall be saved. Who is the she there? Womanhood. Motherhood. And what does it mean when it says she shall be saved? This is not talking about salvation as far as being saved from hell The salvation that Paul is referring to here is the stigma of womanhood is removed. See what the Apostle Paul is saying here is that there's a sense in which there's a stigma that rests on womanhood because woman was the the vehicle through which the fall came to the human race. However Woman is also the vehicle through which salvation will come to the human race. And as and womanhood has a stigma removed, how? She shall be saved. That is, that stigma will be removed. Wow. And childbearing, watch this. If they continue in faith and charity and holiness and what? With sobriety. So Paul is saying that when a mother has children and she raises those children to be children of faith, children of love, children of holiness with self-control. What she is doing is she is bringing salvation to the human race one person at a time. And she removes the stigma that previously existed on womanhood, that stigma is removed. The reputation of womanhood is saved through godly mothers. Understand? Salvation comes Now with all that in mind, the Apostle Paul points to Timothy's godly grandmother and godly mother. And Paul says, Timothy, I want you to draw strength from their faith. Now, let me just give you then Four characteristics about their faith tonight. If you're taking notes, just write down. Here's the first thing about grandma's faith. There was a faithfulness about it. Just write that down. There was a faithfulness about it Look in 2 Timothy chapter 1, look down at verse number 5. When I call to remember the unfained faith that is in thee, Timothy, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice, that I'm persuaded, that is in thee also. So Paul says the unfained faith. Now, just circle that word untame. Let me tell you what this word means. This is a compound Greek word. It's very simple really. And it's the Greek word Hippocrates. It's where we get the word hypocrite, right? Someone who's playacting. But however, there's a alpha negative that's added. There's an A that's put on the front of this word, and whenever that happens in Greek, it it makes it the opposite. Or it negates the force of that word. So it is ah Hippocrates, which we could say then means not a hypocrite. Someone who is very opposite of being a hypocrite. Someone who is very real. Someone who is very Godly, without pretense, without deceit. In other words, it's it they're they're exactly what they seem to be. They're godly, and in some places this word is translated sincere. They're sincere. They're not play acting. This is something that is real with them. Now and and and and really the word sincere has a very interesting etymology. It means without wax. When a potter would put together a vessel, put it in the oven, take it out, sometimes there would be cracks. And so he would fill it in with wax, however, he wouldn't stamp the word sincere on it without wax. And so that's the idea here, something that is without flaw, without cracks. something that is uh that is unfane, something that is what you see. And that's what Paul is talking about here. And he's saying, Timothy When you get discouraged and when you want to quit, I want you to remember the faith of your grandmother and your mother. You know why? Because they were not fakes And they had a strong faith and they would never quit. They would continue on. So remember that faith You know, I think that there's uh nothing that does more damage to children is when they see a person live one way when they're in church and another way when they're at home. God wants us to be what we are at home and at church. We should be the exact same person. There should be a sincerity, a faithfulness about the faith of of every individual. And that's what the Apostle Paul is talking about here. Someone who is committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I think that in this next generation, I I I'd be honest with you, I'm a little concerned because what I see now happening is that it seems like we don't have the strength of faith that our grandparents had or even our parents had who were in Christ who had that godly heritage. You know, there was a time when everything that in family life revolved around the Church of Jesus Christ. I mean people were constantly living their lives around the local church. In front I I fear that that sometimes is not happening nowadays. In fact, I was reading a study by George Barna. who is who basically said, let me quote you a quick part of it. He said this the local churches of America face a tenuous future giving uh given the deteriorating image they possess. In other words He was saying that traditional Christian beliefs seem to be eroding and the local church is not looked upon as important as it used to be. Friend, our our grandparents didn't believe that. They believed that the local church was a place where you needed to be. And of course I'm preaching to the crowd that came back on Sunday night, right? We need to preach this to the Sunday morning crowd But but there but that's something that we need to be concerned about. What we need to have is an unfane faith that we found uh in our godly heritage, if you happen to be a person that lived in a Christian home, remember the faith of your grandmother. That's what the Apostle Paul is saying. Now not only was there a faithfulness about it, but I want you to write down number two, there was a fruitfulness about it. There was a fruitfulness about her faith. Look again in verse number 5. I call to remember the unfaint faith of what is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. And in thy mother eunuch and is also in you. And here's the thing I want to point out now about verse number five. How many generations are mentioned there in that verse? It's three, right? Your grandmother Lois uh Lois, your mother Eunice, and now it's also in you. In other words, that faith was passed down. There was a fruitfulness about her faith. Someone has said that true faith is caught as well as taught. And Paul said, I Paul said, I see in you, Timothy, what I see in your grandmother. I saw it first in her. And that and now in your mother, and now I see that same thing in you. And so it was passed down. Passed down. Now She was obviously then a godly, devoted, wonderful woman who taught the Word of God to her family. And not only did she teach it to uh Timothy's mother, but Timothy's mother later taught it to him. Again, faith is caught as well as taught. In fact, look in uh 2 Timothy 3, we see a little bit more of this in verse chapter 3, verse number 15. Just look at that verse with me real quickly. It says that from a child, Paul again is talking to Timothy. Timothy from a child, thou hast known the holy scripture which were able to make thee wise unto salvation. The word for child, breathos. From an infant, from an infant child, Timothy, you have been taught the Holy Scriptures So as soon as Timothy could understand, and even before that, she was giving him the word of God. And Paul says that is able to make you wise on the salvation. I want to tell you, salvation comes in this book right here. And kids knowing the Word of God. That's where it comes from. There's power in God's word. And by the way, when he said you've known the Holy Scriptures from a child, at that point in time, how much of the Bible was completed? It was just the Old Testament. That's all that she had at that point. And like a faithful Jewish woman, she was teaching the scriptures, teaching the scriptures. Say, what was she teaching? I believe she was teaching the law of God, which helped Timothy see his sinfulness and his need Which ultimately converted him to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why when parents ask me, I want to leave my child of faith in Christ, what should I do first? And I always say, Teach your children the Ten Commandments. You know why? It teaches them that God is holy and that they are sinful. The Ten Commandments are like a mirror that you can look and see yourself. However, a mirror can't cleanse you. A mirror can only reveal that you need to be cleansed And see, that's what the Ten Commandments does. When our children were little, we went through the Ten Commandments with each of them. We had family devotions. We go through them one at a time. one at a time and I wanted them to know that God is a holy God. Why? Because the gospel message starts with the holiness of God. God, since He's a holy God must judge sin, but he's also a God of love and he doesn't want to judge you. And so God sent his son Jesus to take all of your sins upon himself And salvation is now a gift that God offers because Jesus paid the price for all of our sins. But the gospel starts with the holiness of God. You have to see God is holy, and that God will judge sin and that our sins were laid upon the Lord Jesus Christ. But you see, the Word of God, especially the Old Testament, the law of God, the commandments Teaches the necessity of salvation. Friends, people don't go to a doctor unless they know what? Unless they know they're sick. And a person won't come to Christ unless they know they're sinful. Something has to tell them that they're sinful. You know what that something is? The Word of God. The Word of God. That's why it says From a child you've known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation. It lets you know that you need the grace of God. And so here is a woman that taught Her children, the Word of God, which brings salvation. Again, thank God for godly mothers that do that very thing and teach the Word of God to their children. And so there was a fruitfulness about her faith. But I want you to see a third thing here tonight in our sermon, and that is there was a fearlessness about her faith. Not only a fear faithfulness about it, and a fruitfulness about it. By the way, let me back up for just a minute. I was reading one statistic and I wanted to share this with you. Did you know according to this article that I read It says this one congregation found that where both parents were faithful to the Lord, including active interest in the local church programs, It says 93% of the kids remain faithful. On the other hand, if only one of the parents was faithful, that figure dropped 73%. And then the article goes on to say, where the parents were only what they would call reasonably active in the Lord's work. Only 53% of the young people maintained their faith. Now here's a shocker. In those cases where both parents attended only infrequently, The percentage of their children who remained faithful to the Lord dropped to 6%. 6%. You know what that tells me? You want your children to go to heaven? Lead them there. Lead them there with your own presence. Let them see it real in you. There was a faithfulness about her faith. There was a fruitfulness about it. But then number three, write this down. There was a fearlessness about her faith Look in verse number 7 again. For God has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. Now notice in verse 7 to us there. God has not given us The spirit of fear. Now who's Paul talking about when he says us there in verse 7? I think Paul is referring to What he's been talking about in the previous verses. His mother. The faith of your grandmother and your mother had a courage about it. There was a fearlessness about that faith. Now think about this with me. What city did Timothy grow up in? Lysra. Is there anything we know about that city in the book of Acts? Well, that's Paul went through that city on a second missionary journey. Well you know what happened to Paul in that region at that city? Does anybody know you know what happened? Paul was stoned. That's where he was stoned. You know why? Because Paul went in there and preached the gospel, and they were so hostile hostile against the gospel of Jesus Christ. that they literally picked up stones and began to stone the Apostle Paul and they left him for dead there. Now, you know, something incredible about Paul. He's a person you couldn't stop. Later he w got up and walked away from that. How he did that Only God knows. That was a miracle of God. God protected him. And yet, but here's the point. That city was pretty hostile to the gospel. Very hostile place. And yet this is the city. This is the place. Where Timothy grew up, where he was inoculated, where he was uh he was given the gospel as a child. And he saw the real faith of his grandmother and his mother, a courageous faith. I would suggest to you that to live a godly Christian life, calling on the Lord Jesus, living for Jesus boldly in a place like that, took some courage. It took some courage. And yet they did it. They were able, Timothy's grandmother and mother were able to be fearless and bold in their faith in that very place. And the Apostle Paul says, Timothy, God has not given us the spirit of fear. That is, your grandmother didn't have that spirit. She was bold for the Lord Jesus. Your mother didn't have that spirit. She raised you in a hostile place to love the Lord Jesus Christ. So I think Paul's saying they didn't have a cowardice or compromise in them. But then also I think he's referring to himself, the Apostle Paul himself. Paul is a courageous man. And so I think he's referring not only to a fearless mother, but a fearless mentor, the Apostle Paul. Look in verse number um On down to verse number 8. But be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. Timothy, don't be ashamed. to face and suffer reproach for the gospel. The Apostle Paul was in prison because he was faithful to Jesus Christ. He took a stand for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he was suffering imprisonment. And the Apostle Paul writes to Timothy, he says, Timothy, look, don't be ashamed of my change. Or don't be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord Jesus, because Jesus suffered as well. And so he's talking about himself. Don't be ashamed to bear reproach for the gospel. You know, we're interesting people. We want the rewards of the gospel, but a lot of times we don't want to bear the reproach of the gospel. And God calls upon us to do both at times. And so he says don't be afraid. You know why? Because what will fear do? Fear will cause you to forget some things. What was Timothy forgetting Look in verse 6. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that you stir up the gift of God. Timothy, you have a gift. Timothy was forgetting that God had gifted him. That God had not only gifted him, but enabled him, giving him promises and power and protection. But you know what? When you operate in fear, you forget all of that You forget it all. Someone said fear is the dark room where negatives are developed. And that is so true. We we just don't operate the way we should. And we're not using the gift. Timothy wasn't using the gift that the Lord had given him. Notice this singular gift, not gifts, because God, I believe, combines all the gifts into one particular gift. Uniquely for each person, God had given Timothy this gift, and yet Timothy wasn't using it. He was afraid. He was timid. And Paul says, you need to use that gift. And so it brings failure in our life if we're not careful. I believe the reason a lot of Christians aren't doing more witnessing Sharing their faith, using their gift, is simply because of fear. Nothing else but fear. We're just afraid to do that. We're afraid to get involved. And so God wants us to use that gift that the Lord's given us. Someone said that fear in your life is like sand in the machinery, but faith is like oil. It lubricates. But now let me give you the last thing. Here's the last point. Number one, Paul said there was a faithfulness about our faith. Number two, he said there was a fruitfulness about it. Number three, there was a fearlessness about it, but here's number four. There was a forcefulness about it. There was a forcefulness about her faith. Look again in verse 7. For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but notice the rest of the verse, but of power and of love and of a sound mind Now, what has God given us? Listen, if you're a believer tonight, he's given you all the resources that you need. You have everything you need in Jesus. What has he given us? He's endued us with power. Look at the word power there. But power, and of course that's a word that we know well, the word dunamis. It just means enablement, strength. God has given us all that we need as a Christian to do whatever He's called us to do Psalm 27, 1. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? Now you have all the resources that you need in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the problem is that we again we forget that. We don't remember that. But God has given you power And you already have it. You don't need to go searching other places. You already have it in the Lord Jesus Christ. You understand that? I was reading about William Randolph Hearst. He loved to collect priceless art. And he happened to read in a newspaper about a particular piece of art. That was very, very expensive, very priceless, and he sent his men out to get that work of art. He said, I want you to Find it. I want you to get it. I want you to bring it back into our collection. After months of searching, they came back and they said, we have good news. You we found we have located the piece of art. He said, great, where is it? He said it's already in your warehouse. You forgot that it was there. You already have it. And that reminds me of some Christians. They go all over the place looking for answers, looking for strength, looking for wisdom, looking for all these things, but guess what? You already have it in the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't need to go anywhere else. And so you are endued with power. But then notice also, you are enriched with love In verse 7 again, God's not given us a spirit of fear, but of power, and he also enriches us with love. And so, friend, we have been given love. We have been saturated with love. In fact, this is the mark of a believer. When a believer gets saved, the Holy Spirit sheds the love of God abroad in our heart. And we have this love that's in us. We have all the love that we need. But then also, look at the last phrase, and of a sound mind. We have been endued with power and rich with love. We've been enlightened with wisdom. God has given us a sound mind. He's given us, that is, a discerning spirit. And so You know, think about this in the context of fear. So many things that we're afraid of is because we don't remember to discern. Use the spirit of discernment that God has given us. A lot of times, fear is based on perception, not reality. God's given you a mind. He's given you wisdom. He wants you to use that. And you're going to need that if you're going to win this war, if you're going to stay faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Apostle Paul says, Timothy, I want you to remember your grandmother's faith. When you're tempted to quit, just remember it. There was a faithfulness about it. There was a fruitfulness about her faith. There was a fearlessness about her faith. There was a forcefulness about her faith. So Timothy, I call to remembrance. the faith of your grandmother and your mother. And I want you to remember that, and I want you by that to war a good warfare. for Jesus Christ. You stay faithful. Now I think that all of us from time to time may get down, may get discouraged, but On a day like this, when we remember the godly heritage that the Lord has passed down to us, it's good to remember that. It's good to remember that we have a lot. To give account for. We have those who have walked a faithful path in front of us. We need to follow in those footsteps and be faithful ourselves. Uh this generation needs to be as faithful as the previous generation. We need to uh pass the baton on to the next generation and when they we do, they need to see someone That's not a fake, that's not a phony, but that's real, that loves the Lord Jesus Christ, who has not allowed the passion for Christ to grow cold, but is still serving the Lord faithfully I I know of a lady, she was born in a humble poor surroundings in 1895 in West Virginia. She met and married a man and they were uh had a had a wonderful family. He was a godly man. They went to a tent revival, both of them got saved, both of them Determined to live for Christ. But something happened and he died as a as when he was 28 years old, leaving her by herself alone with three children. And that was during the Depression era And she had nothing to do to turn to except the Lord. So she turned to the Lord and she learned how to pray And she learned to walk with the Lord and God saw her through that. And she lived a faithful life to the Lord Jesus, a faithful Christian. She died when she was ninety-five. The pastor went by her apartment and uh to prep to go through her things. And uh preparing for her funeral, he saw her Bible there and he picked up her Bible and he read it and he found in her Bible a prayer list and on that prayer list was Uh all of her children and grandchildren and great grandchildren were all on that list and where she faithfully prayed for them every day and she had on that list that she wanted the Lord to raise up some preachers among her grandchildren and uh that woman was my mother's grandmother, uh my great grandmother, and she was a faithful, faithful Christian woman. Now when I'm tempted to uh to to not try as hard, I remember her faith. I just remember that faith. I remember her prayers. I believe that many of our family are saved today because of her faithful prayers, her faithful praying. There is power in the prayers of a godly mother. Don't you think there's not? There's power. And so I remember her faith. That is exactly what Paul is saying to Timothy. Timothy, remember that faith. And don't let the grace of God be invested in you in vain. You stay faithful. You be encouraged. You wore a good warfare for Jesus Christ. Now, folks, I'm going to tell you that I think we're getting closer and closer to the end days. And the Lord Jesus Christ, we're one day closer to his coming. And in this very letter, Paul told Timothy that in the latter days, perilous times shall come, dangerous times shall come. And I believe with all my heart. That if the Lord tarries more, we're going to have to stand for the Word of God. We're going to have to stand for the faith. And that's going to require strength. That's going to require courage. That's going to require some backbone. That's going to require grandma's faith. And that's what we need to have. So let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, help us to be faithful. Lord, help us to take the challenge that Paul gave to Timothy to our own heart tonight. Lord, on this good day, this wonderful day when we honor mothers, and it's altogether fitting and right that we do this. Help us, Lord, to be inspired by the godly heritage that has been before us, before our eyes. Help us to see their footsteps Their faithful prince and to follow in those paths. Lord, we don't you didn't call us to reinvent ministry. You didn't call us to reinvent anything. You've only called us to Be faithful in the footsteps of those who have gone on before us, to carry in the same tradition, to walk in the same path, to be as faithful as they were. So Lord help us. Help us tonight. May we be committed to that. May this passage inspire us. May thoughts of our godly Grandmothers and mothers encourage us and challenge us, Lord, that we can do the same. So Father, strengthen us tonight. And with hedge bowed and eyes closed, before I turn this over to Brother Earl, I just want to ask you, if you're here tonight, it's no accident that you're here, the Lord brought you here. Can I ask you just a question here? If if you died today, would you be 100% sure that you'd go to heaven? If Jesus were to stand, if you were to stand before Jesus and he said to you, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would your answer be? Would you know how to answer that question? Would there be any doubt? I want to tell you, friend, there's only one answer to that question. You know what the answer is? Jesus, I don't deserve to go to heaven, but you died on the cross for my sin You paid the penalty for my sins. And I have repented and I've received you as my Lord and my Savior. You are my only salvation. You're my only hope. Friend, that's how anybody goes to heaven. It's not through works. It's not through being religious. It's not through going to church. It's a gift And there's only one thing you can do with the gift, my friend. You can receive it. And right now, God is offering you tonight a gift. And it's called salvation. It's called eternal life. And it was paid for by Jesus Christ, who took your sins upon himself on the cross. And there's only one response that you need to give. You know what it is? Reach out by faith and receive that gift. Receive salvation for yourself. Just like Timothy did. The scriptures made him wise unto salvation. Friend, you've been given the gospel tonight. That gospel will make you know that you need Jesus. And so I want to ask you tonight, would you be willing to reach out by faith and say, Jesus, I want you. I want to be a Christian. I want to be saved. And I'm going to say something, friend. It's simple. All you have to do is pray in faith. It's simple, and yet you have to turn from your sin and turn to Christ. Would you be willing to pray a prayer? Just say this Say it in your heart. The Lord will meet you right where you are. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner and I know it. I need salvation. I need to be saved. I'm giving you my broken life. I'm turning from my sin. And Jesus, I'm asking you to save me right now where I am tonight, a sinner who needs you. And friend, if you'll pray that it means it, you know what? He will meet you right where you are. And he will save you. And he will change your life. He will make you his child. And the broken pieces of your life, you know what he'll do? He'll put them all back together because he can do that. He can do anything. And friend, he'll do that for you if you'll call out to him. Would you be willing to pray that? Say, Jesus, save me. Save me tonight. Father, take these words and Lord, use them. This is your word. And through the power of your Spirit, Lord, plant these words deep in every heart. Save souls, strengthen your church. Pray in Jesus' name, amen.