Would you take God's word tonight and would you please open to 2 Timothy chapter 1? It's our privilege to begin a study in 2 Timothy. We just finished 1 Timothy and I was praying about what to do next, and the Lord seemed to say, well, there's 2 Timothy. And uh so we thought we'd go right ahead into the second letter that Paul wrote to Timothy, his young son of the faith. This is a beautiful, very personal letter. to Timothy. And Paul's letter here is to really the whole design of this letter is to encourage Timothy to fight the good fight of faith, to not be ashamed of the gospel of Christ. And so Paul wants to encourage Timothy. Now, Paul, when he writes this letter, he's in prison at Rome. The apostle at this stage of his life, he's in his 60s. His body bore the marks of much suffering for the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you have to picture this that when Paul writes this letter, he's in a cold, damp dungeon in Rome. It's about A. D. 67. Nero, the cruel dictator, the madman, was on the throne. And uh it looked as if Paul was going to be executed. In fact, Paul is awaiting his execution. He's facing certain death. In just a short time, an axe head would flash in the sun and his head would be severed from his body. And for one reason or another, all of Paul's associates in ministry were gone. There's a lot of reasons why Paul could have been discouraged at this point, but we don't s we don't see that in this letter. We don't see Paul being discouraged. In fact, there's a tone of joy and anticipation and concern about not himself but about Timothy. In chapter 1, verse 15, he writes, All who are who are in Asia turned away from me. In chapter 4, verse 10, he mentions Demas, whom he formerly called a fellow worker in the book of Philemon. Now he deserted Paul, and Paul said, having loved this present world. In chapter 4, verse 14, he warns Timothy about Alexander the coppersmith who did Paul much harm. Maybe this was the man that was responsible for Paul's arrest and his imprisonment. And in chapter 4, verse 16, he writes that my first offense, no one supported me, but all deserted me. And so Paul, uh he he as he's waiting his execution, he's all these things come to his mind. These warnings that he gives Timothy. But r really what he's concerned about is some of the errors that he sees continuing to infiltrate the churches, and namely the church of Ephesus where Timothy ministered. Again, he says in chapter 2, verse 17 and 18, Hymenaeus and Philatus have gone astray from the truth, teaching that the resurrection had already taken place, thus upsetting the faith of some. And other ungodly false teachers were entering in households captivating weak women weighed down with sins, Paul said. Only Luke is with Paul at this stage of his life. It's a dark hour for Paul, but again, Paul's not concerned about himself. He's concerned about Timothy. One of the commands he gives Timothy, 1 Timothy 4. 11, command and teach these things. Timothy, don't stop teaching. Don't stop speaking the truth. And so Timothy, uh and if you think about Timothy, he probably felt inadequate for what was facing him. He knew that his mentor in the faith would perhaps soon be uh gone. And so he has he's overwhelmed with emotions himself. And so Paul has several reasons for for writing this letter. He wanted Timothy to come to him, and uh he wanted Timothy, he wanted to see Timothy before uh he was no longer in this world. And he would be replaced by Tychicus. In 2 Timothy 4 and 9, in verse 12, Paul mentions that. He writes this letter to encourage Timothy again to stay strong in the faith and to keep fighting the good fight. But Paul also wanted to prepare Timothy for the ministry in the last days. And so really when you come to 2 Timothy, you can divide it up into four sections. It has four chapters. And again, he's telling Timothy, fight the good fight, stay faithful, don't be ashamed of the gospel, continue on. And in chapter one, he gives Timothy a pastoral appeal. Look in chapter one, look at verse number six. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. In chapter 2, he gives a practical appeal. Look in chapter 2, look at verse 1. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. In chapter 3, he gives a prophetic appeal. Look in chapter 3, verse 1. This know also that in the last days perilous time shall come. And then drop down to verse number twelve. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution And then down to verse fourteen, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And then in chapter four, he gives a personal appeal. In chapter four, verse one, he says, I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. And then drop down to verse number six, where it says, For I am now ready to be offered The time of my departure is at hand. And so this letter that Paul writes is a warm letter. It's the most personal of all of Paul's letters. And the exhortation that Paul gave Timothy is relevant for us today. Because I want to tell you something, friends, we're living in the last days, and we need to fight the good fight of faith. All over, I see Christians who've gone AWAL. They're not no longer fighting. They've kind of given up and they're kind of drifting We live in a culture where, again, I read an article this week where pastors are bailing out of ministry in droves. In a recent report, fifteen hundred pastors leave the ministry each month due to moral failure, spiritual burnout, or contention in their churches. It is said that 70% of pastors constantly fight depression. 70%. 50% are so discouraged that they would like to leave the ministry if they could, but they have no other way of making a living. Well, let me just say I I don't want to leave the ministry. You might want me to leave, but I don't want to leave. All right. And I can say that I don't know how to do anything else, so it would be a problem if I did leave. But I'm not depressed, I'm not discouraged, and I'm grateful for that. I have a wonderful church here to serve. But But not only is that pastors, but it's Christians. Many are have burnt out. Many Christians are struggling in these same areas. Perhaps there's some that have been wounded by criticism or conflict in the church. And then there are just some people that drop out of church completely. Others attend only occasionally and others just don't want to really get involved. They don't want to risk getting hurt. I suggest to anyone like that, to any discouraged pastor or to any discouraged Christian, that they they need a good dose of 2 Timothy. You need to read through this letter here. Again, a very personal letter. It's Paul's last letter, and it's written to his beloved son, Timothy. And you know, there's some certain things about Timothy that might be also kind of true of us. First of all, Timothy was a timid young man. Look in verse number seven of chapter one. For God has not given us the spirit of fear Spirit of fear kind of means being timid or maybe to lack confidence. Timothy was a young man. Some older men in the church were perhaps trying to take advantage of Timothy's youth. That's why Paul would tell him, Let no man despise your youth. And perhaps Timothy was a little reluctant in exercising his pastoral authority. Um and that was causing him some issues. In many cultures in this day, um young men couldn't even speak in public And so Timothy was dealing with this issue of being a bit timid, but also he was tender-hearted. Look at verse 4 of chapter 1, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears. The last parting that Paul and Timothy had, it was a tearful one. And again, Timothy was Paul's protege. They had a close personal relationship. You remember from our study of 1 Timothy that Paul found Timothy on the second missionary journey as he was going through Lyshra. He saw a young man with a tender heart, a young man with gifts and a desire to serve the Lord. And Paul said of him when he wrote to the Philippians, I have no man like-minded, no man that will like care for you, naturally care for you. And so there was a bond between the two, and yet Timothy was a very tender-hearted person. But also he was talented. Look at verse 6. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stirred up the gift of God which is in thee But the by the putting on of my hands. Timothy had God given gifts for gospel ministry. But again he was discouraged, so he was not living up to perhaps his capabilities. And Paul verified that he was gifted and called and by laying his own hands on him. And this this would bring up a question to us as we look at verses like this. Are we fully using the gifts that God has given us for His glory in So Paul says in verse 6, stir up the gift of God. This is the idea of rekindling of fire. Again, Paul's trying to encourage Timothy. He's trying to motivate him. And one of the ways that Paul does this is by reminding Timothy of his godly heritage. Look at verse number five. When I call to remembrance the unfaint faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also. It's interesting, isn't it, that Paul, one way to motivate Timothy was to remind him of what he was taught by his mother and his grandmother. Obviously, both of these women were godly women They had a solid faith. His grandmother was the first one saved in her family, a godly, faithful Christian. Uh Timothy's father was probably not a believer, but God used his godly grandmother and mother as links to basically as links in the chain of of of the gospel we could say to teach Timothy the gospel and it led to Timothy's salvation. And so she taught her family the scriptures, obviously. You know what? Thank God for good godly grandparents, amen. And for good godly mothers. And I would I hope that this would encourage you tonight as parents and grandparents. to to be a testimony to your family, to your children, and to your grandchildren. The greatest thing that you can leave to your family is a godly heritage. That's the greatest thing that you could ever leave. And don't stop praying for your family until all of them are saved. Just keep praying for them until God saves them. Godly mothers are the salvation of humanity. God uses the prayers of mothers and the faith of mothers to encourage uh the gospel and encouraged young men. So let me give you four characteristics about their faith that we can see here in these verses. First of all, there was a faithfulness about it. Again, Paul's reminding Timothy of their faith. Look at their faith. I call to remembrance, Paul said in verse number five. The unfained faith. That is in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and then in your mother Eunice. Unfained faith. What kind of faith is that? The Greek word here is the word where we get our word hypocrite uh Hippocrates, but also it's got the A alpha negative, so it would mean literally not a hypocrite. Not hypocritical. What a what was a hypocrite? That's the word that was used back in this day to speak of an actor. I can't think of any more better word to talk about actor of anyway. A hypocrite. And it literally means one who wears a mask. Because actors in those days, um, when they went out on the the theater stage, they would have these masks that they would put up over their face. And that's what it really means. Someone who wears a mask. And what is an actor? An actor is someone who performs uh and acts to be something that they're really not. And Paul was basically saying, look, your your grandmother and your mother, they were not wearing masks. They were not hypocritical in their faith. You know, something about our children, they know immediately whether we're genuine or not. You might be able to fool a lot of people around you, but you'll never fool your children. They're smarter than we give them credit for. And they know whether the faith that you have is a genuine faith. And so Paul says, look, Timothy, this faith, it's an unfaint faith. I see it in you. I know it's in you. But I saw it first in your grandmother, and I saw it in your mother, and it was passed on to you as well. Again, the greatest thing we can do for our families is to be real in our faith. And so we have to understand that it's real faith, genuine faith, is caught. It's contagious as well as taught. One pastor had been preaching on the importance of daily Bible reading. And when the pastor and his wife were invited to a church member's home, the pastor's wife noticed the woman of the house had written on the kitchen calendar for the date, Pastor and Mrs. for dinner. Dust off all Bibles. Yeah. They sh should keep 'em dusted off. But people can tell whether your children can tell whether your faith is real or not. And then notice the word dwelt in verse 5. I call to remembrance the unfaith faith that is in thee, which dwell first in thy grandmother. The word dwelt here. It occurs only twice in this in the pastoral letters, but literally the verb can be translated, be at home. Having a sincere faith, again, doesn't imply perfection, but it does imply reality with God. And such faith dwelt in these women. It started there in their home. In the day-to-day living in the way that they lived in their house. Sincere faith is going to change who you are. It's not just religion that you put on when you go out or you go to church. It has to start and it has to be be measured on in your home. It means that you walk with the Lord in reality every day. You're in the Word of God. You're reading Scripture, you're praying. And you're again, your family will see that. A few years ago I did the funeral of my 100-year-old grandmother. She was my maternal grandmother, and she was a godly woman. And every night before she would go to bed, she would get on her knees beside her bed, and she would pray for all of her children and her grandchildren My mother told me that once she was staying at her house and she went to check on her to see how she was. And my mother went into her room and she couldn't find her. She wasn't there. And for a moment she was panicked. Where is she? And then suddenly my mom looked, and on the other side of the bed she could see just barely the top of her head. She was on her knees beside the bed, and in her late 90s, she was praying like she did every night for her children and her grandchildren. And I believe that prayers like that, beloved, have an impact. I believe that they do. There was a faithfulness about their faith, but also there was a fruitfulness about it. Again, look at verse number five. I call to remembrance The unfained faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I'm persuaded that is in thee also. So what you see here in verse number five. Is the faith that is being passed on. What you see here are three generations that are mentioned. That faith started in the grandmother, passed on to the mother, and then it was passed on down to Timothy. Again, a hypocritical faith can't be handed off. If it's phony, it won't be able to be transferred. Timothy's faith could be traced back. according to Paul, to that godly grandmother who shared the gospel, no doubt, shared the Word of God. And again, Paul saw in Timothy the same kind of faith that he saw in her. Now there's a lot about Timothy's background we don't really know. We uh we don't think that Timothy's father was Say that apparently he was Greek and he was an unbeliever. We have no clue as to why a godly woman of faith like Eunice would marry a man who was a a Greek, um a man who didn't know the Lord Perhaps Eunice went through a time where she was not a believer and then married and then later on she became to know the Lord Jesus Christ. We can only speculate. But even that story gives hope. Eunice is a Christian, but her husband is not, and yet she is able to teach the gospel to her son Timothy. You know how many people it takes to make a Christian home? Just one Christian in a home makes a Christian home. You sanctify that home. If you're the only person in your That's a believer. That's okay. You bring Christ into that house, and you never know what God is going to do through your faith And so here is Eunice, and she's pretty much on her own as far as raising the children in the things of the Lord. Timothy's father is really absent. And yet. Timothy learned from his mother. He was taught the scriptures. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 3. Look at verse number 15. Notice what it says in 2 Timothy 3, 15. And that from a child. Thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. The word child here, brefos in the Greek, the word has been used in the New Testament to speak. It's a wide kind of a range of meaning, but it's been used to speak of a baby who's not yet been born in Luke 1. 41, talking of John the Baptist who leaped in his mother's womb. And then it's used to talk about a newborn babe. Talking about Jesus, the babe in the manger. And so the word speaks of a child from its earliest beginnings. I think that's the idea here. Timothy, from your earliest days. You were able to understand. They taught you the scripture from the earliest days. You know, this encourages us as grandparents. As parents, to go ahead and teach your children the Word of God, even before they know how to read, go ahead and let them memorize Scripture. Teach them, you can do that. When I was over in London recently, um My daughter Abby homeschools her two boys. And I was surprised that little Theo, he's six years old, he started reading me out of Pilgrim's Progress. He read me a chapter from Pilgrim's Progress. I thought, what a blessing. You know, keep on reading that, kid. You know, that's a good book. But children have an amazing ability. to learn even at a young age. Listen to Isaiah 28, 9. Whom shall he teach knowledge? Whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk and drawn from the breast Children at even a very young age. I read where one researcher said that brain development is clear that the first three years of a child's life are critical. And the way that you mold them. And one educator said this, give me a child until he's seven, and I don't care what you do with them after that. You give them me, you give them to me the first seven years. They're so motible during those early, early years. And here Paul says, from a child You have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation. Timothy was taught the word of God. He was taught the trustworthiness of Scripture. Again, look in chapter 3. Look down in verse number Again, verse fifteen, where it says, From a child you've learned the Holy Scriptures, which is able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Verse sixteen, all scripture is given by inspiration of God as profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction for instruction in righteousness. And so teach, Timothy was taught the trustworthiness of Scripture. And this again is instructive for us. Parents, teach your children that the Bible is the Word of God. That's the greatest lesson they could ever learn. Instill that into their heart. And this is especially important for today because there are attacks on the Bible all over All over. You have people attacking the idea that the Bible is the authoritative word of God. Teach them to respect and to reverence the Bible as God's holy word. And you know we're going to learn that? They're going to see that in you. They're going to see you reverencing Scripture. They're going to see you holding forth the Word of God. There's again a long, hard battle over this one issue. And so it's so important that we teach them that. And even the importance of the sufficiency of Scripture. Listen, your children don't need to go outside of the Bible to find truth that will help them in their spiritual life. They have all that they need right in the scripture. You don't have to go outside of God's Word. And so that's such an important lesson that our children need to learn. And I want to tell you something about today. Today children are under assault. They are under attack. Can you not see that in our culture and our society? And it's all the more reason that we, as a church, invest in our children. Teach our children the Word of God. We need godly Sunday school teachers. Thank God for those who do it. We need more. Thank God for those that are working in Iwanas, teaching children the scripture, the Word of God. What a great ministry that is. There's no better thing that you can do than invest your time teaching to children the Word of God Because again, there is such an attack on our children today. We want our children to know that the Word of God is trustworthy. And also Timothy eventually was saved because of the scripture that was planted in his heart when he was young. That's what led to his salvation. Again, where Paul says, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Now The only scripture that Timothy had at that point was the Old Testament. The New Testament canon was not yet complete. Paul was writing letters and some of the other apostles were, but the New Testament canon was not complete. So when Paul says the holy scripture or the sacred scriptures, what was he talking about? He was talking about the scripture that they had, which was the Old Testament. And it was the Old Testament word of God, Paul says, that was able to make you wise unto salvation. The Bible says in Psalm 19, verse 7, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. There's enough of the gospel even in the Old Testament to prepare a heart for salvation, enough to make that heart ready when they hear the clear message of Jesus Christ. You see, you know, one uh contemporary preacher made the statement that, you know, we don't need the Old Testament. We need to unhook from the Old Testament. I'm glad that Paul didn't, or Timothy's parents didn't believe that, his grandmother and mother. He needs to unhook from the Old Testament Paul said, no, this is word this is the word that make you wise unto salvation. And you know what I think Paul's referring to here? He's referring to the law. He said, wait a minute, how can the law bring salvation? The law doesn't, but the law prepares you for salvation. You say, in what way? The law shows all of us how we are needy sinners. And a person is not ready to come to Jesus Christ until they first realize how sinful they are. And the law is what does that. The law is like a plow that digs up the hard soil and makes it Ready for the gospel seed to be planted. In Galatians 3. 24, Paul said this, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith. The law was a schoolmaster, Paul said. Now when we say schoolmaster um today, it's not the same thing that Paul had in mind back then. Did you know that the guardian that Paul's referring to back in this day, the what is the specific role that he's talking about here was given to normally a educated servant. He was a guardian among the Greeks and the Romans. They would hire this educated servant, and his duty was to supervise supervise a child when he was young. He was with them all the time. And when he went to school, this guardian, this tutor, went with him to school. And When he was in school, by the way, the guardian ha helped discipline this child, helped get his things ready, helped, you know, make sure that he had everything he needed for school. And then when he went to school, he went and actually sat with him in school And if he got out of line, it was this guardian that would take a rod and smack him with it. I think we need to get back to that, by the way. And so this guardian was with them. He did all the discipline. He did all the all the all the things that he needed. He was constantly there with them, guarding over him. He wasn't necessarily a teacher, but he would help him understand and learn the lesson. He would tutor him later on. Until finally it got to the point to where this young m boy grew to the point to where he no longer needed that guardian. And then when that happened he was passed on um to manhood and he got a a new toga to wear. Well a toga. That was a symbol of his manhood. And he no longer needed the guardian. And Paul is using this as an illustration of the law. You know what the law does? The law is like a tutor and is constantly disciplining us, guiding us, and telling us when we do wrong, when we step out of line, and it it uses a rod to basically beat us down. Why? Because it shows us how sinful we are. That's the value of the law. The law prepares us any self-righteous heart. Any sinful heart to receive the seed of the gospel by revealing to us how much we need the gospel. And so that's why it's so important. That's why I've, you heard me say before, it was a master stroke of the devil to have the Ten Commandments removed from public places, removed from schools. You say, why is that so important? Because the Ten Commandments are a pre-salvation work that God uses to prepare that heart for the gospel. You see, parents, that's why you should teach your children the Ten Commandments. Why? Because what it does is it's it's like a spiritual mirror that you hold up in front of your children that lets them know that they are not perfect. In fact, they are very sinful before a holy God And the only answer to that is Jesus Christ. The only way they could ever be saved is through Jesus Christ. God demands perfection, and guess what? We're not. We're not perfect. We're nowhere near it. It reveals our sinful heart. And so the Ten Commandments teaches them that God is holy. And that's one of the greatest lessons that children can ever learn. It teaches them that God demands perfection, which again we are not. It teaches them to fear God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? Wisdom That's where it all starts. One of the big problems that we have today is we have a generation of children that don't fear God. In our world today, there's no fear of God. There's no fear of eternal judgment. There's no fear of standing before a holy God. Jonathan Edwards said the first doctrine we should teach children is the doctrine of eternal torment. You see, man, that sounds harsh. He felt in his day, and he lived back during the Great Awakenings, he felt in his day that there was a lack of the fear of God in the hearts of youth. Well, if it was true back then, I guarantee it's true today. There's a lack of fear of God. And so that's the lesson that needs to be taught. The law brings us face to face with our sinfulness. That is what we need to learn before anyone will respond to the gospel. And so Paul said, Timothy, you know, from a child this is what you were taught. You were taught the Holy Scripture. So much so that by the time Paul got there in Leystra and he saw Timothy. And heard Timothy heard Paul preach the gospel. His heart was already open and ready to receive the gospel of Christ. And God did a work in his heart. And so it's so very, very important. And Spurgeon's autobiography. The book uh the part called Through Much Tribulation, this is volume one, he goes on and on for over twenty pages describing the mountain of guilt he was under from age ten until he was converted. at age 15. I mean he's so graphic in this book about talking about the guilt that he felt because of his sin. He was so consumed with his own sinfulness. If he lived in our day-to-day, you know what? They would take him to a Christian psychologist and say he needs some help. Oh, that guilt, that's such a negative thing. We don't want him feeling that way. Let's get them some help. Let's take them to Christian psychologists. Let's give them man's wisdom. Let's let's let's soothe them. You know, we don't want him feeling bad about himself. But that's guilt is the very thing that should drive a soul to God. And the reason he felt so much guilt is because of what his mother taught him. She taught him the Bible, she taught him the Ten Commandments, she taught him that God was holy. She taught him that God demanded holiness and perfection. And then he said this, after many more pages describing his guilt for disobeying God's law and his fear of being condemned, he says this quote Then I was brought down to see my corruption, my wickedness, my filthiness. For God always humbles the sinner, whom he means to save. I think that's so very true. You see someone being humble by their sin, that's a good sign because that's a person that God means to save. They first have to come to that place of being In an earlier chapter, Spurgeon tells how every Sunday evening his mother would stay home with the children, read and explain the scriptures to them, and plead with them to think about the state of their souls and to seek the Lord He remembers one time her praying, Now Lord, if my children get on go go on in their sins, it will not be from ignorance that they perish, and my soul must bear a swift witness against them at the day of judgment if they lay not hold of Christ. And he says, you know, that the thought, a mother's bearing swift witness against me, he said, pierced my conscience and stirred my heart. And that's what, you know, finally, you know, you might know the story of Spurgeon on when he was fifteen years old, he got up to go to church. It was snowing. Um he couldn't make it to the church he had originally planned to, so they went to a small Methodist church. Just a few people had showed up and the deacon got up and preached out of the verse in Isaiah where it says, you know, look to the Lord and live, look and live. And he said, at that moment, that's when God did the work of salvation. I look to Christ. And I was saved. But all of the work of preparing his heart for salvation had already been done by that mother Who taught him the Word of God and taught him the Ten Commandments and the Law of God? You see, plant the seed and pray for God to do his work. That's what we need to do. So Paul says, Timothy, remember your your grandmother's faith and your mother's faith. There was a faithfulness about it. There was a fruitfulness about it. It was That faith was passed on to you. You learned the Holy Scriptures. But here's number three. There was a fearlessness about it. Look at verse number six. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. And Paul is encouraging Timothy, who is thinking about quitting. It seems that Timothy had a tendency to retreat from the front lines of battle serving the Lord. He was rather shy, rather timid, not in the best of health, a bit unsure of himself when difficult Issues would arise. One time when Paul wrote to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 16, 10, he says, Now if Timothy comes to you, see that he is with you without a cause to be afraid. Paul was already saying, look, make sure you deal kindly with Timothy. Paul knew the rowdy Corinthians might run roughshod over Timothy. So he said, look, you know, don't don't give them a cause to be afraid. And his pulse now chained in this Roman dungeon, he knew he had to encourage Timothy to get back. into the faith, to keep running the race despite the difficulties that he faced. And so again he points to The faith of his mother and his grandmother. And notice what he says. He says, God has, in verse 7, God has not given us the spirit of fear. Who's the us there? Paul's referring to his grandmother, his mother, and even to Paul himself. He says, Timothy, you have a spiritual gift. Now exercise it without fear. God's not given us the spirit of fear. You have that gift. Now exercise it. In verse 6, stir up the gift of God that you have and use it. Again, we have to ask ourselves: are we using the gift, the spiritual gift that God has given us for his glory? And so we all need to be involved in serving the Lord. A farmer had a team of horses in which one horse consistently worked harder than any of the others. And the farmer said, they're all willing horses. One is willing to do all the pulling, and the others are willing to let them. Sadly, that's also a description of churches. You have just a few people doing the pulling, and others are willing to let that happen, and they don't use the gift that God's given them. Why? Maybe because of some fear that you might have Of inadequacy, but if God's giving you the gift, He'll give you the wherewithal and the ability to use that gift effectively. The worst thing is just not doing anything, not using what God has given you. A pastor was trying to persuade a woman to teach a Sunday school class, but she kept giving them the same excuse. She said, you know, I don't want to be tied down. I don't want to be tied down. And finally the pastor said, Well, the Savior was nailed down for you. Aren't you willing to be tied down for him? Good question. And then let me give you the last thing. There was a faithfulness about their faith, there was a fruitfulness about it, a fearlessness about it, there was a forcefulness about it Again, Paul reminds Timothy of the divine resources that we have in Christ. Again, verse 7, for God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power. Timothy, you have been endued with power, first of all. Again, the Greek word dunamis, we get the word dynamite, the incredible force. It's the work of the Holy Spirit through you, Timothy. That's what's going to get it done. It's the power of God working through you And again, we can't serve God in the flesh. The flesh is inadequate. The flesh gets nothing done. We have to be dependent upon the work of the Holy Spirit of God. If anything gets done here in this church, I guarantee you folks, it's God who does it. It's the work of the Holy Spirit of God that does it. You have that power if you're a child of God. You are endued with power. You're enriched with love. In verse 7, he's not giving us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love. And love balances power. It's also opposite to fear, because fear stems from self-love, you could argue, or self-concern. Biblical love is concerned for the spiritual well-being of all those around you. So much so that it overcomes fear. And then finally, you're enlightened with wisdom, he says. God's not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. That's a mind that is under control. A mind that uh is that is scripture filled, a mind that has godly wisdom, making biblical godly choices. And so here's the point. Paul's saying to Timothy, look, Timothy, you have all you need. There's no excuse for quitting. There's no excuse for fear. God has given you all that you need. Stir up the gift. Stay faithful. Remember the faith that you've been taught. Remember the faith of your grandmother and the faith of your mother. And I'm persuaded that faith is also in you as well. When I was uh over in London a while back, one of our board members for Faith Theological Seminary, David Smith, um has a museum over there, a museum of the book, and uh you talk heard me talk about him before. He's got some tremendous um Bibles there. He's got incredible Bibles. I don't know how he gets all these. When the museum in Washington um was looking for a collection, they they bought half of their stuff from David. And yet David says I still got the best stuff. But I remember over there one time he said, Would you like to see Spurgeon's devotional Bible? He says, I have it. I said, Let me pray about it. Yes. I'd love to see it. So he went to a bookshelf and he pulled off this Bible and uh I opened up the front of it, and this was a Bible that was given dispersion by his mother. And on the front page of that Bible was her handwriting. And she wrote a little message to him. And here's what it was. But this is what she said. She said, My son, forsake not the law of thy mother. Wisdom is the principal thing. And Spurgeon would later talk about, he would say, how could I ever forget her tearful eye when she warned me? To escape from the wrath to come, and to listen and take heed to the things that she taught me. And that's what that reminder was: My son, forsake not the law of thy mother. And that's essentially what Paul's saying to Timothy. Don't forget what you've been taught from a child. Be faithful just like your grandmother was, just like your mother was. That same faith that had a faithfulness about it, a fruitfulness, a fearlessness, a forcefulness about it. I know that's in you. Live up to that. Be faithful. And may all of us take heed that same message. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the reminders that we get in Scripture that stir our heart. And Lord, we need these. Because sometimes it's easy to look around and get discouraged and see others faltering and wonder. Is there any that's going to stay faithful? And Lord, we need the encouragement that Paul gave to Timothy. There's no excuse for quitting. There's no excuse for being unfaithful. There's no excuse for fear or discouragement because, Lord, you've given us power and love and a sound mind. You've given us your word. So Lord, help us to stay faithful. Help us to remember that faith, that vibrant faith, that was passed down to us. Someone passed it down to us. Whether it was a mother or grandmother or a faithful pastor or believer, someone passed this faith to us. So Lord, may we be faithful. May we be truthful, worthy of that investment. And be able to pass it on to others. Stir our hearts, stir up the gift that you've given us, Lord, so that we can serve you out of love. for what you've done for us. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen