And if you take your Bibles and open please to the book of Romans, please this morning we read out of Romans chapter eight. I want you to go back there. And this morning I want to talk about the groans before the glory. Verse eighteen for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. And no one likes to hear people groan in pain. Unfortunately, we live in a world where there's a lot of groaning that's going on One man wrote this. He said, As I as I'm getting older, I find myself groaning much more. He said, I groan when I stand up after sitting a while. After I have been standing a while. I groan in the morning, I groan at night. I groan after I've eaten too much. I groan when I see certain things on television. And I groan when I get another bill in the mail. And when I don't feel like I've had enough time to get everything finished, I groan. You know, we all groan. We live in such a sin cursed world, a world that's filled with suffering and stress and sorrow, and we all long for relief. We We groan when we hear the news of a dear brother or sister that has received a report that wasn't good medically. We hear someone who's struggling with cancer and our church family. We groan over death just this week. Um yesterday our founding pastor did the service for a young lady who passed away at thirty years old, a young mother, and we groan over that. We we sorrow over that when I told my son and daughter of this young lady they went to school with That's an unrealistic expectation. You see a seminar like that, save your money, don't go. You're not gonna live a stress-free life. Just the way it is. Larry Crab in his book Inside Out emphasized that our only hope for complete relief from hardship is to be with Jesus in heaven. It's the only way He says, until then we either groan or we pretend that we don't. And then he adds this. He said, the experience of groaning, however, is precisely what modern Christianity so often tries to help us. Escape. And there's no escape. And the scripture doesn't promise us that we're going to escape from groaning in this present life. But what it does do is it promises us that we can get through the groans by focusing on our future glory That's what the Bible tells us. In our text, Paul gives part of a biblical perspective that we need in order to help us persevere through the suffering. Suffering that all of us are going to encounter here in this life. This is not comprehensive, but it's very helpful. It's very practical if we'll understand what he's saying. And basically what he's saying here is simply this. persevere in present suffering with hope, we have to keep our eyes on the future glory that God has promised us. That's the way we get through the present by looking at the future glory. First, this present time that we live in is marked by suffering, and it's suffering because of man's sin and the fall. But we have to focus on our Our future glory. And by the way, you know that's part of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. You know what the Holy Spirit does? He is He is committed to reminding us about that future. That's part of his ministry. In fact, in the book of Romans, chapter 8, we learn a lot about the operation of the Holy Spirit and what he does in the life of the book. He frees us from sin and death. He enables us to fulfill God's law. He changes our focus so that we focus on eternal things. He empowers us For victory over sin. He confirms our adoption as God's children. But part of what he does is he guarantees our ultimate glory. And he helps us to focus on Now you know in your salvation the Bible speaks of various stages of salvation. It speaks of various aspects. There's regeneration, there's new birth, there's justification, there's sanctified and so on, these stages can be distinguished, but they can never be separated because they all work together, they're woven together like a seamless garment and God's sovereign work of redemption. That's why the believer, that's why you can't lose your salvation because of a guarantee of future glory You know, God guarantees you that future glory. That's why you can't lose your salvation. He guarantees you glorification. Look in Romans chapter 8. Look at verse 30. thirty. Moreover, whom he did predestinate them he also called, and whom he called them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also what? Glorified. Your glorification is inseparably linked to your justification And again, that's why I can't lose my salvation, and neither can you. What God began in you, He will complete in you. That's a Promise. But it's all about this future glory. Did you know that when man in the Garden of Eden before he fell, he had a kind of a glory? And it's not And did you know that one day in the future when your salvation is complete and you get your brand new Glorified body. It's called a glorified body because it again will radiate with the glory of God. That's something to look forward to. But for now, however, that glory's gone. And fallen man, you know, did you ever notice this fallen man today? He longs for glory. There's something innate in man that he knows that he's devoid of glory, and he wants something Kind of a glory without holiness, without going through the cross, men today are trying to fill that void. They want some kind of a glory. You know, you see these all the time on television, you have MB MVP, you have Academy Awards, you have Hall of Fame inductions, you have Olympic Games with all the glory that comes with that. Why is that Because man has this desire in him for some kind of glory. But friend, that's the ultimate purpose of salvation. Salvation is restoring to man the glory that was lost. And that's going to happen ultimately. That's going to happen one day. And the Bible says in Hebrews 2. 10, for it became him that is Jesus, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons to glory. That's what he wants to do. He's going to restore that glory So we have a future glory that is going to be is part of all of us that are saved. That you have. So I want you to see two truths then. I want to focus on present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Now Paul helps us to focus on this future glory And I'm convinced that we don't think about this often enough. The best way to endure trials right now, to endure pain and suffering in the present is to think about that future glory. That makes the present bearable. And notice, first of all, notice Paul's calculation. Notice where he says in verse 18, for I reckon. Someone said. Paul must have been a southerner, for I reckon. But the word reckon here is the Greek word logismi, where we get the word logic. It's used fifteen times here in Romans already, and it has to do with reckoning Reason. It's the process of figuring something out. It's really kind of like a numerical calculation. It's like Paul is saying, you know, I have thought about this very deeply. I have calculated this in my mind. I have thought This through. This is Paul calculating, and what's he looking at? He's looking at uh the present groans that we have here now, and he thinks about the future glory And he's kind of thinking through these things. We see Paul's calculation, but notice Paul's comparison. Look again in verse eighteen for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time And the word for suffering here refers to uh a persecution of believers. It's really kind of a general word as well. It can refer to any kind of suffering that we may be going through here. So kind of a mask Imagine a balanced scale in your mind. On one side there's the sufferings that we go through here on this earth, the present groans, and then on the other side there's the future Your glory, and Paul is comparing the two. And Paul is saying the eternal glory far outweighs the earthly groans. In fact There's no comparison. When you think about future glory and present groanings, future glory far outweighs it. It's so much And that's amazing when you think about it because especially considering who it's coming through, because the Apostle Paul was a man who suffered greatly. He said when a ship was not sinking or he was not being stoned or robbed, he was being whipped to within an inch of his life. I have marks all over me from suffering for the Lord. Paul in another place said we're troubled on every side. He says this, he says Though our outward man perishes, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. And those who suffer receive an inner dose of divine strength is what he's saying. Even though the outward man is perishing inwardly, God, in his grace, he strengthens us and he helps us to go through the burden. Paul said This in Second Corinthians 4 17. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding eternal way of glory That is, the more you suffer now, the greater your capacity for glory later. You say, Man, I I've been suffering a lot. Good. Well, you know, you're gonna have great glory Glory later. Your capacity to receive glory later will be in direct connection to the suffering that you endure right now. And so Paul says you can put the sufferings on one side, you can put the glory on the other, and it's kind Comparing a ton to a featherweight. It just so far outweighs it. The glory so far outweighs the groans, he says You remember in Matthew 20 when the disciples were together, they were arguing about who would have the most glory in the kingdom? And James and John sent their mother to Jesus, and she said, Jesus, would you let my son one sit on your right hand, the other on the left? And the other disciples got really angry because they didn't think of that idea first, to send their mother to ask Jesus this You know, after all, would Jesus ever turn down a mom's request? And what did Jesus say? He said, You don't know what you're asking. Are you going to be able to be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with and the baptism he was talking about there was a baptism of suffering. And what the Lord was saying is the more you suffer here, the greater glory In heaven. So if you ask for great glory in heaven, really what you're asking for is a lot of suffering down here. You sure you want to pray that? But the point is this: great suffering results in great glory. Now you say, man, I I don't know if I can bear what I'm going through now. Well just focus on the glory that awaits you. When you Suffer for him. And so that's Paul's conclusion in verse eighteen. It's not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. There's no Comparison, Paul says. None. And this should help anyone who may stand beside a hospital bed and weep over the loved one that's perhaps wasting away in a Illness and inwardly your heart is just crushed, or when you stand beside a coffin and you cry your eyes out, or your heart is shattered because of some broken relationship. Or perhaps because you're ridiculed for standing for truth. You know, you want to be a witness for Jesus today? Just do, just live it like a Christian. You'll be a witness. And you'll be ridiculed, but just remember the greater the groan, the greater the glory. And you're trying to overcome it. Paul calls these things light afflictions. Not because they're not important to God. God's all of your suffering is important to God. Paul calls it light because, in comparison, To the glory, it is light. That's the point. And so you say, what is this glory? Well, we'll be with Jesus, we'll be with Christ, we will have some official position in heaven. We will serve him there. The Bible says this in Matthew thirteen, forty-three. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. Who have And so we see on one side this incomparable future glory that we all that know Christ will have. But then let's look at Expectation of creation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Before the glory there will be groans in this present world. From verses 19 down to verse 27 are the groanings which are a part of this present world in which we live. And actually, we see three groans here in these verses. We see the groan of creation We see the groan of the believer, and then we see the groan of the Holy Spirit. Those three things Paul gives us here. The word groan here simply means to lament or to moan. So let's look first of all at the groan Again, verse 19. The earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. We see here the groan of creation. What Paul's using here is a liter literary device called personification and creation is like a person. And when he talks about creation, what does he mean? He means animate andanimate objects like uh the plants or the animals or the mountains and the hills and the stars. Anything that's a part of creation Paul is referring to here. It's personified. We see this in the Old Testament where it says the mountains and the hills shall break forth with singing, the trees of the field shall break forth And here Paul's using that. And he says, creation now itself is groaning. You're not groaning by yourself Creation groans with you, he's saying. And it's the groan of anticipation. What does creation anticipate? Again in verse 19. Notice where it says the earnest expression Expectation. This translates a very vivid word in the Greek. It refers to someone that is expecting something to happen very soon, and it's like they're standing on their tiptoes, sticking Your neck way out, looking, peering into the distance, anticipating this thing that is going to happen. And it's waiting, but it's waiting within Anticipation. That's what creation is doing right now. All of creation is standing on its tiptoes, peering out into the future, anxiously awaiting and what is Creation waiting for? For the manifestation of the sons of God. It's waiting for Jesus to come back. You think you're the only one waiting for the coming of Christ? All of creation. Is waiting, standing on his tiptoes. And notice what it says for the manifestation of the sons of God. What does that mean? That means when we who are children of God, we're going to have our unveiling. What's going on Happen when Jesus comes, our salvation will be complete. We will be glorified. We will have that glorified body. We will be unveiled, as it were. When the world looks at a Christian today, they don't really see the glory that we have. They just see us our outward appearance. They might see our joy glory is going to be unveiled. And when will it happen? It'll happen when the Lord Jesus returns. You say, well, why does creation, why is the creation So anxious for our glory to be unveiled. I'll tell you why, because creation knows that its glory is inseparably linked to our glory. You see, when we receive a brand new glorified Body, creation will also be glorified. And it will be a new heaven and a new earth. And so creation itself will also be glorified. It's tied in with ours. That's why creation groans. Look at verse twenty. For the creature was made subject to vanity not willingly, but by reason of him who has subjected the same in hope. That is, creation was made subject to vanity The word vanity here means futility. We can say like this nature, creation is frustrated. Why? Because creation hasn't been able to fulfill its purpose for which it was created Then what is that? To show forth the glory of God. It does it in some manner, but not the way in which it was intended. And so creation, we could say, was victimized. By what? Adam's sin. It's passive here. Creation was a victim. A victim of Adam's sin. And therefore creation has been frustrated But creation knows that when we our salvation is complete, that it will be restored to that original glory. And that's all going to happen when Jesus comes, and so creation Creation is standing on its tiptoes and it's peering out and it's looking and it's longing for the return of Christ. And until that time, creation groans with us. Why? Because of Liberty of the children of God. When we are fully liberated from sin, the sin of this world, creation will also be fully liberated. It's in bondage. It's like we're in bondage. And so creation longs for that. There will be no sin, no evil, no pain, no sorrow, no death, no tears. Everything will be glorious And so look at verse 22. For we know that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now. That is to say, unto this very moment, creation groans With us until this moment. So there's the groan of creation. But then there's the groan of the believer. We groan as well. Look in verse Verse 23. And not only they, but we ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit. That is, we have a down payment. That's our guarantee of glory. Did you know that? The fact that you have the Holy Spirit in you, that's a down payment on the future glory that you have. That's what he's saying here. We who have You say, Now wait a minute, I thought we were already adopted when we got saved. You were. When you were saved, God adopted you into his family and so initially we are part of that adoption but that adoption is not fully realized just yet not yet that's going to be fully realized When we have the redemption of a body. That's why John says in First John, beloved, uh, you know, it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. We've been adopted into the family of God, and we're not really sure what all that adoption gives us, but we know this: when he comes, we're going to be just like him. And the glory he has, we're we're gonna have. That's why the Bible says in Romans thirteen eleven, now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. You know what? Closer to the full realization of our glory, of our salvation. We're one step closer. It's nearer. And so there's this anticipation That we see in verse 23, where we groan within ourselves. We long for it to be complete. I don't know if that's you, but I groan About myself, I wish I were more holy. I wish I didn't have to struggle so against sin. I wish I didn't have to bear up with some of the pain. I wish I didn't have to listen to some of the hard news that sometimes we receive. You know, it's really unique being a pastor because you need to learn to rejoice and in the next minute minute weep We we someone comes and gets a good report and we all I rejoice and then the next minute you get a phone call and you hear someone who has cancer and then you weep. You cry. Or someone dies and your heart Is shattered. And you see people at the gray side and your heart breaks. I groan. We all groan. I long for the time when we won't have to groan anymore. When this will all be over. It is the hope that we have that is spoken of there in verse number 24. We could literally say it like this in this hope we are Saved. What hope? The hope of full, complete deliverance from sin and from sin's penalty and from all of the the results of sin we We hope we want that to be fully realized, that hope of salvation when we'll be totally delivered. This is an unseen reality, the Bible says it's something that we can't really see Right now, but hope in the Bible is not a wish, it's not a maybe, it is a no-so. We know that one day we will be delivered. And let me give you the last thing. We have the groan of creation and the groan of the believer, but there's also the groan of the Holy Spirit. Look in verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession with us with groanings which cannot be uttered. There's the groan of the Holy Spirit. Do you realize the Holy Spirit groans with you? You don't bear these burdens alone. You say, man, I just don't know if I can just bear these things. Well, you have a helper. You have the Holy Spirit And he groans with you. He joins creation in groaning. He joins the believer in sighing over the fallen state of man and the universe. He He longs for the glorious liberty of the child of God, me, you. He longs for that for creation, for the manifestation of the sons of God It's really difficult for me to fully understand this. This is such a wonderful thing. That the Holy Spirit would groan with me, that He would be With me through these sighs and through my weaknesses, he knows. Notice the word infirmity, likewise the Spirit helps our infirmities. He helps the The word help here is a very unique word. It's the word it's a compound Greek word, sin with antefa face to face limbano to grab hold of. It's the idea of grabbing hold of something face to face Face. It's like when you carry a piece of furniture, you're on one side and someone else is on the other side and you face each other and you each grab it and you pick it up together because I can't bear this alone I need someone on the other side. That's what the Holy Spirit is. Whatever burden, whatever pain, groan that you have to bear, just Just realize the Holy Spirit's on the other side, and He's picking up this burden with you. He's carrying this burden with you. You are not not alone. And you and you ever pick up something and go, oh groan when you pick it up? That's the Holy Spirit. He groans with us. Yeah, I feel that. I feel your pain. He picks up this burden with us. He groans with us. And then when we go to the Lord in prayer to present this burden Burden to the Father before the throne. He's there with us. And he helps us to bear this. You know, we're so weak and fur. I don't know about you, but I am. Week in prayer, and he helps me even in the prayer. He helps me to know how to pray. First of all, he gives me the desire to pray. Because I have a lot of indifference in me. But he gives me the desire to pray. And sometimes I don't know what to pray for. There's ignorance, but he helps me to know what to pray for during that time. There's interference. Sometimes you ever notice when you get Ever notice that the phone rings, the beans will burn up on the stove, the kids get into a fight. And then there's inaccessibility. Sometimes I don't feel like I am worthy to even go into his presence. But he reminds me that I'm his child, and by the Holy Spirit Spirit, I can cry out, Abba Father. And then there's inability. Sometimes physically, I'm just tired. But even then, he'll quicken my mortal body. And then there's inexpressibility Even when I go, there's sometimes burden so great, I don't even know how to say it. But you know what? Even there, he can interpret my groans. To the Father. And he can verbalize what I cannot. And so he activates my will. He prays for me for God's will. He strengthens my body. He gives me a sense of access. He groans with me in prayer. Man, what a a helper. What a helper. So we have a father that first of all tells us focus on your future glory and then I'm giving you someone to help you through The groans. I'm not going to take away the groans, but I'm going to give you someone to help you. And by the way, you don't groan by yourself. Creation is groaning with you. And the spirit of God God groans with you to help you through. So focus on that glory. Focus on the end. We know how this is going to turn out. We know how it's gonna turn out. That that's how I bear up. You know, I'll just close with this illustration. It's been a while since the Ravens have been to the Super Bowl. Remember the last time they went they were playing and some of you may remember watching that game. I mean it was close. They would do something great and you go, wow, wonderful, and then they would mess up. And you would groan and you weren't sure how this thing was going to turn out. So every bad play, every bad thing that happened, you'd groan. And that game wasn't over until the final play. And then we knew how it turned out. You know, recently I watched a replay of that game. Now when I saw it live, I groaned. But when I I saw the replay, I didn't run at all. You know why? I already knew how it was going to turn out. I already knew the victory was ours. None of that stuff bothered me. And so it is in the Christian life. My future glory helps me in this present groaning. Because, friend, we know how this is going to turn out. If you're a child of God God, we know how it's going to turn out. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we we thank you for this wonderful future glory that you've promised to all of us. We thank you. Thank you for the Holy Spirit who groans with us and is constantly reminding us to keep our eyes on that glory. Remember the glory that awaits. And to remember Remember the the greater the groan that we have now, the greater the glory that we will bear one day. So Lord, remind us of this. Please. Lord, we know many are groaning today. We have many in our church. And Lord, they are in need of your grace and help. Lord, remind us of these things. Help us to bear up, to persevere. And Lord, I pray for someone here that's never trusted Christ that they would realize the great salvation that we have, the great glory that awaits anyone. Who puts their faith and trust in Jesus? That they come to Him, that they learn Him, know Him. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, I just want to invite you to pray right where you are. Would you Be willing to say these words, Lord Jesus. I groan because of my own sin, but I know that you died on the cross for my sin. So I'm putting my faith in what you did for me, the finished work of Christ. And I ask you to forgive me for my sins, save me, make me your child. And friend, if you pray that, and I pray That you did if you don't know him. You could be assured of eternal life right now. Father, bless these words. May the seed planted fall upon fertile soil, the soil of the heart. May it be received. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.