Take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of First Thessalonians. And we are in chapter five, First Thessalonians chapter five. Um and we're going to be looking at this morning verses 12 on down through verse 28. We'll finish up this this book here this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning? Verse twelve And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. and be at peace among yourselves. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you would you pray with me today? Father, how we thank you for your word, and we pray, Lord, that today you would bless us as we go to it. Lord, instruct our hearts and Encourage us, Father, and may we leave today saying it's been good to be in your house. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A father and a small child were um on a stroll down the street in Chicago and they walked past a skyscraper that was being built. And they looked up and the little boy said to his father, he said, Dad, what are those little boys doing all the way up there on that building? And he said, son, those aren't little boys, those are men. And he said, well why are they so small? He said, because they're so very high up. And then the little boy thought about it and he thought, man, when they get to heaven there won't be anything left of them. And it's so true that when we closer we get to heaven, the less there is of us, the more there is of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's Paul's prayer here in First Thessalonians. The key verse in this whole section is verse 23. Would you look at that verse with me this morning And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly, and I pray your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now this is Paul Hayes praying for the growth and sanctification of these Thessalonians. That is his desire. He wants them to be ready for the return of Jesus Christ. And so Paul's uh knew that one day Jesus was going to come, and uh when the Lord came what he wanted was a bride that was spotless to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why Paul is praying for their sanctification. He's praying for their spiritual growth. That's why I titled this sermon today Growing Saints for a coming Lord. The best way for us to be prepared for the coming of Christ is by focusing on our spiritual growth and sanctification. in Christ. Now I want you to I want to talk about this area then and just give you a th a few preliminary thoughts about growth and sanctification. First of all, there's the purpose of growth. Again in verse twenty-three, and the very God of peace sanctify you holy. The word sanctify here is the idea of to be made separate uh to be set apart. That's what a saint is. You are set apart unto God. After you were saved, God set you apart unto himself. As the old saying goes, you're either a saint or you ain't. You're either saved or you're not. And if you are a saint, you are being separated unto God. Sanctification is the process whereby God makes us more and more like Christ and less and less like the world. That's what God is doing in your heart. And that's what Paul is praying for. Paul says, I want you to be holy, holy. In other words, completely holy with without fault, without blame when the Lord comes. And secondly, there's the process. And verse 23, notice where it says, I pray that God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless. Now there's an argument among New Testament scholars as to whether man is a two-part being or a three-part. That is, is man body, soul, slash, spirit, or is he body, soul, and spirit? And the the the technical words for this, you don't need to remember it, but it's dichotomous, is man dichotomous, is he two part or is he trichotomous? Is he three part? And there's a big debate among New Testament scholars about that. And I would admit that there are verses in the New Testament where soul and spirit are used interchangeably to talk about the same thing. But I think, honestly, when you look at this verse here, there's a distinction between body and soul. And I think there are other verses that show that distinction as well. And what's interesting is that remember what Paul said, he said, you are now the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. Did you know that in the Old Testament the temple had three rooms? There was an outer court and housing the outer court, it housed the holy place, and in the holy place there was the holy of holies. So the outer court house, the holy place, the holy place house, the holy of holies. And we could really make that a same parallel, ma'am, we have a body, and my body houses my soul, which houses my spirit. And so I think there's a parallel there, which is why I believe that um you know the tricotomous nature of man is what Paul's talking about here. And notice that when he says, I'm praying for your sanctification, he starts in the innermost, I pray that your whole spirit and then soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of the Lord. Paul is praying for their sanctification and notice He starts on the inside and works his way out. And just know this, beloved, that when God begins to sanctify you, he starts on the inside. You know, religion starts on the outside. Religion wants to conform man, but God wants to transform you, and he starts on the inside. God will change your spirit. and your soul and then it'll show in your body that you are a brand new person. That's the process of sanctification. He begins to change you on the innermost part of you. But then there's the per the power for growth. Look again in verse number 24, where it says this Faithful is he that called you, who also will do it. And then back up to verse 23 where it says, Paul says, I pray that your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved. Notice that expression be preserved means to watch over, to guard. You know, in this process of sanctification, we can't do it ourselves. God has to do it. And thank God He is the one watching over us in this whole process of sanctification. That's what He's doing in your life. Sometimes you think, why are these things happening to me? Why are these trials that I'm going through? Well, it's all part of the sanctification process. And God is watching over you, and God is making you more like the Lord Jesus Christ. But it is his power at work in your life doing the sanctification. His mighty power is working in you. It has to be God who does it. We saw this again. Again, look at verse 24. Faithful is he that has called you, who also will do it. God is the one doing the work. He's the one sanctifying you. Now someone would say, well, Pastor, if God's the one doing all the work, I'm just going to sit back and relax and do nothing and say, here I am, let go and let God And there's that philosophy of sanctification out there. There are certain people that believe, you know, it's all of God, it's not of me. I have to let go and let God, I can't, he can, and so I'm just going to do nothing And just let God do it all. But that's a wrong view of sanctification. God indeed does his part, but that doesn't mean you're not supposed to do your part. You see, you have to do your part. You have to respond to what God is doing in your life. Write down another passage of scripture, I think, that's a parallel. Philippians chapter 2, verse 12 Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling And the very next verse, verse thirteen, says this, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So you're supposed to work out your salvation, but then we know that it is God who works in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. So You you do your part and God does his part. You could say it's your responsibility, but it's your response to his ability. Alright? And so while God is working on us Doing his part, we have to be responsible in this thing of sanctification to do our part. And that's what I want you to see here, because in this chapter, Paul gives us three responsibilities that we have to Take heed to if we are going to be uh growing saints for a coming Lord. Here's the first thing, your responsibility to church leadership. Back up to verse number twelve. Notice what it says. And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Now, God gives to the church pastors and teachers to help them grow. And if you're going to grow in grace, it's necessary that you have the right relationship with church leadership. And what does that mean? Well, first of all, Paul says, appreciate their labor. Look at verse twelve. We beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you The word know here doesn't mean to know like you know facts about someone. It just means to appreciate. It means don't take them for granted. The Bible says that pastors are gifts to the church in Ephesians 4 Paul said to Timothy, let those who labor in the word be worthy of double honor. Now I know that this sounds self-serving. You know, I'm up here preaching about how good you should be to your pastor, you know. But I'm just preaching First Thessalonians, and let me just qualify that by saying you already are good to me. And I I can't thank you enough for how you show your goodness. I I get more than I deserve. I'm so grateful for the encouragement and the appreciation that you do show. But let me just say, as a pastor, it's my responsibility to labor. Notice it says labor among you and are over you and admonish you. That means we work hard. Faithful pastors are to work in the Word of God, to give the Word to the sheep, to feed God's people. Shepherds must proclaim the word of God. They must apply the truth. They must warn and admonish the sheep. They must counsel them from the scripture. They have to work hard. The word admonish means to correct When you're going out of bounds, you're going out of line of the scripture, the shepherd gently corrects the sheep and brings them back, admonishes them in the word of God. And so that's a big responsibility. And of course I need your prayers always, not only me, but also the other pastors that are here in this church. I need your prayers as we seek to lead you in a godly way. So Paul says, um, you know, know them. Appreciate their labor, but submit to their authority again in verse 12, and are over you in the Lord. And this word here has the idea of standing before leading with authority. Pastors stand in the place of the chief shepherd. I'm not the chief shepherd. The chief shepherd is the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm just the under-shepherd. But I'm to lead you in the way that he would have us to go. That means God gives to the church pastors as spiritual authorities to lead God's people. And we're accountable to the chief shepherd for how we do that And by the way, I love the image of a shepherd and sheep. Pastors are not cowboys who drive cattle. They're shepherds who lead sheep. You know, you you uh they're not dictators, they're they're leaders, you know. A dictator uses force and intimidation and abuse. A leader is someone who gently, lovingly encourages and leads and as an example. That's what a shepherd is supposed to do. It also doesn't mean that the spiritual leader is right on everything. Some of God's greatest leaders in the Bible made mistakes. And so I have to be accountable to other men here, our leadership in the church. We have a wonderful group of men, our deacons who I use to help and all the decisions that we make here at Grace. And a wise pastor knows When he makes a mistake and he admits it and he uses godly men around him to help him in making decisions. I have benefited greatly from the counsel that I have received from godly men here in this church. So we uh basically you're submit to their authority, Paul says, but value their ministry, verse thirteen, and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake, and be at peace among yourselves. Paul says Show them the utmost respect. Now again, I need to pause and to thank you because you truly do this. I don't have the words to express my gratitude. For you here at Grace, for how you have just uh shown your respect and you have valued me. I've gotten so many gifts from you. In fact, at Christmas time, I I got so many sweets and so many things to eat and and and and be be helpful folks. I'm trying to lose weight. And so I I can't possibly eat it all, but when people pile food at my house, I realize that on the door on the way out, you're going to ask, how did it taste? You know, so be easy on me on some of that, but thank you so much. Thank you for the gifts that you've given, not only to me, but the other pastors here in this church. You have you have shown your love and your your your encouragement and thank you so much for that because you know what? I've seen churches where members did not hold their pastors in and respect and esteem and you know what? It always leads to problems in the church. But when there is a wonderful love and the relationship between church leadership and the people of the church, it blesses the church, and that is part of your sanctification in Christ. Notice where Paul says in verse 13, and be at peace among yourselves. It brings peace to the church and peace to the body of Christ. when this sort of thing happens. So it's your responsibility to church leadership, but notice secondly your responsibility to church membership. And beloved, just know this that if the church is going to Be all that God wants it to be. And if you're going to grow and be sanctified in the Lord Jesus, there has to be a loving relationship between the members of the church. We need one another. You can't do this on your own. That's why being here is important. You know, that's why you have uh one another to to minister to. Um, you know When people sometimes when they look for a church today, sometimes people have this consumer mentality of, you know, what can the church do for me? But the right attitude is how can I minister to believers in the church? How can I bless the people in the church? And uh the New Testament makes it very clear that we are members one of another. I think I told you before that there are Over fifty one another verses in the New Testament. We love one another, we pray for one another, we exhort one another We admonish one another. We forgive one another. All of these things tell us that we need each other in the church if we're going to be what we need to be. We can't do it on our own. I can't do it on our on my own. I can't grow in Christ without you and you need other believers. So notice Paul is encouraging the believers in Thessalonica to be loving, to be kind, to be patient, to encourage one another. Look what it says here. Warn the unruly, it says Verse 14, now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly. This is what we could call wayward cheat. The word unruly here is a military term, and it's Speaks of a soldier that gets out of line that's marching in his own way. Every once in a while someone will get out of line. They will march to the beat of a different drummer, so to speak. And uh as believers, we need to help them fall back in line. If you see someone falling astray, going astray Getting out of God's house. Go to them. Encourage them. Tell them to get back in. Get back in line because we need each other. Also comfort the feeble-minded. Look at verse 14. Warn that unruly. Comfort the feeble-minded. Feeble-minded here has to not doesn't have to do with mentality. It's translated little souled or faint-hearted, and it refers to a person who is easily discouraged or someone who is overwhelmed by stress. And it may be that Paul's referring to believers in Thessalonica who were grieving over the thought that maybe their loved ones missed the second coming of Christ. We talked about that. Maybe they needed to be encouraged. But this word means to um encourage those who are anxious and worried, who are faint-hearted, be be sympathetic. Go to a person if you see them struggling, help them along, encourage them is the idea. Sometimes the best way to encourage someone is just simply to just to listen to them Just to be there. Sometimes just a hand on the shoulder. Or sometimes just to be silent. And if they're grieving, just sit there and grieve with them You don't have to really say anything, just grieve with them. Joseph Bailey, who was a man who lost three sons in death at different times. And he wrote this in this book. I was sitting torn by grief. Someone came and talked to me of God's dealings and of why it happened, of hope beyond the grave. He talked constantly. He said things I knew were true. He said, I was unmoved, except I wish he'd go away. And finally he did. He said, another came and sat beside me. He didn't talk. He didn't ask leading questions. He just sat beside me for an hour or more. He listened when I said something. He answered briefly. He prayed and simply left He said, I was moved. I was comforted. I hated to see him go. Sometimes that's the best way to be a comforter, to be an encourager, just to be there. But then Paul also says support the weak in verse 14. Comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak. And I don't think that this is referring here to uh physically weak. I think this is spiritually weak. It may refer to the person who's struggling to follow the Lord. The church at Thessalonica was going through persecution. It was going through trials. There were some spiritually weak people there that perhaps were thinking about turning back. It could include people that were tempted by immorality from which God had saved them. Remember, uh Thessalonica was a pagan city and and people were steeped in idolatry and paganism which include all kinds of immorality. And when a person is saved out of that, there's always a temptation of going back into it. When a weak person is w a weak person could be one who is new in the faith, who when he's around other believers, he's okay. But when they get away from the church and get away from believers and they get back with the old crowd They're drawn back into the way they used to live. And Paul says, look, help them. This person hasn't yet. fully learned to trust in God. They haven't learned how to stand against the crowd, so Paul says, you go and you help them. The word help here literally means to cleave to. Hold them firm. Um that's what older, stronger Christians should do to younger Christians, hold on to them and help them in their walk, you know. Just as a good older brother will rescue a younger brother from a bully, so Christians need to come to the aid of younger believers who are under spiritual attack. And then Paul says this, be patient to all. In verse 14, the last phrase, be patient towards all men. And he wraps up the whole thing by saying, look, just be loving, be patient. You know, that is take you know time to understand people. Don't be judgmental, you know. Don't have a short fuse, you know, people that are patient or people that don't get angry quickly, but they are understanding and they know that when newer believers come into the church, they all have problems and we need to be there to help them and we need to be patient. with them in the body of Christ. That's all part of sanctification in Christ. So your responsibility to church leadership Your responsibility to church membership. You help one another. That's all part of your sanctification. You're not here just for yourself. You're here to help other people to grow in Christ. But then here's the third thing. Your responsibility in church worship. Paul goes from talking about leadership to membership to worship. All three are important in your spiritual growth. We as Christians need true worship in order to grow. And out of true worship flows ministry Flows spiritual growth and blessings. Let me just say this. I know I've said it before. There is no substitute for coming to God's house. There is no substitute for being together in the church with God's people. That's where we worship God together. There is a spiritual dynamic that takes place in this setting that can't be duplicated anywhere else. And so in the worship service, Paul calls upon his people, come together, and here's some things to remember. Rejoice evermore. Look at verse 16. Rejoice evermore. Did you know some people say the shortest verse in the Bible is Jesus wept? Actually, this is the shortest verse in the Bible in the Greek. In English that might be shorter, but in Greek, this is the shortest verse. Rejoice evermore. And Paul is writing to people again who were going through difficulty. They were under difficult circumstances. And Paul's saying to them, look, make a decision to rejoice. Don't focus on your trials. And that's what happens when we come together in God's house. We focus on God. And we learn to rejoice in him, to joy in the Lord. But then notice pray without ceasing. Verse 17. This simply means that we pray all the time. In other words, we're in an attitude of prayer. You can pray while you're doing other things. And so we are constantly in a prayerful attitude. That's the way we come to God's house, by the way, with that prayerful attitude. Remember in the Old Testament in the holy place, there was an altar of incense, and that incense would have smoke that was billowing constantly up to God. And that was a symbol of prayer. It was a sweet-smelling incense that was there at the altar of incense, and it was a symbol of prayer. And that smoke from the incense was constantly going up in the holy place. That's the way the life of a Christian is to be Our life is to be a life of the sweet fragrance of prayer. We're constantly in a prayerful attitude. We're constantly uttering prayers up to God in heaven. And then Paul says this, and everything give thanks in verse number 18, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. This is actually one word in the Greek and everything give thanks. Eucharisto, is where we get the word Eucharist, which is used for the Lord's Supper, because in the Lord's Supper we're giving thanks for Jesus. But we're to the Bible says we're to in everything give thanks. Now notice it doesn't say for everything give thanks Because some would say, how can I be thankful for everything? Well we can't be thankful for everything because a lot of times bad things happen and I'm not thankful for bad things when they happen. But I can be thankful in it because I know that even in that bad thing, God's doing good for me. Because the Bible says all things work together for good To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And so while I'm not thankful for everything, I can be thankful in everything. And again, by the way, that's what we do here at church. You coming together here in worship is it really a demonstration of thanksgiving to God. And you know in the early church they always had a time of thanksgiving. According to 1 Corinthians 14, they were always rendering thanks to God in the service. So we give thanks, but then also quench not the spirit, verse 19. And Paul's using the metaphor of fire to speak of the ministry of the Holy Spirit. We don't want to snuff out the flame. We don't want to quench the fire of the Holy Spirit. Working among us. You say, how do we do that? We do that with doubt, we do that with sin, we do that with anger, we do that with bitterness. Any sin that we hold on to can quench the work of the Holy Spirit among us And we don't want to do that. We don't want to grieve the Holy Spirit. We want the Holy Spirit to have free reign to move in hearts and lives. And so quench not the Spirit, Paul said. Notice the next thing he mentioned. In verse 20, despise not prophesying. Now in our 945 hour, we talk about this as far as prophesying. I don't believe that God gives the gift of revelatory prophecy to the church now because we have the completed Word of God. So prophecy is not revelatory, but it's reiterative. God has already given us his word, and I'm just reiterating to you what God has already given us. And the Bible says, don't despise that Don't despise when you are getting the word of God, and the word despise here has the idea of contempt, um, you know, uh thinking lightly of it. You know, when the word of God is preached, you're not to despise it. You're not to think lightly of it. Because this is the word of God. Not because I'm preaching it, friend, because it is God's word. You see. And we ought to have a reverence in the way that we listen to God's word. We ought to be ready to hear, ready to obey, ready to apply the word of God. Don't despise when the word of God is being uh preached to you. And then along with that, notice he says in verse 21, prove all things, that is, test all things. And hold fast to that which is good. The word prove here is a word that means was used to talk about a test that was used to see if money was true was real or counterfeit They had certain guidelines that they would use to test if gold was real. And Paul's saying, look, when you hear the word of God, when you hear prophesying, you need to test it. You need to make sure that it's it's authentic. You know, and you've heard me say this many times before. Don't believe everything I say just because I say it. Search for yourself. Test it according to the Word of God. I would say that about any preacher. Don't just believe what they say. Look in the Bible for yourself Make sure that what they're preaching is true according to the scripture. And if it is the word of God, hold fast to it. Hold it into your heart, apply it to your life, test everything that you hear according to the Scripture. And then look at verse 22. Abstain from all appearance of evil. The word abstain is a real strong word. It's present-tense imperative. It's a command. Keep on continuing to abstain wherever evil is, or we could say all forms of evil. Abstain from all these different forms of evil, and God knows we live in an evil world where there's all kinds of forms of evil around us. And this thing of sanctification, you know what your responsibility is by the power of the Holy Spirit that God has given you, you are to abstain from that evil Abstain from it. And you can do it. If you're a child of God, he gives you the ability and the power to resist temptation. You can say no. You have that power by God to do that. Abstain from all evil, Paul says. And as you do all of this, you're fulfilling your responsibilities as members of the church. Your responsibility to church leadership Your responsibility in church membership. Your responsibility in church worship. One major tool that God uses in your life To sanctify you is the church. It's the church. Now I know that there are some believers out there who think they can live the Christian life without the church. But I want to tell you, my dear friend, um there's no such Christianity in the Bible. And people like this, they make snide remarks about uh churchianity. They say, well, I'm not a part of church, but I'm a Christian. Um, let me tell you something, dear friend, the church is the bride of Christ. And you can't love the bridegroom and not love the bride. It's no compliment to me if you say, Pastor, I love you, but I don't love your wife. You're not complimenting me. In fact, you're you're making me angry if you say something like that. And it's the same with people who say, oh, I don't need the church. Oh, I love Jesus, but I don't need the church. The church is one of God's tools that He has ordained That helps to sanctify you and make you more like Jesus and ready for his return. That's why it's important. that you be a part of his church. And this passage here is proof of that, that you love the church, that you're a part of it, that you allow God to use it. to sanctify you and make you ready for the return of Christ. A young man who was returning home, he was going to return home to Mary. uh his his uh fiance, he returned home sooner than was expected. He didn't notify his bride to be that he was coming, and he wanted to surprise her. And he loved her. He had worked hard. He had saved. He was ready to purchase a home. But he got back to his hometown. It was about midnight when he arrived. And he thought, I need to go by and see her. So as he came near the house, he saw the house was all lit up. As he got closer, he could hear music. And he could see dancing going on, and as he finally looked through the window, window of the house, he saw his bride to be in the arms of another man His heart sank, and he left, and he never returned. Never went back. There are some Christians who have replaced a love for Christ with a love for the world. And they're they're having an affair with the world. They're dancing with the world. If Jesus came today, where would he find you in your spiritual life? I just want to challenge you at the beginning of this new year to make your commitment to grow and to be sanctified, to walk with the Lord. so that you can be ready when the Lord Jesus Christ comes. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word and the direction that we receive from it. Thank you, Lord, for the church, how you, Lord, and your wisdom. Has ordained that the church be a tool for our sanctification. Thank you, Lord, for godly pastors that you raise up. Service to do the work. Thank you for godly members that minister to one another. Thank you, Lord, for the experience of worship that we have together. Where we, Lord, can rejoice, we can give thanks, we can hear the word of God and not despise it We can sense the moving of the Holy Spirit among us and not quench it. We can exercise the gift of discernment to know whether it's something truly is of you or not. And through the worship we gain grace and strength to abstain from all appearance of evil. Father, thank you for what worship does for our soul. And I pray, Lord, for every believer here that they would be sanctified, that their whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of Christ. Lord, do your work in every heart. And with head bowed and eyes closed, can I just ask you this today, my friend? Are you certain that you're in Christ? I know I give this invitation every week and I plead with people to make sure. And it's only because I love your soul And I want you to examine your heart. Make sure that you're in Christ, that you're trusting in Christ and Christ alone as your only means of salvation. If you're not saved, if you've never repented and asked Christ to come into your heart, you know the Bible says you can do that right now. If you come to him, he won't turn you away. If you call upon him, he will hear you If you repent, he will receive you. And you know what? When you exercise your faith in Christ, it's very simple. It can be demonstrated in a prayer. God, be merciful to me a sinner and save me. It's one of the most beautiful prayers in the Bible. And you can pray it, you can apply it to your own life. You can say that and mean it to the Lord. God, be merciful. To me a sinner saved me. And if you're here today and you are saved, how would you grade yourself in your sanctification? How are you doing in your spiritual growth? You know, it's something that we need to focus on. It's something that we need to pay attention to. We have to do our part. It's our responsibility, but yet it's our response to God's ability. God will give you the strength, but you have to do your part. And are you doing that? Father, convict us. If we're walking wayward, if we're walking far away, Lord, draw us close. And do your sanctifying work in every heart here today, Father. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name