Anyway, uh it's good to see you all here tonight. Um just let me say a little word about this uh broadcast and why we're doing that. As you know, we the Ever Living Story has been local for uh the the past few years. uh on a local station here in Baltimore. And it just seems like here the past um year we we've been trying to get numbers out of them like viewing numbers and that sort of thing. It just seemed like it was pulling teeth to get any information out of the local station about anything that was going on with our broadcast and it was a bit frustrating. And then we found out that uh our program on um uh for the whole month of uh uh January and February would be preempted by women's basketball, which means that they wouldn't re re show our broadcast because of a women's basketball tournament. I don't have anything against basketball unless you want to play it instead of my sermon on Sunday morning. But anyway, it just seemed a bit frustrating. And uh we were and they didn't let us know on one you know uh broadcast that we were replaced by women's basketball. So we were kinda just a little frustrated with the local program. And then during all that I was uh contacted by uh a man named Jared Wilkins who uh basically is part of mass media and he said, Look, we've seen your program and we'd like to put it on uh another platform if you're if you're interested. I said, well tell me about it. He he told me about this opportunity on Direct TV, G B network, and that sort of thing. And uh I asked him how much And so the bottom line is for what we were paying for the local program, we would get the same thing on a national program. So we're not paying any more money for this. And so I said, well let me pray about it. I'm done. I think uh I think we're ready to do this. No, seriously, I took it before our men on in a deacon's meeting. I said, look, here's something for us to consider and think about. And they all said, well, we we uh we should do this. You know, we're talking about a small audience in the Baltimore, Washington area versus, you know, um the the US in this um in this network. So we're going to try this out for a year and see how it goes. So just pray about it. If the Lord uses it, we'll continue it, but it's in the Lord's hands. Would you take God's word tonight? Open to 1 Timothy chapter 6. And uh we have been speak preaching through 1 Timothy for several months. In fact, uh I preached 20 sermons in 1 Timothy. This will be the 21st and last because we come to the last part of 1 Timothy chapter 6. Look at verse number 17. And we're going to talk tonight about this topic, guarding the treasure. Guarding the treasure. You know, recently we returned from Egypt and uh while we were there we got to see the pyramids and that sort of thing. Uh basically I I was telling you last week at our presentation that the pyramids are giant tombs for the pharaohs, and the pharaohs when they were buried would would bury with them all manner of treasures and gold to take with them for the next life. And that those pyramids were basically advertisements for tomb robbers. And a lot all those uh those the graves of the pharaohs in the tombs were robbed of all of its riches. And so they began to then um bury the pharaohs in a place called the Valley of the Kings. Why? Again, because they wanted to keep their treasures in there. However, the the the tomb robbers eventually found those places as well and there's as well and there was only one uh tomb in the whole Valley of the Kings that was never robbed of its treasure, and that's of course is the tomb of King Tut that was found by Howard Carter in 1922. Well, seeking treasure is nothing new. Men have been doing that since the beginning, since the fall of uh man in Eden. And there's nothing wrong with seeking treasure as long as it's the right time. And Paul's words here to Timothy, he's going to give us some instruction about how to handle the treasure that God entrusts to us. These are the closing words that Paul gives to Timothy. And here he's going to mention in these verses here two types of treasure. He's going to mention earthly riches, our money, our material possessions. He's also going to mention eternal riches, which is the truth of God's word. All of us are stewards. God has entrusted these things to us. And how we handle these things is a measure of our spiritual maturity. Uh and so we are responsible to the Lord on how we deal with these things. Now Paul has already uh discussed the issue of earthly treasures. And you remember if you were in our study, he This was a he related it to false teachers, how false teachers basically, in chapter six, verse number five, suppose that godliness or supposing that gain rather is godliness. And Paul said, those kind of people you want to withdraw yourself from. And then he again talked about it in in verse number 9 and 10. Where he talked about they that will be rich, and the love of money is the root of all evil. And now Paul is going to again cover the same topic in verses 17 down to verse 19, but he's going to cover it from a different perspective. He's going to talk about those who were already rich. Evidently in the church at Ephesus there were believers that were rich there. That was a prosperous city. And so he's going to speak to the wealthy members of the church. He's going to talk about being rich and handling those riches. And Paul doesn't want people in the church to think that there's anything wrong with having money or being rich. He doesn't want to think that because a person has money, that they have the love of money. And so Paul's going to talk about the fact that it's not a sin to be rich, but you are accountable to God on how you deal with what God has given you. There are many saints in the Bible that were rich, Abraham and Job and Solomon. They were all wealthy. And then you go to the New Testament, you have Lydia and you have Dorcas and Philemon. And again, it's not a sin to have things because God has given us those things. But it is a sin if we don't use the stewardship of what God has given us in a correct way. And so Paul's going to deal with these issues here. in First Timothy. In fact, he's going to talk first of all, he's going to give a word about earthly riches, and then secondly, he's going to give a word about eternal riches. So here's the first thing, a warning about earthly riches. And again, Paul does not command the rich to divest themselves of their possessions and to take a vow of poverty, but he does want them to have the right perspective about what God has given them. And so he's going to give them several warnings here. Here's warning number one, don't be arrogant. Look at verse number 17. Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded. Now again, there were Christians and ethicists that were wealthy by society's standards. And you might be saying tonight, well he's talking to rich people, and I'm not rich. And you might remember me saying this before, and I'll say it again, rich is a very relative term. Um you know, compared to a lot of standards of people that, you know, live in other places in the world, you are rich here tonight Um because, you know, we were over in Egypt and uh we saw some people there that looked at us as Americans and just because we were Americans they thought we were rich. I've been in places in the world where I've seen real poverty. And I'm here to tell you, beloved, that you are rich tonight because God has blessed us in so many ways. And so then this is a relative term, and really what Paul is saying to people in Ephesus that are rich really apply to us as well, because indeed we are rich because of the way that God has blessed us. And Paul, what he does here in verse 17 is he warns against an arrogant attitude. Again in verse 17, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. High-minded is a word, compound word. It's a hoop cello froneo, and it's the idea of to think lofty or to have an exalted opinion of oneself, is to look down on those who don't have as much as you might have. That high-minded attitude. You know, looking down on those who might be lower on the economic scale. And Paul says, charge them, that is command them. That is present tense imperative. Keep on continuing To command those that are rich that they be not high-minded. Why do we have to continue to do that? Well, because abundance breeds pride. It breeds pride towards God. Those that have a lot have a tendency not to depend upon God so much. And it also breeds pride towards others. The person who has a lot has a tendency to credit himself for what he has instead of giving God the glory. And pride can creep into the heart of a person who has done well and where they have a lot of this world's goods. It's very easy for someone like that to begin to think that they're better than someone else. Proverbs eighteen twenty-three describes what transpires. It says, the poor man utters supplication, but the rich man answers roughly. That is, because you're rich now Uh you don't pay attention much to those that are poor, and when a poor man asks of something, you might answer him roughly, which is an indication of pride and an indication of high-mindedness The Bible says again that the rich man is wise in his own eyes. Proverbs 28, verse number 11. One commentator wrote this, Riches and pride are frequently found together, and the wealthier an individual is, the greater the temptation. It is exceedingly difficult to be wealthy and have a humble spirit. The temptation is to view others as mere servants, since wealthy people tend to hire others to do everything for them. And let me just remind you, beloved, of what the Bible says that God hates a proud look. God hates this kind of high-mindedness. God warned Israel about this very thing. They were about to go into the promised land and they were about to possess houses that they did not build. They would get wealth that they did not accumulate. They would take all the spoils of war unto themselves. And this is what God said about that in Deuteronomy eight verse twelve Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses and dwell therein, and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply And thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied, then thy heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. And so God is warning Israel: don't cop that type of attitude. Don't become high-minded. As believers, we are to have the mind of Christ. And we're to guard that and keep that. And we see this same morning in the book of James. Remember James chapter 2, verse 1, my brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect to persons That is what he's saying is don't claim to have the faith of Jesus and have prejudice towards other people. Because if you have the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not going to be prejudicial towards someone else and specifically Excuse me, in this context, what he's referring to here is the rich and the poor. He says in verse 2, for if there come in your assembly a man and a gold ring and a goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment. And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool. Are you then partial, not partial, in your thoughts, and are become judges of evil thoughts? And so you see the scenario that James presents there? He's talking about the rich being high-minded or looking upon a poor person in a proud way. Here comes a man into the assembly of the church. The Bible calls him um it says he has a gold ring. Literally the Greek there is gold fingered. Indicating he indicating he's wearing more than one ring. He's wearing rings all over. I mean he's got a nugget at every knuckle there. He's got a jewel at every joint. He's got all these rings all over his fingers. He comes in, he's got really nice clothes. And, you know, back in that day they had, you know, kinda like a synagogue type assembly that would have, you know, places sit on around the outside of the uh assembly, maybe some chairs in the middle, but it all those chairs were filled. And sometimes if they were filled, what a person would do is actually sit on the floor. And here comes this rich man into the assembly, and all the chairs are filled, and the usher goes over to the poor man and says, Move out of your place and sit here, and let the rich man sit here. And James gives the scenario. as condemning that kind of attitude, that kind of high-mindedness. And James says about this kind of thing, are ye then not partial in your thoughts? and become judges of e are partial in yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts. This kind of high-mindedness has no place in the church. And it is evil, it is sinful in the sight of Almighty God. And so the warning here that Paul gives is do not be high-minded. And here's the second thing that God says. In verse 17, charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. Here's the second warning: don't put your hope in money instead of God. Do not trust in uncertain riches. Those who have a lot have a tendency to trust in their wealth Again, the Bible says in Proverbs 23:5, Wilt thy set thine eyes upon that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings. They fly away as an equal towards heaven. Yeah, you someone says money toss, that's right, it says goodbye. They fly away like eagles towards heaven. And so Don't put your hope in the uncertainty of riches, Paul warns and Jesus cautioned about This same thing in Matthew 6. 19. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, where thieves break through and steal And every day we see the evidences of this warning. Bankruptcy cases increase, the stock market fluctuates, government may fall, monetary systems fail, prices escalate Money drains away and so on. There is no financial security. That is an illusion. And if you put your hope in money in that way, it's going to disappoint. I read a in a book this week. In the year 1923, nine of the world's wealthiest men met at a meeting at the Edgewood Beach Hotel in Chicago. Let me tell you who was in attendance. In attendance were the presidents of the world's largest steel, gas, and utility companies, the world's greatest weak speculator, the president of the New York Stock Exchange. A member of the presidential cabinet, a Wall Street tycoon, the head of the world's largest monopoly, and the president of the Bank of International Settlements And these men, they knew money. They knew how to make money. They knew how to invest. They knew how to manipulate capital. They could have anything that they could ever want. There was one more thing, however, that all these men had in common, and that is in the next decade, every one of them lost everything. The president of the largest independent steel company, Charles Schwab, lived on borrowed money for the last five years of his life and died bankrupt The president of the largest gas company, Howard Hobson, went insane. The president of the largest utility, Samuel Insoll, died in a foreign land, penniless and a fugitive from justice. The greatest weak speculator, Arthur Cotton, also died abroad and insolvent. The president of the New York Stock Exchange, Richard Whitney, was sent into the infamous Sing Sing Penitentiary The member of the presidential cabinet, Albert Fall, was pardoned from prison so that he could go home and die. And the Wall Street tycoon, Jesse Livermore, committed suicide The head of the world's largest monopoly, Evan Krueger, died also by suicide. And the president of the Bank of International Settlements, Leon Frazier, also committed suicide. That's a sad, sad story. But it's a reminder to us of what Paul says here that you do not put your trust in uncertain riches. You don't do that. The Bible says in Proverbs 11, 28, He that trusteth in his riches shall fall. But what are we to trust in? Notice the next part. of this verse, verse 17, where it says, But we don't trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy, rather than trusting in riches Believers are to fix their hope upon God, the God who richly gives us all things. The only security you have is faith in God. Is trust in God. God provides far more security than any earthly investment. And so, first of all, don't be arrogant, Paul says. And then Paul says, don't put your hope in money instead of God. And here's the third thing Paul says, don't forget to be generous. Look again in verse number 18. They that they do good That they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. Do good here, Agathora, which means to do what is inherently good, what is intrinsically good. Doing what is noble, what is excellent. It describes really just the duty that the wealthy have, just to whatever God has entrusted them with, these resources, you do good with it. And here Paul is talking about Spiritual good, good for the kingdom of God, good for others. And notice where it says, to be rich in good works, ready to distribute. The key word here, rich, means abounding, abundantly furnished. In other words, Paul is reminding us that material wealth is to be used to perform good on the behalf of others. Believers' resources are to be used to support, of course, our own families, to support those that are needy, to use it for the kingdom of God's sake Any of these things. And notice again in verse 18, ready to distribute. This is one word in the Greek, and it just means being liberal or bountiful. And Paul reminds the rich that it is their duty to unselfishly, generously give when you have the opportunity, ready always to distribute. Again, this is one word, and it comes from the word koinania, which means to have in common. And it has the idea of, you know, fellowship, doing what is good in the body of Christ. If you see a person that has a need, you help in that need. And we see this example in the book of Acts, don't we? Remember the story in the book of Acts, how that there were so many people in the church at Jerusalem, many of them have lost their jobs There was a um there was uh uh uh uh during that time uh they were having economic problems because of a famine that had hit the land and also the the taxation was so great. And and the church of Jerusalem were taking in all these people who were believers, and other believers were trying to take care of them. And the Bible says this in Acts 4. 34, neither was there any among them that lacked For as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the prices of things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made upon every man according as he had need That's not communism, friend. That's just Christianity. These were believers in the church that saw other believers have need, and they had since they had houses and lands, they sold them, and they took the money and brought it to the leaders of the church and they said here distribute this among those who have need in the church. That's a beautiful, beautiful spirit. And this is what Paul's talking about here. Don't forget to be generous to others. But then here's number four. Don't forget to store up treasure in heaven. Look at verse 19. Lay up for yourself Lay up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. that they may lay hold of eternal life. And Paul urges the rich to consider the end result of properly handling The riches that God has given them. By sharing their earthly treasures with others, they're storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future. That's what he's saying here. Laying up Again, one word here in the Greek, apothorizo, is where we get the word thesaurus from. We could say amassing treasure. Foundation can refer to a fund. And what he's saying here is the rich are not to be concerned with getting a return on their investment in this life. They are actually laying up a treasure in heaven. They're laying up a fund in heaven and they can wait to receive a return on their dividends. They can wait because they know that God will reward them in the future when they reach heaven. So those who invest their money in others and in the kingdom of God will re receive eternal dividends. And that's what Paul is saying here. Believers must live their lives Especially those who have a lot in the light of eternity. That's why the Lord Jesus Christ said this. Luke 16, verse 9. Write this down. My friends. Or excuse me, make friends for yourselves by means of the mammon of unrighteousness that when it fails, they may receive you into eternal dwellings. That is what he's saying here is that Christians should invest their money in the souls of men and women who will be there to greet them and thank them when they get to heaven. One day when you die and you go to heaven, guess what? You'll have people there in heaven greeting you and thanking you because the investment that you made here on earth made it possible for them to hear the gospel. And to go to heaven. And you'll have a host of people greeting you there one day in heaven. And so these are the things that Paul reminds the rich about. Don't be arrogant. Don't put your hope in money instead of God. Don't forget to be generous to others. And don't forget to store up treasure in heaven. But now Paul's going to switch. He's been talking here about earthly riches, but now he's going to talk about eternal riches. So he gives a warning about earthly riches. But I want you to see, number two, a word about eternal riches. And Paul now begins to exhort Timothy regarding his duty to guard true riches, eternal riches. In 1 Timothy 3. 15, Paul says the church is the pillar and the ground of the truth. You could say that we here in this church, we are kind of a bank, but we our deposit here is the truth of the gospel of the word of God. The church is to be the pillar and ground of the truth. When people want to hear truth, they should know that they're going to hear it at the church Sadly today when people go to churches in some places they hear everything but the truth of God's word. It's been replaced with entertainment. It's been replaced with man's wisdom. It's been replaced with all kinds of things, but the church is to be the repository of the truth of God's word. And we are to guard that treasure. And that's why throughout the history of the church There has been persecution from without, and there has been attacks from within, from false teaching, and so on. Countless thousands of martyrs have paid the ultimate price rather than abandon or compromise. the precious truth of the Word of God and thank God for them. And so the church today has received the legacy of truth from those that have gone on before us. Now, I don't know about you, but all I want to do is just be faithful in the line of legacy of godly people who have been faithful to the truth for years before me. And I want to be able to pass that on to whoever follows, that legacy of staying faithful to the truth of the gospel of the Word of God. That's our responsibility. We have to hold on to it, we have to defend it, and then we hand it down faithfully to those that come behind us. So notice what Paul says in verse 20. These are strong words. Notice how he closes the letter in verse 20. Oh Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. And so here's the first thing Paul says: guard the deposit. Guard the deposit. Keep phalaso. That is to watch over, to keep guard over. This was the word that was used of keeping valuables in a safe place. And what Paul's doing here now is he's using the language of commerce. There were no safe deposit boxes in the ancient world. And when a man went on a long journey, he left his most valuable possessions with someone that he could trust. And once the valuables were deposited, it was up to that agent to keep them safe. What had Paul entrusted to Timothy? Now he could have been referring to Timothy's personal faith. or to his ministry in the church, but I don't think it's any of that. Paul had entrusted to Timothy something much more valuable, much more precious, and that is The faith. We don't have to wonder about this. Go back to 1 Timothy chapter 1. Look at verse number 11. Notice what it says in chapter 1, verse 11. Paul says this, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. Paul said, what was committed to my trust was what? The glorious gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And I think this is what Paul now is entrusting to Timothy. It is the gospel. It is the faith. The apostolic faith that has been preached, the faith meaning the whole teaching of the Word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And also Paul will say again the same thing. Look at 2 Timothy. Just jump forward to 2 Timothy 1 and look at verse number 14 again where it says, That good thing which was committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. And if you back up, he's talking about the form of sound words. He's talking about sound doctrine. He's talking about the faith of the Word of God. Timothy, that's what has been entrusted to you. That's the deposit. It's the pure faith of the gospel, the essential apostolic teaching, which became known as the rule of faith This is something that was entrusted to Timothy. This was not something Timothy was to work out for himself. He wasn't entitled to enlarge on it. He wasn't entitled to add to it. It's divine revelation that was committed to his care. And notice the word trust there in verse number twenty The noun is found only here in the New Testament. It's a legal term, uh connoting what something that is placed in another's keeping. And again, it's the message of the gospel. That's what was committed to Timothy. Again, we don't have the liberty to add to it. We don't have the liberty to give our own message. Someone said, you know, Pastor Hermann, all you do is just teach out of the Bible. I take that as a compliment. I'm not up here to make up anything or to tell you stories. I'm not up here to give up my own message. I'm nobody And what I had to say personally really doesn't mean anything. I'm up here to tell you what God's Word says. It's the message of the Word of God that was committed to my trust. And I have to be faithful as a minister of Jesus Christ to keep that and to teach it to you correctly That's the job of a minister. I'm not to be innovative. I'm not to try to try all these newfangled things. I'm simply to give you the word of God. as God gives it to us. Hopefully clearly, faithfully, so that God's word will do the work of changing your life And that's that's the trust. That's what we are to guard. That's what we have to watch out for. That's why we have to be careful of false teaching. We have to weigh everything with the Word of God, and you've heard me say this before. Don't believe everything I say just because I say it. Check the Word of God for yourself. Make sure it's of and that that goes for any preacher that comes up here behind this pulpit You make sure that what they say is the word of God. And we are to guard the deposit. But here's the second thing, Paul says. Beware of ungodly teaching. Look again at verse number 20. O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust. And notice this: avoid profane and vain babblings and oppositions of science falsely so-called. Now the word avoid here to turn away from, and the word profane here has the idea of something that is secular, something that is that is not sacred. This is a word that was originally referred to everything outside the sacred grounds of a temple. It describes what is outside the realm of truth. It describes something that is unholy and something that is profane. Anything outside of the truth. That's what you are to avoid. Empty chatter that consists of useless arguments. Paul is warning about the high sounding talk and the bombastic verbosity of those who are not content with the simplicity of the gospel, but turn it into profane philosophy. And what this means is that we're not to allow any kind of philosophy to kind of mingle in with the Word of God, and by doing so, it distorts or it dilutes the message of the Word of God. the speculations of men, the traditions of men, and all these other things. And in verse number 20, where it says, um oppositions of science falsely so called. The word science here in verse 20 doesn't refer to the kind of technology that Today we use that word to talk about, not talk about science like we know it today. We could just say the word knowledge. Knowledge falsely so-called could be another way to translate that. And I think that what Paul is referring to here specifically in this place is the heretical group of people that were invading churches in Paul's day And we hear this dealt with in several places in the New Testament, and that is the teaching of Gnosticism. And you've heard me talk about this before. But Gnostics were a group of people that claimed to have special spiritual knowledge. The word here for knowledge or science is gnosis. Where we get the word Gnostic from, and uh agnostic, you take the alpha negative, the A in front of Gnosticism, agnostic is someone who has no knowledge or they don't have any knowledge about God or they don't know if there is a God But a Gnostic is someone who knows, who claims to know a great deal. And they claim to have all this spiritual knowledge that you need. And it's knowledge that is outside the realm of all scripture Let me just tell you, beware of anyone who wants to give you knowledge that will help you spiritually that is outside the Word of God. Because I want to tell you something, friend, God has given you all that you need in the Word of God for your spiritual growth. You don't need to go outside the Word of God to get anything that you might need. So you need to be aware of that. And remember I said that, you know, Gnostics, they had they claim to have their special knowledge because They claim to be able to ascend up this ladder of beings into the highest realm. They believe the God who created the heaven and the earth wasn't the highest God. The highest God sent forth a series of beings, semi-g demi-gods, and there was a ladder that went all the way back up to God, but One of those demi-gods created the heavens and the earth, and when he did, he he did a bad job of it because he brought together uh the physical realm with the spiritual realm. And to the Gnostics all material, physical things were evil, all spiritual was good. And this this one God who created the heavens and the earth and put together the physical and the spiritual was not a good God. He was to be rebelled against, he was to be disobeyed. And you have to ascend up into the highest realm. And the way that you do that is with special passwords, with knowledge. And that's why Paul calls this knowledge falsely so-called, because what they claim to have is not really truth. What it is, is it's nothing but a lie. This is the lie of Satan all the way back to the Garden of Eden that, you know, you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. You'll have a special knowledge. And so this was a dangerous heresy. And Paul deals with this in the book of Colossians. He writes to counteract that. And They also kind of mixed together this Gnosticism with Jewish genealogies, came up with this special brand of Gnostic teaching, and Paul calls it just profane And vain babblings and knowledge falsely so-called. Paul says, beware of this godless mixture of all these ideas And again, that's the same warning that we need to be careful of today because there are those out there that want to bring things into the church that are not the Word of God, thinking that the gospel in some way needs help. And I want to tell you, friend, all that will do is it will just destroy and divide the church. There are churches today that are being divided by False ideas that have been baptized into Christian jargon, and they bring them into the church thinking it's going to help the church. And this is the thing that Paul says: beware of. Watch out for this. We have God's word. That's all that we need. And we need to stand firmly on that. But then also finally understand the dangers. Look at verse 21. Which some Professing have erred concerning the faith. And so obviously, there are already some that were involved in this and they wandered from the faith. They're the church of Ephesus. They begin to wander from the truth. Aired here speaks of missing the aim. They deviate, they wander off the path, and they go after this false knowledge. And I want to say, as a pastor, it's heart-wrenching to see people wander from the faith and follow after false doctrine. And so this is all the more reason that we have to guard the treasure. Now in closing, let me just give you a few things that we can do, just some practical things. That we can do to guard the treasure. Here it is. Just a few practical things. First of all, very simply, read God's Word. Read it. If you're not involved in reading the scripture in your life personally, I would encourage you to do that. Get into God's word. Just read it. In 1 Timothy 4. 13, Paul said, Till I come, give attendance to reading. We should be reading God's word. Pay attention to it, Paul says. Present tense. Keep on reading the Word of God. Read it every day. Twenty-three percent, almost one-fourth of professing Christians say they never read the Word of God. Get into God's Word, read it for yourself. Jesus, you remember, often answered questions when people would ask him. He would also say this, have you not read? He assumed that those claiming to be the people of God would have read the Word of God. Haven't you read this? He's assuming that we are in the Word of God. And that we should be familiar with the Word of God. So read it. Number two, hear it. Hear it. And of course, coming to God's house, hearing God's Word, that's a big part of it. And I know I'm preaching to the choir tonight. Because you're all here. And um I'm tempted to say something to those that are watching by live stream, but I'll be nice. If you if you're sick and you're at home, God God bless you. If you're perfectly healthy, you should be here. But anyway, um they just turned me off. But come to God's house, hear the word of God. Again, there's something that takes place in the context of being with the people of God that can't be replicated anywhere else. The Bible says, blessed are they that hear the word of God and obey. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And then number three, simply just study it. Just study it. The Bible says, 2 Timothy 2. 15, the Bible says, study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Now, studying God's word is work, but it's a blessing. You'll be blessed by it. The Bible says the Brians were more noble because they searched the scriptures. daily to see whether these things are so. Study it. Study it to please the Lord. Study it to show that you're approved of God. Study it for your own benefit, rightly dividing the word of truth, it says. But then also another thing here is just love it. Just have a love for God's word. And this should be something that we already have as a believer, but we need to cultivate that love. The psalmist wrote in Psalm 119, verse 97: Oh, how I love thy law! How do we know that you love it? Because it is my meditation all the day. When you're thinking about God's word, that is a sign that you love God's word. Let it be what is on your mind all the time. Love it. But then also obey it. Obey it. It does us no good just to come and hear and not do anything about it. We have to obey it. In John 8 31, Jesus said to those who had Professed belief in them. He said, If you abide in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. That is to say, if you live it out In your life, that is a sign that you are truly mine. And then proclaim it. Just share it with others. All of us have that responsibility to share God's word. And then finally, the seventh thing is just defend it. Every Christian should learn how to give an answer to defend the truth of Scripture. So we need to defend it when the opportunity presents itself. And we need the grace of God to do all these things. Notice how Paul ends the letter again, verse 21, which some professing have erred concerning the faith. And notice the last line. Grace be with thee And Paul's closing salutation here, grace be with you, the you there, the the is plural, which means it goes beyond Timothy to embrace the whole congregation there at Ephesus. And that means us as well. All Christians, again, are responsible to preserve and to pass on to the next generation the precious heritage they have received from from handed down to us. And so we see then a word about earthly riches and then a word about eternal riches. We are to guard the truth. Private Raymond Kott was in Germany with the 12th Infantry after World War II, and during maneuvers he was put on sentry duty to guard some pontoons on the bank of the Rhine River. And because of an oversight, he wasn't relieved of his duty. They kind of forgot about him and left him out there. And so he was out there for one full day, twenty-four hours, and then two days. And then he was out there for three days, and then four days, and then five days, and then six days. He was still there at his post. And finally they it came to the realization that they had assigned him to stay by that river. And they went there and found that he was right there on his post doing his duty for six days, 24 hours a day, even when it rained heavily. He stayed right there at his post. When he was finally relieved and he got back to his outfit, his commanding officer Praise him for his sense of duty, that he would he did not in any way fail to discharge his duty. And I want to tell you that when I read that, I'm reminded that we also have been given a duty to guard the treasure of God's word. And we're not relieved of our duty until our commander, the Lord Jesus Christ, calls us home. And so may we be faithful to what the Lord has called us to do. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Hopefully one day we'll hear our commander say, Well done. Well done. Now we have to remember, God has entrusted to us treasures. Not only does he bless us with the abundance of things, and Paul again reminded Those at Ephesus that if you have a lot of earthly riches, don't be arrogant. Don't put your hope in that money instead of God. Don't forget to be generous to others and don't forget to lay up treasure in heaven. And we need to take that to heart. What God has entrusted us with, may we use it for his kingdom. But also the true riches, eternal riches. We have to guard the deposit. Beware of ungodly teaching. Understand the dangers that it presents and be faithful. Father, I pray that we will take this charge to heart. Thank you, Lord, for all that you give us. You're so good to us. You've given us so many wonderful blessings. And Father, I pray that this would not cause us to be haughty or high-minded. Quite the opposite, Lord. It should humble us that you've given us so much. You've entrusted so much to us. Lord, help us to use the resources you've given us for your eternal kingdom to have an eternal focus. And Lord, may we realize that the greatest treasure that we have is eternal riches, the gospel. The gospel by which we are saved, the gospel which is the hope of the this world, the only hope of this world. And so, Father, may we guard it, may we faithfully proclaim it, may we pass it down to others, the next generation, unadulterated, without compromise. Help us, Lord, to be faithful, and we'll give you the praise for it, Lord, because we know it's by the grace of our Lord Jesus that we're even able to do anything. And we praise you for this, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.