Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter five, and verse number twenty-two. We're going to look at verses twenty-two down to verse twenty-four today. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Ephesians chapter 5, verse 22. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Father, thank you for your word and the privilege we have of studying it. Lord, give us ears to hear and help us to apply truth to life. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Life is all about relationships. In the beginning, when Adam was in the garden surrounded by animals, God said that it's not good that man should be alone. And so he created Eve. And now Adam has a new relationship in his life. So he has his relationship with God the Father. He has a new relationship with Eve. Later he'll have Many children, so that's another relationship. He'll be not only a husband, and now he'll be a father. Relationships are one of the great blessings that God gives us in this life. In the beginning with Adam, it was all wonderful. Adam's relationship with God was right. His relationship with Eve was wonderful. But something happened that that spoiled the beauty of that miracle bliss that Adam enjoyed. And we know the story, it was sin, right? And with the fall of men came this inordinate selfishness that entered into the heart of man, this self-love that is so deeply ingrained in all of humanity. And since that time that sin has entered, man has struggled in all of his relationships in life. And what was intended to be a blessing now has the potential to be a great curse. Pick up the paper today and what you'll find is that there's all kind of stories about abuse, uh of violence in the home. We have fathers and adults abusing children. There are children abusing parents. Husbands abusing wives, wives abusing husbands, employers abusing their employees. You hear of violence on the job. You hear of employees bringing a gun and and shooting up the place We've got all kind of violence that's going on in our society today. It's estimated that every year in the United States, approximately three million women are assaulted by their partner. It's one in four women in the U. S. will be assaulted by their partner over their lifetimes. And also we read about Domestic violence that occurs in the home and children are a part of that and it's so distressing to read some of these statistics I also read in the psychological bulletin that it says that contrary to media and public opinion, women commit more acts of violence than men in eleven categories. Throw something, push, grab shelf, slap, kick, bite, hit, or threaten a partner with a knife or gun. James says this, what causes these quarrels and these fights? that are among you. Don't they come, James says, from your lust, that is your own selfishness and your own selfish desires? God wants us to enjoy all of the relationships that He's given us in this life. He wants us to have godly relationships. And we know the answer to this. Of course, the first thing to do that you have to do, and if you haven't already done that, you have to repent of your sin and you have to trust Jesus as your Savior and as your Lord. That's the first step. But even people who profess to know Jesus as Savior still seem to struggle in relationships. And when people struggle in their relationships The first thing they want to do is they want to go to counsel, and by the way, there's nothing wrong with that if it's good biblical counsel, but the majority of counseling today is not biblical. The majority of counseling today is worldly, it's secular. Ultimately, it leads you away from Scripture and away from God rather than to Him. You know, uh sometimes people will come to me for marital counseling and uh sometimes uh A spouse might want to come for marital counseling, but their uh their other half doesn't want to come because they think that the pastor is not a professional. You know, I don't know what professional means. Does that mean I don't charge money for what I do? Because I can easily do that. I can start charging for counseling. But what a lot of times what that means is that, you know, all he uses is the Bible. He doesn't use any other resources other than the Bible. And I let me just say unapologetically, if you come to me for counseling, you're going to get the Bible I believe in the sufficiency of God's word to handle your problems. Sadly, however, not all Christians agree with that But I believe that God's Word gives us the answer on how to have happy and meaningful relationships. If we'll just believe it and obey it, we will have the kind of relationships that God wants us to have. But this is what Paul's going to deal with here in the rest of chapter 5 and in chapter 6 in Ephesians. Really what he's going to do is he's going to give us two simple principles about having godly, meaningful relationships. The first principle is Utilize your resource, and then secondly understand your role. Those are the two principles. They're very simple. Utilize your resource, that is, that's the Holy Spirit. You can't do this on your own. We have to be controlled by the Holy Spirit And then secondly, you just understand your role. In this passage, Paul mentions the most important relationships we have as Christians, relationships in the church, relationships at home, relationships at work. Each of us have a role, and we need to understand our role, and we need to do what God tells us to do in that particular role. These are simple principles, it's not rocket science. For example, in Ephesians 5. 22, wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands. In Ephesians 5. 25 Husbands, love your wives. In Ephesians 6, 1, children, obey your parents. And then in Ephesians 6. 4, and fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. We could say parents there, it's really referring to the parents in the home. Now, if everyone would follow these simple principles, there would be harmony in the home. Tons would be what God intended them to be. But beloved, it's easier said than done. We know that these are the principles. But how do we apply it? Well this is where, first of all, we need to understand or utilize your resource. Let's kind of break this down. The first thing you have to do if you're going to have meaningful relationships in life is you have to be filled with the Holy Spirit Look in verse 18 of Ephesians chapter 5. And be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. It's no accident that right after Paul commands us to be filled with the Holy Spirit, what does he do? He goes right into relationships in life. He goes right into that Most people when they think of being filled with the Holy Spirit, they think of, well, you know, the pastor needs it to preach, and the evangelist needs it to win people to the Lord, and the missionary needs it, and the and the Teacher in the church needs it and we need it for revival, and all that is true, but Paul doesn't mention any of these things when he talks about being filled with the Spirit. What does he mention? The context of this is relationships, godly relationships. And we need to understand that we have to be filled with the Holy Spirit because of our relationships in life. That's the whole point. Your relationships will never be right. You'll never be able to do what God has called you to do in each relationship unless you are filled by the Spirit of God. You and I can't do the things that God commands from verse 22 on down all the way to really in chapter 6. We can't do any of those things until we Utilize our resource. Every Christian possesses the Holy Spirit, but not every Christian is controlled by the Holy Spirit or filled by the Holy Spirit. That's why we have marital problems. That's why families have conflicts. A believer is not filled with the Holy Spirit. And if you're not filled with the Holy Spirit, guess what? There will be family discord in your life. Because you have discord in your own heart, and you're not right with the Lord, then you're not going to be right with others The problem is not lack of information. Because beloved, we have all the information we can get on marriage and family and all that sort of thing. We have marriage seminars, we have conferences, we have uh books, we have internet resources, we have counselors, we have marriage retreats. And the first thing that people want to do when they have a problem is they want to seek a a psychiatrist or a counselor or sometimes even a lawyer. And you can do all those things, and you can go to all the conferences and seminars that you want to, but if you're not filled with the Holy Spirit, none of those things are going to work. The problem is not information. The problem is that we are not being controlled by the Spirit of God. That's the bottom line issue. You have to be controlled by the Holy Spirit. And so again, look at verse 18. This is a command. Be filled with the Spirit. We looked at this a little bit last week. It's an imperative. It's a command. It's not a suggestion. That is, if we are if we're not filled, we're living in rebellion against God. There's a negative command, be not drunk with wine. Remember I told you that in that culture They worship the God of wine who was named Bacchus, and they that whole religion, that false religion, was filled with drunkenness. You had to get drunk in order to get in touch with the God. And it was all kind of ecstasy and emotionalism and frenzy in that kind of religion. And worshippers committed all kinds of atrocities in the name of dwelling on another religious plane. So drunkenness was what elevated that person to the next level in communication with God. And Paul says all of that is is false. All of that is nonsense. Don't be drunk with wine. If you're going to be controlled by something, be filled with the Spirit. As believers, God has called you out of all of that, and He's called you to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And by the way, when a person is filled with the Holy Spirit, you don't lose control. You are under control. So this is present tense, literally be being filled, constantly be filled. It's plural number. That is, it's for all of us. Not just for select few, not just for the preacher and those in ministry. It's for all of us. Every one of us needs to be filled with the Holy Spirit. And what are the characteristics of someone filled with the Holy Spirit? Well again, there was joy, thankfulness, and submission. We looked at that. Again, some people would have you to believe that when you lose spiritual control and you begin to do things like you know rolling around and holy laughter and all these other ridiculous notions that we hear coming out of certain places, you know, that you're filled with the Holy Spirit. But nowhere does the Bible teach any of that Nowhere. Nowhere in scripture do we see the real gifts of the Spirit operating when someone is out of control or under some kind of supernatural seizure. That's not what the Bible says. What are the marks? There'll be joy. In verse 19, speaking to yourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. There will be an inward joy that bubbles up. There'll be singing, not just necessarily in the public congregation, which is good, but even on your own, even in your your private life, there will be this joy. And that should be in the home As well. People should see it on you in your home, but also thankfulness in verse 20, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. When you're filled, you'll be thankful for all things. You realize that God has given you all these blessings around you, and you'll be grateful for them. You'll be grateful for your spouse, even though your spouse might not be perfect. I don't know of a perfect spouse. You're all going to have difficulties and differences, but we need to learn to be thankful for the gift that God has given us in our spouse and stop looking at shortcomings, shortcomings, and be thankful for the good things that we have. in our relationship. There should be that thankfulness, but then also, and by the way, this this speaks to our relationship with God. We're talking about spirit-filled relationships and having the right relationships, and when you're filled with the Holy Spirit, there's going to be joy and thankfulness, and that really is directed to God. We're thankful and we rejoice over the things that God has given us. But then submission. This is uh this is a dirty word in society today. Verse 21, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. When we're filled with the Holy Spirit, a person will be subject to others. There will be a willingness to submit to the needs and the desires of others around you. Self is taken off the throne. Christ is put on the throne. And so this will be there will be meaningful relationships in the people around you in the church and in your home and on the job. Now I think that when it says here in verse 21, submitting yourselves one to another, this is a broad principle. And we see this principle all over in the New Testament. 1 Corinthians 16, 16, submit yourselves to everyone. Hebrews 13, 17, submit yourselves to the leaders of the church. 1 Peter 2 15, submit yourselves to the laws of the land. 1 Peter 5. 5, submit yourselves to those older than you are. And James 4. 7, submit yourselves to God I would argue that in verse 21, Paul is laying down a broad general principle. And then in verses 22, on down to chapter 6, verse 9. He's going to give you the narrow application to this one broad principle of submitting to one another. Now there are three different interpretations I found. that people have on verse 21. Some say, well, this submission to one another one another, this destroys the hierarchy of authority that's in the home. That means really no one's in charge. You know, we're just supposed to be submitting to each other. And by the way, that's the feminist argument. They try to abolish any hierarchical relationships and say, you know, uh The husband's really not the head. We're supposed to submit to each other. But we reject this view for obvious reasons. When Paul taught this principle, he did not abolish the hierarchy of God-given authority when he taught this principle. Okay. I think again this is a feminist view. And uh And there are obviously some people that take that view, but it's not biblical. And some say that this doesn't refer to, you know, this does doesn't refer really to everyone. But just to the relationships that Paul mentions, but I think when Paul says one another, he uses that one another expression and other places in his letters to talk about to the church. You see, when you're filled with the Holy Spirit, you're going to have a selfless desire to meet the needs and be a blessing to other people in the church. You're going to be submitting to one another. It's a mutual submission. And I think that what this is referring to, this is the third interpretation, I think it's right. It is the principle of mutual submission Where we do not do away with God's ordained authority, but rather we in our various roles practice this principle of submission And it applies in different ways to different people according to the role that we have. What does that mean? Well, if you're submitting one to another, wives will submit to their husbands' leadership. Husbands will submit to their wives. How? By loving them the way Christ loved the church That is a principle of mutual submission. I want to meet all of her needs and take care of her. That means that there's a sense in even with which parents will submit to their children. How? By not provoking them to wrath, but by seeing how God has created them and giving them what they need, the correction, the discipline in the right manner, in the loving manner. And that way we are submitting to them. Submitting to what their needs are. And so this broad principle of mutual submission is applied in various ways in the relationships that Paul will mention here. But the first thing we have to do is we have to understand our resource is the Holy Spirit. You can't do this unless you're filled with the Spirit. So let's let's uh break down the second principle. Understand your role. And again, as I said, be submissive. And Paul will speak to wives first, verse 22. I know what some of you women are thinking, why do we go first? Well, it's ladies first, right? And besides, this is what the Holy Spirit put first when he wrote this passage. Man, your time is coming. Wives submit. Look at verse 22. Wives submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. So look at the requirement of submission. God places a requirement on wives that they may be submissive to their husbands. When I mention submission, again, I realize that I'm using a dirty word in our culture. Red flags go up. Some wise might be thinking, what? Me? Submit to him? You must be joking. Preacher, you're you must be living in the dark ages. I think the feminist movement has infiltrated the church more than we realize. Someone said first there was Adam's rib, then there was Satan's fib, and now there's women's lib. But I would just present to you this argument to consider. Submission is simply God's divine order. It's just simply God's divine order. It's woven into the fabric of life. From the moment God created man and woman in the garden, he asked them to submit. And it was a lack of submission to God in the beginning that brought sin and death. Why do we have death? Well, because man from the very beginning refused to submit to what God said. Eve refused to submit to Adam, Adam refused to submit to God, and now we have sin and death in the world. Every day of your life, you're called on to be submissive to someone or something. If we didn't have that, we would have chaos all over in the world, which is what a lot of people in the world would rather have, evidently, because they don't want to be submitted under any authority. You have to when you go to work, you have to be submitted to the traffic laws. As a citizen, you need to be submitted to your government. As an employee, you need to be submitted to your employer. As a student, you need to be submitted to your teaching institution or the teacher as a Christian you must be submitted to spiritual authorities. If you don't learn to submit, you're going to have a rough life. You're going to have conflict after conflict in your life. And people think, well, that's why I want to be a leader, so I will never have to submit to anyone. Let me tell you something. A leader is someone who exemplifies submission. They should be an example of it. You can't be over until you learn how to be under. And so leaders submit as well. There's the requirement of submission, but then notice the reason for submission. Look at verse number 23. For the husband is the head of the wife Even as Christ is the head of the church and he is the savior of the body. God knows that in the home there needs to be authority, there needs to be order. Nothing can function without a head. And just as God has appointed Christ as the head of the church, the husband is the head of the wife. Just write down 1 Corinthians 11. 3. This verse kind of helps us see God's divine order. 1 Corinthians 11. 3. But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ. And the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. You see God's structure? There's God the Father. And then under him there's Christ who submitted to the Father, and then under Christ there's man, and then under man there's woman. This is God's hierarchy of authority This is what God has ordained. Now let me ask you a question. Some people think, well, it's inferior to submit to someone. It's not inferiority. Is Jesus Christ inferior to the Father? No. The Bible makes that very clear. I and the Father are one. But Jesus is in submission to the Father. And does that if we take that argument, does that mean that a woman who is submitted to a man, does that make her inferior to that man? No. Just as Christ is not inferior to the Father, so submission is not inferiority. Submission is not weakness. In fact, I would say that submission is Because you're never more like Jesus Christ than when you are in submission. Because Jesus Christ lived his whole life in submission to the Father. And he submitted himself to us. You see, how did he do that? By coming to earth, taking upon him humanity, and he submitted himself to the death of the cross. In humiliation, dying on the cross for our sins, his whole life exemplified submission. That's why the Bible says in Philippians chapter 2, therefore God will highly exalt him. And give him a name that is above every name. Why? Because he submitted himself so humbly. God in return is going to exalt him That's what God does when you are in submission. And so Christ is the example of that. And so submission is Christ-likeness. And again, this goes completely against the grain of society today. You know, because the mindset of society, the current trend today is self-centered pride, isn't it? It's all about me. It's all about what I want. I'm going to stay with you as long as you give me what I want. And when you don't give me what I want, I'm out of here. So the emphasis today is on individualism, it's on rights It's on freedoms, its own liberties, its own self-esteem, and all that individualistic thinking is absolutely deadly to having any meaningful marriage or family relationship. That's just selfishness So there's the requirement of submission, there's the reason for submission, and then there's the realm of submission. Look at verse 24. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Everything. You say, man, that's that's pretty broad, yeah. Everything. Now men, this is not a license for you to be a tyrant. It is simply God's order of authority. And you can't say, well, I'll be submitted to him in this and this, but I'm not going to submit in this. You don't get to make that decision. Every once in a while I'll have marriage couples come to me when or prospective marriage people. They want marriage counseling before marriage and they'll come and I'll go over all the things that I want to go over and I'll go over the wedding vows and then there's that one line that gives the prospective wife trouble to love, honor, and obey. And she'll say, uh sometimes they'll say, well, can we not have that last part of that line? I've actually had some women ask me to take that out. She'll say, Well that sounds too harsh. I don't mind being married to him, but I'm not gonna promise to obey him. I mean you does God expect that? Well yeah Yes, he does. I know that's shocking. But that's what the Bible says. Yeah, to love, honor, and obey. Paul's comparison here is with Christ and the church. The church is the bride of Christ, right? Therefore, the church is to be submitted to Christ in just some things and all things. It's unthinkable that the bride would come to Christ and say, Thank you for dying for us. Thank you for taking our sins, but we're not going to obey you in everything. That's unthinkable. But this is the comparison here. The church doesn't get to tell Christ what commands she will obey and which ones she won't obey. By the way, there are some people that try to come to Christ for salvation that way, but it doesn't work. You can't come to Jesus and say, Well Lord, I do want to be saved. I don't mind being married to you, but I'm not going to let you be my Lord. I'm not going to obey everything you say Let me tell you something, you come to salvation that way, you don't get salvation. Because that shows uh uh that shows a Insincere repentance. True repentance says, Lord, I lay down my sword. I'm coming to you just as I am, a worthless, unworthy sinner. I repent. You are now in charge. I give myself to you. I repent, I turn to you. And you don't get to say, you know, well, I just don't want to do these things. No, you come humbly, obedient to the Lord. That is salvation. And you know what the Bible calls someone who says, I'm a Christian, but I don't obey the Lord? You know what the Bible calls them? A liar. He that says, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. If you want to know whether your salvation is real, let me just ask you: do you want to obey Jesus and do you obey Him That should be the pattern of your life. I know we don't do it perfectly, but that's what we want to do. You don't get to negotiate the terms of salvation. And this is the analogy that Paul uses, just as the church is to be subject to Christ, even so wives are to be subject to their husbands in everything. In everything, is what the Bible says. And by the way, let me just say this, man. Again, this is not a license for you to act like a tyrant. I don't think any woman would have any trouble submitting to a husband who loves her the way Christ loves the church. And if you love your wife the way you're supposed to love your wife, I don't think you're she's gonna give you any trouble as far as submission. Now there may be some exceptions to that. But in general, if you love your wife the way God has called you to love her, it's going to remove a whole lot of problems. And that marriage relationship, and that's that's what that's next time, guys. We'll talk about that next time. But the first two steps for having godly relationships are to utilize your resource. You have to be spirit-filled. And then you need to understand your role. It is a principle of mutual submission, and how that principle plays out, we have to do it within our roles. Wives, submit, husbands, love your wives. Children, obey your parents. And parents, don't provoke your children to wrath. And if we just follow these things, we'll have meaningful relationships. We can't do it without the Holy Spirit. Years ago, some ministers were planning a united evangelistic crusade, so they met together to select their evangelists. And the majority wanted D. L. Moody. He was an evangelist that was filled with the Holy Spirit and just seemed to have God's power in his life. And one minister on the committee was holding out for another minister and in his exasperation he said, you know, Moody, Moody, Moody, I always hear about Moody. Does Moody have a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And one of the members of the committee said, no, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on Moody. And that's what I'm talking about. Does the Holy Spirit have a monopoly on you? Are you allowing the Holy Spirit to control you in your life? Again, it's be being filled literally. We give up control of our life to the Holy Spirit. And once you get filled with the Spirit, you need to stay filled. And it's a daily thing of yielding ourselves to the constant control of the Holy Spirit in our life. Day by day, moment by moment, we yield ourselves to the Holy Spirit. Remember, Paul compares it to drunkenness How does a person get drunk, they drink? How do they stay drunk? They keep drinking. How does a person get filled? You yield, you Yield control to the Holy Spirit. How do you stay filled? You moment by moment constantly yield control of your life to the Spirit of God. That's how. It's a continual thing. And it's a simple prayer. Pray something like this: Holy Spirit, I ask you to take control of my life right now. I believe that you live in me, and by faith, I'm trusting you to live through me. I can't do it on my own. Please take control of me. Every part of me I yield to you. And friend, with the power of the Holy Spirit, we can all have meaningful, godly relationships. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for these principles from your word. Lord, please help us to apply this. Maybe we right now yield all of ourselves to the control of the Holy Spirit so that Lord we can do and be all that you call us to do. To be, we can fulfill all of our God-ordained, God-given responsibilities in this life and live a life pleasing to you if we're under the control of the Holy Spirit. So right now I would just ask you where you are, very silently, would you just pray that prayer and just lift your heart to God and say, Holy Spirit, take control of me. And forgive me for the times when I've tried to do these things on my own. And I realize I can't do it without your help. So fill me. And make all the relationship relationships in my life meaningful through your power with your help. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, that's where it starts. You first have to make sure of your own salvation. Come to Jesus and say, Jesus, I know that you died for me. I ask you to please forgive me for my sin. I turn to you in true repentance and I ask you to save me. Friend, pray that and mean it, and he will save you. He will make you his child. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart here today, Lord. May we apply truth to life for your honor and for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.