Your Bibles out and open to Psalm 124. As you know, here on Wednesday night we are studying what are called the Pilgrim Psalms, which is a hymn book within a hymn book. And these are psalms that have been selected and sung by pilgrims in Israel's history as they would travel to the various feasts in Jerusalem. They were sing these songs. These are called songs of degrees or songs of ascent because they would travel upward as they traveled into Jerusalem. Now look at Psalm 124, and uh let me read these verses with you, verse 1. If it had not been the Lord for the Lord, it had not been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say If it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. And blessed be the Lord who has not given us as a prey to their teeth Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. You know, in my Christian life, I have read uh many books. A handful of those books have had a tremendous impact on me. because they have dramatically changed my thinking in certain areas. They've changed my outlook on certain things. One of those books that had a big impact on me many years ago is a book titled The Mystery of Providence. It's written by a man by the name of John Flavil. Let me tell you a little bit about John Flavel, and I'll tell you a little bit about the book that he wrote. John Flavle was a minister in England who ministered during the 17th century. He was the son of a preacher. His father's name was Richard Flavel. His father died in prison in 1665. He died of the plague in prison. He was there because of nonconformity. That is, he refused to compromise. his convictions. His son John learned much from his father. He developed the same kind of conviction that his father had. He studied at Oxford in 1650 he was ordained as a minister. John Flable married a godly woman. While she was giving birth to their first child, tragically she died, and the baby died as well. He had a second wife. Tragically, she died. And then he married a third time, only to see his third wife die. John Flavel was pastor of a church. He was called to accept a church in a place called Dartmouth, which was a thriving seaport town at that time. He was loved by his people. He was known as an excellent expositor of the word. But in 1662 he was ejected from his pulpit. That is, the the the Church of England threw him out. Because of non-conformity again. In sixteen sixty-two the uh Parliament passed a measure which was called the Act of Uniformity And it prescribed that any minister that refused to conform to the Book of Common Prayer should be ejected from the pulpit Well John Flavel felt that the Book of Common Prayer was not in harmony with the Scripture, and so he stood on the Word of God, and because of that, he was kicked out of his pulpit. But that didn't stop him from preaching. He would preach in the woods. His congregation would uh gather secretly in the woods, and sometimes he would disguise himself and go to the woods on horseback and preach to his congregation. There were times when he had to make a quick escape. There were times when soldiers tried to arrest him. On one occasion he had to ride off a cliff with his horse into the sea and swim away. And so this is the life that he lived. He was constantly hunted and hounded and hated. Uh there was another act that was passed by Parliament called the Five Mile Act. This was an act that said that a preacher who was ejected from the pulpit could not live within five miles of a corporate town. Or a town where he previously had ministered. And so this literally just made him a fugitive. And so he lived his life that way. running from place to place, almost being arrested and captured. And yet he continued to preach the word of God, and God continued to use him, and many people were saved under his ministry. Now, some people may ask, how could a person continue on and persevere under those circumstances? I mean it just seems like after a while a person could get could grow embittered And perhaps they would lose their faith or quit the ministry or compromise. But he did none of those things and he remained faithful. How could he persevere through all of that? Well, Flavel developed a spiritual discipline that he called meditating on the providences of God, or looking back over the good hand of God. He learned to look back and see God's providences. And he called these the mercies of God. He would look back in the rearview mirror, so to speak, of his life, and he would rehearse in his mind and in his heart. The providences of God. He knew that the only way that he was able to escape the troubles and the trials and the heartaches and escape arrest was because of the mercies of God. And so he wrote a book called The Mystery of Providence. And in that book, he said very clearly that it was the duty, the spiritual duty of Christians To get into the habit of looking back at the mercies of God in their life. He called this a spiritual duty. Just like we read the Word of God and we pray. We should learn the spiritual discipline of reading. the providences of God. Reading the mercies of God in the past. And this is what he said. A bad heart and a slippery memory deprive men of the comfort of many mercies and defraud God of the glory due for them. In fact, in one chapter of this book, he wrote a whole chapter on the duty of meditating on providence, and this is what he wrote. This is our duty, because God has expressly commended it. and called his people to make the most serious reflections upon his works. So Flavel said, this is our duty. God has commanded it. And then he went on to say In fact, that if we don't make a habit of doing this, that this is a sin. Again, he says it is plain. that this is our duty because the neglect of it is everywhere in Scripture condemned as a sin. And he would quote verses like Isaiah 26, 11, O Lord, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. God, you've lifted up your hand of blessing, but your people don't seem to see it. He quoted from Psalm 28, verses four and five. Give them according to their deeds and according to the wickedness of their endeavors. Give them after the work of their hands Render to them their dessert because they regard not the work of the Lord nor the operation of his hands That is, if you don't learn to see the providences of God and the mercies of God in the past, that it displeases the Lord. And so he says we should labor to do that. Now, where did he learn this spiritual principle or this spiritual discipline? He learned this primarily from just reading out of the Psalms. Because there are many psalms that speak of this very thing, of looking back at the mercies of God. And he quoted out of Psalm 77, I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate on all thy work. Meditate on what you have done. And talk about all of your doings. Let me ask you a question. When's the last time that you sat down and you just remembered back and you meditated on the mercies of God in your life in the past? Now you say, why do you bring this up? Because this is exactly what the psalmist is encouraging us to do here in Psalm 124. In Psalm 124, this has been called a psalm of decorative praise or declarative praise, I should say. This psalm purposefully looks back over the providential hand of God, or what Flavor would call the mercies of God And notice the key phrase, we read it in verse number one, if it had not been the Lord who is on our side, or we could say if it had not been for the Lord. And he repeats it in verse 2. If it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, the psalmist looks back. At the history of the nation of Israel, and he says, You know what? Had it not been for the hand of God, we wouldn't be here Had it not been for the Lord who was on our side. Now, this isn't just for Israel, is it? Because all of us can relate to this tonight, right? We could all say, like the psalmist We could relate to this expression, had it not been for the Lord who was on my side. I would never have been able to come this far. Or we could say, what would my life be had it not been for the Lord? Reminds me of the gospel song that uh we sing sometimes had it not been for a place called Mount Calvary, had it not been for the old rugged cross, had it not been for a man called Jesus Then what? Then forever my soul would be lost. Sometimes I hear Christians say this. They say, Well, I hate to think what my life would be like without the goodness of God. And I know what they mean by that. But the truth of the matter is this psalm calls upon us To do that very thing, to think about what our life would be like had it not been for the mercies of God. Had it not been for the providences of God. in our life. And so this is kind of a what if meditation. What if God had not intervened in my life? What if God had not stepped in the way the way he did? What if God had left me to my own devices? What if the Lord had not been on my side? I remember many years ago, my father came home from church. Now this was an amazing thing for a 14-year-old boy to see because I had never seen my father go to church. He came here to Grace Bible Baptist Church. And I remember him coming home. He was wearing a suit. There was only one other time in my life where I saw my father wear a suit. He was wearing his suit, and you know what he had on his lapel, that visitor tag that we always tell people to wear here at church. And uh he had come to church here He had heard the gospel preached by Pastor Johnson. And you know what? He and my mother got saved here at church. And that was a dramatic, dramatic event in the the Harmon family, I want you to know. Because I want to tell you that the John Harmon that came home was a different person. I can testify to that. I saw the power of the gospel before I ever heard the power of the gospel. And I think back to that often and I think what would my life be had it not been for the grace of God that came into my life. Now this is exactly what the psalmist is encouraging us to do. to engage in this activity of remembering the mercies of God. And what we see here in Psalm 124 are four poetic images that really describes four disasters that would have fallen upon Israel. Or we can make it personal, it would have fallen upon us had it not been for the mercies of God. And so I want you to look at these images with me as we see them, and let's practice the meditation, the spiritual discipline. that Flable encourages us to do. And let's think about the providence of God in our life. And so had it not been for the Lord, notice first of all, he would have been, number one, defeated by a surprise attack. Look at verse again 1 through 3. If it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say, Have it not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us? Then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. And so when it says rose up, it has the idea of something surprising, a sudden ambush, a sneak attack You remember Israel when they traveled through the wilderness, they were ambushed by Amalek in the story in Numbers. And the the uh thing about that, the bad thing about that story, is that Amalek ambushed them from the rear of the parade, and that's where all the old and weak and feeble marched. And this was a a cowardice attack upon Israel. And so that's the way troubles and trials come. And some of you here know that tonight. When when something happens in your life, sometimes it just it's like an ambush. It's like a surprise attack. In fact, James talked about it. He says, when you fall into divers temptations and the idea there is something that happens surprisingly, suddenly. It just shocks you. You get word Same word there is used in the story of the Good Samaritan of the of the man who fell among thieves. He was suddenly ambushed. And again, that's the way troubles come. That's the way Satan works. And notice in verse 2 when it says, when men rose up against us, that's actually singular there in the Hebrew. So it could be a man who's leading an army We could say like that. Uh now let me just say that this some people ascribe this psalm to David. In fact, the subtitle before verse one says that David wrote this. Now just know this that the subtitles are not part of inspired scripture. They're added later by scribes. So just know that. And some feel that David wrote this, and others do not. For example, this subtitle was not in the Septuagint. It's not in certain Hebrew manuscripts. The Old Testament scholar Walt Kaiser And he said they were written by the same person on the same occasion And he thinks that they perhaps were written by David, but later collected by Hezekiah, because kings back in that day, especially kings in Israel, would collect wisdom literature and sometimes they would amend it. Sometimes they would trim it and make it fit their own personal situation. And that's what uh Kaiser thinks happened here. And then there are others who think Hezekiah simply wrote this But the occasion fits what we talked about last week if you were here, and that is when Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, surrounded Jerusalem. And they were imprisoned in that city. It was the invasion of Sennacherib. And so the men here may be the army of Assyria. The man may be Sennacherib that he talked about. And here is a man that wanted to wipe Israel off the face of the earth. And you know what, had it not been for the Lord, he probably would have. You know, Sunday night we had a special treat, if you were here David Parsons came and he talked to us about uh some wonderful things that God has done in the history of Israel, how God, through his providential hand, has preserved Israel and also made it possible for Israel to Be regathered there in that land to become a nation again. And some of you here, you remember hearing some of the stories based on the prophecy that he pointed out in the book of Isaiah of how that God used queens and kings and prime ministers and other leaders who came on the world scene at just the right moment. to put Israel where God wanted her to be. That's all the hand of God. And you know today there are still people that would love to wipe Israel off the map. And you know what they would had it would it not be for the Lord. The Lord is protecting that. But you know what? We could say the same thing of the church. There are people that would love to obliterate the church There were people that would love to wipe out the church. We know Satan would. But you know what? God's not going to let that happen Think about all through the history of the church age how many times waves and waves of persecution would come upon the church and it seemed like the church was almost non-existent, only to find out that there were Christians all over the place and they would come out of the woodwork Later on, when that persecutor was gone. You know what? Had it not been for the Lord, the church would not be here. But we can make it even more personal. How many of you have been targeted in your own life? by someone, a sudden attack that surprised you. Or we know this, we know Satan is out to get you. If you're living a godly life, he will target you. Remember that story in the book of Job where when uh the the angels of the Lord came before God and Satan was there? And the God said to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? Hebrew word there, targeted. Have you targeted my servant Job? And God knew why he was there. You know why? Because Job was a godly man who hated evil. He was living a righteous life and Satan targeted him. And I want to tell you that if you live a godly life, if you stand for truth and you live a holy life, you know what? You're going to get targeted. And there's going to be a sudden ambush at times in your life. And you know what? Had it not been for the Lord, you probably would have already been defeated. You would have already been gone. So had it not been for the Lord, we would have been defeated by a surprise attack. But now notice the sec second thing here. We would have drowned in a sweeping flood. This is the next image. Look in verse 4. Then the waters had overwhelmed us. The stream had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. And so here he's describing a sweeping flood that would just Uh take people away and drown them. And by the way, the people in the the Near East and Palestine knew about these floodwaters And they posed a real danger, especially during the rainy season. In the dry, rugged mountains of central Palestine, the cracks and the gullies and the hills were all connected And they would all uh uh run into the same area. When the rains would come down, the the water would run into what was called these wadis, is what they would call them there in Palestine. We would probably call them a dry creek And during the rainy season they would just overflow, especially when Mount Hermon, the snow from Mount Hermon would melt, and the rain would come in a matter of minutes, those wadies could fill up and overflow, and people could be swept away by a flood in minutes In fact, this is exactly what Jesus meant. Remember when he gave the parable of the wise man that built his house on the rock, and the foolish man that built his house upon the sand, and the and the rains descended, and the floods came, and it wiped away a house. Of someone who was not prepared. Well, the people knew exactly what Jesus was referring to because this happened at times. And figuratively, in the Bible, floods like this referred to trials or troubles The psalmist said in Psalm 47 about these the waves and the billows have gone over me. And so figuratively it's speaking about trials, troubles, and tribulation in our life. It's the idea of I can just I can barely keep my head above the water. You may be here tonight, and that may be your feeling right now. You feel like you're being swept away. by the waters, by a flood of trials. The psalmist said in Psalm 69, 1, save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. In Psalm 69, 2, I sink in deep mire where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters and the floods sweep over me. And so it figuratively speaks of trials, but also of judgment. Jeremiah referred to the coming of the Babylonia into Jerusalem as a flood. And so it speaks of sudden judgment that may come. And by the way, that's how Jesus used the parable. The sudden flood in Matthew 7 is a reference to judgment when it comes suddenly. and sweeps away those who are not prepared. You have to build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ to be ready for the judgment. And so the idea here here then is if it hadn't been for the Lord, we would have all drowned in the flood. We would have all been swept away. By troubles or trials or by judgment, we would have all been swept away had it not been for the Lord Some of you might remember the tsunami in December of 2004. Do you remember remember that back in 2004? And you remember that it hit Indonesia so very hard. Many people died tragically. But I read a story about a certain town in Indonesia where 80% of the people died in the flood. And it would have been worse. This was one of the hardest-hit towns. But there's a fantastic story that comes out of this town, a town that is called Malabo. And in that town, there were 400 Christians. And they wanted to celebrate Christmas on December the 25th. But the Muslims of that town would not allow them. To celebrate Christmas there. They said if you want to celebrate Christmas, you need to get out of town, move outside the the city limits, go out somewhere in the wilderness and celebrate Christmas there, but you can't celebrate Christmas here in our town. So you know what these 400 Christians did? They went outside of town. They didn't want to uh to disrupt anything. They wanted to be at peace. They wanted to worship. And so they found outside of town a very high hill. And they went and they celebrated Christmas on a high hill. And they decided to stay there all through the night. And they were there on December the 26th, when the tsunami hit, and it swept away everyone that was in that town. And the only ones that survived were the Christians. That were worshiping on that high hill when the tsunami came. They can literally say, if it had not been for the Lord, we would have been swept away by the flood. But you know what? We can all say the same thing. When the floods come, you know who's the one who sustains you. It's not by your own strength, it's not by your own power It's the Lord. Listen to what Isaiah says. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, God says. In Psalm 18, 6. He sent from above, he took me and he drew me out of many waters. And so had it not been for the Lord, we would have drowned. Now let me give you the third image. We would have been defeated by a surprise attack. We would have drowned in a sweeping flood, but here's the third image that he gives. We would have been devoured by a savage beast. Look at verse 6. Blessed be the Lord who has not given us as a prey to their teeth. Now here the psalmist uses another image, and it's the image of a dangerous animal seeking to sink his teeth in. to an unsuspecting helpless victim. And he's saying, this would have happened. We would have been a prey to their teeth if God would allow it. The enemy would love to sink their teeth in. to you or to the people of God. I read a story about a man, his name was Jay Rathman. He was hunting in the Red Bluff area of Northern California, and uh he climbed to a ledge. on a slope of a rocky gorge, and as he pulled himself over the ledge to look out and see what was there, he saw something rustling on his right side, and it was a four-foot rattlesnake that was coiled And as soon as he lifted up his head, it struck at him. It barely missed him. But the fangs of the snake got caught in his turtleneck wool sweater. And the fangs caught there, and so therefore the snake wrapped around his neck. And he grabbed this grabbed at the snake, and what he did, he slipped and he began to slide down the side. and uh slide down head first on his back and as as uh fate would have it, uh he got caught on a rock there, and so he's laying there with his snake wrapped around him and he's trying to dislodge the snake And he is able to reach over and grab his rifle and try to dislodge the snake with his rifle. But what he did was he only simply loosened the snake, and when he did, the snake could tried to strike him again. In fact, eight times The snake tried to sink his fangs into this man. And eight times he failed. Because his face was at such an angle that what happened was the snake would just simply put hit his nose on the side of his cheek. But he could never sink his fangs in. And he said he wrestled with that snake for 20 minutes. Finally, the only way he could escape was he reached out around the neck of the snake and he choked the snake to death And finally he was able to get out of that situation, and later he walked over to a ranger station. The ranger saw him coming, and the ranger that saw him coming said he had the snake in his hand. And he walked over and said, I would like to lodge a complaint with your wildlife here in this park. What's amazing about that whole story was that here's this snake and this snake is trying to sink his fangs And this man and he couldn't. When I read that story I thought that's exactly what Satan would like to do to the child of God. Satan would love to sink his fangs into the believer. And you know what? He has tried, but he cannot. He cannot. You know why? Because of the Lord. I was talking to a young lady on the phone just last week. She uh She called and she wanted to talk and she told me about her life and how the Lord had saved her and got her out of uh a background of drugs and the Lord did something new in her life and yet Later on, as sometimes Christians will do, she began to backslide and get away from the Lord. And she was telling me how she was afraid now because She's in a spiritual warfare and she senses Satan doing things in her life and demonic forces oppressing her. And she was asking me about that. You know what I told her? I said, listen, let me tell you something. Now that you're a child of God Do you understand that Satan has no more authority in your life? None. He can only do what you allow. But now that you're a child of God, he has no authority. How dare him try to come in the life of a child of God? You belong to Jesus Christ. Satan can listen, you know what Satan is like? He's like a snake that has no fangs. For the child of God. He can rattle, he can make a lot of noise, but he can't sink his fangs into you because you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me give you a verse of scripture. Write this verse down. 1 John 5 18. This is a great verse in the New Testament. Listen to it. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not And notice what else it says, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself. And listen to this, and that wicked one, that is Satan, toucheth him not. The wicked one can't touch you. Now when it says whosoever is born of God sinneth not, it's just like Pastor explained to us Sunday morning. That doesn't mean sinless perfection. It just means that now that you're a child of God, you're not going to continue to live in sin, in an unbroken pattern of sin. Why? Because God has placed his righteousness in you. And you're not going to live in a continual lifestyle of sin anymore. You might lapse into sin, but you're not going to live a lifestyle of sin. And so that's what that means. Why? It says because he is begotten of God and keepeth himself. If you're a child of God, you through obedience and the word of God, you keep yourself in that frame of obedience. And the Bible says the wicked one cannot touch you. That is Satan. He can't sink his fangs into you. Why? Because of the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord. Let me give you the last one. Had it not been for the Lord, we would have been defeated by a surprise attack. We would have drowned in a sweeping flood. We would have been devoured by a savage beast. But also, notice number four The last one, we would have been destroyed by the sudden snare. Look in verse 7. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. And here's the next beautiful image. This is the image of a bird that's captured, imprisoned in a snare. I mean, this bird's fate is sealed. But something unbelievable happened. What happens? Something that almost never happens. That is the snare broke and the bird has escaped. Literally the bird escapes death. The Hebrew of this is so very expressive. It has an outburst of emotion. This is how it literally reads. The snare was broken, and we, question mark, we, yes, exclamation point, we escaped. There's so much emotion going on here. And this implies a miraculous escape. And that's what he's talking about here. A miraculous escape. Now listen, remember the background of this psalm. Remember, Hezekiah is the king of Judah. And in the background of this psalm, Jerusalem is surrounded by an Assyrian army And Sennacherib wants to stamp out King Hezekiah and the Jews. And for all practical purposes, they're in captivity They're like a bird in a snare. They're imprisoned. All he has to do is just move in, and they're finished. The last time I visited London was in 2012. When I went over there, I had the wonderful opportunity to visit the British Museum there. Now I had been wanting to visit that museum for many years, and I'll tell you why. Because when I was in seminary, I would read about the incredible archaeological finds that they have stored there in that seminary where you can just go and see. And really to walk through certain places there in that museum, uh, you could see Bible history right in front of you. And so I always wanted to go there and look at some of these finds Many of these finds support the stories of the Bible, the historicity of the Bible. Did you know that there in the British Museum there is an archaeological find that supports Psalm 124? Let me tell you about it. There in the museum is a floor and a section, and by the way I went through this section and I saw all this with my own eyes, took pictures of it. Can't find the pictures, but I I took them And uh it was as there's a section there called uh a section on the Assyrian Empire, ancient Assyrian Empire. There's a certain room called the Lakish Room where they have discovered things from Sennacherib's invasion of the buffer city before Jerusalem, Lachish. And what they have there in that room is a long flat stone And inscribed on that stone, and by the way, they found this stone in 1847 in the palace in Nineveh. And this stone dates back to 708, and it talks about the invasion of Sennacherib into the city of Jerusalem. It is a secular account. of the Assyrian army's invasion into the city. And you know what's incredible about that? It supports everything that the Bible says. It supports the whole story in 2 Kings. It talks about Hezekiah's rebellion. It talks about the tribute money. It talks about his destruction, Sennacherib's destruction of Lachish. And also, there's another thing about this long flat stone. It's scorched because the city of Nineveh was set on fire a hundred years after this was inscribed there. And by the way, that is the fulfillment of the prophet Nahum who prophesied that very thing would happen. And so even the scorch marks on the stone bear witness to the truthfulness of the Bible. But there's something else very interesting. There's a room there. And behind glass, there's a prism, which is basically a clay cylinder. It has six sides on it. And it has 500 lines of cuneiform writing on this prism. And you know what it is? It's the actual words of King Sennacherib of when he invaded Palestine. And so this is his own words. Now let me tell you something about these ancient kings. They love to brag about themselves. They and they did this. They would make these these monuments. They would make these inscriptions, these prisms, and they would leave them for people to see in history. And they would brag about all of their exploits. They would talk about themselves in glowing terms. And this prison was exactly that. It talked about his victories. And it has some actual lines of what he said. Let me, and I you say, why you bring all this up? Let me read to you a few lines. Of Sennacherib's own words that are on that clay prism that I saw. It was right behind glass. It was incredible. There's Bible history right there in front of me. What did the line say? Let me read you what one line says. This is King Sennacherib. As for Hezekiah, the terrifying splendor of my majesty overcame him. And his mercenary troops deserted him. So here's Sennacherib, and he's bragging. My terrifying majesty. And then there's another line. Listen to this line. Says this. Hezekiah himself, like a caged bird, I shut up in Jerusalem. You know what he's saying? I I had him imprisoned there like a bird in a snare, like a bird in a cage. Now you know what's interesting? It stops there. It doesn't tell you anything more. You know why? You know why he omits anymore or he leaves that out? He doesn't tell the rest of the story. Now this is very strange for an ancient king because They would like to brag about their victories. In fact, all of the rest of it talks about all his other victories and how they all turned out. But he doesn't tell about how Jerusalem turned out. All it says is that they left Jerusalem with no victory, and they did not take the city. But it doesn't tell why. And again, they don't like to talk about their defeats, but we know why. You know why? Because the Bible tells us why. This was the worst defeat in Sennacherib's life. In fact, he never ever went back to Palestine after this And this was the beginning of the end for him, because after this he was assassinated. And so this was the beginning of the end. He died because God delivered Jerusalem. And we know the story, we saw it last week. God sent one angel to destroy 185,000 of the troops. And so he doesn't finish What he started on that prism, but we don't need that clay prism. You know why? Because verse seven finishes it for us. Look in verse seven. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. God finished it Right here. I think it's not without significant. This is not an accident that is worded just this way, because God broke the snare And Hezekiah and Israel escaped out of the snare. And friend, we could say the same thing for us. You know what we were before we met Jesus? We were imprisoned by a wicked king. We had the sentence of death upon us. And you know what happened at salvation? God broke the snare. And we escaped. I love the song that we sing. My chains fell off. And my heart was free. God, my Savior, ransomed me. Had it not been for the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord. So again, now in summary, what does this psalm teach us to do? It's teaching us to look back over our life and remember the mercies of God. Remember what God has done for us. You say, why should we do that? Well, Flavel gave a few reasons, and in closing, just uh we just have two minutes. I want to just throw a few reasons in here That I think are very good. First of all, he says you maintain a sweet and conscious communion with God from day to day. Simply put, when you remember the mercies of God in the past, what does it do? It refreshes you spiritually It refreshes your soul. It refreshes your heart. The psalmist said in ninety-two four, For thou Lord hast made me glad through thy work. I will triumph in the works of thy hands. And then another thing he said is he said, it will overpower and suppress the natural atheism that is in your hearts. Did you know that in our heart there's that tendency to to not believe? There's what he called that natural atheism where t we're we have we're prone to not believe. And he said, but however, when you look back at the mercies of God and you see what the hand of God has done in the past, it suppresses that unbelief and it revives faith in your heart. We see that in the story of David, don't we remember? When David stood before Goliath, and David said, God delivered me from the pall of the lion, and he delivered me from the pall of the bear, and you know what? He's going to deliver me from this Philistine. That's exactly what it did for David. He remembered what God had done, and so therefore it gave him faith on what God was going to do. It revives faith in the heart. It will develop thanksgiving in our heart. It will help us to submit before God. It'll provoke holiness in our life. All these things and more when we remember. And we can say, look in verse 8 in Psalm 124. We can say our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Let's bow for prayer together. Would you take a moment there with your head bowed and eyes closed, and would you just remember the mercies of God in your life? Think back of what the Lord has done for you. Remember how God delivered you from the flooding waters, the waters of trouble? That could have swept you away, but God would not let it happen. When you went through the waters, he was with you. Remember how you were able to escape the snare? Because of the mercies of God. Take a moment and just thank the Lord for his mercies. And Lord, we do indeed thank you and praise you. And we can say like the psalmist, our help. is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Lord, may we uh may we Do what John Flavo instructed, and that is, Lord, to make this a practice in our own spiritual life, to remember your kind providences. To remember what you have done for us. May it awaken in our heart faith. May it refresh our souls. May it provoke in us holiness. May Lord it help us in the difficult hours. And may we make us submit to you all the more in our life. Father, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.