Would you take God's word this morning? Thank you so much for that beautiful song, ladies. You always do a great job. Turn to the book of Psalms this morning, Psalm 124. Chapter 124 in the Psalms. I know we've been doing a series in 1 Thessalonians, but for this weekend as we prepare our hearts for Thanksgiving, this is a chapter that's been on my heart. Psalm 124. I'd like to speak to you from it this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? Psalm 124, starting at verse number one. If it had not been for the Lord, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, Then they had followed swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the streams had gone over our soul, then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Blessed be the Lord who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. The snares are broken, and we are escaped Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for this beautiful service, this time when we can come and worship you. Thank you, Lord, for your word and Lord for how it instructs us. It reminds us of who you are and all of your mercies and blessings in our life. So, Lord, speak to us today. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. Again, it's a kind of a message that I hope will help us as we prepare our hearts to celebrate Thanksgiving together. In my Christian life, I've read some books that have had an impact on me. Many years ago, I read a book that uh had a big impact on my life called The Mystery of Providence. And it was written by a Puritan minister, a man by the name of John Flavel. He ministered in England in the 17th century. I think we have a picture there of him. And he was a let me tell you a little bit about John Flavil. He was a son of a minister, his father, Richard Flavel, died in prison of the plague because he was a nonconformist minister, which meant that He preached the word of God and would not conform to some of the religious standards that he felt were out of harmony with Scripture. So he stood on the Word of God, and his father ended up dying in prison. But John Flavel learned a lot from his father, and he studied at Oxford, and in 1650 he was ordained to be a minister. John Flavle married a godly woman And uh when she in the process of giving birth to their first child, his his wife died. And the baby died as well. Flavor would remarry a second time only to see his second wife die tragically He was re-married a third time only to have his third wife also struck down with illness and sh he watched her die as well. In 1656, he was called to minister a seaport city of Dartmouth. It was a small church, got a small salary, but he worked very hard, and the people there loved him. Many people were converted to Christ. He was a great expositor of the Word of God But John Flavell was ejected from the pulpit in sixteen sixty-two for nonconformity. What does that mean? Well you have to remember that in that time the Church of England was the state-run church. They had a book called the Book of Common Prayer uh which r uh where they demanded that all the ministers do their services and liturgy according to everything that was written in the Book of Common Prayer. And there were some things in the book there that was scriptural, but there were a lot of things that were not biblical. And John Flable, like his father, could not use that book because he believed in doing things according to the Word of God. And because he refused to uh w to conduct services according to the Book of Common Prayer, he was removed from the pulpit. And back then under an act of parliament, if you did not conform to that book, you could also be arrested. And so John Flavel f spent the rest of his life basically on the run. He would still meet with his congregation, but a lot of times it was secretly in the woods. He was hunted, he was hounded by the authorities, and yet at the same time he ministered to many people. They were looking for him. They wanted to arrest him. Many times he narrowly escaped arrest. In the summer of sixteen eighty-one he was forced to seek safety in London, and uh again he narrowly escaped arrest when soldiers interrupted a prayer service that he was conducting. At one time his enemies burned his image in effigy because they hated him so much. And then finally Uh when he made a visit to Exeter in sixteen ninety one, John Flavil suffered a stroke and uh he died. But his final words were, I know that it would be well it will be well with me. What was the secret of his perseverance during all these troubles and trials? John Flavell developed the spiritual discipline of meditating on the providence of God. He learned to look back in his life and see the hand of God working in the affairs of his life. He knew that it was only because of God that he was not swallowed up in all of his troubles and all of his afflictions. He knew it was God watching over him. It was only through the Lord that he was able to escape many, many troubles and difficulties in his in his life. He knew it was because of the Lord that he was able to go through many of the difficult trials that he faced in his life. And perhaps his best known book that he wrote is called The Mystery of Providence. This is the book that I picked up when I was a younger man and read that book. And let me just give you an excerpt of what he wrote in it. He wrote this, quote, talking about the trials and the troubles that we go through. He that is God has either strengthened your back to bear or lighten your burden, or else open the unexpected door of escape, according to his promise, so that the evil which you feared did not come upon you I think we could all say that, right? The only reason that we're here is because God has helped us get here. He's seen us through all the trials. He's helped us through all the difficulties. He's either given us the strength to bear the burdens that we have, or he's taken the burdens away when we ask them. Or he's given us a way of escape. And that's what he said. So the theme of the book that John Flavel gives is that we as Christians should look back over our life and we should recognize the providential hand of God. in all of our affairs. That's a discipline that he felt that all Christians should engage in. He called it a spiritual duty Playboy calls these providential, kind acts of God. He calls them the mercies of God. And this is what he said again. He said, quote, a bad heart and a slippery memory Deprive men of the comfort of many mercies, and defraud God of the glory due for them. And what he was saying is, you know, we we don't remember Because we we don't want to think about what God has done for us in the past. We have a slippery memory, and because of that, we are depriving ourselves of comforts, of blessings. If we look back and see how faithful God has been, you know what that does? That encourages our heart. It warms our heart. He he he wrote this in chapter 8 of the book the duty of meditating on the providence of God. He said this This is our duty because God has expressly commanded it and called upon his people to make the most serious reflections upon his work. And so he argues that God tells us in his word, this is something that we're supposed to do. We are supposed to look back. in the rearview mirror of our life and see what God has done for us. Recognize those providences and see how God has brought us to the place to where we are. today. He says that this is a a duty. In fact he says, quote, it is plain that it is our duty, because the neglect of it everywhere in Scripture is condemned as a sin. And here he quotes Isaiah 26, 11 The verse that says this, O Lord, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. That is, God, you're doing things, you're doing wonderful things in your hand of providence, but there are some people that do not recognize it. There are some people that do not see it. Do you see it? And then he quoted Isaiah 5, verse 12. They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute, wine at their feast, but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord or see the work of the Lord. of his hands. Here are people that are feasting on the good things that God has given, and at the same time they're forgetting the gracious works of God. All over America this week there will be people that will sit down at a table and they'll feast and they'll enjoy good things, but at the same time they will not remember the God who gave them all of those good things. They will not recognize the providential hand of God. And this is what Flavil says is a sin. They do not regard the deeds of the Lord nor see the work of I hope that no one here will be guilty of that of sitting down at a table with much bounty in front of us because God has given it to us and not remember and thank God. for all the good things that he has done and given us in our life. And so he wrote this again. Labor. To get as full and thorough a recognition as you are able of the providence of God concerning the first to the last. He's saying this is something that we should work at doing And by the way, as Christians, we don't give thanks just one day a year. We give thanks every day of our life. And he's saying that as a a Christian, we need to labor to look back and recognize the providences of God, the hand of God in our life. how faithful God has been. He says it like this, you know, when you look up and you see one star and it's beautiful and you look at it and you're overwhelmed with it, he said, what would you think if you saw many stars? And the idea is that one star represents one single act of providence, of goodness and kindness that we recognize of God. What would your heart do if you saw all of those things? You're not blind to any of those things. It's like Asaph, the psalmist, wrote, I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work, and will talk of all thy Now this is exactly what the psalmist is doing here in Psalm 124. In this psalm, the key phrase is, had it not been for the Lord. Look again in verse number one. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say, same expression in verse two, if it had not been it had not been for the Lord who was on our side. when men rose up against us. The psalmist is looking back. He's doing that very thing. He's looking back at the hand of God, his providences, and saying, you know what If it hadn't been for the Lord, we wouldn't be able to be here. If it hadn't been for the goodness of the world. The only reason I made it this far is because of the goodness of God. Now this is not just true for Israel. This is true for every believer that's here. Had it not been for the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord, we can all relate to that expression. It's kind of a what if kind of thinking. What if. And the psalmist calls upon us to think this way. What if God had not intervened in my life and given me these blessings? I think about this in my own life. I think about, you know, when my father got saved. Some of you know my history here. My father got saved and we started coming here in this church back in 1970. This is going to date me, 1978. But I was a very young, young person then. And my father got saved and I saw the power of the gospel change his heart and his life. And that led me to come and get under the gospel, and I got saved, and God did wonderful things in my heart and led me to a Bible college where I met my wife. And got married, and God has given us wonderful children, and he's brought us to so many wonderful places to serve him. And I just can't help but think, had it not been for the Lord, where would I be today? What if what if God had not intervened in my family's life and the grace of God visit the Harmon home way back in that time and my father got saved? What if that had not happened? Where would we be today? I hate to think about where I would be if had it not been for the Lord. And this is what the psalmist is calling upon us to do. And by the way, every person in here, you can say that same thing. You can say, you know, what if God had not stepped in my life the way He did? What if the Lord left me to my own devices? What if the Lord had not been on my side? And the psalmist is saying, look, this is the way you're to think. This is the way you're to think about your past life. And we could divide this psalm into two sections in verses one to five. Providence and verses six to eight praise. In the first section of the psalmist of the psalm, he's thinking. In the second section, he's thanking. In the first part, he remembers the hand of God, and the second part he rejoices over the help of God. And so I want us to look at this psalm just a little bit closer because we are really getting instruction, and this is really the way I want you to celebrate Thanksgiving. I want you to look back, I want you to see the providences of God, and I want your heart to well up with thanksgiving and joy and praise at how good God has been. to you and to me. First of all, remember the protective hand of God. We see this again in verse number one through five. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, had it not been for the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us. And really, you have to remember in the Psalms, the s P Psalms are are Hebrew poetry, and in Hebrew poetry you have these beautiful images, these metaphors, these poetic images that convey an idea. And we see the first one here, he said, you know, if it had not been for the Lord, we would have been defeated by a surprise attack. That's what he's talking about in verses one through three. When men rose up against us, the word rise up has the idea of something happening, suddenly. in your life. Something bad coming suddenly at you, you know. And that's the way trials come by the way, beloved. They come quickly. And everything is all right now. Blood pressure down, bank account up, I'm all good. I'm healthy and wealthy, but you know what? That could change. Suddenly, something can come. A trial, an attack. And that's what he's talking about here. And he's talking about the history of Israel. He remembers in the history of Israel many attacks that came suddenly. Amalek, when they were marching through the wilderness, rose up against Israel, attacked them from the the backside as they were parading through the wilderness. The worst part about that is you know the feeble and the old were on the back of the line, the uh of the parade so to speak, and Amalek attacked them in the rear But here he's talking about when he says when men, really in the Hebrew, that is singular, and it could be a man. Now who wrote this psalm? Some people think David wrote this psalm, some people think it was Hezekiah the king when they were being attacked by the Assyrians The King Sennacherib, the evil king, surrounded Jerusalem. He had the intent of destroying the city, and God stepped in and he would not allow that to happen. This is Could be what's going on. This could be the background of this psalm. But either way, the psalmist is saying, I remember when men rose up against us, and had it not been for the Lord, we would have surely been devoured. We would have been swallowed up quick. Had it not been for the Lord, that that's true of Israel. By the way, people are still trying to attack Israel, did you know that? But God has a plan for that nation. This is also true of the church. If you look in church history, it's a ch it's a history of persecution against the church, but God will not allow his church to be defeated. The gates of hell will not prevail against the church. But also this can be we can say this individually of us. You're here today because God has protected you. He's watched over you in ways that sometimes we don't even know. He's watched over us. This week I had the privilege of visiting a dear sweet lady in the hospital. This is uh Brother Bernie. Amold's sister, Millicent Amol. Some of you might know this story. We've been praying for her. This is a this is a dear lady. She's about 72 years old, just a petite, small, silver haired lady. And she was walking in the park one day and a man just came up and just viciously attacked her suddenly. Uh uh I mean, you know, blackened her eye Broke her ribs, broke her shoulder. He he drugged her back to into a wooded area, into an encampment that he had set up there, a tent and everything, and tied her up We don't know the evil intention of this man, but can you imagine this woman going through all of this, dragged back to this encampment, tied up, and this man left to go back because she had you know dropped her glasses and her hat and he wanted to go back and get it And when he left to go back and get that, the roof the ropes were so loosely tied that she was able to free herself. And she climbed up an embankment because the can't the encampment was in a valley and she climbed up an embankment out And how she did that, she knows it was the Lord that gave her the strength with broken ribs and a broken shoulders. She climbed up the embankment and she was able to wave down help. And she's in the hospital recovering from injuries and it's affected her heart. And I I visited with her and I talked to her. And when I prayed with her, I read her this psalm here. And I said, Melissa, you know, I read a psalm that kind of may fit. And I read this psalm. When I read this psalm, she wept. If it had not been for the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, and they had swallowed us up quick She understood it was the grace of God, the strength of God that helped her to escape the evil intentions of this evil man. And God kept her safe. But you know what? God's providence has kept us safe. And so the psalmist says, remember that if it hadn't been for the Lord and then also drowned in a sweeping flood. Look again in verse number four. When the waters had overwhelmed us and the stream had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Now in Palestine, this was something that was very real. It was a very dry climate, but sometimes the rains would come and fill those waddies, those dry creek beds. They could be filled up quick when a strong rainstorm came in. Also you had the the the melting of the snow from Mount Herman that would the water would just come down into those tributaries and it would be very easy for that area to be flooded quickly if a storm came. It was always a danger. This is what Jesus meant when he gave his parable of the wise man who built his house upon the rock And the foolish man who built his house upon the sand. Suddenly a storm came and the f and the winds blew and there was a flood. That's the idea. People in that area would understand this. And the stormist is using this image To talk about troubles. In the Bible, floods are a illustration or a metaphor for trials and troubles. They come suddenly and they sweep us off our feet. How many of you can look back this year and you don't have to raise your hand? I think all of us could probably do it, but you could say, man, I I know what it's like. I felt flooded with troubles and trials in my life. And you know why you weren't sweeped away? Because God wouldn't allow that to happen. Because the Lord was with you. The psalm is said in Psalm 691, Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. We can relate to that. We feel sometimes we're up to our neck and troubles. But also floodwaters can also represent judgment. It's a symbol of God's judgment. But thank God, because of Jesus Christ, we don't have to suffer judgment. Jesus took our sins on the cross. And if you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. If you trusted him as your Savior and your Lord, and you could say, you know what? The Lord has kept me from the flood. I read a story, some of you might remember back in the December of 2004. Remember the tsunami the tsunami tsunami excuse me that hit Indonesia? Many people died. There's a story that came out of that where there was a people in a small town in Indonesia that wanted to celebrate Christmas. There was a small group of believers there in that town wanted to celebrate Christmas. But the Muslims in that town said you can't celebrate Christmas. We don't we won't allow it. What we will allow you to do is to go on this high hill. Close by. You can celebrate Christmas there, but you can't celebrate it here in town. And that group of about four hundred believers went up to the high hill to celebrate Christmas. And while they were up there worshiping Jesus, the flood came And swept away that whole town. They were all swept away in the flood. And those believers there could say, had it not been for the Lord Had it not been for the Lord, then the waters had overwhelmed us, and the streams had gone over our soul. Well, also devoured by a savage beast. Look at verse 6. Blessed be the Lord has not given us as a prey to their teeth. And here the psalmist is using the imagery of some vicious animal. trying to sink its fangs into a helpless victim, but God would not allow it. And can I tell you, beloved, that Satan is like a serpent that wants to sink his fangs into you? But thank God because you know Jesus Christ, he can't do that. You know, he can scare you if you let him, but you don't have to be to be afraid of him. Because you have the victory in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's saying, had it not been for the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord, we would have been swallowed up, we would have been devoured by this beast, we would have been a prey to their teeth. And so in this first part of the psalm, he's looking back and he's seeing the protective hand of God. And I want to challenge you to do that. Would you sometime this week, would you take some time and look back and see how God has been with you and how he has watched over you? How he has protected you, how he has brought you to this point in your life. But here's the second part of the psalm, rejoicing in the providential help of God. Look at verse 6. Blessed be the Lord. Blessed be the Lord. And here he's talking about God is our deliverer. Look at verse 7. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. And think about this here. God is our deliverer, is the image here. Here's the image of a bird that's captured in a snare. The bird's fate is sealed, it's been captured, but something unbelievable happens, the snare is broken, and the bird has escaped. Sure death And yet it's escaped. And he's saying that's what God does for us. He's delivered us from certain death. The snare was broken, and we escaped. Now remember the background of this psalm. Again, I think it was written by Hezekiah. And if you remember in the Old Testament, that story of Hezekiah in 2 Kings, where Sennacherib, the Assyrian king, the evil king, surrounded Jerusalem, and he was ready to just destroy the people that were in that city. And and you know, by the way, uh archaeology bears this out. You know, I was over in London one time, went to the British Museum, they have a room there where they have relics inscriptions from this time. And did you know that there's a room there Uh groom number 55, I remember it. Crazy how some things I remember. But there's a prism there, a little kind of uh uh kind of a little prism, six-sided prism with cuneiform writing. And you know what it is? They discovered it. It was Sennacherib. And on those prisms, he's bragging about all the conquests that he's had. You know, these ancient kings they love to brag. I noticed when I went to Egypt on the walls there all these writings about all their victories. We think that posting things on walls about ourselves is something new. That's not new. That's as old as Egypt. They were posting things about their victories on the walls. But here this k this king he wrote about this very event that the Bible talks about. When Hezekiah was shut up in the city. And let me quote you what one line says on that prism. As for Hezekiah The terrifying splendor of my majesty overcame him, and his mercenary troops deserted him. And another line says this, Hezekiah himself, like a caged bird, I shut up in Jerusalem. So here he's bragging Oh, I I terrified him. I had him surrounded. He was like a cage bird. But you know what? He doesn't finish the story. He doesn't finish the story. They don't ever tell bad things about themselves, only good things. What's the rest of the story? Well If you look in the Bible, the Bible tells us what happened. That God sent one angel that night that destroyed the whole Assyrian army. And Lord Byron talks about this in the beautiful poem that he wrote. The Assyrians came down like a wolf on the fold, and their cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold, and the sheen of their sphere was like the star on the sea. when the blue waves rolled nightly on deep Galilee, like the leaves at a summer and the forests are green, that host with its banners at sunset were seen But like the leaves of the forest when autumn hath blown, that host on the morrow lay withered and shrown, For the death angel spread his wings or the blast, And breathed in the face of the foe as he passed. And the eyes of the sleeper waxed deadly and chill, for his heart, once but he's, and forever grew still And there lay the sea with his nostrils all wide. But through it there rolled not the breath of his pride, the foam of his gasping lay white on the surf, as cold as the bri as spray as a rock beaten turf, and the tents were all silent The banners alone, the lances unlifted, the trumpets unblown, and the widows of Asher were loud in their wail, and the yellows were smote in the temple of Baal, for the might of the Gentile, unsmote by the sword. Has withered like snow at the glance of the Lord. All it took was one little glance from God. He sent his angel. That whole army was destroyed And here in the psalmist, he says it like this: in verse 7: Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we are escaped. By the way, let me just tell you that every one of us, you and me, we were all held captive by an evil king called Satan, and he wanted to do us in. He had us like a bird in a snare, and you know what? Because of Jesus Christ and Calvary, we have all escaped that. We're like a bird that has escaped out of the snare. God broke the snare. We're delivered by the grace of God alone. God is our deliverer. God is our helper. Look in verse number eight. I love the way this ends. Our help is in the name of the Lord. Our help is in the name of the Lord that made heaven and earth. I can honestly tell you that this year of my life has been one of the most difficult years of my life. But I tell you, my helper has been God. My help has been the Lord. And you know what? You could say the same thing. Like Isaac Watts wrote in his hymn, Our God, Our Help in Ages Past, Our Hope in Years to Come. our shelter from the stormy blast and our eternal home. Had it not been for the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord, where would we be? And so what I would like you to do is sometimes sit down and think about that. Do what John Flaybell tells us. Think about, meditate on God's mercies. And he says by doing that, what you do is you maintain a sweet and conscious communion with God. Like the psalmist in Psalm 92, 4, For thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy work. When I think about your work, Lord, it makes me glad. It will overpower and suppress natural atheism that is in your heart. That's again what Flavel says. It will develop a soul. In the soul of continual praise and thanksgiving to God. That's why David could say, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. And it will endear Jesus Christ every day more and more to our soul. Christ is the channel of mercy and grace. Every blessing that I have in this life is because of Christ. Because of Christ. Through him are all the streams of mercy that flow from God to us. And so we take each time to remember God's providences and God's mercies in your life. Let's bow for prayer together. I want you to just take a minute. Just just take a minute, would you please? And just think about the goodness of God. And would you worship him right there? Just give a prayer of thanksgiving. For the faithfulness of Almighty God, for His His mercies, His tender mercies. And say, like the psalmist, our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth. Our Heavenly Father. I think of the song that says, Oh, for a thousand tongues to sing. And Lord, if I had a thousand tongues, I would use every tongue to sing your praise. And to thank you, Lord, for your own. Lord, thank you for your tender mercies. Thank you, Lord, for your kindness, your providences, your love. Thank you, most of all, for Jesus. The source of all of our blessings. Lord, had it not been for you And the waters would have overwhelmed us. But thank you, Lord. We bless you today. We thank you for being our help. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name. Amen.