Would you take God's word this morning, please open to the Old Testament book of First Samuel, chapter number one? First Samuel chapter one We're going to look at this passage here today and talk about a mother in the Bible that God used greatly. Hopefully, this will be an encouragement for you as moms that are here. An encouragement for all of us. We'll start in verse number one. We'll read a few verses here and pray for me as I try to pronounce these Old Testament names. Now there was a certain man of Rama Thaim Zophim of Mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkhinah. The son of Jehoram, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, and Zuth and Ephrait. And he had two wives, and the name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other was Panainah. And Panainah had children, but Hannah had no children. And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hothai and Phineas. the priests of the Lord were there. And when the time was that El Cana El uh can can yeah, that guy. Al Cana offered and gave to Peninah his wife and to all her sons and daughters portions, but unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her womb. This morning I want to talk about Hannah, the mother of faith promise. We uh We loved celebrating Mother's Day here. This is something that is right to do. It was President Wilson who, Woodrow Wilson, who proclaimed the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day. a time to express express our love and reverence for our mothers. And it is certainly true that the nation will rise no higher than the mothers, the quality of the mothers that raise their children. Hannah is an illustration of this of a mother that God used to be a blessing to a whole nation. Her son Samuel was the prophet that God used to bring a nation back to God. It was Samuel's ministries and his prayers that brought revival to the nation of Israel. As you come to the beginning of 1 Samuel chapter 1 here, what you'll really see is a nation that is in spiritual and moral decline. And when you come to 1 Samuel chapter 7, what you see is a nation that had revival. And that was because of the prayers of the prophet Samuel. It's no accident that the book opens up with the story of Hannah, because she was the woman that God used in a very special way. to raise up this wonderful man of God that would be used to bring a nation back to the Lord for a time. And what we can learn from Hannah are just three wonderful lessons. Really all of us can learn these lessons from this godly mother. And I want you to see this in our passage. Godly mothers, number one, here's the first lesson. Godly mothers face their problems with patience. Again, what we see in verses 1 and 2 is that we read the life of Hannah, we read of a mother that faced many problems. Sometimes we make the wrong assumption that if we live a godly life and we try to do what is right, that we'll never have any problems. And uh that's simply just not real. That's not true. You know, we come to church, we see people smiling all over, we think all the people at church, none of them have any problems. Because we know how to put on a nice face. But the truth of the matter is all of us will deal with problems. Some of the most devoted saints in the scripture were people that had to deal with real traumatic events in their life. Now Hannah and her family worshiped God faithfully. They were devoted. In verse number one, we're introduced to a man by the name of El Cana. That was her husband. In verse three, it says he was devoted and worshiped the Lord. at the house of God in Shiloh faithfully. Shiloh was located in the center of Israel at that time in the region of the tribe of Ephraim. And people would go up to Shiloh to for the various feasts. There were three feast days that God prescribed that all people had to come and worship the Lord there, the feast of unleavened bread, feast of weeks, feast of tabernacles. And being a faithful man, Al Cana went there every year. Hannah was a believing and worshiping wife. Beside him supporting her husband, and by the way, that's one great thing that a mother and a wife can do is support a husband that wants to pursue the Lord. That's one of the greatest things a woman can do for her her family. But what we see is Hannah was a woman who had problems. There were several challenges that she faced, just like every mother today will face challenges, all of us will face challenges. Hannah certainly did. First of all, she faced a depraved society. I want you to know that this story takes place during a time of a period in Israel's history called the book of the time of the era of the judges. Israel was at a spiritual low. Read the book of Judges sometimes and you'll see that very clearly. This was the dark ages for Israel There was a lack of godly men, a lack of leaders. We saw in verse 3 that the sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineash were running the tabernacle service as well. These were two wicked men. They abused women, they stole money. They were just not godly men. And one measure of a nation's moral and spiritual condition is how women are valued and treated. You can tell a nation's uh moral condition by how women are valued and honored. That's why when you come to the book of Judges, when you get to the beginning of the book of Judges, you see a father honoring his daughter uh treating her with such respect. But as you move on throughout the book of Judges, what you'll see is that all begins to change. Women are treated with disrespect. In chapter four, you see Deborah, a woman in charge of the nation, leading the nation spiritually, because there were no men that were strong enough and right with God that were able to do it at that time. And then you have Barak, who is a general who goes to Deborah. By the way, Deborah, when you when you think of Deborah in the Bible, think about your grandmother, a very elderly woman. And when it was time for Barak to go out and face the enemy, what does he do? He comes to Deborah and he says, would you mind joining me in the battle? Now now, you know call me crazy, but I don't think you should take your grandmother into the battlefield with you. What kind of honor is that? What kind of man are you to do that? To ask her to come? That shows the sad condition that Israel was in at that time. Now Deborah being a woman of God said, Yeah, I'll go into battle with you, but just know this, that a woman will take the glory off the battlefield, not a man. That was kind of prophetic word, and that's exactly what happened. God gave him the victory, but it was a woman by the name of Jael J A E L who sunk a nail into the head of the enemy general Sisera and a woman took the honor of the battlefield from in this whole story. Again, this is a sad plight on the condition of the nation of Israel because of the placement that women are given. And then you get to chapter 11, Jephth sacrifices his daughter in human sacrifice to fulfill a foolish vow. Who does that? And then in Samson, you get chapter fifteen, Samson is exploiting women for his own lust. And then in chapter 17, there's a story of Micah. who steals from his mother and lies to her. And then you get to chapter 19, there's a story of a Levite priest who has a concubine who allows her to be raped and dismembered. It's just a sordid story. Why should a Levite be having a concubine in the first place? But again, it all is a commentary on the sad spiritual and moral condition that Israel was in at that time. And Israel desperately needed a man of God. They needed someone to lead them. Incidentally, what is the book of the Bible that comes right after the book of Judges? It's Ruth, right? And here God exalts a woman, a Moabite woman, and makes her the mother of the future king of Israel, who will be a man after God's own heart. While man is busy devaluating woman, God is exalting motherhood. And he's exalting women. God will use a woman to bring a nation back to God. And again, there are not m many godly men in Israel at this time. Eli was old, his two sons were wicked. Again it was the dark ages. And you know, living in a a society like that is a challenge to raise godly children. And some of your mothers face that challenge even today. We live in a in a culture today that is so depraved. And you have a challenge in r raising your children. And a nurturer in the admonition of the Lord. But another challenge that she faced was a divided home. What we see in verse 2 is here's a man who has two wives. And both living in the same house. That's a major source of problems. The Bible does not condone polygamy. Every time it's presented in Scripture, it's never portrayed in a good light. It's not God's original plan. It's one man, one woman for life. Any violation of that creates problems. And so this was a problem home. Well, El Cana had Two wives, Hannah and Panina. But also Hannah also sh face another challenge, a dreaded condition. Look in verse two where it says that But Hannah had no children at the end of verse number two. This made matters worse for her. One wife, Peninah, had many children, which is a sign in that culture of blessing. But Hannah had no children. She was unable to have children, and that was considered a reproach and a shame. And to make matters worse, El Cana favored Hannah over Penina. That made that's very clear in verse number four and five. where um Elkinah gives her more portions than he gives to Panina. And this made Panina jealous. So in verse 6, and it said her adversary also provoked her sore for to make her fret because the Lord had shut up her wound. And as he did so, year by year, when she went up to the house of the Lord, so she provoked her. Therefore she wept and she and did not eat. And so here is this woman. She's very sorrowful because she's unable to give to her husband children. This was an honor for a woman in Israel to be able to give a child to her husband. And Hannah couldn't do it. And to make matters worse, her rival, Panina, she rubbed it in. She knew how to push her buttons. She knew how to get next to her. And this was traumatic for Hannah, so much so that she didn't eat. She was just totally heartbroken over it and grieved. And verse number eight shows how stupid husbands can be. Because notice his response. Then Elkana said, her husband said in her heart, Why weepest thou? Why eatest thou not? Why is thy heart grieved? Am I not better to thee than ten sons? Yeah. You s idiot. Men sometimes just don't know what to say. In times when women are grieving. Shame on us, guys. We need to pray for God to give us wisdom at those times. So this was a a situation that was less than ideal. Now you can imagine being in her position and some of the things that she would try to do. I mean she was really helpless, but she was patient, and that's the thing I want us to see. Godly mothers bear problems and troubles with patience. There's faith in that, you know. Faith in patiently waiting on the Lord to deliver you from your trouble. Now to put this in perspective, when you look at other women in the Bible that had the same problem, you see some of the things that they try to do. Some got angry at their husbands, like in the case of Rachel. in Genesis thirty verses one to three, she comes to him like, you know, how come, you know, I don't have any children. What's your deal? She was blaming it on him. You know, she got mad at her husband. And Jacob said, Am I am I you know, I'm not God? I mean he's the one who's withheld you from having children. Again, probably not the best thing to say. The key phrases we see here in this passage, the Lord had closed her womb. Ultimately is God who determines whether a woman has a children or not. That's all in the sovereign hand of God and the Bible makes that very, very clear. God did not give her the ability to have children. The Bible says That it's the Lord. That children are a reward from the Lord. They're a gift from God. They don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. They rejoice the heart. But that's all in the hand of God. The Bible makes that very, very clear. And Hannah knew that. She knew that God was sovereign over that. She knew that it was all in his hands. She didn't blame anyone else, but She just looked to the Lord. Another woman in the Bible who had the same problem, um, she tried to you know, she used a a surrogate mother. Actually it was Rachel the same woman. You know, she basically her solution was, you know, to allow her husband to have her handmaid to make her handmaid pregnant, and then when it was time for the handmaid to deliver, she said, You can bear this child upon my knees. The custom was back then for The woman who was going to deliver would be on top of the the mother who were claiming the baby, and she would actually be delivering on top of this woman, if you can imagine that. And she's bearing the child on her knees, as if to say, This is me giving you this child Which is kind of weird in our culture. But that's how that's how serious the issue was back in that time. And then other women they cried superstition. You know, they tried figurines, fertility figurines. Archaeologists found pottery figurines with, you know, uh these these things that were supposed to give women the ability to have children. And some s and some kind of superstition, you know, the Mandrake story in the Bible, you know, if you there's this plant that uh you dig up the roots, it looks like a little man, and you know, you slice it up and you mix it in water or something and drink it, and you're supposed to be able to have children You know, the mandrake solution, you know. None of those things worked. And then some just ran from their problems, like the story of Hagar. in the Bible. When she had her rival Sarah, and there was a bit of a rivalry there over that, and Sarah dealt harshly with her and and uh Hagar just decided to run from her problem. That wasn't the way to handle it. Hannah did none of these things. She didn't blame her husband. She didn't resort to superstition. She didn't, you know, do any of those other tricks. She did something that godly mothers do. She patiently bore it. But there's a second thing we see about her. Godly mothers face their problems with prayer. with prayer. We can't help but be impressed with the way she chooses to deal with her problem. She took the matter to God in prayer because she knew that God And God alone had the power to open up her womb and give her a child. She went straight to the Lord in verse five and six. Again, she understood that this was from the Lord. She knew that And so she she prays. What do you do when you have a problem? It's okay to seek people around us for counsel and encouragement. That's okay. That's why God gave us church. That's why God gave us each other. We need encouragement from each other. When life is rough and traumatic events come, we need the encouragement of each other, but ultimately the one that we need to look to is God. We need to go to God in prayer. And this is what Hannah does. She prays. She understood that prayer was the way to deal with this problem. And so she prays passionately. In verse 8, we see her passion. She weeps, she prays with tears. In verse 9 indicates that she may have been fasting. Um in verse where it says, so Hannah rose up, she left in the middle of the meal there, in verse number nine, which means that she wasn't really eating And she goes to the tabernacle to pray. Now they're there at Shiloh for one of the feast days obviously, and rather than enjoying one of the feasts, she's not eating right now because her heart is so troubled and she She weeps sore, the Bible says in verse number 10. Look at verse 10. And she was in bitterness of soul, and she prayed in the Lord and wept sore. This is a brokenness in her prayers Sometimes the reason our prayers don't get to heaven is because they freeze before they get there. They're so cold. We need to have a little bit more fervency and passion in the way that we pray. In prayer, it's better to have heart without words than words without a heart. And she prays in bitterness of her soul. And the promise of her prayers. Look at the promise in verse eleven And she vowed avow and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look upon the affliction of thy handmaid and remember me And not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. So here she vows a vow. She said, God, if you give me a son, I'll give him back to you all the days of his life No razor will come upon his head. This is a Nazarite vow. Vows are encouraged in the Old Testament. It shows seriousness. It shows earnestness That's why I call Hannah the mother of faith promise. That's what she illustrates the whole principle I've been trying to teach you. God she she couldn't she wanted to give a man to the Lord. She wanted to have a son that would serve the Lord. God knows the nation of Israel needed a godly leader. She wanted to be able to give that. She looked in her nursery and guess what? There's nobody there. She was unable to have any children. So she said, God, if you Give me a son. That's safe. I'll give them to you. That's a promise. I promise I'll give them to you. If you give them to me. She didn't have the ability to have children. She had nothing that she could offer, but she wanted a son. She wanted to give them to the Lord. And so she vows this vow. Lord, if you give them to me, then I'll give them back to you. And so she prays, she prays. There's something about a mother's prayers. There's a power in a mother's prayers that I think exceeds other type praying. And I believe that. So we see the passion of her prayers, the promise, the perspective. Notice she says, O Lord of hosts, when she prays. Again, that's a common name for God. But it again emphasizes the sovereignty of God. God, you're able to do anything. And the power of her prayers in verse 12. She continued praying before the Lord. Before, literally in the Hebrew, before the face of the Lord, she was in the presence of the Lord. She had his attention. Again, powerful prayers of a mother. And then the peace of her prayers. Look at verse 13. Now Hannah spake in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she had been drunken. Eli said unto her, How long will thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. That's weird. Always was weird to me the way he addressed her. Maybe it was because of because of the ungodliness that was going on in and around the tabernacle with his sons, Hopni and Phineas. This was what he was used to seeing. Loose women, wicked women, drunken women. He assumes that this is what she is. But boy, you got it wrong. And then in verse 15, or verse 15, Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord. I'm a woman of sorrowful spirit. I've drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Count not thine handmaid as for a daughter of Belial, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace. The God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him. So here he recognizes his mistake, and then he kind of corrects it by saying, you know what? You go in peace. God, may God grant you this request. And once this blessing was pronounced on her by the high priest, Hannah's countenance completely changed. This demonstrates the respect she had for spiritual authority. She thought, well, if if the high priest says that this will happen, I'm taking this as being a promise from the Lord. That God's going to answer me. And the Bible says in verse 18 that she was sad no more. She went away and did eat. She stopped fasting. Her countenance was sad no more. She had complete faith in God at that point that God was going to answer her prayers. And indeed he did. Because then we see the product of her prayers. Verse 19. They rose up in the mo ear morning early and worshiped before the Lord. And returned and came to their house to Ramah, and Alcana knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her. after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son, and call his name Samuel, saying, Because I have gotten him of the Lord. This is really a play on word. Samuel, the name in the Hebrew is a combination of two words meaning asked of And then the second meaning given over. I was asked of the Lord and I'm giving them to the Lord. That's what it means. Samuel thus means asked for and given over to. This again is faith promise. I've asked God for you and now I'm going to give you back to God. And that's what the name Samuel means. What a beautiful name. God had given him to her and she's giving them back. And so look at this is the payment of her prayers in verse number 21. And it says And the man Alcanah and all his house went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his his vow. But Hannah went nigh, for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, and that he may appear before the Lord, and there abide for ever. So every year her husband went up to Shiloh, as he should, as a faithful worshipper of the Lord, but Hannah didn't go. Why not? Now some people say, oh, she's rethinking on the vow. No. She's getting her son ready. I mean, she's not going to take a baby up there, an infant baby. He's got to grow. He's gotta be weaned from his mother, and you can rest assured that during that time she's preparing him, she's getting him ready Because she knows that once she takes them up there and she gives them this to Eli, he's going to be serving at the temple or the tabernacle all the rest of his life. So she's instilling in him, what is a tabernacle? What's it for? What do you do? Who is God? Who is the Lord? Why are you here? And she's getting to the point where she can finally wean him and let him go. And then in verse 24. And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her with three bullocks and one epoth of flour and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of the Lord in Shiloh, and the child was young. Probably about five years old, four or five years old. And they slew a bullock and brought the child to Eli. And she said, Oh my Lord. As thy soul liveth, my Lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given him my given me my petition, which I have asked of him. Therefore also I have lent him unto the Lord. As long as he lives, he shall be lent unto the Lord, and he worship the Lord. And the word lent here in the King James, when we s we talk about lending, you know, I lend you something, what I'm I'm expecting to get it back, right? Of course it doesn't normally happen that way, but But the word lend or lent is actually meaning giving over and full dedication. It's not with the idea of getting back. Because the context makes that clear. As long as he lives He shall be lent to the Lord. He will belong to the Lord. He'll serve the Lord here at this tabernacle. He'll do whatever the Lord's will is, as long as he lives. So here she she is, and she is giving to God the best gift she had ever received. Talk about giving something that is precious. Talk about sacrificial giving. This is the most valuable thing she has ever received in her life. And she's giving them back to the Lord. I'm giving them back to you. That could not have been easy. There had to be some difficulty in that. But she fulfilled her vow Now I say that, I say that it had to be hard for a mother's heart. And I think that there's a mixture of emotion here. I think that you know she's saying goodbye to her little boy. She knows that she can come and see him on worship days and probably every excuse she could find to get off the Shiloh, she probably went to visit him. But now he would live there. And that's where he would stay. And he would be the Lord's. And then there was also a mixture of great joy. Why? Because she was able to do this thing under the Lord, to give him to God. That brought incredible joy in her heart. And we see this in chapter two. I wish I had time to go over all of this incredibly deep theological Expression of praise that she gives to God. There's no way to do that in five minutes, but godly mothers face their problems with patients. Godly mothers face their problems with prayer. Godly mothers face their problems with praise. Because that's what chapter 2, verses 1 to 10 is all about. She is just praising and rejoicing Just look at verse 1. Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies. Because I rejoice in thy salvation. There is none holy as the Lord, for there is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. I mean she just goes on and on and on throughout this whole thing. And verse seven, the Lord maketh rich, or make maketh poor and maketh rich, he bringeth low And lifteth up. He raises up the poor out of dust. He lifted up the beggar from the dunghill to set them among princes and to make them inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. And she's just pouring forth praise to God for what God has done. What a wonderful example she is for all of us. And you know what? You know what God does for her? God gives her more children. Look in chapter two, look at verse twenty-one. Start in verse twenty. And Eli blessed El Cana and his wife and said, The Lord give thee sea of this woman for the loan which is lent unto the Lord. In other words, he says, Because you've dedicated this son. to the Lord, I pray that God in return will give you seed, will give you more. I pray he'll give you more And it says, and they went unto their own home. Verse 21, and the Lord visited Hannah, so that she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the Lord. And that's just the beginning of Samuel because all the rest is about this godly prophet who God uses in a mighty way to bring a nation back to God. And where did that all start? It started with one godly mother. Who wanted to give something to the Lord. She didn't have it, but she asked God, God, if you give me, then I will give to you. And what did God do in return? God blessed her and gave more back to her. And that's why, again, I call her the mother of faith promise. She wanted to give. She didn't have it. She had a desire. She asked God for it. God gave it to her. And then she fulfilled her promise and gave it back to God. And God in return just gave her more. That's just the way God works, beloved. It's just the way he works. He's just good. He's just gracious. And if you have a problem, take it to him. Take it to the Lord. He'll help you. He'll take care of it. That's what we need to learn from Hannah. You can never outgive God Face your problems with patience. Face your problems with prayer. And when God moves on your behalf, face your problems with praise. Make sure that you give praise. Praise the God for what He has done. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for who you are. You're so faithful and true. And Lord, we can indeed bring our problems to you Lord, help us to follow the example of this godly woman. We know that life isn't going to be easy. We know that problems come, traumatic events come. Life is rough, it's hard. We thank you, Lord, for family and people you give us, but Lord, they help some, but you're our only help. You're the one that's got to help us. So Lord, help us to look ultimately to you above all for your help, your grace. Make us people of prayer. Lord, forgive us for our cold, heartless prayers. Prayers are not even worthy to be whispered. Because they have no heart to it. Lord, help us to be like Hannah, to pray with our spirit, to pray with all our heart, to pray in faith, and to believe your promises when you speak. And then Lord, give us lips ready to praise you for your goodness. And all that you do in our lives. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, and I just want to ask you before we leave today I would be negligent if I didn't invite you to come to know this wonderful God through Jesus Christ, his son. The reason we're here today is because of his grace, because God sent his son Jesus to die for our sins on the cross. All of our sins were placed on him. Jesus satisfied the wrath of the Father. Salvation is a gift he offers because of Jesus. If you turn from your sin and you put your faith in Jesus, he will save you. He will save you And my friend, if you're not here, or or I'm sorry, if you're here and you're not saved, I would if I could I would go to you and get on my knees, and I would say to you, please, please, please, don't leave without knowing that Christ is your Savior and your Lord. This is the most important thing in your whole life, beloved. The most important thing in your whole life to know Jesus. And he's right there. He's a prayer way. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. And if you pray that in faith, He'll forgive you for your sin. He'll give you eternal life in heaven. He'll save you. Father, bless these words, the hearing hearts today. Use it for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.