God's word tonight and would you please uh open to Revelation chapter seven? And we've been studying Revelation and we really have kind of paused here in chapter seven. I've asked you to open up the chapter seven the past few weeks, but I haven't really preached anything out of it because uh we are kind of taking a parenthetical uh uh series of sermons on this one question, has the church replace Israel. This will be the third part and final part of this sermon unless I unless y'all don't listen fast enough and I have to do more. Or if you don't agree with me, I might have to do more. I plan to settle this issue for all time for all church history. And uh just kidding. But um what brought this issue up is when we look here in Revelation 7, and this is the passage that teaches us about the 144,000. There are several interpretations as to who this body of people are. To take the scripture literally, we would just take it at face value. These are 144,000 Jewish people, 12,000 from each of the twelve tribes That during the tribulation period will go out and they'll share the Word of God and the gospel and great power. And as a result of that, there's going to be a worldwide revival such as we never had before. There's a second multitude that's mentioned here in chapter 7 of Revelation. That's a multitude which no man could number. These are people standing before the throne of God, worshiping in heaven. These are people that were saved out of the tribulation period as a result of the work, the great reviving work that will go on during that time. Now there are some that look at this group, the 144,000, therefore, and take it literal that these will be uh Jewish evangelists during that time. There are others, however, that look at this 144,000 and they say this is not literal. This is rather symbolic. It speaks of the church. In fact, the 144,000 and the multitude that without number is the same group. Um, even though there seems to be real clear distinctions here in Scripture about these two groups, that doesn't really seem to matter. There's more of a symbolic look at this. And this opens up a question, and that question is the one that we've been dealing with. Has the church replaced Israel? Because those that believe in replacement theology basically believe that the church now is the new Israel. They sometimes call it fulfillment theology, that the church now is really fulfilling everything that God intended. But essentially they're saying the same thing. They they they say we don't like the term replacement theology. The church really hasn't replaced anything. It's simply fulfilling But really it it ri it it the end is the same and that is that uh the national ethnic Israel has no more place in God's prophetic plan. It's no more they're no more any special than any other nation. They have no significant role whatsoever in the end times Now that's a big issue, because as I said before, how you interpret Israel, the nation of Israel, will determine your eschatology, and that of course means your doctrine of the last things. How you interpret Israel will determine the position you take about how all of redemptive history will consummate Those who believe in replacement theology had a tendency to believe in a millennial view. A-millennial means we're in the millennium right now. There's no literal millennial reign of Christ in Jerusalem. Um you know, again, because the nation of Israel is no longer the issue. It's the church, and we're in this the millennial reign right now. Christ is already reigning from heaven and so on. So they take all the promises that God made to Israel in a spiritual way, in a symbolic way. Or they have a tendency to be postmillennial, which is to say that they believe that the gospel will continue to spread until you know basically all of all of the uh population of the earth comes to know Jesus. And when that happens, Jesus will come back and he will reign. Those who believe that the nation of Israel has a future have a tendency to be premillennial. That is, there will be a literal millennial reign of Christ on earth. as the Bible says. And so you can see then that what what you think about Israel will determine your eschatology. Now what I've been doing here then is just basically giving you four reasons, four logical reasons I say why the church has not replaced Israel. Why I believe that God has a plan for his people, national Israel, in the future. And the first reason we gave you is the distinction between Israel and the church throughout Scripture. And what I endeavored to show you is that the starting point of the church and the starting point of the nation of Israel are totally different. The nation of Israel started in the Old Testament in Genesis 12 when God called Abraham and then later God affirmed that promise in Genesis fifteen. And the rest of the Old Testament is the growth and development of the existence of the nation of Israel, the church. didn't start until the New Testament when Jesus remember Jesus said, I will build my church, future indicative. Which is implies that the church was not in existence yet, even though Jesus was gathering the foundation of the church together in the apostles, he said, I will build my church, not I am building Or I have been building. And later the apostle Paul said that the church will be built upon the foundation of the up of the apostles and the prophets of the New Testament, Jesus Christ being the cornerstone. You don't build the house before the foundation. If the foundation wasn't laid until the ministry of Christ, and if Christ is the cornerstone of the church, that means that the church had its official beginning and on the day of Pentecost when uh the the Holy Spirit came. And that's another thing. You really can't get into the church unless you're baptized by the Spirit into the body of Christ. And that work of the Spirit had not happened yet until Jesus Died, rose again, ascended to heaven, and God put him as head over the church, the church being his body. So they had two different starting points The other thing that I talked about was the unconditional promises of God. Those who hold to replacement theology believe that the nation of Israel forfeited its elected status. When they disobeyed God, when they became an apostate nation. then they were therefore rejected by God and replaced by a new Israel or the church. But what I endeavored to show you through the Old Testament was that the promises that God gave to Israel were unconditional promises. They were not dependent upon the obedience or the performance of Israel in any way. They were unconditional. It was all unilateral. It was all God. God keeping those promises. Psalm 89 verses 30 to 35 summarizes this. If his children forsake my law and walk not in my commandments, if they break my statues and keep not my commandments, then will I visit their transgressions with a rod And their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless, my loving kindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break. nor alter the thing that has gone from my lips. That's an unconditional promise, promises or covenants I could sit should say God made. But then the third thing that I talked about last time, a third reason, was the literal interpretation of God's promises to Israel. Those who advocate replacement or fulfillment theology, when they come to the promises that God made to Israel in the Old Testament, they change their hermeneutics. Hermeneutics is just a word that means The science of interpretation, the principles you use to interpret the Bible, and they go from a literal interpretation of Scripture to beginning to hold those promises as being allegorical or symbolic or they use some kind of spiritual interpretation rather than a literal interpretation. And my question is, why change? Why do you change from being literal in your interpretation of the Bible to suddenly becoming allegorical or symbolic in the way that you change? or in the way that you interpret scripture. It was Augustine, uh the early church father, who was called the father of A-Millennialism. He was greatly influenced by the Alexandrian school of hermeneutics, which basically believed in the allegorical means of interpreting the Bible rather than literally, because he himself was influenced by Greek philosophy the kind of the platonic model of dualism, which is to downplay material blessings and to reinterpret all those things as spiritual realities. You see, Greeks believed that all material matter, physical, carnal things, that was evil, all spirit was good, and that whole idea entered into the way they looked at things, the way they interpreted things, and and and that kind of Greek thinking. got into the allegorical way of interpreting scripture. They were trying to find some spiritual meaning beneath the literal. And by doing that, they basically began to reinterpret some of those literal meanings. The promises then became not material blessings, but spiritual realities. And again, Augustine was educated in Greek philosophy. He could not escape the influence of that. And he viewed premillennialism, which was the view of the church up until the fourth century. He began to view it with suspicion. And he found Origen's allegorical method a helpful tool. fool for sidestepping certain millennial passages. And that tradition is carried on. But even a millennialist will admit That if you interpret the promises that God made to Israel literally, you have to come up with a literal kingdom of God. You have to come up with a literal future restoration of the nation of Israel. Now let me give you the fourth and final point, my fourth reason why I believe the church has not replaced Israel Number four would be the New Testament teaches the restoration of Israel. The New Testament teaches this. And I want you to go now to Matthew 23, and I want you to see this. This is Appropriate that we go to this passage on this day. Again, this is a passage that deals with the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. And I want you to we looked at Luke's view of this this morning, and now we're going to look at Matthew, and I want you to notice what he says in chapter twenty-three and verse 37. Here is Jesus. He rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. You remember they were crying Hosanna. And then later as uh we we learned that on Friday they were crying to crucify him. And Jesus wept because of the final rejection of the Jews and the nation of Israel. But notice what he says in verse 37, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem Thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings, and ye would not? Behold, your house is left unto you desolate For I say unto you, ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. When Jesus came the first time, the people rejected him, the nation rejected him. And because of this national rejection of Jesus as their Messiah, he now pronounces judgment on that nation. In verse 38 he says, Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. What does he mean by that? What house is he talking about? This is a reference to the Jewish temple. This is a prophecy that Jesus makes about the Jewish temple. So the question I would ask then is who is Jesus talking to here? It's very obvious. He's talking to Israel. He's talking to the Jewish people. Your house is left desolate. And then we see three key points in verse number 39. Look what he says: For I say unto you Ye shall not see me henceforth till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Three really points here first. When he says, You shall see me no more, what's he speaking about? He's speaking of a departure. Jesus is about to depart. He will be gone from them. He's going to die and he's going to be buried and ri and and rise again, but he won't see them anymore. He'll spend time with his disciples and then he'll ascend. You'll see me no more. Second, until and here he speaks of delay or postponement. And then third, he looks to Israel's time of future repentance. Notice what he says, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Now this is the this is what they were saying. To Jesus there on that day, blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. But he knows they were not saying that sincerely, because they would reject him. But essentially what he's saying is, you won't see me again until you say with sincerity, with genuine repentance, from a heart that's true. Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. And so here he looks to this time of future repentance. Who is he talking to again? He's talking to Israel. He's talking to the people of Israel. They will realize that they rejected the Messiah in the past, and that there will come a day when they will change their minds and realize that Jesus is indeed the promised Messiah. They will repent, they will change their minds, their hearts, and they will say sincerely, not superficially, Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. Now remember, that's a messianic reading. They were using that, but again it wasn't from a sincere heart. This time they will say it, and it will be genuine. It will be true repentance And this will be the fulfillment of Zechariah. And you might want to write down Zechariah 8. 14. Listen to what he says. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, As I purpose to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the Lord of hosts. Verse 15. So again have I purpose in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Fear not. Did you get what he said there? It's a great verse. Just as literal as their punishments were fulfilled, even so their restoration will be literal. That's the idea there. Was the prophecies about their punishments literally fulfilled? Yeah, they were. And he says, even so I purpose these days to bring good just like I brought punishment and that literally happened. I'm going to bring good If the punishment prophecies were literally fulfilled, then the prophecies of the restoration will also be literally fulfilled. Why would we think any other way? Why would we take this any other way? Why would we say the first part was literally fulfilled, but the second part's not going to be literal? Again, where do you get doing that? Where do you get off with that? And then Zechariah continues in chapter 12, verse 10, and I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace. And please for mercy, so that when they look upon me on whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. When they repent and cry for mercy and give the messianic welcome, Jesus will restore the nation, both spiritually and literally physically, there. Now there's another passage I want you to look at. Go to Acts chapter 1. We're talking about Jesus talking about the national restoration of Israel. Here's another passage that I think is important in this idea. Acts chapter 1, and I want you to look down at verse number 6. It says this, and when they therefore were come together, They asked him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? Now what's going on here? Jesus is now ready to ascend into heaven. He had resurrected, he had spent 40 days with his disciples, and now he's about to ascend into heaven And notice the question that they asked Jesus. Jesus, will you at this time, will you restore the kingdom of Israel? They're asking about the kingdom. They're asking about the national restoration of Israel. And notice how Jesus responds. Jesus doesn't rebuke them or correct them for their misunderstanding. He doesn't say, oh well, wait a minute guys, you got this wrong. This isn't going to be literal. This is going to be more of a spiritual thing. No, he didn't say that. He didn't say it's a spiritual kingdom and it's already started. You're in the millennium right now, or it's about to start This would have been a perfect time for Jesus to correct them on their errant theology if they had it wrong. And keep in mind that Jesus had just met with the disciples for 40 days. What did he talk about with them for forty days, pray tell? Well go back to verse number three of chapter one, talking here uh again Luke says this verse three to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion or his suffering, by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of them the things, or speaking of the things pertaining to the what? Kingdom of God. He's talking about the things of the kingdom. All that time he's speaking to them about the things of the kingdom. And now they ask Jesus, are you going to restore the kingdom now? What does this question imply? I mean, to me it implies that Jesus, during that period of 40 days, taught them about a national restoration of Israel. Otherwise, they were seriously misguided in this question. If Jesus had taught them about some spiritual kingdom or redefinition of the kingdom that did not involve national Israel, how could they ask this question? How could they be so off in this question? It's very unlikely that they would have been misguided after forty days of Jesus instructing them about the things about the kingdom of God. And so the lack of correction From Jesus here, in my opinion, is a validation that the disciples were correct in their belief about Israel's restoration for the simple reason that Jesus doesn't offer any rebuke And throughout the ministry of Jesus, when the disciples got something wrong, you read about it. Jesus would rebuke them. He would correct them instantly He would say, you do err. He would sometimes to the Pharisees who knew the Old Testament, you do err, not knowing the scripture. He wouldn't let something go like that. He would always correct But here, he doesn't offer any correction. The only thing that he talks about is the timing. He doesn't talk about the actual restoration. He just simply talks about the timing. It's not for you to know the time. That's all he says. And so, again, to me that's pretty pretty important there. Now let me go to another passage. This is the classic one. This will be the last passage. that we're gonna look at. Don't get excited because we're gonna be here a long time. But look in uh Romans chapter eleven. This is the classic passage and this will be the second point. Not only did Jesus teach the uh a national restoration, but Paul taught a national restoration of Israel. Look in Romans chapter 11 and look down at verse number 1. I say then, has God cast away his people? Here's the issue. I mean Paul's asking the question directly, has God cast away his people? What's the answer to that, verse one? Uh maybe. Is that what your Bible says? God forbid. That's the strongest negative in the Greek. Has God cast away his people? God forbid. That's from the Apostle Paul. Let's pray. We're done That's pretty clear. God forbid. And uh the question is uh Again, about the failure of Israel. Cast away here is from a word which means to thrust away. In the New Testament, this verb always is used in the middle voice indicating a thrustaweing of oneself. In other words, does Israel have a future Is God through with them? Is he done? And again, Paul gives a very clear and definite answer. And what he does in the rest of chapter eleven is Paul gives four reasons why God is not through with Israel. He gives for. So notice notice the reasons he gives. Here's the first reason. I call this a personal reason. The example of Paul himself. Because look what he says in verse 1. For I also am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Paul uses himself as an example. God didn't turn his back on me. And Paul was blind about the Messiah. He didn't know who Jesus was. He had his heart hardened against the gospel and against Christianity. And yet what happened to him? God saved him. And Paul then uses his salvation as a pattern. If God wasn't done with me, then he's not done with others of the nation of Israel. Just as Paul was blind to the Messiah, so the majority of Jews are blind to the Messiah. Just as Paul held to his religion, so do they. Just as Paul lived in rebellion and unbelief, so do they. Just as Paul saw the resurrected, glorified Christ, the Jews will one day look upon him whom they pierced. We just read that. Just as Paul's eyes were open, so their eyes will be open. So Paul gives a personal reason. I'm exhibit A for the fact that he's not done. But here's the second reason, a historical reason And he talks about the exhortation to Elijah. Look at verse 2. God has not cast away his people, which he foreknew. Wilt ye not what the scripture saith of Elias, or Elijah, how he maketh intercession to God against Is Israel, saying, Lord, they have killed thy prophets and dig down thine altars, and I am left alone, and they seek my life. Remember that in the Old Testament? Remember Elijah? This was during a time of epic apostasy. in the history of Israel. They were turning away from the worship of Yahweh. They were turning to the worship of Baal. This was incredible apostasy. And God brings a prophet on the scene by the name of Elijah. And Elijah's out there ministering and at one point he gets pretty discouraged and he says, God, I'm the only one. I'm the only one left. They've killed your prophets, they torn down your altars, and I alone am left, and they're seeking my life. And you remember what God said to him? Paul's reminding us of this in verse 4. But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal. What's God saying? God always has a faithful remnant. Paul thought he was the only, or excuse me, Elijah thought he was the only one left there being faithful to worship The true God Yahweh, but God said he lied to There's a whole bunch out there that you don't know about. And Paul's using this as another example. There are others out there, national Israel who are coming to Christ, God always has a remnant. God's not done. And so And then Paul talks about the election. Look at verse 5. Even so at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of Grace. No, God still has a remnant out there. He still has an elect out there according to his grace. It's all of grace. It's all of God. That's another uh point that Paul makes. He gives a personal reason why God's not done with Israel. He gives a historical reason. He points to what happened with Elijah to say God is not done. But then number three, he gives a practical reason The evangelization of the Gentiles. This is the third reason why. So look down in verse um, and there's so much, I know I'm going through this fast. I wish I had more time to go through all of this. But look down at verse number 11. I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? Again, this is the same question. Have they stumbled to the point where they've completely fallen away where God says, I'm done with National ethnic Israel. And then again, what's the answer to that question that he asked? God forbid. But rather, through their fall, salvation is come unto the Gentiles, for to provoke them to Jealousy. Their fall, their rejection is not permanent, God forbid, Paul said. And God promises that they fell down, but they're going to get back up. It's not true. And we're gonna read further on, we'll get down to verse twenty-five where it says that um this time of them not being of not of Jews not really coming To Christ in big numbers is because of what is called the time of the fullness of Gentiles. Look at verse 25. Just skip down there real quick For I wouldn't not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part is happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles come in This time period is called the fullness of the Gentiles. This period of time in redemptive history is the time when in God's plan God is turning to the nations, to uh to the Gentiles, to those who are non-Jewish, that they're coming to Christ in big numbers and not many People from national Israel are or Jewish people are being saved right now. This is the times of the Gentiles. And what's the purpose for that? Again in verse number 11. Paul says this were to provoke them to jealousy. First of all, the reason for this time is for the salvation of the Gentiles. The stumbling of the Jews meant the offer of salvation to the Gentiles Israel's temporary loss is the nation's gain. But the second reason Paul said God did this is to provoke the Jews to jealousy. Now, jealousy we kind of look at as kind of a negative emotion, but God's intent was for it to be a positive motivation to draw people back to himself. And and what Paul's saying is when Jewish people see Gentiles being saved and they see them getting in on the blessings of God, the idea is it should provoke them to want to have those things. To get that. You know, there's a sense in which the Jews have kind of looked at disdain on Gentiles and thought of them as being unclean and outside the boundaries of God's grace. To be told now that the Jews have lost that special relationship to God, that's shocking for a Jewish person to hear. It's even more shocking for them to hear that God is now turning to the nations, he's turning to the Gentiles. But the idea here is simply this: that believers, now that we are recipient of the blessings of God right now. We are to live such godly, radiant, joyful lives that this will cause unbelieving Jews to be provoked to want those spiritual blessings. To want to know Jesus Christ. And that's the idea. And that's why Paul says here in verse 13, notice what he says, for I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify my office. And again, Paul uses himself as an example of seeking to provoke Jews to jealousy. He had the special call of preaching the gospel to the Gentiles. And that mission was given to him by God, and he glorifies in that. He says, I magnify my office. I'm so glad that God made me an apostle to the Gentiles Because the more Gentiles that get saved and they have the joy of God in their life and there's blessings there, the more that's going to provoke the people of Israel to jealousy. So that they will want to come to know Christ. And so in verse 15 He kind of jumps back to the same thought. Look at verse 15. For if the casting away of them be the reconciliation of the world, what shall the receiving of them be but life from the dead? And you understand Paul's thought here? If they're being cast aside, if they're being set aside, brings salvation to the Gentiles, it brings reconciliation to God for the Gentiles What will happen when they are received? It would be like life from the dead. If setting aside Israel brought blessings, what kind of blessings are going to come when God brings them back and He restores them? That's gonna be huge. That's gonna be great. Setting them aside brings blessing. Wait till God brings them back and he restores them. Man, that's gonna really Bless the whole world. Right now, Israel is spiritually dead, but they're going to come back to life, and when that happens, it's going to bless the world even more. That's the idea. There will be a national restoration of Israel, and when that happens, the blessings will spill over into the rest of mankind. If Israel's fall brought blessings Imagine the blessings that will come from their fullness. Just imagine that. And then in verses 16 to 24, Paul will describe what he means by this. And he'll use a parable. Look at verse 16. For if the first fruit be holy, the lump is also holy, and if the root be holy, so are the branches. Now, Paul's going to prove this point by using some analogy. And first he's going to talk about a loaf of bread. First fruit here is referring to an offering which was set aside specifically for the Lord. Now, and some Bibles actually translate to this, translate the first fruits as dough, because sometimes in the Old Testament the offerings were bread or cakes or loaves that were given. And when they would give that offering, before they would give the offering, they would break off a piece of that bread and they would give it to the priest who served there. He would get the first fruits, he would get the first piece. And by the way, that should continue. If you guys have something, you should give me some of it. It's biblical. All right? So they would bring their bread and they would break off apart, and and here's Paul's point. If the first fruits is holy, he says In verse 16, if the first fruits be holy, the lump is holy. If they break off a piece of this bread and give it to the priest and that That peace is holy, that means that the whole loaf was holy. That's the idea. The big question here is what does the whole loaf represent and what does the the broken off piece represent. I think the first fruits are the the piece of bread that represents Abraham and the patriarchs. The loaf represents the rest of the Jewish people. That's the idea. And I think that's the correct interpretation. Look down at verse 20. I'll tell you why. It says this, as concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes. But as touching the election, they are beloved for the father's sake. In other words, God still loves national ethnic Israel for the sake of the fathers. Who are the fathers? The patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So there's a sense in which if Abraham and Isaac and Jacob are holy to the Lord, then so is Israel holy to the Lord. Because they are they're part of Israel. That's the idea. Since the patriarchs are set apart, then their descendants, Israel, is still beloved of God. They're also still set apart. That's the idea. And then he gives another illustration, the olive tree. Again in verse number 16, and if the root be holy, so are the branches. Paul is saying that if the foundation part of the plant, which is the root, if that's holy, then what it produces? The branches? Likewise must be holy. Again, the root represents the first patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. If they were holy and consecrated to the Lord, so were all their descendants, the people of Israel. For God to forsake his people would be to renege on those promises that he gave to those patriarchs. Therefore, in order for God to be faithful to his promise, there must be a future restoration of Israel. And then to prove his point even further, he uses an analogy from grafting. Look at verse 17. And if some of the branches be broken off And thou, being a wild olive tree, were grasted in among them, and when them and with them partakest of the root and the fatness of the olive tree, In other words, a cultivated olive tree, that's a symbol of the nation of Israel. Right? If some of the branches be broken off, what does that mean? Branches broken off, that's judgment on Israel. So in Paul's analogy, Israel is an olive tree, and the old unproductive branches were broken off in judgment And in place of those old, unproductive branches, young wild olive branches were grafted in. What does that represent? The Gentiles that are coming to Christ. If those branches were grafted in, now those branches get to partake of the blessing from that olive tree. That's the idea. And so this really tells me several things. Some of the branches were broken off, but not all. Not all the branches. There's always, again, there's always been a believing remnant The remaining branches are the remnant. The wild branches grafted in the olive tree, again, these represent the Gentiles partaking of the root and the fatness. That's the Gentiles grafted in, enjoying divine blessings, in eternal relationship. with God through salvation. But now here's the warning. Look at the warning in verse 18. Boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. Now here's the danger, Paul says. This is a very interesting verse regarding the Christians' attitude towards national Israel. Paul is saying, don't be arrogant against the branches. That is, the branches that were broken off. Those branches that are broken off, unbelieving Israel, don't be arrogant against those who have not believed. Don't despise them. And by the way, there has been in church history, unfortunately, a long record of anti-Semitism that is that is shameful uh in the church because of misunderstanding this whole idea here misunderstanding what God was doing And uh Paul says, look, we should have, as believers, as Gentiles who have been grafted into the olive tree, there's certain attitudes that we need to maintain towards national Israel. And what are they? Gratitude. Boast not against the branches, but if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root bears thee. That is, they are our forefathers, even though their blood is not in our veins, their truth and their heritage is in our heart. The Jewish people have given us salvation. Salvation has come out of Israel. Salvation has come out of Abraham's seed. And so we should not uh we should not boast against them. It's not the branches that support the roots. It's the root that supports the branches. That's what he's saying. And so don't have a negative attitude towards God's national, God's people, national Israel. We should be grateful, but also there should be humility. Look at verse 19. Thou wilt say then, the branches were broken off, that I might be grasped in. And Paul's anticipating what some people would think. There are some arrogant boasts out there where some people would say, oh, you know, God broke off those branches because God was making room for me. You know? And they're boasting about themselves. And you know what that is? That's pride. That's pride. You think there's something special about you? You think there's something great about you? You think you're better than A national Israel, those who have not called upon the Messiah, let me tell you something, dear friend, your eyes would still be blind unless God opened your eyes. You would be blind unless God did a work in your heart and opened your eyes. So don't you be arrogant against someone else who's blind about Jesus. We should not boast in that way. And so there should be another attitude here. That's fear. Look at verse 20. Well, because of unbelief, they were broken off. And thou standest by faith. Be not high-minded, but fear. The proper attitude is not to boast about you having something that they didn't have, maybe that that's not the case. You are to have fear. You are to have reverence. The issue is not worthiness. The Jews were broken off because of unbelief, and the Gentiles stand because of faith. The issue is not racial, it's not national, it's not inferiority, it's not superiority, it is faith. And I want to tell you something, friend, faith is a gift from Almighty God. It's a gift from God. God gives us the ability to believe. You wouldn't even know how to believe unless God gave it to you. We couldn't do that on our own. That's something that God has to do in us. For by grace are you saved through what? And that is not of yourself. That is a gift of God, lest any man should boast. God gives us that ability to believe. And then in verse 21, he says this, for if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee. And the idea here is this, if God did not hesitate to break off the natural branches, he will not hesitate to break off the grafted ones if he needs to. If you get so high-minded. And so in verse 22, behold therefore the goodness and severity of God on them which fell, severity But towards thee goodness, and if thou continue in his goodness, otherwise thou also shall be cut off. You better fear the goodness and the severity of God You better rejoice in the fact that God is good to us and he grafted us into these blessings. And friend, if he if he broke off the natural branches, do you think he would hesitate to break off the grafted ones if they become too high-minded and proud? Absolutely not. So you better fear the severity of God. You better appreciate the goodness of God, is what he's saying there. And then finally, look at verse 23. And again, I don't have time to go through all of this because we're already out of time. And again, you haven't listened fast enough. It's your fault. But let's just kind of wrap it up here. But look at verse 23. Notice what he says. And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, they shall be grafted in For God is able to grasp them in again. We are to abide in belief. We are to abide in the goodness of God. We're to continue in that. And here he says, he uses the same word, continue in epimeno. If they no longer continue in their unbelief, they're going to be grafted back in. And then along with that, look at verse 24. For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree, which is wild by nature, and were grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more shall these which be the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree. And so here Paul is telling us that there's going to be a time when they're going to be grasped back in. It's going to happen And it's going to be very easy for God to do this. God one day will graft the cultivated branches back in. And again, we saw this in Zechariah. The promises in the Old Testament I will pour out on the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and of supplication, and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him. As the one that mourns for his only son. And to quote one scholar, in the end times during the Great Tribulation, the Apostate Gentile Church which had been cut off from what is by uh nature a wild olive tree, and was grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, will itself be cut off, just as Israel once was And at that time, Israel, the natural branches, will then be grafted back into their own olive tree, and the natural descendants of Abraham will become his spiritual descendants. Again and once again, the Lord's chosen people will be a blessing. This is God's promise for national restoration. Now there's one more point here, and I'll just make this real quick and we'll be done. I guess Paul here's Paul's four reasons. He gives a personal reason. The example of Paul, a historical reason, the exhortation to Elijah, a practical reason, the evangelization of Gentiles, and then finally a scriptural reason. He'll give evidence of scripture And what he'll basically talk about here is that all of this, this idea that there's blindness in Israel, this was a mystery. This was something that was not revealed in the Old Testament. This is something that was not revealed unless set by divine revelation. And here Paul gives us this mystery. Look in verse number 25. For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceit. That blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. This is a mystery. This is what God's plan has been that there's partial blindness in Israel until the Until the times of the Gentiles come in, the fullness of the Gentiles come in, that is, when the last Gentile convert gets saved, God will then turn again to his people, the Jews. Israel now is blinded. Verse 25, but Israel will be blessed in verse 26, and so that all Israel shall be saved. And this opens up another question that I don't have time to answer tonight. What does it mean when it says all Israel will be saved? Who's Paul talking about here? Well, it is the branches that were broken off, the olive tree. In Paul's analogy, there were branches broken off the olive tree. Who does that represent? There were branches that were broken off. That's the unbelieving uh nation of Israel. There were branches that remained in. That was the believing remnant. They're already saved. These are the branches left on. And so the branches broken off are going to be grafted right back in. And that is the remainder of the nation of Israel, the unbelieving Jews at that time. That's what the all represents. The all Israel, those that are remaining. And so this brings us all the way back to Revelation chapter 7. You thought we would never get back there, right? All the way back to Revelation 7. When the 144,000 Jews will be preaching the gospel And those who hear the gospel during that time will repent and be saved. Not only will there be Jewish people that will be saved in great numbers, but many all over the world. And the Bible says this, and I'll leave you with this, Hosea 3. 5. After where the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God. And their king, and they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days When Paul says they shall be saved, and then he says there comes out of Zion, from Paul's vantage point, this is still yet to come. This is still yet future And so there's a future time that Paul's talking about from where he is at that moment And so there's there's uh there's other Old Testament passages that we could go to, but the final thing is that Israel was blinded, Israel will be blessed, Israel is still God's beloved. Look in verse 28. I know I said I'd close with that other verse, but just look at this. As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes, but as touching the election, they are beloved For the Father's sake, for the gifts and calling of God are without what? Without repentance. Gifts Charismata, that's grace, gifts. We could say the grace of God, the unmerited favor of God, God's divine choice. God did not change his mind. God will not withdraw these from Israel, the gifts and the calling of God are without repentance. God is not going to change his mind about that. And so this is the mercy of God. And so these final verses, and I promise, this is these are the final ones. We we've got to close this chapter the right way. Look at look at verse 33. O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. And his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor? Or who has first given to him, and it shall be reconciled unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever and ever. Great way to end that chapter, isn't it? His ways are past finding out. This is God's plan. And all we can do is just stand back and say, we give God glory for it. We praise God for this. All theology should lead to doxology. It should lead us to praise God. We're looking into the deep things of God, the deep mind of God, his plan. And in the end, Paul just breaks out in spontaneous praise and worship to God. And uh and that's what that's what theology does. Theology should cause us to stand back in awe and give praise to our great God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we uh we do stand in all of you, Father, your wisdom Your plan, your purposes. And Lord, we wouldn't know these things unless you revealed them to us through divine revelation. We're blessed, Lord, that you would choose to show us your secrets To help us to understand and see what's going on and why it's going on in the world today. And so, Father, in this we praise you. We thank you. We thank you for your Your grace, Lord, that grafted us into the olive tree and that we are recipients of these wonderful blessings, these divine blessings that are so rich and full. We thank you, Lord, and I pray that you'll help us to maintain that proper attitude of gratitude and humility and fear and reverence and realize that our salvation, Lord, is because of your grace and your grace alone. And may it give us the right heart attitude towards those who do not know Jesus. May it give us a compassion and a love and a desire to pray. For not only uh Gentiles that don't know the Lord, but for unbelieving Jews who still have not turned to their Messiah. Lord may I give us a broken heart for them. And may our prayer be for the for them to come to know Jesus Christ, for them to turn to their Messiah and confess Christ. Thank you again, Lord, for all that you're doing. We give you praise and all these things, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.