Would you take God's word tonight and open, please, to the book of Revelation as we continue our study in Revelation? Go to chapter 7 tonight. And I want to really just show you one verse in chapter seven. We're going to kind of jump around a little bit in some other passages because I want to deal with an issue I think that's important that's going to help us in our understanding of the study of Revelation. You might remember the last time that we dealt with chapter 7, we looked at the 144,000 that are mentioned here, 12,000 from each of the 12 tribes of Israel. And if you remember from our last study, I said that there are some people who look at this group of 144,000 Jews, and they don't interpret this literally, they interpret it symbolically In fact there are some that look at this and say, well the the the hundred and forty four thousand is really symbolic of the church. This is the church. And then right after that there's another group of multitude from verses nine down to verse number seventeen. And the Bible here says that this is a multitude that no man can number. And so we have two groups here in chapter seven. We have the hundred and forty-four thousand at the beginning of chapter seven, and then we have the multitude that no man can number. Um in the second part of chapter seven. And what some people do is when they come to this, they say that both of these groups symbolize the same uh entity, or we could say they both symbolize the church. The 144,000 speaks symbolically of the church. The multitude standing before the throne, that also speaks about the church. Now but however when you compare these two groups here, you find out there are some distinctions of the first group are Jews, the second group are Gentiles, the first group have a number, 144,000, the second group The first group are sealed and protected. The second group do not have a seal, and many of them die as martyrs There in the tribulation period. The first group that we see them witnessing on earth and the second group we see them worshiping in heaven And so there seems to be a clear distinction between these two groups, and so that's why I have trouble understanding why some people would look at this and say both of these groups are the same group and both of them speak symbolically of the church. Now why do people hold to this view that this is uh the church, this is not national Israel. These are the 144,000 are not It's not national Israel, but it is the church. This brings up a huge issue in eschatology Now, eschatology, just to remind some of you, is the word that means the study of the last things. Escata is a Greek word which means the last things. Ology is the study of, so it's the study of the last days, it's the study of the last things. It really answers this one question, how is all of this going to How is God going to bring all of this to a consummation? Now let me just say this. How you interpret Israel will determine your eschatology. Again, that's an important thing for you to understand. How you look at Israel in the Bible will determine how you stand on the issue of eschatology. If Israel is seen as national if Israel and the Bible is an eth ethnic group, if that's the truth all throughout Scripture and the church is different from Israel. then that's going to lead to certain theological conclusions in your eschatology. However, if the church is viewed as the new Israel, And that is to say, if the church has now replaced Israel in its role, and the church is the new Israel and has replaced national Israel, That also is going to kind of have a domino effect and it's going to affect where you land in your eschatology, how you think everything is going to come together. All right? So the bottom line is you get Israel right, you get your eschatology right. You get Israel right when you get the Old Testament covenants and promises right. You get the Old Testament covenant and promises right when you get the interpretation of Scripture right. And you get the interpretation of Scripture right when uh you you are faithful to a And when I say that, I mean I interpret the Bible literally, and so I interpret you know what I have in front of me in in a literal way. Not in an allegorical way, not uh not a spiritualizing of the text, but a literal interpretation of scripture. And if you interpret right, you're gonna understand the meaning of the covenants, you're gonna understand the meaning of Israel. and if Israel has a future. And this is the reason why this is such an important issue, because I think in a sense we could say that God's integrity is at stake. And here's the question that we have to ask ourselves. When God made promises to Israel in the Old Testament, did God intend to keep those promises Or has Israel fallen and failed to such an extent that Israel no longer can re reap the benefits of those promises And now the church gets all of those promises, all those blessings. That's one of the big issues. And this leads to a theology that is prevalent today, and it's called replacement theology. Now what is replacement theology? Replacement theology is the school of theology that teaches that the church has now replaced Israel And now the church is the object of God's blessings, not Israel. Or another way to say it is the New Testament church is the new or true Israel that has forever superseded the nation of Israel. This is also called supersessionism That comes from two Latin words super, which means on or upon, section, which means to sit, and it has the idea of sitting on another person's chair. All right? Don't you hate it when someone sits in your chair? I mean, we're Baptists, don't sit in our pew, right? But this is the idea that now the church is sitting in Israel's seat. Whereas Israel was the object of God's blessing, now it is the church. Israel's sin and failure cause God to set aside national Israel. completely set aside, permanently set aside, and now the church has replaced Israel. Now again, this is a big issue because if you believe that that's true, it's going to change your eschatology It's going to change how you see the end times falling out. Uh is God going to turn to Israel during the tribulation period or are there going to be multitudes that are saved? That directly impacts the passage that we studied here in Revelation chapter seven are the hundred and forty four thousand literal Jews that go out around evangelizing, sharing the gospel, where many of the people in the tribulation period turn to Christ because of these Jewish evangelists. Many Jews, Israel turns to God in the tribulation period. And all of Israel is saved, just like God said would happen in the Old Testament. But if you believe, however That the church has replaced Israel, you you believe then that Israel has no real place at all in biblical prophecy, that that the nation of Israel is insignificant when it comes to the end times and the fulfillment of prophecy. And so that's the question that we have to ask ourselves. That's what we have to deal with in this issue of replacement theology. Again, just to clarify, and this is the difference between what is called dispensational theology and covenant Those who hold to covenant theology, they uh they hold to this idea, many of them, of replacement, that the church has replaced Israel. Let me give you a quote from Covenant Theologian and Preterist Kenneth Gentry Gentry, who holds to this, and he says this, we believe that the international church has superseded for all times National Israel as the institution for the administration of divine blessing to the world Now there's no question that the church today is the instrument through which God is working. But however, does that mean that the church has forever replaced Israel and that Israel has no future. That's the question that we want to deal with here tonight. And by the way, along with that Some some replacement theologians would take issue with me and they would say, wait a minute, we don't believe in replacement theology. What they do is they put a new term on it. They'll say, We believe in fulfillment theology That is that the church is the fulfillment of Israel. And for example, let me give you a quote from Hank Hanagraph uh who holds to this. He says, quote, the true church is true Israel, and true Israel is truly the church. One cannot replace what It it what is all what already is. You can't replace what already is. And so they're saying really it's just the fulfillment But when you look closely at their view, it becomes clear that they do not believe that national Israel has a future in God's prophetic plan. And so really it's the same thing. I mean what's the old saying? If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, right? It is a duck. And so it's they're really saying the same thing there, even though they kind of kinda put a twist on the terms. It's still the same. Now let me just also say that there's a grow this is kind of a growing movement. A growing movement away from believing that the national Israel has a future. And that now the church has replaced Israel and uh this is growing in eschatology and and those who are a millennial in their uh belief of the millennium that really the the millennium's now In the church age, this is the millennial blessing we're having right now, or post-millennial, which believes that things are going to get better and better and better, and finally when everyone is saved, Jesus is going to come and take his throne in Jerusalem. Those are the two other views, and most of those who hold the view of a millennial and post-millennial hold to this idea of replacement theology. And again, it's growing. I remember when I was a seminary student, I had one particular professor that was a just I really benefited from and learned under. And uh he was my Greek professor, Dr. Easley. He's in heaven now, but he was a tremendous Greek professor. He really made uh Greek enjoyable. I I took several years of Greek under him and Greek reading. I remember one year in seminary that uh every year he would award what he thought was the best Greek student. We would have to do an exegetical paper. You know, it was a A big long drawn-out work there. We are dealing with all the things that you've learned. And he would always choose the best exegetical paper and publish it. And that year, he chose my paper as the best paper. and published it. I was so very honored that he would do that. And I say that because uh he had a lot of confidence in me as a student And when I took a PhD seminar with him on the book of Revelation, the first question that he asked the students, there were twelve students in the class. And the first question that he asked to the student body was this, how many of you here are still dispensational premillennialists? That was his question. And I raised my hand in class. And I was the only student that took that position. When I raised my hand in class, all the others took a different position in their eschatology. And even Dr. Easley looked at me and he had a look of horror on his face. when I raised my hand. And his words were very disheartening. He said, oh no, not you, Jerry. That's what he said. Almost like I disappointed him. Because I took this position of being premillennial, you could say dispensational premillennial in my eschatology. And the idea was that all these other students had gotten enlightenment and not you. Why are you still holding to this premillennial position? Well And by the way, Dr. Easley's in heaven, he's now premillennial. He's now corrected his theology. And if he were here today, he would say, way to go, Jerry. So, why do I hold to this? I want to show you tonight, and what I want to give you are four logical reasons why the church has not replaced Israel. Now I'm going to already concede defeat in this sermon and say I'm not going to be able to finish this. So what I'm I'm not even going to try to press it into one sermon. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to give you two reasons tonight, and then two reasons next Sunday night. Fair enough? That is, if you can listen fast enough, I'll give you two reasons tonight. All right. So I call this four logical reasons why the church has not replaced Israel. Number one, the distinction between Israel and the church throughout Scripture And what I mean to say by that is that if you look throughout Scripture, the Bible is consistent in making a distinction between Israel and the church We never see the church being called Israel in the scripture. We just don't see that. And for example, the starting point of the church and the starting point of the nation of Israel are different. We know that. That's not hard. When did the nation of Israel begin? Well, we know that that began when God called Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. He made a promise to make Abraham, his seed, a great nation He made a promise to give them the land. We see that in Genesis chapter 12. Later in Genesis chapter 15, God reaffirmed that promise And the rest of the Old Testament records the growth and development of the existence of that nation. And so really there's no debate on that matter of when the nation of Israel came into existence. It began with Abraham. It was formed over the next 700 years into a nation of a people and a law and the land. The church, however, when did the church start? Because some of these theologians will say, well, the church was in the Old Testament. Really? Well, where was it in the Old Testament? The church had its beginning on the day of Pentecost. It's worth noting the words of Jesus in Matthew 16. Jesus said this, I will build my what? Now that's future indicative in the Greek, future tense. Jesus said, I will build my church. He did not say, I am building my church. Or I have been building my church. All throughout the Old Testament, I've been building it, and now we're going to continue to build it. No, the church, by saying that I will build my church. implies that the church was still not yet in existence in Scripture. Therefore, it was not in the Old Testament Now his disciples would not have understood what Jesus meant when he said his church being built in the future, but the details about all that Jesus would share with them later in his ministry. Certain things had to be true before the church would come into existence. Alright, for example, according to the Apostle Paul, the church is the body of Christ, right? Isn't that what he calls the church? The church is the body of Christ. Well, who is the head? It's Christ. Christ is the head. The church is the body. Colossians 1:18. He is the head of the body, the church. So it's clear that the church, the body, could not exist or function without the head, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus did not officially assume that role of being head of the church. Until after he shed his blood, and then he resurrected, and he ascended into heaven, and once he took that position of authority, God made him head over all things, including the church, his body. In fact, the Bible says that in Ephesians 1, verse number 20, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in heavenly places. far above all principality and power, might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come, and hath put him all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church. And so the Bible's clear about that. After Christ did his work, he ascended to heaven. God made him Ahead of all things, including the church. Another thing is the church could not be formed apart from the baptizing work of the Holy Spirit. And that doesn't happen until on the day of Pentecost. This means that the only means that a person can enter into the church is by the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Write down 1 Corinthians 12, 13, for by one Spirit Are we all baptized into one body? What body is that? That body is the church. Whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, we have all been made to drink into one Spirit. And so it's the Holy Spirit when we get saved that puts us, baptizes us, or we could say immerses us into the body of Christ. Now Well this ministry of the Holy Spirit didn't really begin until the day of Pentecost. So without the Spirit's baptism, no one could enter into the body of Christ And thus the church could not exist before then. And that's why Jesus told his disciples, you wait in the upper room, you wait until the promise of the Father comes. Ten days later, um On the day of Pentecost, the Spirit came and they were baptized into the Spirit. And later when Peter is reflecting on the day of Pentecost, he he calls it a time of beginning. Think about that, a time of beginning. That's in Acts chapter 11, verses 15 and 16. The word for beginning that Peter used here is ark. It means a specific point in time when something new begins. Now, that again means that the church could not have been in the Old Testament. Here's God doing something new. When the Holy Spirit came upon the disciples that were there in the upper roof, that was a time of a new beginning. That was the time when the church came into existence. Another thought to think about is that the Apostle Paul tells us that the church's foundation is what? The foundation of the church are the apostles and the prophets of the New Testament, with Christ being the what, being the cornerstone, right? That's again, that's in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 20, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Now think about that. What does that suggest? That suggests two things. First of all, the church must have begun in the time of the apostles If the apostles are the foundation of the church and Christ is the cornerstone, it had to be begin at that time. I mean you can't have a building until your first year lay the foundation, right? And the foundation was laid In the ministry of Jesus, with the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ being the cornerstone. And number two, the church is not seen being built upon key personalities in the Old Testament. The church wasn't built upon Abraham or Isaac or Jacob. The church was built upon the apostles and the prophets of the New Testament. So the church did not begin in the Old Testament And therefore, it and Israel are distinct. Another factor to consider is that the church, unlike Israel, remember that the church is declared to be a mystery. Now think about that. Write down Colossians 1. 26, even the mystery which God has hid from the ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to His saints. Now in the New Testament a mystery is a truth that was not previously revealed. It wasn't revealed in the Old Testament. In fact One uh di uh Greek dictionary defines the word like this. It denotes that which is being outside of the range of unassisted natural apprehension. And can be made known only by divine revelation. And it's made known only in a manner and in a time appointed by God. Here's a mystery. That only God would reveal in his time and in his manner. You can't figure this out on your own naturally. It has to be something where you get divine illumination about. And what is this mystery in reference to? It's in reference to the church. And the idea was that the mystery included that believing Jews and believing Gentiles would be united together in one body. That is the mystery that Christ would indwell a person and that we would all be one body in Christ. Now while Gentile salvation was seen in the Old Testament, This kind of unique relationship between Jews and Gentiles, between God and the believer, that was not seen in the Old Testament And so the church was something specific. It was the church was something new, it was something different from Israel according to this. Another thing to consider is that Paul said that the church is one new man One new man. And he states that the basis that based on the death of Christ, reconciliation has been made between Jews and Gentiles as well as Christ and man, and the one new man is distinct from Israel. The one new man is distinct from Gentiles. The one new man is made up of believing Jews and believing Gentiles coming together in the body of Christ, the church. And so again, this points to something entirely new. That God is doing, not something that he's continuing from the Old Testament. Something that is entirely new. And there's a distinction again, then, between the Church and Israel. There's also another factor I'm giving you, uh I'm gonna give you, and that is this. The way the word Israel is used in the Bible. The Bible calls God the God of Israel. It calls him the God of Israel 200 times. There are more than 2,000 references to Israel in Scripture. 77 of those occur in the New Testament. All 77 times the name Israel is mentioned in the New Testament, it is referring to national Israel, ethnic Israel. There are only two verses in question. As to whether it's referring to possibly they might be referring to the church. One is Romans 9, 6, where Paul says, they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel, and all Paul is talking about there are believing Jews. That's what he's talking about there. It's still referring to national Israel. The other passage I want to show you, look in Galatians chapter 6. Look in Galatians chapter 6 and look at verse 16. This is the other verse that a lot of people use to say that the church has replaced Israel. Look at Galatians 6. 16. I know this is a little bit more depth than maybe uh you're used to, but you're in my seminary class tonight. Is that okay? Look in Galatians chapter 6, look at verse number 16. Now here's the other verse that choose. As many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. Now some people look at that and say, ah, there it is. Here the church is being called the Israel of God. Now the Interpretation of this verse hinges on the little conjunction there in verse 16 and and upon the Israel of God. Does and there make a distinction between Two groups. Peace be on them. Who is that? These are believers, the believing Gentiles that Paul would be referring to the church. And upon The Israel of God. Is he referring to the church there? Or is he referring to a different group, which would be National Israel? The Israel of God. And again, it's the conjunction there is Kai, which can be translated a lot of different ways. According to one Greek scholar, S. Lewis Johnson, he studied the various ways that this could be translated, and he came up with this conclusion that there's no reason to see the word chi as anything other than the normal sense It is a normal conjunction which separates two groups here. The Israel of God is talking about national Israel. But that's the one verse. that a lot of replacements theologians will point to and say this is a verse that teaches us that the church has replaced Israel. And again it's it's that I I don't see that in that interpretation there I don't think that that is the case. So the bottom line is that every time the word Israel is used in the Bible, it is referring to ethnic national Israel. Everybody still with me? All right, point number two. Number two. The first one I said there's a distinction between Israel and the church throughout Scripture. Number two, a second reason is the unconditional promises of God to Israel. When God made promises to Israel, those promises were unconditional. That's the thing you have to remember. A millennialist and post-millennialists who embrace replacement theology argue that Israel, in spite of once having been elected was rejected by God and replaced by the church, the new Israel. And the reason for that is because of Israel's disobedience. And so that's why we read a quote like this from David Hill, the Jewish nation as a corporate entity had now forfeited its elect status. So, the question then we have to ask is, has God set aside Israel because of their disobedience? Because of their apostasy, because of their fall, has now God canceled out those promises to the nation of Israel, and now they all apply to the church Well, that's nowhere in the Bible. I don't I don't see that in Scripture. Uh you don't find that in the Bible. It's just not there. And so let me just show you this. Look in Genesis chapter 12. Go to the Old Testament. Let's just look at a few verses here. Look in Genesis chapter 12. And I want you to look in verse number one. This is the call of God to Abraham. This is what we call the Abrahamic covenant. In chapter twelve, verse one it says, Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee. and curse him that curses thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Now, what I want you to see here is the the expression of the phrase, I will. Here's God saying, This is what I will do. Now, normally in the Old Testament, and when God makes a promise, there are two different types of promises. There are conditional promises, and there are unconditional promises. Whenever you see the words if, then, that's conditional. You'll read something like this, if you do this, God says, then I will do this. That's a conditional promise. But when you read the words I will, I will, I will, this is what I'm going to do, you know what that is? That's unconditional. That means God's going to do it. There are no conditions to it. Here's what God's going to do. And I want you to see that the I wills here are pretty strong. God said, I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee. And verse 3, I will bless them that bless thee. And so we see this over and over again. This is an unconditional promise. This is unilateral. This is given by a sovereign God who has authority and all power. But then go to Genesis chapter 13. Look at verse 14. We're going to look at a few verses here. Here God renews his covenant in Genesis 13, 14. And the Lord said unto Abram after that lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes. And look from the place where thou art northward and southward and eastward and westward. For all the land which thou seest to thee will I give and to thy seed forever, and I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth. So that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered. Arise and walk through the land in the length of it and the breadth of it, for I will give it unto thee. See that I will again there God said, here's what I'm going to do. There are no conditions attached to this. God said, This is what I am going to do. Again, I will. Look in Genesis chapter 15. Look down at verse number 7. Here's God comes to Abraham once again. And God's going to renew this promise to him again. Look in verse 7. And he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it. And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? God, how am I going to know that you're going to keep your promise? In verse 9. And he said unto him, Take me now a heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon And he took unto him all these and divided them in the mist, and laid each piece over against one another, but the birds divided he not And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away. So here's what God says. Abraham, here's what we're going to do. We're going to enter into a covenant. And the way they would enter into a covenant back then, by the way, the word covenant is from the Hebrew word burit, which means to cut. Literally it says to cut a covenant, because always when you entered into a covenant, there was the cutting or the shedding of blood And so he took these animals and he divided them up, he cut them up, and he laid them out in lines against one another, you know, what these lines of these animal pieces. Because back then when you were going to make a covenant with someone, this is what you would do. You would divide up an animal, lay out the pieces, and then you would walk, kind of in a figurate motion, in between the pieces. First, one person would make that walk through those animal pieces, and then the other person would walk. And what you're basically essentially saying is, if I don't keep my word May I be just like the mutilated carcass of this animal here. Very dramatic gesture, a very dramatic way of making a promise. And a covenant. Sometimes I think we should go back to that with people, you know. Just kidding. All right. I just had a bad experience with a builder. No, I'm just kidding. But uh But some and this is the way they would do it back then. And so here's what happens. The pieces are laid out. The next step is for the two parties each to walk through because they're making a covenant together. But I want you to see what happens. Look in verse 12. And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and lo, a horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram, Here's God speaking to Abram, Know of assure thee that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. And also that nation whom they serve will I judge And afterwards they shall come out with great substance. Now drop down to verse seventeen. And it came to pass that when the sun went down, as it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, a burning lamp, that passed between those pieces, In that same day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates. And so what happens here is that we have only one party going through these pieces. And how does the Bible describe it? As like a great furnace that came down. You know what this is? This is the Shekinah glory of God. Because in the Old Testament, when God would appear, it was with some brilliant light. And sometimes they call it a pillar of fire by night, a pillar of cloud by day. And here the Shekinah glory, the presence of God, comes down, and God is the one who walks and between the pieces of this animal. Abraham does it. You know why? Because God put him asleep. He was under divine amnesia here. There's only one person making this promise, which tells us what? The covenant that God made with Abraham was not a conditional covenant. It was not based upon anything that Abraham or his descendants had to do. It was the unconditional covenant. God is the one who basically made this covenant according to himself. Again, the Bible says, on that day the Lord made a covenant. with Abram. Abram never passed between the pieces, again, because this is not a conditional covenant. This is not dependent upon Abraham in any way. This is unilateral. This is irrevocable. This is a divine promise. God does this alone. He is binding himself to his own promise. God is binding himself to his own character here. God will keep it according to his own character. And it is set. It is fixed. I will give you that land. And just know they haven't really had it yet. They've never had it yet And so this means it has to happen sometime in the future if God made this promise. I mean, how are we to understand this? Now, a millennialist and post-millennialist will say, well, that's that's that's not literal. That's spiritual. They kind of reinterpret these promises to God now to say, oh, now all this belongs to the church, to the new Israel. But here, God describes the rivers. He describes the people that live there. He's not talking about spiritual blessings to the church. There's no ambiguity here whatsoever. God is being literal. But then I want you to go to Genesis 17. Go to Genesis 17 and look down again. Because again, God comes to Abraham. This is years later. Abraham is now 90 years old, 99 years old. God appears before him again. And look down at verse 2, chapter 17, and I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly. And Abraham fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, Neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram, but thy name shall be called be Abraham, for father of many nations Have I made thee? And look in verse six. And I will make thee exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of thee. Verse 7, and I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee, and in their generations for a what? A everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee And I will give unto thee and to thy seed after thee the land where thou art a stranger. Again, this is pretty clear. Again, God says, I will. This is what I'm going to do. This is the covenant I'm making. And this is an everlasting covenant. Now, I'm not a genius, but how long is everlasting? That's a long time. God makes it pretty clear here. Again, God binds himself to this everlasting covenant. And it continues. Look in Genesis chapter 22. Look in Genesis chapter 22. And look down at verse number fifteen. This is right after Abraham brought Isaac to be sacrificed, and you know the story there where God stopped him. Abraham passed his test. And then God blesses him. Look at verse 15. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time. And he said, By myself have I sworn. Abraham, this is by my character I have sworn, saith the Lord. For because thou hast done this thing, is not withheld thy son, thy only son. That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, as the sand which is upon the sea, and thy seed shall be shall possess the gate of his enemies And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. Again, here is God, and he is again saying, This is what I'm going to do. I'm going to do this according to my character, according to my faithfulness. I'm swearing by my own name. Because there's no greater to swear by. God does it according to his own name. So, and by the way, God You know, I know it's eight o'clock, and I I knew I wasn't going to get through even point number two here. But if you go to other passages, Genesis chapter 28, verses 13 to 16, we see it again. God kept kept making promises. He made promises to Jacob. He passed it along to Jacob. Look in chapter 28. Look down at verse 13. Let me just show you this real quick. And behold, the Lord stood above it, and he said, I am the Lord, the God of Abraham, thy father, the God of Isaac, the land whereon thou liest to thee, will I give it, and to thy seed? And so here again, God re-emphasizes this same promise now to Jacob. Um now God just keeps making promises. And by the way, who's he making promises to? Sinful people. Abraham, it wasn't according to his faithfulness. I mean Abraham messed up several times. Isaac sinned. Jacob. Jacob was a deceiver. He was sinful. And here God is making these promises to these sinful patriarchs. He just kept making these promises because that is his intention. To keep his promises to these people. God doesn't cancel it because of their unfaithfulness Again, these are sinful men. And then we go to Genesis, then we go to Exodus chapter 19. Just give me a few more minutes here and I'll let you go. But look in Exodus chapter 19, look down at verse number five, and notice what it says here. Here is now the nation of Israel. They've been delivered from Egypt. They're now all assembled at Mount Sinai. And God's going to make a covenant with the nation of Israel. And look down in chapter 19, look in verse number five. Now therefore, if you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people. For all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. And these are the words that you shall speak unto the children of Israel. Now drop down to verse number eight because here's their response. Here's God saying, I want to enter into a covenant. This is the Mosaic covenant. If you obey my voice, I'm going to make you a peculiar people. And notice what it says in verse number 8. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the Lord. Really? Everything you said, God, we're going to do it all. Well, did they? No, they didn't. They messed up a lot. You say, well that's it then. God canceled it, right? Because they sinned against God. They didn't keep their end of it. That means it's over with. No, not so. God still has his covenant with with the people there. Go to the New Testament, go to Galatians chapter 3, and look in verse number 15. Let me just show you this. Look in Galatians chapter 3, look at verse number 15. Now, Paul is speaking here. Look at verse 15 of Galatians 3. Brethren, I speak after the manner of men, though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth or addeth there to. In other words, he's saying the promises that were spoken to Abraham, these promises, these covenants, they're irrevocable. They're irrevocable. No man can add to it, no man can disannul it. That is to say, no one sets it aside or adds any conditions to it. If it's been ratified by God, it will be fulfilled. And so what I'm saying is the law, which came 430 years later, doesn't invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God. It does not nullify the promise. That's what Paul is saying here. Look at verse 16. Now to Abraham and his seed, where the promise is made, he saith not, and to seeds as of many, but as of one, and to thy seed, which is Christ. This points to Christ Verse 17, and this I say that the covenant that was confirmed before God in Christ, the law which was four hundred and thirty years, cannot disannul that it should make a promise of none effect. And so here Paul is simply saying disobedience to the Mosaic law doesn't cancel the promises of God. That's Paul's whole point here. It doesn't abrogate it, even when Israel proudly and eagerly Said, and I think honestly, I think they really meant it. All that you say, Lord, we're going to obey. I think they really meant that. But they didn't realize how sinful they really were. There was no way they could keep it And so they still continue to be the people of the promise, for that promise was not based on their ability to keep the law. That promise was a unilateral, unconditional promise. And you see this illustrated in the book of Hosea. Remember, Hosea marries a woman who becomes a prostitute. And she goes and she lives, she leaves him and she lives this ungodly, immoral life, and she's so wrecked as a prostitute that she's basically put up on a on a block to be sold in a marketplace. And guess what? Hosea goes and he buys her back. Why? Because of the covenant that he made to her. And all that story is a symbol of God buying back the prostitute Israel. Who has been so unfaithful to God, but God buys Israel back. Why? Because he made a covenant with Israel, and he's not going to break that covenant. We'll show you one more passage. Is that okay? Alright, just one more, and I'm gonna let you go. But looking at Ezekiel chapter 16. Let me just show you this one more passage. Ezekiel chapter 16. Now, if you look at this, this is it's one more passage, but it's got 63 verses in this chapter. Don't be afraid, I'm not going to go through all of them, all right? Just going to go through a few here. And this is just an incredible chapter here. It's about God's unconditional love for Israel, and it's really graphic. It speaks about a birth. Look in verse 3. Thus and say, Thus saith the Lord, God under Jerusalem, thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of Canaan. Thy father was an Amorite, thy mother a Hittite And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born, thy navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee. Thou wast not salted at all, nor swaddled at all. In other words, here is a picture of Israel, and God says, you were like a baby that was born, you were like a baby that just came out of his mother's womb. You were never cared for, you were never clean, the cord was never cut. In other words, it's like a person comes upon a field and sees a baby that had just been born and abandoned by his mother. Normally back then they would They would uh rub salt into into the child. They would do all these things to wash it with water and cleanse it and put it in swaddling clothes and all of that. But here's a baby that was just thrown out into the field in its blood. Nobody cared But look in verse 5. None I pity thee to do any of these unto thee, to have compassion upon thee, but thou wast cast out in the open field to the loathing of thy person in the day that thou wast born. And so this is really the Abrahamic covenant right here in symbolic terms God said, I passed by, and verse 6, and when I passed by thee and saw thee polluted in thine own blood, I said unto thee, when thou was in thy blood, live. Yea, I say unto thee, when thou was in thy blood, live Here's God. God passes by. God sees this unwanted newborn infant that no one cared for, that was half dead. And God said, I said, live. And God took this child unto himself. And you go down to verse 7 on down to verse 14. Again, this is these are just beautiful pictures. of Israel here. I have caused thee to multiply as the bud of the field, and thou hast increased and waxen great, and thou art come to excellent ornaments. And he goes on to describe how this child grows and it's blessed, and all these wonderful things happen. And what all God does, how God clothed this young baby that grows beautifully, and how God takes care of it. What happens in return? Look at verse fifteen. But thou dost trust in thine own beauty, and playest the harlot, because of thy renown, and pourest out thy fornications on everyone that passed by. His it was. In return, what happens? Israel's not faithful to God. Israel's not faithful at all. In fact, go down to verse 29. Again, thou hast played the war also with the Assyrians, because thou was unsatiable. Yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and yet couldst not be satisfied. Uh it's a sad, sad story where God says, You weren't satisfied with me, you weren't satisfied with the things that I did for you. But go down to verse number sixty. Notice what it says in verse sixty. Incredible word. Nevertheless, nevertheless, I will remember my covenant with thee in the days of thy youth. And I will establish unto thee an everlasting covenant. It's pretty powerful, isn't it? Even though they were so unfaithful, and God had blessed them in so many ways. God didn't turn his back on Israel. God said, nevertheless, I will remember my covenant. And then drop down to verse number 62, and I will establish my covenant with thee, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord. God isn't doing this on the behalf of Israel. God is doing this on his own behalf. Because he is the Lord. And when God says something, he will do it. When God swears a promise, it will come to pass because it's according to his own character. And then down in verse number 63, that thou mayest remember and be confounded, and never open thy mouth anymore because of thy shame. When I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done, saith the Lord. In other words, at the end of the whole story God says, I'm going to remember my covenant. You're going to know that I am the Lord. You will be ashamed for what you've done. That is, that's repentance. There's going to come a time when Israel will turn to God. They'll realize Their apostasy, their sin. They will repent. They will be ashamed. And God said, You'll never open your mouth anymore because of your humiliation. You will be ashamed in the silence. You'll be penitent, and God says, and I will forgive you. God said in Deuteronomy I did not set this love upon you or choose you because you were more in number than any people. You were the fewest. God said, I did this because of who I am, not because of who you are. God is doing what he's doing because he promised to do it, not because Israel deserved it, and for that matter because any of us deserve the grace of God. All of us fall short God does it because of who he is. Because of who he is. And so obedience is not the c the condition that determines the fulfillment of the promises and the covenants that God made to Israel, which is why I say God may have set aside Israel for a time, but is there yet a future for Israel? God's promises will come to pass. The covenants that He made will come to pass. Now, next week we'll look at two more reasons, and uh I will rest my case. And we'll go back to Revelation. But this is such an important thing to see because that's why there are so many different views on eschatology out there. Again, it all is determined on how you view Israel in the Bible. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you that you're a God who keeps his promises. You're the covenant-keeping God. And Lord, it's not really anything to do with us or any goodness in us, it's because of you. It's all grace. It's what you have done for us. And so, Lord, we thank you for that. We thank you that we're saved by your grace and we're kept by your word and your promises. It's not us holding on to you, Lord, it's you that's holding on to us. And even when we fail, Lord, you're still faithful. We thank you for that. We thank you for the covenant that we have in Christ, the new covenant where, Lord, you have put your spirit in us. And we are your children. And we know that we can never lose that. We can never sin away to where we would lose our salvation because we are your children. And how we thank you for that. And beloved, if you're here tonight, you're not absolutely certain of that, I invite you to put your faith in Jesus Christ. That's the greatest thing you can do Reach out to him in faith and say yes to Christ. Father, bless these words again to every hearing heart tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.