All right. Thank you, praise team. Would you take God's word this morning, please? And I want you to open to the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew Chapter eleven. I'm going to kind of call an audible this morning. I know we've been doing first John and we will continue in that, but um I just feel led to do this. I the the sermon I had ready for tonight I'm preaching this morning. And the sermon I had ready this morning I'm preaching tonight. So uh if you are wanting to really study first John with us and you're this morning you can come back tonight to hear it. But I wanted to just uh uh go to this passage here in Matthew chapter eleven and verse number twelve. is what I want us to deal with this morning. I want to the title of my sermon is uh not original. It's uh actually taken from the title of a book written by the Puritan Thomas Watson. uh called Heaven Taken by Storm. It's one of my favorite Puritan writers. Uh but the Puritans were great men of God used in a pure of the church when to purify the church and strengthen the church. They were spiritual giants really. And Thomas Watson was uh one of those Puritans who longed to purify the church from a lot of uh what took place at the Reformation. The Puritans believed the Reformation didn't really uh go far enough, and so they set out to purify the church even more. And uh some of these writings that were written in the 1600s have been republished. And this is one of those books that I would commend to you. Thomas Watson was born around 1620. He became one of the most beloved English Puritans. There are few preachers that could preach and stir the conscience like he could. He ministered at a church in London called St. Stephen's of Walbrook. But in really in the heart of London, I visited that church over there just because of my uh admiration for Thomas Watson and his ministry. He pastored that church f up until the time that he was expelled. Can you imagine being expelled from the church by parliament? And the reason for that is because he refused to compromise convictions in certain areas, and so there were many pastors that were expelled from their churches, Thomas Watson being one of them. But he continued to preach to people privately in small groups. And out of that crucible of suffering came this idea for a sermon really that he He preached and a book that he wrote on on this sermon, which is based on Matthew 11, verse number 12. Would you look at verse 12 with me this morning? And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence. And the violent, take it by force. In Watson's words, the Christian life consists in vigorous efforts. He says it's not enough to wish for heaven, but we must labor to take it by storm. And of course when he says take it by storm, that's one of those expressions of kind of a military expression where you're kind of on the offensive, you're attacking And he says, Heaven must be taken by storm. What does he mean by that? He's not talking here about working for your salvation But he's referring to earnestness and a zeal that comes with understanding and knowing the gospel, seeing the beautiful treasure of the gospel and wanting to go after it, wanting to be a part of it. He's referring to our responsibility to respond to the precious opportunity of being a part of the kingdom of God. Now there were several reasons why he wrote this book. First of all, the Church of England at that time had become largely formal and complacent. Church services were ritualistic, they were formal and cold. People attended church out of habit, but many of them were not truly saved. And Watson saw a church filled with people who were spiritually lazy. They were passive. They seem to have no passion for Christ. Another reason why he he wrote the book was it was kind of against this uh idea of antinomianism. What is antinomianism? Well that is simply the belief Anti-means against no meanism law. It's the idea that once you're saved, it doesn't really require anything after that. You know, grace doesn't really require obedience or any effort is needed in the Christian life. Some were twisting the gospel of grace into an excuse for spiritual laziness. There was really really weren't working at their their Christian life or walking in it with any effort. And he up and Watson opposed this fiercely. He said this, quote, Though the kingdom of heaven be given to us by grace, yet we must take pains to get it. The promise encourages our industry, not our idleness. He believed the Christian life was not a passive life, but that grace energized us to obedience. And so this book that he wrote was really a rebuke to dead formalism, and it was a call for believers to be devoted, to strive. So I want us to look at the verse that was the basis of Thomas Watson's book. Again, look in verse number eleven, where Jesus said, And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence and the violin take it by force. That verse has caused some difficulty among New Testament commentators. It's kind of a difficult verse to understand for some. So let me try to explain what I think Jesus means by this. When he says, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence. What does that mean? The Greek word is vizo We could either translate this as a passive voice verb or a middle voice, which conveys one of two things. If we take this verb to be passive, it means that the kingdom of heaven is being treated violently. Violence is being done to it. And there's a sense in which this is true. When the gospel of the kingdom was preached in Jesus' day, it was met with opposition. It was a violent reaction that came as a result of the preaching of John the Baptist and the preaching of Jesus. Those outside of the kingdom were opposed to it. If we take the voice this verb to be middle voice, it means that the kingdom of heaven itself is expanding violently. It's pressing forward. It's getting bigger despite the fact that many have opposed it, many have rejected it, but despite that, people are pressing and pushing to get into the kingdom. So we could translate it then like this. The kingdom of God is violently moving forward, and people are forcibly entering it. Now there's a sense in which really I think both of these ideas are true. We certainly know that the gospel brings opposition. We see that But I think the second interpretation is really what is in view here. People are violently or forcefully pushing and striving to enter into the kingdom. That was taking place in Jesus' day. They exerted a lot of energy to get into the kingdom. It's the idea of pushing to get in. Just to give you an illustration. Black Friday's coming. Uh what's it that day right after Thanksgiving when everyone filled with Thanksgiving turkey gets up real early in the morning and they go and wait in line. uh early, early to to to get into a store. Why? So they can get the best prices for Christmas, right? People I don't understand that, but whatever. A few years ago I read of a man who was uh trampled to death at a Long Island New York Walmart because of a sale on flat-screen TVs. So these people get up, they get out there early, and they're waiting in line, and when the door is open, they just violently rush in. To get a flat screen TV and in the process of trample people. That's kind of the illustration of violently entering in, and that's really the idea behind this verse here Only it's not a literal violence. Thank God, right? It is a spiritual earnestness, a holy violence. we could say, to get into the kingdom of God. Why? Because there's a sense in which we see the exceeding value of the kingdom. So why is this holy violence necessary? Why is Jesus saying that the kingdom is violently expanding and people are pushing to get in? And by the way, this is what is required even today. There's too much passivity when it comes to the gospel. I don't understand why people are not pushing to try to get into the kingdom. Why aren't people doing that? Why aren't people pushing to try to get in to the kingdom of God, to embrace the gospel with all their heart? Why are they not doing that? Why is there a need for that today? Well, here in Matthew 11, it gives us really seven reasons why this violence, this holy violence, is needed to be a part of the kingdom. And I got seven reasons here. I'll try to get to all of them. I don't think I will, but I'll try. Here's the first one. Number one, why is holy violence needed? Because the opposition against the kingdom is great. Because we still have that opposition against the kingdom. Again, we see it in verse 12, but also look at verse 18 of Matthew 11. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they said, He hath a devil. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they said, Behold, a man gluttonous and a wine-bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. So from the very moment that John the Forerunner began to preach, Satan began to fight. From the minute that Jesus began his earthly ministry, there was great opposition against him. You see, there's a war out there between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of darkness, and every time the gospel is proclaimed, hell strikes back. There's opposition. That's really the whole context of when we get to Matthew 11 here. If you read the first ten chapters of Matthew, what you see is that Matthew, the writer, is presenting all of this evidence that Jesus is the Messiah. And he gives he's very clear in chapter one, he talks about the virgin birth that Jesus has a legitimate claim to be the Messiah. He's the son of David, born of a virgin. When you get into chapter 2, there's the testimony of prophecy. Jesus fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. And you get to chapter 3, there's the testimony of his baptism. There's a voice from heaven that says, This is my beloved Son. and whom I am well pleased. And then you come to chapter five through seven. There's a sermon on the mount. There's a testimony of Jesus' own words that he is the king. And then in chapters 8 and 9, there's a string of miracles that show that Jesus has the authority of heaven. In chapter 10, Jesus sends out his disciples. And there's the testimony of his disciples that Jesus is the Messiah. But by the time you get to chapter 11, what you see is a series then of negative responses to the ministry of Jesus. Another way to say it is the revelation of the king now complete, chapters 1 to 10, there's rebellion against the king in chapter 11 and then in chapter 12. And really, all throughout the earthly ministry of Jesus, there is this opposition to him. He was born of a virgin, but the Jews said he was born of fornication. He was announced by John the Baptist. Well, they arrested John the Baptist and they beheaded him. He preached the word. They argued with him. He cast out demons. One city said, Don't come back, please. Don't come back. When he performed amazing miracles, they said, oh, he does that in the power of Satan. That's serious opposition. And we see criticism, we see indifference to Christ, rejection, disbelief, blasphemy, skepticism. And Jesus in the midst of this is saying, Yeah, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, but the violent are entering into it by force. In other words, if you want to be a part of the kingdom, you've got to push past all of that opposition to get in. And that's still true today. The world is going the opposite way of the cross and the kingdom. And if you want to get into the kingdom, if you want to truly repent and put and believe in Jesus You're gonna have to push past all of the opposition that comes against the cross and Christ. No one enters the kingdom without facing resistance from the devil, from the From the world, from the flesh. Thomas Watson again wrote this. Sin is violent. Satan is violent. The world is violent. If we would go to heaven, we must be violent too. It's true. I remember one time I was in Egypt, in fact I was there with Pastor David. We were in really downtown Cairo and we were trying to to go into this this this gate through this gate that would get us onto the the the the plain of Giza there and uh there was crowds there in the street, I mean thousands of people literally and it was shoulder to shoulder and we were trying to push through this crowd to get to this gate to go into this certain area And and and literally the gate was just a few feet away, but there was so much many many people and they were kind of pushing us in the opposite way. And we had to literally fight for like an hour just to get through that crowd, just to get to the gate. Thank God that was over. I remember being so thankful to get to the gate. Well, that's a picture to me of salvation because if you want to get to the narrow gate, you're going to have to push past the crowd. And it's going to take some energy on your part. It's going to take some holy violence to push past all of the opposition that comes against the world. The Christian who would take heaven by storm must fight. Grace makes us soldiers, not spectators. We must be violent. You're not going to drift into heaven. You're going to have to push past the world. To put your faith in Christ, to believe. So why do we need holy violence? Because the opposition against the kingdom is great. But here's number two, because of the surpassing value of being in the kingdom. Look look at look uh in verse number eleven Notice what it says, Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there is not risen a greater than John the Baptist, notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom is greater than he And Jesus here is exalting the ministry of John the Baptist. He affirms John's unique greatness. He says, there's not a greater prophet born among women than John the Baptist. He stands at the summit of Old Testament prophets. He's the final herald. He's the forerunner of Christ. He's the one privileged to introduce the Messiah personally. He was not a man who was easily shaken. In verse number seven, Jesus said he's not like a reed shaken in the wind. In other words, he's a man of conviction. He stands for truth. In verse number eight, he doesn't wear soft clothes. What does that mean when he uh Jesus said, wh what did you go out to see a man uh clothed in soft raiment. Behold, they that wear soft clothing are in the king's houses. What Jesus meant by that was that in that day, um if you were going to go into the king's presence you had to wear a certain type of apparel. Why? Well to please the king. You had to wear these really fine clothes, soft clothes is what Jesus called them. Historians tell us that uh scribes in Jesus day took off their their rough wear and they put on these fine, ornate, luxurious robes to enter into the presence of the king. Why? Because they were seeking the favor of the king. Well John the Baptist didn't do that. He didn't wear those soft clothes. He wore camel's hair. In other words, he wasn't trying to seek the favor of any powerful people. In fact, it was John the Baptist that That pointed out that Herod was guilty of immorality and he stood fiercely. And so John the Baptist was a great prophet in terms of role, in terms of revelation, in terms of his proximity to Christ, John was greater than all that came before But notice what Jesus said in verse 11 when he says that he that is least in the kingdom is greater than he. What does he mean by that? Well, John the Baptist, his greatness was still a part of the old era before the full arrival of the kingdom through Christ's death, resurrection, and the giving of the Spirit. Jesus is contrasting the old covenant in which John served with the new covenant, what was ushered in by Christ at that time. And those who belong to the kingdom, that is those who are born again, those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and who are united to Christ, share the blessings that even the old, the greatest of the Old Testament prophets did not have. All those believers in the Old Testament, some of them as great as they were, they in no wise get the privilege and the blessing that we on this side of the cross get to enjoy So the person, the kingdom is so great that when you enter in, you exceed even the greatest of the Old Testament prophets. And this greatness is redefined. It's not based on anything that you do, it's based on your relationship to Jesus Christ. It's because of grace. We are exalted to a new level, a new position of privilege. This greatness comes from grace, not status. So being the kingdom of God is exceedingly valuable. It's priceless. You know why people aren't pushing to get into the kingdom today? Because they don't really understand how priceless it is to be a part of the kingdom But once a person sees the incredible value of being a kingdom citizen, They're gonna push to get in. They're gonna use holy violence to get in, to be a part of that kingdom. Because I want to tell you to be a child of God, to be a part of the kingdom is the greatest blessing ever. Ever. It far surpasses any treasure, any value, any earthly price It's even better than getting a flat screen TV. We should be wanting to push to get into the kingdom. That's again someone who sees the value of it. Remember the parable that Jesus gave about the man who was walking in a field and all of a sudden he stumbled upon a hidden treasure? This is Matthew thirteen, forty four. He said The kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden a field, into which when a man hath found, he hideth and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath and buy at the field. Here's a man walking along a field, he stumbles onto a treasure, he kind of buries it, says, you know, I want this. And so he realizes how priceless it is. So he goes. And he buys the field. It takes everything that he has, but he buys the field. Why? So that he can have the treasure. The whole point of that parable is he saw the value of that treasure and he was willing to give all to get it. That's the nature of true repentance and faith. When you see the value of being in the kingdom, you're going to be willing to do whatever you have to do to make sure that you're a part of that kingdom. You're willing to exert the effort. There's a holy violence that you'll give to gain that treasure So why is holy violence needed? Because the opposition against the kingdom is great, because of the surpassing value of being in the kingdom. But here's number three. Because spiritual privilege often breeds spiritual indifference. Holy violence is necessary because we have to fight against our pride. If you want to be a part of this kingdom, you're not going to strut into the kingdom. I promise you that. You're going to have to fight against all of your pride. If you have a feeling of entitlement, you're probably not you're not going to make it into the kingdom. Any pride, you're gonna have to lay it down. Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom. One of the reasons why Thomas Watson wrote the book is because uh in the seventeenth century Christianity was compulsory. Church membership was automatic by birth. I mean when you were born, you were baptized, you were put in the church. It was not by new birth, just simply by birth. Everyone in England was baptized. Everyone. But not everyone was born again. And Watson preached the people who assumed they were Christians simply because they lived in a Christian nation. Therefore they have to be Christian. But he knew that they were strangers to grace. He knew that they really did not know salvation. And you know what? The same attitude Is right here in this generation that Jesus speaks to when he when he gives this warning. Look at verse number sixteen of Matthew uh chapter 11. Notice what Jesus says to this generation. Same kind of indifference, same kind of pride. Verse 16. But where unto shall I like in this generation? This is a common Jewish expression to introduce an illustration. We would say this, how can I illustrate this? This crowd here, this generation. How can I illustrate them To what do they compare? Look at verse 16. It is like children sitting in the marketplace and calling unto their fellows. Jesus compares them to spoiled children sitting in the marketplace who objected to all the other things that the children wanted to do. Uh to illustrate this, I I remember growing up in my neighborhood, we'd love to play football. We'd love to play it. The problem was getting a good football to play with. You know, we weren't really well off. Uh we had this one guy who came from a finer home and parents had a little more means, and he had this really, really nice, genuine NFL leather football. And we would try to coax him to play because we wanted to play with that football, you know. And he he realized that and sometimes uh we had to be careful not to tackle him too hard Because if we did, he would just get up and he wouldn't want to play anymore. Take his ball and leave and we'd be done. Or sometimes he would just out of spite just leave and he didn't want to play. That's what Jesus is saying here about this generation. They're like children who are privileged, spoiled children who refuse to play Verse 17. And saying, We have piped unto you and you have not danced. We have mourned unto you and you have not lamented. In other words, in Jesus' day, children would play in the marketplace. You know how children do, they love to play, and sometimes they would pretend to play wedding, to be at a wedding, or sometimes they would pretend to play funeral And so here's some children are sitting in the marketplace and they want to play and one of them says, Let's play, let's play wedding. And and this th these can be the bride and the groom, and here's someone who can play the flute, and the rest of us can dance. Let's play wedding. And some of the children would say, no, I don't want to play wedding. And then your children would say, okay, well, since you're in such a bad mood, let's play funeral This person can pretend to be dead, they can pretend to be mourners. Let's play funeral. And and they would say, we don't want to play funeral either. They're spoiled, mean children who don't want to do anything. They don't want to play wedding, they don't want to play funeral Doesn't matter what you do, you're not going to please this bunch. And Jesus is saying, so it is with this generation. So it is with this generation. Look at verse 18. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say he hath a devil The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous and a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. John came neither eating and drinking, comparing John's ministry to kind of like the funeral game, and they said, Oh, he has a demon. And here Jesus came eating and drinking with sinners, and they say, Oh, he's a gluttonous man, he's a wine beaver. He was almost the ministry of Jesus being compared to a wedding, a new era. But they criticized both ministries. They criticized John, they criticized Jesus. Nothing satisfies them. They didn't like the rough message of John to repent, and they didn't like the fact that Jesus was a friend of sinners. Here is this privileged generation who got to see the ministry of these two great men and they did not appreciate it. They were surrounded by revelation. They were surrounded by miracles. And all they did was find fault. And all they did was complete. They had this privileged entitlement mentality. They thought that they were part of God's kingdom simply because of their birth Because of their birth. It was their right anyway. Familiarity with truth can breed indifference and pride. And if you want to really be a part of the kingdom, you've got to lay down your pride. You've got to overcome your stubbornness. You've got to come humble. And by the way, we here in America, we have abundant gospel privilege. There's Bibles available everywhere. But the danger is that we can grow numb to the very grace that should energize us. That should move us. I remember one time I was in uh Africa, this was years ago, and I brought a caseload of Bibles, a suitcase full Uh I was teaching at a seminary and I remember just bringing that whole suitcase of class and I opened it up in the front and I said, Hey, I I I don't know if some of you may not have a Bible, so I got it's free if anybody wants a Bible. And before I could finish I was pushed against the wall. Literally pushed against the wall. There was such a mad rush of people that ran up violently. To grab those Bibles, and I'm not kidding, in ten seconds, they were gone. They're gone. I've never had that reaction in America. When I go to places like that where people are desperate for the gospel, when I preach, they get angry that I stopped. Why did you stop? Here they get angry because I go too long. We've got to lay down our privilege. We've got to lay down our pride if you want to be a part of the kingdom because spiritual privilege often breeds spiritual and Difference. You've got to come humbly. You've got to come like the prodigal son who says, Father, I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. Holy violence means wrestling against the pride that says I'm good enough. That there's something I can offer. It means falling before the cross and saying, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. There's a fourth reason why holy violence is necessary. I said because of the opposition against the kingdom is great. Because of the surpassing value of being in the kingdom, because spiritual privilege often breeds spiritual indifference. But here's number four. Because true repentance requires a spiritual breakthrough. True repentance isn't easy. I think that most people don't get that. So listen to what Jesus says. Look at verse 20. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done. Watch this, because they repented not. Upraid means to denounce, to lay a charge against them. W what is Jesus doing here? You remember when Jesus sent out his disciples in Matthew chapter 10? He said, Look, you go to a place, you give them the word, if they don't want to receive you, if they reject what you're saying, you just shake off the dust and you leave. Because it'll be more tolerable in the day of judgment for Sodom and Gomorrah than for them. Just shake the dust off and you move on. And Jesus is literally doing this right here. He's leaving Galilee now. He lived in Galilee. He made his headquarters there in Capernaum. He basically wiped out sickness in Capernaum with all the miracles of healing that he did. And yet, despite that, none of them believed. I say nine, very few And here he is, he's rebuking them because they didn't repent. They just didn't repent. And by the way, every time Jesus did a miracle, he would give the gospel with it. That's in Matthew chapter 4. Every time he would do mighty works, it was always accompanied with the message of the gospel Because he wanted them to know that the message he was giving had all the authority of heaven and the miracle that he did verified that And despite all that, they they didn't believe. They didn't repent. They wanted the miracle But they refuse to believe. They refuse to repent. And so Jesus pronounces a woe. Look at verse 21. Woe unto thee, Korazin. Woe unto thee, Bethsaeda, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire inside, and they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you. He pronounces this woe against these people. Who were so privileged to see all the mighty works that Jesus did and to hear his message, and yet they still did not repent. They still didn't repent. It's hard to imagine. What does it tell us? True repentance isn't easy. It requires a holy violence. You have to desire it. You have to go after it. Now the Bible teaches that there's uh two sides to repentance. And we need to understand this first, it's something that God gives. The Bible makes that clear in Acts 5. 31. It says, Him had God exalted, talking about Jesus with his with his right hand to be prince and savior. For to give repentance and forgiveness of sins. Here Peter declares that the exalted Christ is the one who gives repentance, and he's the one that gives forgiveness. In Acts eleven eighteen, God grants repentance unto the Gentiles so they have life. The Bible says as a servant of the Lord, I have to in meekness instruct you so that perventure God will Grant you or give you repentance. It's something that God gives, but on the other hand, repentance is something also we have to strive for Because the Bible says in Acts 17, 30, God commands all men everywhere to repent. That's a command from God for all men. And then in Acts 3. 19, it gives the command, repent ye and be converted. In Joel 2. 12, the Lord says, turn unto me with all your heart. That's repentance. Turn to me. It's a command in Scripture. You say, well, now which one is it? Is it God or is it me? Yes. God has to give it, but you all also have to strive for it Listen to how James describes it. Draw nigh to God and he will what? Draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep, and let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. This is one of the most vivid and strenuous calls for repentance in the New Testament. Again, Thomas Watson writes this, Repentance is a gift of God's Spirit, and yet a grace that must be labored for. Heaven will not fall into our laps. There must be a holy violence used. The boat of the soul will not come to the shore of grace unless we ply the oars. It is a gift of God's grace, and yet it's something that we must apply ourselves for. And so true repentance is not a casual act of an emotion, it's a spiritual breakthrough. Something that God has to do in us. It's painful, but it's freeing. But the gate of heaven swings on the hinge of a broken heart and true repentance. Let me just give you one more. All right. Can you give me another minute here? All right, just one more. All right, here's number five. Why do we need holy violence? Because divine revelation demands a decisive response Look at verse number 25. And at that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and the prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. The kingdom's truths are simple enough for a child to understand, but too humbling for the self-wise. And Jesus praises his father because the truth of the gospel was hidden from the wise and the prudent, talking about those who were proud and arrogant, who relied upon their own human wisdom. Those who were intelligent, too intelligent to believe in such a simple message, and yet he reveals the truth to those who are babes. And that's not talking about physical, literal babes, but literally it's talking about those who are humble and childlike. Every revelation of Christ demands a response. To hear the gospel and to remain undecided is already to reject it. And so that's why in verse number 28, Jesus says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. I'll give you rest. When God opens your eyes, when he truly opens your eyes, you can't help but to run. You can't help but to go to him when he opens your eyes, even with a holy violence Remember the story of blind Bartimaeus? He was there and he knew Jesus passed by, heard what was going on, and he cried out to the Lord. He cried out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. And the crowd said, Be quiet, be quiet. What the Bible said immediately he said, Oh sorry. No That's not what he did. He cried out louder. He cried out all the more, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. That's holy violence. He refused to be silenced. He refused to not be heard. When he saw his opportunity, he grabbed it with everything he had. He made a decision at that moment. The same Jesus is passing by today. Don't stand idly by and listen to others cry out and you do nothing. Don't allow the opposition from the world to push you away from the cross, but you have to push to get in because the door to the kingdom is open, but it's narrow. It's narrow. And the opportunities now and you better push to get into the kingdom. Let me just uh I'll cut it short here. Let me get just close with an illustration. Uh in the book Pilgrim's Progress by J. John Bunyan. There's a scene where Christian, who is leaving the city of destruction, he's on his way to the celestial city, he passes by the house of a man by the name of Interpreter. Interpreter begins to show him a lot of neat stuff. But what he sees there is something very interesting to Christian. Interpreter shows them this scene where there's this big, big palace, and there's a small door at the palace. And there's a desk right in front of the door and a man sitting at the desk who has an ink pen in his hand. And there's a there's a crowd of people standing right there by the desk. And also in front of that big palace are all these strong soldiers in armor and swords. And they're there to keep people from going in. And the line of people, there's a group of people there that want to go in, but they're looking at these soldiers and they're thinking, I don't know if I want to deal with those guys. This is the Harmon version of John Bunyan's uh Scene there. So one guy that John Bunyan says was stout of character. Pretty strong guy. Walks up, says to the man at the desk, write my name down there. Write it down. Guy writes his name down. And then he pulls out his sword And he goes at these other soldiers, and there's a violent fight, a violent struggle, until finally this man who is stout of character fights past all of those formidable soldiers who are trying to keep him out and he enters in through the narrow door and when he gets into the other side there are people in white robes Who are singing his praises and saying, Come in, come in, eternal glory, you shall win. And he's clothed with a white robe. And as Christian is watching that whole scene, he says to the interpreter, I think I know what this means. I think I know what this means. You know what this means? It means if you want to be a part of the kingdom, you better pick up your sword. And you better enter in violently. And don't let anything keep you from getting in. Because he Eternal glory you shall win. Let's bow for prayer together