All right. Good to see you here tonight. And try to not be distracted by this big green thing thing behind me tonight. And uh thank you to all those who work so very hard and for Pastor David heading up the team of workers that made that happen. Boy that I think that was record time in which they got that done. And so we're looking forward to a great Great opportunity to reach out with a story of the gospel with our living Christmas tree. Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to the book of Judges, chapter 3. We're in a study in Judges called Living Faithfully in Faithless Times. And we come now to chapter three tonight. Have you ever heard the expression here comes the judge? You probably have to be a bit old to know that. That was used back in the seventies on TV. There was a it's kind of a a uh humorous skit on a TV show that used that and it kind of picked up and it became a nationwide uh catchphrase and punchline. It was kind of a comedy I think about that phrase when I read here in Judges chapter 3. However, it's not a comedy, it's a tragedy that's repeated over and over again. Remember that Israel, because of their sins, God punished them, and they went through a cycle of sin and and and uh being punished for it and then God sending that repented and then God sent a uh a deliverer to deliver to deliver them and then they went right back into sin. So we f we we saw that last time This sin cycle. What we're going to see here in chapter three of Judges are th the first three judges that God uses to deliver Israel from their oppression. pronounce that name and Shamgar, they kind of step onto the stage of Israel's history. Three different judges, three different men, three different moments, three different rescues. But all of them really point to one thing, and that is that human deliverers are really insufficient. You need something better. You see need something more. A deliverer that's not just man, but God. The perfect deliverer. Every time a God raises up a deliverer, it was almost as if there was a voice in the background saying, you know, this this will do for now, but someone better is coming. There's a better deliverer coming, someone greater is coming, until finally when Jesus Christ steps into history once and for all, and he is the deliverer not only of Israel but of everyone who will put their faith in him. So we looked at Judges chapter 3 tonight. We're going to look at these three judges. We're going to look at each of them, and then we're going to look at how they point to Jesus Christ, who is the perfect deliverer. Now the question again, why were these uh judges necessary? Well, because of Israel's sin. Remember in chapter two, uh we looked at their disobedience. But look again in chapter two, look at verse twenty-one, just to kind of get the context, verse twenty-one, where God said, I also will not henceforth drive out any any before from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died, that through them might prove Israel whether they would keep the way of the Lord to walk there and as his father said Did keep it or not. Therefore the Lord left those nations without driving them out hastily, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua. So basically God makes a decision that because of the disobedience of Israel, he is not going to drive out the enemies that were before them. Why? Well, because Israel, when they entered into the land of Canaan, they were doing exactly the opposite of what God told them to do. God wanted them to uh basically uh Expel the Canaanites. Instead, they uh were making covenants with them and living among them. And so God sent a messenger, it was actually an angel, we called that a theophany, an appearance of Christ. where he he announced that he will no longer drive them out. And there's a new generation now that that doesn't know the Lord and they're not faithfully following after God. And so that so it's summarized here in these verses that we read at the end of chapter two. But in chapter three now, the first five verses basically are really explaining or giving an exposition of the what we read in chapter two, verse. 21 down to verse 23. Look in chapter 3, verse 1. Now these are the nations which the Lord left. So in verses 1, 1 down to verse number 4, there's a list of the nations that God left in there. There were the five lords of the Philistines. These Philistines were pretty formidable guys. They worshipped uh they were sea people who worshiped the god Dagon, who was half man, half fish. And uh they were depicted as really tall, slender, formidable warriors and all of their uh uh uh the uh images that were found about them. They had a strong navy. They were a constant menace to Israel. And then the Canaanites are mentioned. That's the same ones mentioned in chapter one. The Sidonians. They were a Phoenician people. This is mentioned in verse 3. Um they were also very warlike. And then the Hivites Which actually from the Hebrew means cave dwellers. The cavemen. I don't think I'd want to fight cavemen, but anyway. That's what the Hebrew word here means. So again, it has the idea. These are some formidable people that God leads. These are not neighbors you would want to have, okay, because these are hostile, wicked people. Now why does God lead them? Well there's a divine purpose. Again, in verse number one of chapter three, God says he left them. Look again to prove Israel by them. First of all, to test Israel. It was an opportunity to find out whether that new generation was really going to follow after God the way God commanded them to. So God was going to test this new generation. By the way, eventually uh the new generation is going to be tested. Our children will be tested. Our grandchildren will be tested. The world is going to test them. They have some difficult neighbors to live with. And it's always a test to find out whether they'll follow the word of the Lord. We can't We can't isolate our children from the world. We can only insulate them from the world by teaching them the Word of God. But we know sooner or later they will be tested. And so we have to do all we can to prepare them for that And so, but however, sadly, Israel and uh this new generation they fail. Look in chapter 3 verse 5. And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites. And so on, the rest of those guys. Look at verse six. And they took their daughters to be their wives and gave their children their daughters to their sons to s and serve their gods. In verse seven, and and the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. And so again, sadly, there's a threefold failure here. Intermingling with the Canaanites, they were intermarriage, which led to idolatry. When they married the Canaanites, they had Canaanites for in-laws, and they had to worship the in-laws gods. And so this brought them all down. And the Bible says this was evil in the sight of the Lord. But also again, God leads the these neighbors in the land of Canaan also to teach Israel how to fight. Looking verse 2, a very interesting verse. Only that the generation of the children of Israel might know to teach them war at the least as such before knew nothing thereof. In other words, this new generation needed to learn how to fight, so God's going to leave them some enemies to teach them how to be strong And so they need to learn how to fight. Everything that they had received up until this point that had been given to them, had been handed down to them. Why? Because their parents, their their the older generation, they fought all the battles. They won all the wars, they got all the blessings, and they handed them all down to the next generation. The next generation really hadn't done anything to earn or get what they have received. And so they were kind of soft. And God said, you know what, they need to learn how to fight Does that sound familiar? I think sometimes the next generation needs to learn how to do some things. Sometimes the older generation fights all the battles and hands everything down to the next generation. If we're not careful, it me it causes them to be weak And so God says they need to learn how to fight on their own and to survive in this hostile land. That's why God left them in. And so, however, again, regardless of all that, what we see is this next generation they failed. And so God has to punish them. And that's why there's the need for these judges, because of this cycle of sin that we talked about. They would go into sin. They would uh God would send an oppressor a stronger nation to oppress them, they would repent, God would send a deliverer, everything would be great, they would go right back into sin. And then another deliverer would come. So So we see this cycle again and again. And what we see here in chapter three is three unique people that God raises up. We could call these men unlikely heroes. And I want us to look at each one of them as we're looking at our chapter here. First of all, there's Athniel, and I call him God's deliverance through a faithful servant. He's the first judge, and really he's a really good judge. Look at verse number eight Therefore the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of pray for me for this next word here, okay? Cushan Rishhaim. We're going to call him King Cush for short for the rest of the of this. All right. Kushan Risha Fahim. And it's a long name, 17 letters. And uh who is this? Kushan Hu? You might be saying, well his name actually means Cush of double wickedness. And that was a name that was probably ascribed to him by his enemies because of his cruelty. He wasn't just wicked, he was double wicked. And his name proves it. 17 letters. This guy was a mean, wicked king. And Daniel Bloch, the great commentator who wrote a great commentary in the book of Judges, said he was the most powerful enemy of all those mentioned in the book. the strongest enemy, the most powerful enemy, a formidable king. Now who does God raise up to take care of him? A man by the name of Athniel, this is Caleb's nephew, and the Bible says he was a faithful man, and he was filled with the Spirit, and he led Israel to victory. Look at verse number nine. It says, And when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel who delivered them, even Athnel, the son of Canaz. Look at verse 10. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him and he judged Israel, and he went out to war, and the Lord delivered Cushin Rishaphaim, uh king of Mesopotamia, into his hand. And his hands prevailed against King Cush. And so here we're we're told that it doesn't really give us a lot of details. It's very straightforward. It just says that here's the thing you need to know about uhniel. He was a man who was yielded to the Spirit. The Spirit of God came upon him, and through the power of God, he was able to overcome this wicked king, the most formidable of all the oppressors that Israel had ever faced. And he did it by the power of the Spirit. That's what God wants the reader to see. It was by the Spirit of the Lord came upon him. That's what you need to take away. Achniel is an example of dependence on the Lord's power to do what needs to be done. How did he overcome the mightiest of kings? Through the power of God. And verse 10 says, The Lord delivered the king into his hands. And so and then for verse eleven says for forty years they had rest. Rest doesn't mean just the absence of war. There's a positive side to it. Rest means means peace, it means blessing, it means happiness, it means well-being. For forty years, that one generation got to have this peace and rest because of Athniel, this great deliverer. He had a great impact on his generation. Among the Jewish rabbis, Athniel is ranked first among the judges. Now unfortunately, no Israelite warrior would fully measure up to that that ideal. The rest of the judges they don't measure up to him, and really we don't see anyone like him until David comes onto the scene uh hundreds of years later But the lesson here is that God uses faithful servants who are yielded to him, who trust not in their own strength, but trust in the Lord. And that's one way you can win your battles. It doesn't matter how wicked or formidable the enemy is that you have, if you trust in God, he through his power will help you to overcome it. That's what God wants you to see in this. He wants you to know that. But here's here is uh but let me just say before we move on, even though Athia was a great judge and a great deliverer and he brought rest for forty years It didn't last. Eventually even what he did fell short. It was only temporary. But here's Judge number two, Ehud I call this God's deliverance through a flawed servant. This next judge is not as noble as Athiel. Now again, look at verse 12, and the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord strengthened Eglon, king of Moab, against Israel. because they had done evilness in the sight of the Lord. And so again we see the same cycle. Israel sinned. God delivered him to the hand of the king of Malab, Eglon, Eglon. And so he raised up Ehud. Look at verse number fifteen. So Ehud went but when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gerah, a benjamite a Benjamite, a man left handed, and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon, the king of Moab. Now, here's a left-handed guy. You say, why does he bring that detail out? That's very interesting, isn't it? He was an unorthodox person. This was in a a society that were most of the warriors, in fact, you know, pretty much all the warriors were right-handed. But here comes along a guy who is left-handed. Um he has an unorthodox strategy. The way he's going to defeat this oppressor, Eglon King of Moab, is he's going to he's going to get a private audience with him and he's going to hide a dagger, hide a big long 18-inch blade And he's gonna pull it out and he's gonna stab 'em. All right. Kind of a you know, a little assassination thing going on there with this guy, okay So this is an unlikely judge. I mean God is going to use them, but it doesn't necessarily mean that God approves the way in which he did what he did. I call Ehud the sinister minister He's kind of a kind of a mysterious guy. He's kind of a controversial figure. Some scholars see him as a noble person, a hero Others see him, I I I really think he's more of a deceptive kind of assassin. It depends on your perspective, but there's several things I want to point out. Uh basically Children of Israel cry out to God, and God raises up this man, but it doesn't again mean that God endorses what he did. I remember one time I was in a seminary uh somewhere around here. to look at their library and there's a big sign on it that says this this seminary does not approve all the books that are in this library. Kind of a little disclaimer there. And I think there's a sense in which just because they're a judge or a deliverer doesn't mean that God approves of all of the ways in which they were against the enemy, all the methods they used. In fact, there's a little underlying theme in the book of Judges, and that is some of these deliverers are using things that God wouldn't necessarily approve, and it's really kind of proof of the idea that they are less than what they should be as a judge or a deliverer. Okay, and we certainly see this here. And you say, why do you say that? If God raised them up, it seems like you know God would approve all of it. Well, look in verse number twelve where it says that The Lord strengthened Eglon, King of Moab, against Israel, which is basically the same thing as saying God raised him up. God raised up the king of Moab to oppress Israel. Does that mean that God approved everything the king of Moab did? No, of course not. not. But God sovereignly allowed him to be raised up, put on the stage for that time, God was going to use him. And now God is going to do the same thing here with uh Ehud. I know I'd probably call him Ehud. Ehud, I'll kind of go back and forth of that name. I think Ehud is their Hebrew way to pronounce it, but I'm English. And so anyway, but I'll try to remember it pronounce it rightly. But his actual name uh matches his character because Ehud is a combination of two Hebrew words which means where is the honor? Think about that. Where's the honor? Kind of like the name Ahabod, the glory departed. Here's Ehud, where is the honor? And that seems to match the circumstances and his character. He defeats the enemy in not a very honorable way. And again, the writer points out that he's left-handed. It's very interesting the way he does it in verse number uh 15 when it says that uh he was he was a a Benjamite. No, no, that word actually means the word Benjamin means son of my right hand, but he's left-handed. I think it's a purposeful irony there He's from the Benjamites, which means son of my right hand, but yet this guy's left-handed. And so I think the writer here, who I think is Samuel, is pointing out this irony. And I think it's this little phrase that he's telling us that this guy was kind of deceptive, he was kind of sneaky, you know, he's kind of someone that you really wouldn't want to trust. Um left-handed in the Old Testament in this culture always had a bad connotation to it. Um and so some people scholars say well he was probably left-handed because he had a deformity with his right hand. They look at the Hebrew word. But I don't think that that's the case here. I just think that what he's trying to point out was that he was very sneaky and he was very deceptive You know, normally you would if a warrior would place a dagger if you're right-handed, you would place your dagger on your your left thigh, right, to reach it. It's a lot easier. But here he's left-handed and he hides a dagger on his on his The Bible tells us that. Okay? Look down in verse number sixteen. But Ehud made it him a dagger which had two edges of a cubit length, and he did gird it upon his raiment upon his right thigh. Now if you're going through uh you know inspection, if they're looking for weapons, they normally will pat you down on the uh on the left side, not the right side So here he is. He's sneaky. He's hiding his weapon. And he asks for a audience with the king of Moab, King Eglon. And he's bringing them a present. So all of this is very deceptive. Hey, we want to bring you tribute. I mean you're you're the king, you're oppressing us. We're our job is to give you taxes. We want to give you an extra tribute. We're going to give you a present And so what is all of that? That's all a lie, it's all a deception. He's not really bringing him a present, you know, unless you consider the eighteen inch dagger a present He's kind of sneaking in. He gets an audience with the king of Eglon. And uh look down at verse number 17. And he brought the present unto Eglon, king of Moab, and Eglon was a very fat man. So here it's uh another thing that we see here is uh the the the king that he's gonna defeat is not the formidable warrior that Athnial had to defeat. He's kind of comical figure here. He was uh the Bible tells us that uh this Eglon, he was kind of a man who was given to his appetites. kind of a comic figure, a buffoon you might want to say, as he's presented here in verse number seventeen. And no Israelite reading this would miss this kind of character caricature, this play on his name, Eglon, is a form of the Hebrew ego, which means bull or cow, and ago also means round and rotund. So and also the Hebrew word berry is used to speak of a a fattened calf used for slaughter. All that you see here in this text. And so it it kind of presents this guy as this this big king who's like a a round bull who was prepared for slaughter. That's the way this story unfolds. He loved luxury. Here's this king of Moab. He's not in Moab, he's at Jericho. Verse 13 tells us that he possessed the city of palm trees, which is Jericho. This is his winter palace. So he's in this winter palace. He's at Jericho. This is an ideal time for Ehud to go and bring him this tribute. And by the way, a little side note here, remember at first the Canaanites were given Israel tribute, now it's reversed. Israel is giving Canaanit tribute. That's what happens when you compromise. The roles are reversed. When you compromise, you'll pay for it later. And so now he's going to show us the deceptive way in which he assassinates Eglon. Look down at verse number 18. And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bear the present. But he himself turned again from the quarries that were by Gilgal and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king Who said, Keep silence, and all that stood by him went out from him. So after he gives the present, he kind of turns around and he comes back to the king and says, Oh, I have something I need to tell you. And It's a secret. It's something I need to give you. Something special I need to say. And so the king has everyone leave. So it's just now Ehud and Iglan there at that at that chamber. All the bodyguards of the king are gone, which the king normally wouldn't do, but this kind of shows you how foolish Eglon was here. You know, send out your bodyguards, really. Everybody's gone. And so look in verse 20. And he who came unto him, and he was sitting in a summer parlor. Which he had for himself alone. And Hehu said, I have a message from God unto thee. Now the message is from God. Again, is this a message from God? Not really. No, he's lying. He's lying to him. And so the Bible tells us that he rose out of his seat. That is to say that Eglon, who is s seated on the throne, perhaps it's a few steps high In order for Ehud to get to him, he has to mount those steps quickly. And when Eglon stands up, Ehud is there, look at verse twenty one. And Ehud put forth his left hand and took the dagger from his right thigh and thrust it into his belly. Verse 22, and the haft also went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly, and the dirt came out. I'll let you interpret that last part yourself So he sticks the knife in and you know it goes in pretty far. You see these are nasty details, but the writer means to give you these details. He wants you to show that this is kind of a dark story. This is a far cry from Athniel. Atniel who delivered by the Spirit of the Lord. But here's this judge, and he's he's deceptive, uh he's an assassin, he kinda lies to this king, uh he he kills this man, stabs the blade all the way in, you know, can't really retract the blade and so on. So all of this, all of the details of this assassination add to the deceptiveness and the underhandedness of Ehud. And so we see this here in the story So what does he do next? He stabs him. Look at verse 23. Then Ehud went forth through the porch, shut the doors of the parlor upon him, and locked. then verse twenty four. And when he was gone out, his servants came, and they saw that, behold, the doors of the parlour were locked, and they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber. And they tarried till they were ashamed. And behold, he opened not the doors of the parlour. Therefore they took a key and opened them, and behold, the Lord was fallen down dead on the earth. So he who locks him in the parlor. Verse 24 and 25 says he's there in that parlor and the servants come and they knock on the door and they're trying to, you know, maybe tell the king something, get his attention, but they could see that the door is closed and locked, and so they'd leave him alone. When it says in verse number 25 that surely he covereth his feet, this is a euphemism, a modest expression that says he's in the restroom. And when they finally opened the door, that Bible says they wait long enough until, you know, they were kind of ashamed they wait so long. Finally they got a key, they opened the door, and they found that the king was dead. Now verses 27 down to verse 30, Ehud escapes, word of the assassination spreads Uh he who blows the trumpet throughout the hill country of Ephraim, the Bible tells us in verse number twenty-seven. And it came to pass that when he was come that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount And he went before them. So he basically gathers together an army, and they meet ten thousand of the Moabites, and they defeat these formidable Moabites. And because of this, now Israel again has rest, this time for 80 years. 80 years. So, now what I want you to see here in this, this kind of a literary thing that I want you to see, is that these two guys, Afniel and Ehud, are placed side by side for a purpose. Alright? There's a purposeful contrast between these two judges. Azniel is from the tribe of Judah. Remember that. I'm going to come back to it. Ehud is from the tribe of Benjamin. Athniel faced a great king. Ehud kind of faced a king that was not so great, kind of an indulgent king who wasn't very wise. Atniel defeated his enemy by the spirit of the Lord. He depended upon God, and God helped him to overcome. Ehud used human deception and human scheming. Aniel's victory was noble. Ihu's victory, kind of like his name, where's the honor? There's no nobility in this. There's no honor in this. Atheel was courageous, Ehu is more of a coward. Athio was a man of faith. Ehu was a man of deception. Athio, when you see the narration of his story, it's very straightforward, it's very summary. God used them But when you see the narration about Ehud's story, it's kind of it gives you the uh the dirty details. It slows down. It gives you a lot of specific details. to again emphasize that this guy was kind of underhanded in what he did. The story about Athiel was very uplifting. I can see young Jewish boys reading that saying, I want to be an Athiel. But when you read the story of Ehud, you don't want to necessarily be this guy, right? So this is more of a comedic story. It's kind of dark And so again, the purposeful contrast is given here. Now, the principle we need to draw from this is that God doesn't use us because of us, he uses us in spite of us a lot of times. I believe the writer here is showing us, he's preparing the audience, the readers. For this one idea that God's true deliverer is not going to be a guy from the tribe of Benjamin. He's going to be someone from the tribe of Judah. Okay. Now ultimately who would that be? We know who that is, right? But for the immediate audience back there, who was the first king of Israel and what tribe was he from? Well the first king of Israel was Saul, and where was he from? He was from the tribe of Benjamin. And so you have to remember this writer, who I think is Samuel, is writing to an audience that now has David as their king, and there are some people that are reluctant to accept David as God's True king. And so the writer's kind of saying, oh, you have to remember, you know, Saul is from the tribe of Benjamin. David is from the tribe of Judah. So what we see is the writer's bias against the tribe of Benjamin and his exaltation of the tribe of Judah. And we see this really all throughout the book of Judges. For example, look in uh in Judges chapter 1, look at verse number 2. And the Lord said, Judah shall go up, so Judah is the lead tribe. But by the time you get to the end of the book of Judges, you're going to find out that the tribe of Benjamin is almost wiped out because of their sin. All right, so Judah took over Jerusalem. Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem and they had taken it and smit and s uh smitten it. But in chapter one, verse twenty-one, the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem Jerusalem. So the tribe of Judah is able to conquer Jerusalem. So again, that's the contrast. Judah slays giants in the beginning of the book of Judges. At the end of the book of Judges, Benjamin, they're only killing their own people. And there's another story in the book of Judges that you'll see if you stay with me, and that is there's a story in chapter 19 of a woman who is raped and dismembered. It's a horrible story. Sorted story of how bad things have gotten in Israel. Israel's more like Sodom and Gomorrah than the call the people of God. And here's this one woman and she's raped and she's dismembered. And she's from the tribe of Judah. And where does it happen? It happens in the tribe of among the the territory of the tribe of Benjamin in the city of Gibeah. That's the city where Saul's from. That's the city where Saul set up his headquarters. So it's like the writer's trying to show why the right deliverer is going to come from Judah, not Benjamin. And again, we look at the first two kings of Israel. Saul failed, whereas David was a man after God's own heart. And so this is the whole point of the book. The writer is encouraging people to accept God's King, David. David, and yet even David, as great as he was, he failed. But there is coming another king out of the tribe of Judah who will not fail. He'll be the perfect king. He'll be the perfect deliverer. And all of this points to that. All of this kind of tells you that this is yet to come. The true deliverer, the great deliverer. He will come. He will be the lion of the tribe of Judah. As the Bible will reveal later on. So we see God's deliverance through a faithful servant. We see God's deliverance through a flawed servant. We see the underlying idea here of the real deliverer being from Judah, not Benjamin. But here's the third. The third uh judge here I want to talk about, and he's really summarized in one verse, verse thirty-one. And after him was Shamgar, the son of Anath, which slew the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad, and he also delivered Israel. So in one verse, here's this guy. He delivers Israel by killing six hundred Philistines with an ox goat, a farming tool. You say, what's an ox goat? It's a big long pole with a point on the end of it, and it was used to prod oxen on. Stubborn animals that refused to walk, you would just kind of prod them on. And that's what they would use. It could be a formidable weapon, you can see that. But Shamgar was not a warrior, he was a farmer. And here's this farmer that killed six hundred, which tells you what don't mess with farmers All right, this guy must have been pretty formidable. Six hundred Philistines. And God used what was in his hand to bring about deliverance. God can use the simplest tools in the hands of a surrendered purpose to a To surrender per person, excuse me, to accomplish great things. God sometimes wants just what's in your hand. And so there's a great lesson in here that here is this man who God used to be a deliverer, who used something very simple in his hand. Now this completes this first triad of deliverers here in the book of Judges. And it establishes a pattern, which gives really the overall message of the whole book. Things are moving downward, they're getting worse. Even though the the deliverers are are are doing their job Things are still getting worse. Um there's a downward spiral. Achniel is the ideal judge who depends upon the Holy Spirit, but Ehud is a Ehud, excuse me, is a surprising judge. uh deceptive guy. And Shamgar is this guy from nowhere, just this this farmer. Kind of we could call him a minimal judge. And together they serve a preview of the of the falling quality of the judges that you'll see throughout the book. The quality of these men kind of gets worse and worse. It's kind of a progression. You got Athniel, the noble guy, exemplary, Ehud is clever, left-handed, deceitful, and then um Shamgar, which his name uh Which says son of Anath. Anath was a Canaanite god. I'm going to show you that he his father, his family was influenced by the Canaanites. And so these judges are already becoming less conventional and less impressive. And this anticipates, again, the downward spiral of what's happening in the nation of Israel because these are people that are forgetting. God. And even though God's merciful, things are still going downward because they are not repenting here. But again, all of this points to The fact that all the judges will ultimately fail and ultimately come short. They all will. Uh in fact you can just go through the book of Judges. We saw Ehud here, uh Deception. And then we're going to see Deborah and Barak. The fact that Deborah is even in a position of leadership shows you the failure of male leadership. And the fact that Barak, who was a warrior, that had to go out against uh the enemies, he was hesitant to go, and he asked Deborah to join him in battle. That's like that's like a soldier asking his grandmother if she'll come to the foxhole with him. Here's an elderly woman, and you want me, you want this woman to go with you on the battlefield? What kind of man asks an old woman to join them on the battlefield? Okay, that's just not a thing that you do. That's not how you honor women. That's a subject for another time. Anyway, women in the military. But anyway. And so here's Barak, he's kind of hesitant, he's cowardly. Then there's Gideon. We all like the story of Gideon, but even Gideon will create an Ephi that becomes an idol and he'll treat himself like a king and he'll bring his family down into idolatry If you read the whole story. And then there's Jephthah, who makes a foolish vow and ends up sacrificing his daughter when he didn't need to do that. That was another foolish thing for him to do. And of course, we all know the story of Samson. Who was a man who was controlled by his lust and revenge, and he died with his enemies. He's a man who could have done so much more. And so each story, each judge's story ends with moral or spiritual decline or some failure in their life or some temporary deliverance that's not complete, it's not ultimate. And again, what does that all point to? It points to the fact that there's only one true deliverer, and that's Jesus Christ. And he will not fail in any way. He will not in any way make your deliverance partial. Jesus practices perfect obedience, unlike the judges. He'll live in complete obedience to the Father He ha he will give final deliverance, not just from foreign enemies, but from sin and death itself. The peace that Jesus will give will be an enduring peace, and his kingdom will not fail And whereas these judges, the Spirit of God would come upon them temporarily and leave them, the Spirit of God would rest upon Jesus completely. And so all of these judges kind of in a way set the setting for the perfect judge that is yet to come, the perfect deliverer that Israel was waiting for, that Israel was crying out for. So let me just close with this. I was reading this story and I thought it fit right here. Very interesting. In December of 1900, a ship reached the Flannon Isles off of the coast of Scotland. That was a lonely place. There was a lighthouse there that was kept by three men. And this lighthouse was to guide these ships, obviously, through that dangerous part. And uh but these three men were design were were placed there, designated there to keep the light bright, to help these shifts when they arrived Well on one night when a ship arrived the lighthouse was dark and no one could figure out why. Uh no one on the in the lighthouse answered the horn when it was sounded Inside what they found was dinner half eaten, a chair overturned, and the keepers were gone. All three of them were gone. The light from the lighthouse was dark. It was out They had vanished. And to this day that's there's a mystery there. No one knows what happened to those guys. Some some surmise that a wave kind of washed them away. But one thing is for certain the light that they were supposed to keep bright it went out. And it was gone. And to me that's just a a uh a picture of what we see here in judges chapter three. Here are three judges. They were by the way all of Israel was designed to be the light for the world, but they were not the light because they were not obeying God. But God raised up three keepers of the light that were supposed to keep the light going. And ultimately, however, all of them failed. And what we see is Israel in darkness. But again, all of it sets the stage for the true deliverer. Jesus will not merely be a keeper of light, but friend, he is the light. Light. He is the light. And where the judges failed to save, Jesus will forever save, fully save. He is our true deliverer, the greatest deliverer of all. Jesus came in the most unexpected way. And Jesus, our Redeemer, crucified for us, triumphed over sin and death so that we may experience full Deliverance. So I hope that as we study the book of Judges, you'll see over and over again, Jesus is our perfect deliverer. He's the one that we trust in, that we cling to. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for this these narratives, these stories. in the in the word of God that Lord you've given to us as examples to us, things that we can learn, lessons that we can learn and apply to our life. And thank you, Lord, how the Word of God all of it points to Jesus Christ. He's the central figure. He is the King of Kings. He is the perfect deliverer in judgment. One day that the one that everyone will stand before. And the Bible says every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Lord to the glory of God the Father. How we thank you, Lord, for the perfect deliverance we have in Christ. And if there's someone here tonight that hasn't experienced that, that they would run to Jesus. They would run to the Lord Lord help us forgive us for putting our trust in human deliverers. It just seems like even the church sometimes has the tendency to place more faith in political deliverers or human deliverers. As a substitute for the ultimate deliverer that we already have, Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to keep our eyes on Christ. Help us, Lord, not to put faith in human deliverance, but in Lord, what you do. And help us, Lord, to walk in the power of your spirit, to overcome any enemy, Lord, that stands in our way. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.