I invite you to open up there to that Old Testament book of Malachi and go to chapter 2 tonight. Chapter 2, we're going to look at verses 1 through 9. Well you're finding that I heard about a church janitor, a church member came in and was looking around and he overheard a church janitor say the blower still works, but the fire has gone out. Now he was talking about the furnace, but the member thought that he was talking about the pastor. And uh when I read that, at least I thought it was funny When I read that, I thought, well, that expression, I think, kind of summarizes these priests that Malachi is writing to tonight. We're going to look at that in chapter 2. Malachi directs his words to priests whose fire for God had long since gone out. They were still going through the the uh the motions of service and ministry But the fire in their hearts for God had long since passed. And so this message is directed to these priests, and it can apply to us because let me tell you what Malachi is going to do here in chapter 2 He's going to show us what God is looking for in spiritual leaders. Now, this this message, you know, it applies to anyone who's a spiritual leader, obviously, to all pastors and ministers and servants. But also there's a sense in which it applies to all believers because there's a sense in which all of us are spiritual leaders in some capacity. If you're a parent or a deacon or a Sunday school teacher or just a teacher, somewhere where you're leading people, and you're a Christian, you're a spiritual leader. And there's a high demand that God places upon his leaders. And so Malachi directs these words to these unfaithful priests of his day. And God is angry with them because of their failure to live up to the calling that God has placed on their life. Now, look at verse number one. And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. If you will not hear, and if you will not lay it to heart to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings. Yea, I have cursed them already, because you do not lay it to heart. Behold, I will corrupt your seed and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts, and one shall t uh take you away with it. And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, and that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Now, these are strong words that God gives through his prophet Malachi. And again, this is God giving us today his standards for spiritual leadership. This is something that we all need, the church needs, because we're living in a day in a church in America where I see all over a failure in spiritual leadership. We're hearing all the news of moral failures of ministers. We hear of denominations, whole denominations that are compromising the Word of God. that are allowing homosexuals to come in and be a part of the the clergy and so on. And I don't need to go through the litany. You've heard all of that. But against this culture and against the backdrop of what's going on in the church in America today, we find this passage that is so very strong that tells us what God expects of us as priests of the Lord. So I want you to see three things from this passage tonight. First of all, if you're taking notes, write down number one, the caution to spiritual leaders. God issues a strong warning to the priests in Malachi's day. They were to take serious God's command. Notice again in verse number two where he says, if you will not hear, if you will not lay it to heart, notice where he says lay it to heart This phrase is talking about taking seriously what God has commanded. Now, what has God commanded? We already saw that last week in chapter number one. He's saying, take serious what I said to you regarding your attitude when it comes to worship. The priests were not respecting and fearing the Lord as they should They had an irreverent attitude that was rubbing off onto the people. They lacked reverence. They were offering God the second best. Remember we saw la last week that they were bringing to God the animals that were torn. The animals that were blemished. And according to the Bible, that's dog food. God says, when you find a torn animal, don't eat it. Give it to your dogs. And here they were, they were offering this to the Lord. They forgot who they were serving And in chapter 1 verse 14, God says, But cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a male, and boweth and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing. And so God brings a curse down upon anyone who will be so frivolous in their attitude towards worship. Now here in chapter 2, God turns to the priests and he says to them, You better take seriously what I've said. You better lay it to heart. As a matter of fact, God says, if you don't take this seriously, then I will bring a curse upon you. Look again in verse number two. If you will not hear, if you will not lay it to heart to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings That's very strong here. When he says, I will bring I'll send a curse, the word is actually has a definite article. We could say it like this, I will send down the curse upon you. The curse. What curse is he talking about? Well, it could be the curse in Deuteronomy 28, where God says, if you obey me, I'll give you blessings. If you don't, I'll bring down upon you the curse. Any disobedience to God with reference to the law brought down the curse of the law upon them. And so God says, I'll bring down the curse upon you. And then in verse number two, he says, I will curse your blessings. Now remember, he's talking to the priest. What does it mean when he says, I will curse your blessings? Well, there's two possible interpretations of this. You remember that priests in the Old Testament would often bless people. For instance, there was a blessing in Numbers 6. 24, the Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face shine upon thee. That was a priestly blessing that was given. And God says, whatever you give out the blessing, I'm going to reverse it. I'm not gonna I'm gonna uh reverse the blessing and make it a curse. Now it could be that God's talking about that, but there's another possible interpretation, that is This is referring to the blessing that they received by being ordained into the priesthood to begin with. That God chose them to be in the ministry. That was a divine blessing. Anyone that God selects and chooses and brings them unto himself and gives them the privilege of ministering, that is an incredible blessing. And it could be God saying, if you don't take me seriously, then that blessing that I gave you, when I called you in the ministry, I'm going to reverse it. You can forfeit what you have. And then God says, I will punish their seed. Look in verse 3. And behold, I will corrupt your seed. Now what does that mean? Again, two possible interpretations. This could be referring to the seed in the field. Again, that is given in Deuteronomy 28. So it could be God saying, I'm going to curse the seed that you plant in the field. Already that was going on. They already suffered from crop failure. But there's again a second interpretation. This could refer to the fact that he's talking about his descendants In other words, your descendants could suffer. God is emphatically telling the priest that he's serious, and their descendants could suffer the consequences of the present generation's actions. And they will only have themselves to blame. You say, would God do this? We see this very thing in 1 Samuel chapter 2. You remember Eli, you remember that he had two sons, Hophni and Phineas, and you remember how they sinned against God greatly? They were taking all the sacrifices and they were keeping the best meats for themselves and they were making a profitable little meat market business on the side, and they were causing God's people to abhor the sacrifice of the Lord, the Bible says Not only that, they were committing wicked immorality in the tabernacle. And so God sends a man of God to Eli that says, You honored your sons above me, you did not restrain them, and because of that, I'm going to take away the priesthood from your family. And then he gives a tremendous curse upon the house of Eli. He says, every one of your descendants will die in the flower of their age, right when they're young. God says they're going to die in the flower of their age. God took this very seriously. And if you read later on in 2 Samuel, do egg to Edomite Cain To Nob, and he came to the priest of Nob, Ahimelech and all his family, and he was there with Saul. Saul was looking for David, and you remember Saul said to Doeg the Edomite, kill all of them, and eighty-five descendants of Eli were killed in one day. What was that? That was the fulfillment of the prophecy that God gave to Eli and his family because of the irreverent way in which they treated the sacrifice of the Lord. And so here the Lord is saying possibly the same thing to these priests here. And then look, he says God would bring them shame publicly. Look in chapter 2, verse 3. Behold, I will corrupt your seed and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts, and one shall take you away with it. That is, God gets pretty graphic here. He says he will spread the refuge or the dung of the sacrificial animals on the faces of these priests. That's pretty strong. Uh Well Kaiser, an Old Testament scholar, he kind of softens it a bit. He says a modern way of saying this could be you're gonna have egg on your face. God says, I'm going to shame you. I'm going to shame you because of what you've done. Now basically, what priests would do is they would take a refuge from the sacrifice. They would take it outside the camp and they would dump it. It was garbage, right? So they would dump it in the garbage heap outside of camp. And so there's a sense in which God was saying, you're treating me with disrespect, so I will treat you like garbage. like the refuge of the sacrifice, and you will be ashamed. Essentially God was exposing them for their own uncleanness and service these priests They were basically unclean in their own heart. They were sinful in their own heart. Some of them were living a sinful secret life, and they were pretending to serve and worship the Lord. And God says, I'm going to expose you for all this. I'm going to bring you to public shame Because of your irreverent attitude. That's what I'm going to do. I remember years ago in another state I was preaching at a service and there was a uh a pastor in there And uh he said to me later on, he said, while you were preaching, God spoke to my heart. He said I was living with the secret sin secret sins in my life, and God spoke to me in the service and said, if you don't confess that sin and repent and forsake it, then if you don't do that at the end of the service. that I'm going to expose you. And later on that very week, his secret sin was put on the front page of the local newspaper because he refused to forsake it. He refused to repent. And later on by his own testimony, he said God had convicted him. And then God brought him to public shame. That's exactly what God is saying about these priests here. And then God would make them recognize this punishment is from him. Look in verse 4. And ye shall know that I have sent this command unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. God says he was going to do this so that they would recognize that this is from the Lord. This is a punishment from God. And he was going to purify the priesthood. Why? So he can keep the covenant that he had with Levi And we'll talk about that in just a minute. But God sometimes has to purify the ranks. And God judges this thing very Remember what James said in the New Testament. Don't be anxious to be a teacher because God will hold you with a greater, he'll judge you with a greater condemnation. So this is a very serious issue in the eyes of God. God takes it very seriously. So God says I'll I'll m I'll move you out, I'll replace you with some someone else. And the work will continue to go on. Let me just say that even though within the Church of Jesus Christ through the years there has been many scandals, the church continues to survive, doesn't it? And God continues to build his church. He can replace leaders who don't live up to what God expects. So we see that number one, the caution of spiritual leaders. But number two, I want you to see this, the consecration of spiritual leaders. So what does God expect? Look again in verse 4. Ye shall know that I sent this commandment unto you that my covenant might be with Levi. Here God speaks about a covenant with Levi. God made a covenant with Levi. Now we don't hear much about this covenant. We hear about the covenant that God made with Abraham or Moses or David, but we don't hear much about this covenant. But in fact, in the Old Testament, God did make a covenant with Levi. He made a covenant that Levi and his descendants, and by the way, when we see the word Levi here, it's not just talking about one man, it's talking about all the descendants, all the Levites All the the sons of Aaron, all those that God made an agreement with that you will be my priests. That was the covenant Write down Deuteronomy 21, 5. And the priest, the sons of Levi, shall come near, for them the Lord thy God has chosen to minister unto him and to bless in the name of the Lord. And so they were to be God's servants, they were to know God's law, they were to apply it, they were to be his priests, they were to offer sacrifices on behalf of the people. And in the Old Testament we know that the priesthood was kind of an inter uh kind of a mediator where they would go to God on behalf of the people and go to the people on behalf of God. And they were all for sacrifices that would assuage the wrath of God for a time. That was their job, that was their ministry. Now we know that in the New Testament we don't need priests, right? Because Jesus fulfilled all that, right? We know that Jesus fulfilled all the Levitical priesthood. Now we have a high priest in heaven, Jesus Christ. And there's only one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, right? So Jesus fulfilled all that However, there's a sense in which now in the New Testament hour, who are the priests now? All of God's people. If you're saved here tonight, raise your hand. Guess what? You're a priest of God In the New Testament, you're his priest. You say, I don't offer animals for sacrifice. That's right. You offer the sacrifice of praise, of worship, of thanksgiving. You bring your sacrifice to the Lord, spiritual sacrifices. Now you are his priests, right? 1 Peter 2. 9, you're a royal priesthood. And there's also a sense in which the ministers in the church in the New Testament kind of take the place of what the priests did in the Old Testament in the sense that now we instruct people with the Word of God. We are to be faithful to handle the truth and live out the truth just like the priest did in the Old Testament. We now have that responsibility. And so This was the call that God put upon the Levites in the beginning. You remember that when the Lord gave out the promised land, remember that in Joshua? To the Levites, he didn't give any of the land. Why? Because it says this. God said, thou and thy sons with thee shall keep the priest's office. And then he says this in Joshua chapter 18, verse 7. But the Levites have no part among you, for the priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance. In other words, you're not going to get any land, you Levites, because I'm going to be your inheritance. You are going to serve me. You're going to have the special privilege of being my chosen servants. And then God said in Numbers 18, verse 20, I am thy inheritance. I am thy portion. Wow. What a privilege that is. God says, the rest of them get land, you Levites, you get me. That's a good deal. And so this was an incredible privilege that God entrusted to the priesthood, to the Levites, this priesthood. And God explains why he did it. Look down in verse number five. My covenant was with them of life and peace And I gave them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me and was afraid before my name. Here Malachi explains why God did this with the Levites. Why did he do that? Because if you're reading the Old Testament, you're going to find that the Levites always acted with a great reverence towards God. They always had the fear of the Lord. Remember that time in Exodus chapter 32, when Moses had just come down from the mountain, there was that golden calf incident, and then Moses said, Who's on the Lord's side? And the Levites immediately took Moses' side They stood with Moses immediately. And they even began to purge the Israelites of all the idolaters, all the worshippers. They strapped a sword on their side and they turned off all the idolaters because of the wrath of God that had fallen. They were so zealous for God. They had such a fear of the Lord that, and God, He loved that. He appreciated that That they were they feared God. You remember later on in Numbers chapter twenty-five when the nation of Israel was given over to idolatry again with Moabite women or Midianite women. And there was there was one man In that story where in the sight of all Israel he took a Midianite woman into a tent, and Phineas, the great grandson of Aaron took the spear and killed both of them for their sin of immorality. And the Bible says that God said, because of that, Behold, I have given him my covenant of peace It shall be upon him for his descendants, after him, a covenant of perpetual priesthood, listen, because he was jealous for his God And he made atonement for the sons of Israel. The Levites demonstrated such a reverence, such a worship, such a fear of the Lord that God said, okay, I'm going to make a covenant with Levi then, and they will be my priests. And so Malachi's whole point here in this chapter, don't miss it, is this. These early priests set a high standard of reverence and fear. And they set a high standard for all of the others to follow and their example that will follow after them. You say, what were those standards? Look at verse 6. The law of truth was in his mouth. By the way, verses 6 and 7 describe the perfect servant of God. It describes the consecration and commitment it takes to be a spiritual leader Notice it says this the first of all the spiritual leader is committed to teaching God's truth. The law of God is in his mouth. This is a true servant of the Lord. He preaches the word Unapologetically. He knows and understands that the law is God's word. He does not alter the message to tickle anybody's ears. He doesn't shrink back from it. He Does not preach man-centered messages designed to get people to like him. He just preaches the truth. You understand one day that I'm going to have to stand before Almighty God and give an account for what I say? And God's going to judge me for that. And it's not my job to preach a sermon that makes everybody happy. Now I like making people happy. But God's not going to judge me on that. He's going to judge me on how faithful I was to present the truth. I am not the chef. I'm a waiter. God is the chef. He cooks the meal. I deliver it without messing it up. That's my calling as a servant of the Lord. And we'll be judged for that. And so they have the Word of God. They are committed to teaching God's truth. The spiritual leader teaches God's truth correctly. Look again in verse 6. And iniquity was not found in his lips. The word iniquity is the word that means to twist. He doesn't twist the scripture. He doesn't twist twist the law to fit his own fancy. He has to handle the law correctly And by the way, the Bible says that we are to study to show ourselves approved unto God what? A workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. And so we have to understand that we stand accountable to the Lord for that. The spiritual leader walks with God. Look again in verse 6. Iniquity has not found his lips, he walked with me in peace and equity. He walks with the Lord. This word, this phrase here to walk It's used of Enoch, it's used of Noah, it's used of Abraham, and it has the idea of close, intimate fellowship. There's a difference between the knowledge of God and knowing God personally. And this is talking about knowing God. And connected with this is the idea of wanting to honor the Lord. Back up to verse number two. It says, if you will not hear, if you will not lay the heart, to give glory unto my name. That's part of walking with the Lord. You know what a person who walks with the Lord wants to do? He wants to give glory to God's name. He wants to honor the Lord first and foremost. That is his passion. That's the thing that drives him, the glory of God. But also notice the next thing, the spiritual leader turns men away from iniquity. Look again in verse 6. It says, and walk with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. And so a spiritual leader will help people to deal with their sin and turn away from their sin. How will they do that? Very simply by faithfully proclaiming the truth. Did you ever notice how when the Bible is preached, God deals with people's hearts? That's the power of scripture. Sometimes people come up to me afterwards and say, Well, man, I was really convicted by that sermon. Really? Well let me tell you something. I was convicted in the study. You'll never you Let me tell you something. There's many times in the study that I have to stop and get on my knees and confess my own shortcomings and my own sin, because that's the power of the Word of God. It keeps us straight. It keeps us holy before God. It causes us to deal with iniquity. And so the spiritual leader will turn many away from iniquity. And I believe this is also someone who shares the gospel because there's nothing that turns people away from sin like sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so they'll be out there, they'll be sharing the word, they'll be sharing the gospel Notice the next thing, the spiritual leader is to grow in knowledge. Look in verse 7. For the priest's lips should keep knowledge The idea here is you should grow in knowledge. You should be digging constantly in the Word of God. You should be growing more and more. If you want to be a spiritual leader, growing in the knowledge of the Word of God is part of it. And let me tell you something, friend, you don't have to go to seminary to grow in the knowledge of God's Word. You have the Word of God right here, and you have the Holy Spirit of God, and you have great resources. You can dig in and you can grow in the Word, but the main thing is that you do it And let me tell you something. If your heart is right with the Lord, whenever you open up this word, you know what? It's going to give you light. If you dig into it, it's going to give you light. And you can't help but grow. If you just open the word of God, the entrance of thy word giveth light. And so when you open God's word, it's going to do it. But notice the next thing. The spiritual leader should be accessible as a teacher of God's Word. Look again in verse 7. For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth. That is, people should come to him and they should be able to ask him questions about the scripture, about the law, and and and so this is the idea of him being accessible, being personal. being able to teach people and tell you something, some of the best discipleship, some of the best teaching that can happen is when you're with someone one-on-one Some of sometimes it's after the church service, when people will talk about the scripture together. Sometimes it's at a Bible study. Or sometimes it's when you're out there, you're just visiting a a friend And then and you and you're sharing with them the Word of God. But here's the idea. People should recognize in a spiritual leader their knowledge of the Word so much so that when they want answers, they're know that they can go to you and say, hey, I need some help on this Because you are accessible. And then notice the next thing in verse 7. For the priest live should keep knowledge, they should seek the law at his mouth. For he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. And the idea here is that he should be honorable Because he's honored just by being the messenger of the Lord. There's a sense of privilege and honor that comes with this service of God, and so therefore he should be honorable as the messenger of the Lord. That's the idea there. And so we see then that this is the consecration that God expects of spiritual leaders Now let me give you the last point here real quickly. Write down not only the caution to spiritual leaders and the consecration of spiritual leaders, but write down number three the corruption. Of spiritual leaders. Because notice the priests of Malachi's day, they had betrayed all of these standards. And that's why God was angry. Look at verse number Verse number eight. But ye are departed out of the way. That is, they utterly failed to keep God's standards. How did they fail? First of all, they disobeyed God's word, verse 8. But ye are departed out of the way. They were not living according to the word. That was the first thing. You're not living according to the word, God says. Now again, I've had people come to me before and say, man, I really enjoy your sermon and thank you so very much. And my response is pretty much the same. I don't always say this out loud, but I do say it to myself. Anybody can preach a good sermon. That's not hard. You know what the hard part is? Living it after it's all over with. You know what? When I preach a sermon, I'm responsible before God that I live that out. Anybody can get up and put together a sermon and preach it and anybody can really listen to a sermon and get a blessing out of it. The hard part comes is when we now have to live it out before Almighty God. That's the hard part. And here God says about these priests, you're not, you've departed out of the way. You're not living it out. The key to the Christian life is obedience to the Word of God. It's obedience to what God says. And so we're accountable to do that. This is where the rubber meets the road. They disobeyed the word of God, but then they damaged the people of God. Look again in verse 8. But ye have departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at the law. Wow. These priests, because of their irreverent attitude, because they were simply going through the motions, and they had no real heart for God The people could see that. And what did it cause them to do? It caused people to stumble. Spiritual leaders are responsible before God for the people that they lead. And their actions can potentially cause others to stumble. Now in this case, we already know that the reason the people were stumbling over these priests is because the manner in which they were treating the sacrifice of the Lord, bringing these torn animals, despising the Lord's name, not acting in a reverent attitude, this was causing other people to do the same. And God says, you're causing my people to stumble. Their apathy was rubbing off on others. Their coldness was contagious. Jesus warned about this in the New Testament. Jesus said this in Mark 9, 42, and whosoever shall offend one of these little ones. That believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and that he were cast into the sea. Now when Jesus says little ones here, he's not referring to children. Read the context. He's referring to disciples. He's referring to those who just came into the kingdom. He's referring to those who were poor in spirit. Who were just learning about the things of God. And Jesus was careful to warn: don't cause one of these newborn believers, one of these younger Christians, to stumble. Don't do that It's very possible that as Christians we do that. And so this was a warning that he gave. I heard about a man who was walking down a dark, dark path and ahead he could see a man with a lantern in his hand and as he got close to the man he noticed that the man with the lantern on this dark path was blind. And he said to the man with a lantern, why are you carrying this lantern? You're blind. You don't need it. He said, I don't want anybody stumbling over me. And friend, that's the attitude that we should have. I don't want anybody stumbling because of me. I want to live a godly example so people can be encouraged. and not stumble over me. But notice the next thing these priests did, they disregarded the covenant. Look in verse 8. Because ye have departed out of the way, ye have caused many to stumble at the law. Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi saith the Lord of hosts. That is the covenant that God uh gave to Levi when he called the Levites. God says, you priest, you don't value this calling. You have corrupted it. The word corrupt means to damage beyond repair. You damaged it Because you have you're not giving me due reverence. And then they distorted the law of God. Look at verse 9, at the end of verse 9, where it says, As ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in my law. They've been partial. They were prejudiced in their judgment. They had respect of persons when it came to the law. They perverted the judgment and showed partiality when they administered the law of God. And so therefore, look in verse 9. Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as ye have not kept my ways God says, since you've despised me, I'm going to have the people despise you. I'm going to make it to where they despise you. Now these priests, they wanted to be popular, right? I mean that's the reason why they were twisting the law Perverting justice, they were trying to gain friends. And God says, here, I'm going to cause people to despise you. Because of the way that you have treated me. Now, I don't know about you, but this is pretty strong here. When I was studying this, I got convicted. I had to look at my life and I had to say, Lord, I don't ever want to be guilty of any of these things. I have to measure my own life according to this. Am I really a spiritual leader because let me tell you something. God is very serious about this. And we're going to have to give an account to the Lord for this. I'll just close with this. I remember when I was in Bible college, my dad uh gave me a car to take to college. It was one of those old Chevy Novas. And it had a it was blue but it had a black door and a orange fender and a green quarter panel It was kind of put together. It still had one of those gear shifts that were in the by the steering wheel, you know? It was it was an old car. But now it worked and I was grateful. That I was grateful for it But I remember I I remember taking that car to college and you know sometimes it wouldn't start, but most of the time it did. But I remember when it got cold, the speedometer would swing like a pendulum. So I couldn't tell how fast I was going. When it was cold, it was just and by the way, where I went to college it was always cold. So that speedometer was always going back and forth, back and forth. So I had to kind of guess how fast I was going. But I remember on one occasion I was pulled over by a police officer. He said, Young man, do you know how fast you're going? I said, as a matter of fact, sir, I don't. I I have a dysfunctional speedometer. Well he he he wasn't you know he he didn't take any mercy on me. No pity whatsoever. He gave me a ticket and I had to go appear before a judge So I remember the day I went to stand before the judge, and I still remember the judge's name. His name was Orville Anderson. I don't know why I remembered his name, I just did. But I remember standing before him and he said, uh, what do you where are you why are you here? Do you go to school? I said, yes, I go to college. What college? Well, I go to a Bible college Why? I'm studying to be a minister. But all of a sudden he kind of kind of a look of disdain on his face. Oh, here you are studying for the ministry and you're in here for a speeding ticket. Kind of got a look of disgust on his face. Now he wasn't easy on me. He was very hard on me. And so I remember that later on A few days later, I saw this same judge. His face was in the paper. He was on the front page of the paper. You know why? He was convicted for accepting bribes. I wish I had known that when I was standing in front of him. But I remember, I just remember, wow, this guy was convicted. But I just remember there's two things I remember from that. And I'll be honest with you, the first thing that I remember, it just it affected me so, and I just remember as a servant of the Lord, I don't ever want to do anything foolish or irresponsible. I don't ever want to do anything to bring shame to the name of Almighty God. And that's the impression that it made on me. I remember the shame that I felt as I stood before this judge. Who is now looking down on me because I'm standing there because of a speeding ticket, and I'm supposed to be a young man preparing for ministry. But then the second thing I learned from that is that I stood ashamed before a corrupt judge. One of these days I'm going to stand before a sinless judge. And I don't want to be ashamed when I stand before him. I don't want to be ashamed because of the way I lived when I stand before God someday. I want to be able to say, just as these ladies sang here a minute ago, well done. You weren't perfect But you did well. Well done. And when I read a passage like this, it causes me to fear. And it causes me to take spiritual inventory. And look at my life, and I want to be able to say, Lord, can I pass this task of spiritual leadership? Will I be able to stand before you one day unashamed and hear you say, Well done. Now listen, beloved. We're all priests in here today. All of us. You are a spiritual priest. And one day you too are going to stand before God. For how you worshiped him, for how you brought your gift to the altar. For how you brought your sacrifice. Will you be able to hear God say, well done? Because in this passage, what do we learn? God takes this very seriously. He takes the worship and honor and glory of his name very seriously. And so he says to these priests, you better lay this to heart. You better lay it to heart. You better take it seriously. And beloved, we better take it seriously as well. Let's bow for prayer. So Lord, we we look at this warning here tonight. Very strong warning by your prophet. And we measure our own lives next to it. We realize, Lord, that we need to lay these things to heart. And help us, Lord, as your spiritual priests, to bring offerings that are acceptable in your sight Not only our actions, what we do, we know that they are acts of worship, but our whole attitude, our whole demeanor, let it be one of honor and glory and reverence and worship. And let us be passionate about your name. Help us not to fall into the trap that these priests fell into and the people who followed them where they just went through the motions. Of religious motions where there is no heart, where there is no fire. God, keep us from falling into that trap. And may what we do and how we do it always be acceptable in your sight, Lord. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.