So would you uh take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of James, chapter four. We've been talking on the subject of prayer and um how that prayer matters. And I want to just deal with another subject with regard to prayer tonight. And in James chapter 4. We're going to just read this verse. We're going to look at other verses of Scripture on this tonight, on this topic. But James chapter 4, verse 3 says, ye ask and receive not. Because you ask amiss that you may consume it upon your lusts. I think one of the biggest struggles that Christians face is in their prayer life. I mean if we're honest, we would have to say that this is something that we struggle with, this discipline of prayer. And here in this opening verse of James chapter 4, He mentions really two problems in the first three verses here of James that a believer might have in prayer. And the first problem that he mentions is that of unaffered prayer. He says that um we we have not because we ask not in verse number two and the obvious reason why we don't get answers to prayer is because we don't ask Now remember that prayer is not a suggestion in the Bible. It's really an invitation from God. God invites us into his presence. Uh what a special invitation that is. I mean what if you got an invitation from the White House asking you to come to the Oval Office and so that you can just talk to the president and let him know all the things that you think need to change and what the needs are. Uh would you accept that? Um Okay, maybe not. Um however the point is someone much more important than the president invites you to his throne room. And that's Almighty God. How foolish of us when we don't accept God's gracious invitation to come and to tell us tell him what our needs are. Jeremiah 33, 3 says, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. In Jeremiah 29, verse 12 The Lord said, Then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you. Our God is a God who delights. and answering the prayers of his people. In Psalm 50, verse 15, it says, And call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. These verses are open invitations from God to bring our requests and our needs to Him. But prayer is not just an invitation, prayer is also a command. As you if you've been with us in our study, when we looked at the Lord's Frayer, we saw that several times in the Lord's Frayer, Jesus said, When you pray. Right before he gave that outline of prayer, he talked about prayer, and several times he used the expression, but thou, when thou prayest, not if you pray, but when you pray The Lord expects us to pray. And then in verse number nine of chapter six, it's an imperative. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Pray you or pray ye. That is imperative. That is a command. That is Jesus telling us that we should pray. And so prayer is a command. The Bible says in Colossians 4:2, continue steadfastly in prayer. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, we are to pray without ceasing. I think I told you one time one of the most convicting sermons I ever read was from Jonathan Edwards called Hypocrites Deficient in the Duty of Prayer. And the whole sermon, the thesis of it was basically if you don't pray, if you're not active in private prayer, you're not saved. You're a hypocrite, is what he was basically saying there. And so that's very convicting. Now the excuse that some Christians give for not praying is this. They say, well, I've tried to pray and it just doesn't work. Or nothing happens. I don't get an answer to my prayers. So they just stop having regular prayer. And they say, well, it just doesn't work. I've prayed about something. I prayed about this matter, but I don't seem to get anywhere. Doesn't God hear? Is God listening to me? Why doesn't He help me? Why doesn't He answer my prayers? People often find themselves in that situation and they say, well, you know, since it doesn't work, I just don't do it. One morning I got into my Jeep Cherokee and tried to start it. It wouldn't start. I'm not a mechanic. I got out and kicked the tires, tried again, it didn't work. Uh you know, the batteries seemed to be fine. And so I tried to start it. It wouldn't. Everything looked like it was should work. And it didn't work. And so I had two options. I could just say, you know what? Cars don't work for me. I'm just going to walk from here on out. I'm not going to use cars anymore because I've tried it and it just doesn't work. Or I could find out what the problem is And in my case, I didn't know this, but they have a battery under the passenger seat in the back that actually isn't used to start the vehicle. That's what was dead. I had no idea that that thing had two batteries in it But we found that out and got it changed and now we're good. Everything works just fine. And so, you know, I learned something that it was a hidden problem. And the same can be s we can apply to prayer. You say my prayer doesn't work. Well, you can do one or two things. You can stop praying if you want, and you try to live your Christian life, the rest of your Christian life without prayer, I wouldn't recommend that I would recommend as you stay on praying ground, especially in the day in which we live today. We need to have access to God. So you can stop praying or you can investigate your life and see what is hindering prayer in my life. And so this is the second problem that James mentions here in James 4 with regard to prayer, and that is the problem of unanswered prayer, or the fact that you ask, he says in verse number 3, and you receive not. Why is it that sometimes when we have a request and we bring it to God, we ask and we do not get an answer to that prayer? What I want you to see from Scripture tonight are just some reasons why prayers go unanswered, or things that hinder prayer. And this is pretty basic, but James mentions the first thing. Here's number one, carnal motives. Look again in verse number three. You ask and receive not. Why? Because you ask amiss, that you might consume it upon your lust. Selfishness is what he's talking about there. And selfishness leads to wrong praying. And we've been studying prayer and we've learned that prayer is not to uh to get our will done in heaven, but to get God's will done on earth. Many Christians treat prayer like it's kind of like an Aladdin's lamp, you know. We rub the lamp, God pops out, we tell him what he wants, or we what we want, and he gives us our wishes. And and they treat prayer in that manner. And so we come to God very selfishly at times and we have our wish list. Here's what I want, God. But Jesus taught us to pray, look, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. In other words, prayer is about what God wants, not what I want. That's the bottom line in prayer. I can't pray thy will be done Until I first say my will has to be submitted to God's will. I can't pray thy kingdom come until first I pray my kingdom go. And so we have to remember that we can't be selfish in our prayers. We have to have at the root of our praying the right motives. And what is the key motive? The key motive, again, is God's kingdom, God's name, God's glory. We saw all of that in the Lord's Prayer. When we get off our knees, thine is the kingdom, thine is the power, thine is the glory. We want God to be glorified. Selfishness destroys true prayer That's why James says you ask and receive not, because you ask amiss, that you might consume it on your lusts In his great book, How to Pray, he illustrates it like this. He says, For example, many a woman is praying for the conversion of her husband. That certainly is the most proper thing to ask But many a woman's motive in asking for the conversion of her husband is entirely improper. It is selfish. She desires that her husband may be converted because it would be so much more pleasant for her to have a husband who sympathizes with her Or it is so painful to think that her husband might die and be lost forever. For some such selfish reason as this, she desires to have her husband converted The prayer he says is purely selfish. Why should a woman desire the conversion of her husband? First of all, and above all, that God may be glorified. Because she cannot bear the thought of God the Father should be dishonored by her husband trampling underfoot the Son of God. And I think he's right. We have to have at the basis of our prayers the right motive, which is the glory of God. We can say the same thing about revival. We can pray for revival, but the question is why do we want revival? Do we want revival because we want uh to be able to brag about our numbers? So we can have more than the church down the street, or we can have a fuller uh bank account of money, or all those things are selfish motives. We want revival because we want to glorify God because we can't bear the fact that his name is not being honored in this world. And we want to see his name exalted. It's got to be the glory of God. But here's number two. Another reason for hindered prayer is unconfessed sin. Isaiah 59, verses 1 and 2. You can turn there and just listen. Isaiah says this, Behold the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither is his ear heavy that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear Sin hinders prayer. Many Christians pray and they get no answers, and again they're tempted to think that prayer doesn't work. That was that that's what they thought back in Isaiah's day. The Israelites thought, well, you know, the Lord's hand is shortened. He he's not powerful enough anymore, or maybe his ear uh uh is cannot hear heavy that it cannot hear and um and the prophet Isaiah says no that's not so God is just as powerful as he's always been And God can hear just as clearly as he always could. The problem is not God, the problem is you. The problem is you're carrying around in your heart unconfessed, unforsaken sin. The Bible says that we must confess and forsake sin in order for God to hear us. Here's a few verses. Psalm 66, 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Isaiah 1, verse 15. When you spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers, I will not hear, your hands are full of blood. Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Cease to do evil. And so if we want God to hear our prayers, we must confess our sins. That's why the discipline of confession, daily confession, is so important in the Christian life. It's like Spurgeon said, a Christian must never leave off repenting, for I fear he never leaves off sinning. And that's so true. The Bible says if we would judge our own sins, God wouldn't need to judge them. How do we judge our own sins? By confessing them. 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. The Christian's life ought to be so sensitive in this walk with God that when you sin, immediately you stop and say, God, forgive me. Confess sin, immediately you stop and say, God, forgive me. Confess that sin. And I commit when I heart to act It cuts. No. When you the psalmist in Psalm 139 And know my heart and try me and know my any wicked way in here to uncover sin. It must be exposed, it must be expressed. When the Holy Spirit convicts you of a sin, confess it. Confession is from the word that means to say the same thing, homo legal. You're saying the same thing about your sin that God says about it. It's evil, it's wrong, and you say, God, my sin is evil in your sight, it's wrong. I confess it, I forsake it, please forgive me. Name it and nail it to the cross. Don't do that thing where you before you go to bed tonight just say, Oh Lord, can I just forgive me for all my sins And then you're gone. You're sleeping. No, you know, you need to take time and examine your heart and let the Holy Spirit convict you specifically of sins that you need to forsake uh specifically, name them and mail them to the cross, and then sin will be expelled. That is to say, God will forgive you. The psalmist said this in Psalm 32, verse 5: I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and my iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. God, you forgave me. I was transparent with you. I confessed it and you forgave me. But there's a third thing that causes Prayers to be unanswered. Not only cardal motives and unconfessed sin, but number three, secret idols. Secret idols. Write down Ezekiel 14, verse number 3. Son of man, these have set up their idols in their heart and put their stumbling block of their iniquity before their face. Should I inquire be inquired of at all of all excuse me, of at all by them Should I be inquired of at all by them? That is God saying, you know, should I listen to their prayers? They have idols in their heart, and the idols that the secret idols that they had caused God to refuse to listen to their prayers. What is an idol? An idol is anything that takes the place of God. An idol is anything that has the supreme of our supreme affection It is an object that we give our supreme devotion and affection to. God alone has the right to have that supreme place in our heart. God and God alone Everything and everyone else must be subordinate to God. You can make people idols. You know, sometimes a a man might love his wife, and you should love your wife like Christ loved the church, but if you if you love your wife more than God, if you put her ahead of God, now you put her in a wrong place. Now she's an idol And the same thing with husband with wives and husbands. You can make your husband an idol and put him before the Lord. That can be said also of parents and children. Parents can put their children ahead of God and they become idols in their life. We remember the story of Eli the high priest in the Old Testament, right? He had two sons, Hopni and Phineas. They were committing all kind of terrible sins at the tabernacle, robbing people. during the time of offering, committing immorality. And God sent a prophet to Eli. Remember what the prophet said to Eli? He said, You know, I have given you this position. I appeared unto your father's house. I chose you all out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, but not anymore. Why? Because you've honored your sons above me, God said. You put your children ahead of me. Your children have become an idol. And you've kicked at my sacrifice. And you've honored them before you've honored me. And because of that, the household of Eli was severely judged. And they were no longer part of the priesthood by God. But idols are not just people, they can be things. Many a man makes an idol of his reputation or of his business But God cannot hear the prayers of those who have secret idols in their heart. And when we pray, God if we have idols on our heart, God's not going to hear. And many times God Often will not answer prayers to call attention to the fact that we have idols in our heart. There are things that we have put ahead of God. But here's number four. Carnal motives, unconfessed sin, secret idols, but number four, a stingy heart. Write down Proverbs 21, verse 13. Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard. This is a great hindrance to prayer. It's a lack of generosity, of hoarding Resources and riches that God has given you. God said if we refuse to heed the cries of the needy and the poor, God will not listen to us. You see a needy person and you don't help them, if you have the resources and the ability to help a needy person and you don't do it, then that is an offense to Almighty God. I'm not talking about a con artist. I know that there are a lot of con artists out there that make a living trying to get money off of people. I'm not talking about that. We have to we have to prove all things, the Bible says. We have to We have to be careful in what we do, but if we see a genuine need, a genuinely needy person, and we basically do not hear their cry, then God says, I will not hear your cry as well. Write down 1 John 3 22. And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and listen to this, and we do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Well, what are the things that are pleasing in God's sight? Well, if you look at the context of 1 John 3, it tells us very clearly what those things are. If you back up to verse 16, it says, Hereby perceive we the love of God Because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. And then verse 17, But whoso hath this world's good, and sees his brother have need, and sheddeth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. That's the things that were pleasing to God, that you share the love of God, that you share what you have. If you see a person in need, you help them. But if you shut up your bows of compassion, that is not pleasing to God And 1 John again in chapter 3, verse 23, says this, and this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his son Jesus and love one another as he gave us commandment. And so John makes it very clear there that God hears the prayers of those who do those things that are pleasing, and what are those pleasing things that is taking care of those that are needy? That's what pleases God. George Mueller was like that. We know George Mueller because he was a mighty man of prayer. But did you know also he was a mighty giver? Money was constantly going from this. through his hands from someone else to someone else. He was he gave so much and God heard his prayer and gave so much to him and he just simply passed on what God gave him. No wonder if he was a man that had his prayers answered. But here's number five. Carnal motives, unconfessed sin, secret idols, a stingy heart, but number five, an unforgiving spirit. Mark 5, verse 25. And when you stand praying, forgive if ye have aught against any, that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. And the implication of this verse is clear. If you're praying and you want your Heavenly Father to hear your prayers, then you better make sure you've forgiven others. If you have some unforgiveness in your heart against anyone, then you forgive. When you go to prayer, just forgive. Immediately, just forgive that person Now I know that might be hard if you've been hurt by someone. You know, when you're hurt, you want that person to hurt, you kind of want to strike back. That's human. That's why we struggle sometimes with forgiveness. But, friend, if you allow bitterness and unforgiveness to dwell in your heart, it only hurts you. It only is going to cause you pain. And it'll cause your prayers to be unanswered. You are to forgive. You say, how do I do that? How do I practically forgive? Well, biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. You just make a decision to do it. And you know, there are sometimes when forgiveness is conditional, and the Bible makes that clear, but the normal pattern of forgiveness in Scripture is unconditional forgiveness. That's what the Bible emphasizes. Forgiveness is not an emotion. Forgiveness is a command. You don't command feelings. You command Your will. God is commanding us to forgive. You say, I don't feel like forgiving. God didn't say feel like forgiving. He just said forgive. Make a decision to do it. Your heart will catch up to you later. You say, what is that? You just release the offender from the guilt. You just say in your heart, not guilty. I choose to declare this person not guilty. You refuse to bring it up anymore. You refuse to think about the offense anymore. You refuse to talk about the offense to anyone. It's over with. It's in the past. Biblical forgiv forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It is undeserved. Someone say, well, they don't deserve forgiveness. I know that's why they call it forgiveness. If they had to work To please you, I don't know if that's really forgiveness. It's undeserved, and by the way, you didn't deserve forgiveness either when God forgave you We're to forgive the way God does. It's total. You don't just forgive some sins, you forgive them all. You don't just forgive them today, you forgive them tomorrow and the next day and forever. You don't go to someone and say, Well, I thought you forgave me. Well, I did yesterday, but not today. I'm holding against you today. That's not biblical forgiveness. It's total. It's final And we do it for the glory of God. And we do it remembering that God has forgiven us for so much. And we also remember that when we harbor unforgiveness, our prayers are hindered. But here's number six. Family conflict. Carnal motives, unconfessed sins, secret idols, a stingy heart, an unforgiving spirit, but family conflict. Listen to 1 Peter 3:7. Likewise ye husbands dwell with them, that is wives, according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. Now here we are plainly told that a wrong relationship between a husband and a wife will cause your prayers to be hindered. And many a time a man will not have his prayers answered because of the way he is treating his wife. He's not dutiful, responsible towards his wife. And I think you could also say the other thing is true as well, wives to husbands. There should be that honor, there should be that love, that respect, that submission one to another. The Bible says here, Peter said, Dwell with them according to knowledge. The word dwell with them, actually to house together, literally to live in the same house. You say, well I live in the same house with my wife. Okay, good, that's good. But the question is, are you totally together? That's the idea there. Because I know some marriages where the husband and wife live under the same roof, but they're not together There's no oneness there. There's no bond. And so this is what he's talking about. That your prayers be not hindered. God says to us men, if you don't have time to listen to your wife and honor her, I don't have time to listen to you and honor you. That's pretty strong, isn't it? Can I get an amen from the women tonight? All right. How about some men? Amen? Brave enough? Okay, forget it. So we w we have to have the right family relationship. But then here's number seven. A doubting mind hinders prayer. A doubting mind. James 1, verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God to give it to all men liberally. And upright not, it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith nothing wavering. For he that wavers is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything on the Lord Notice again verse 6, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Prayers are hindered by doubt and unbelief. God demands that we believe his word absolutely. To question God's promises is to call him a liar. When God promises something, God will deliver. Many of us we do that. We doubt when we plead his promises. Is it any wonder why God does not answer our prayers? James says, look, let him ask in faith. When we come with doubting, he says we're not going to receive anything from God. And what is doubting here? Now, James is the master of metaphors. And he uses an illustration. He's a a fisherman by trade before he became an apostle. And I'm sure he spent many uh uh a stormy night or day on the Sea of Galilee when the winds and the waves kicked up, and he compares doubting to a sea wave Uh what is the seawave like? You know, I was out on the Chesapeake Bay with my father at times on his boat, one time a storm came in and the waves just were kicking up and down. It was like being on a roller coaster. Up and down, up and down. That's what sea waves are like. And that's what James is saying a doubter is like. A doubter is one minute they're up in faith and oh yes, I trust, I believe God, and the next moment they're down and they're doubting. They're spiritually bipolar. That's what he's saying right here. Actually the word for doubt here, di cranino, crino where we get the word cranium, your mind, your brain, or to think. Die is through or to divide in half, or we could say to think twice. Literally, it means to think twice. When you doubt, you're thinking twice. The first thought is faith, then the next thought is doubt You know, when when Peter was walking on the water with Jesus and they looked at the wind and the waves, it took his eyes off the Lord, he began to sink, Jesus grabbed him, and you remember what he said, Peter, you had it. Why did you die? Why did you think twice? First time you had it, I can walk on water, because Jesus said, Come. And then the next moment he said, I can't walk on water. And he was in down in the water. And so don't undo and doubt what you've done in faith. Believe. Pray and believe, and you will receive. Pray and doubt, and you'll do without. James says, let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. So pray in faith, pray, believing. But let me give you the last thing here. Hindered prayer is because of carnal motives or unconfessed sin or secret idols or a stingy heart or an unforgiving spirit or family conflict or a doubting mind, but number eight would be an arrogant attitude. An arrogant attitude. Write down Job 35, verse 12, and verse 13. Job said this, there they cry, but none giveth answer. Because of the pride of evil men. Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it. And here in this particular passage of Job, this is a speech from Elihu. one of Job's friends, and he's condemning the pride of the self-righteous. And he rightly concludes that God does not hear the prayers of the proud or the arrogant. When people are in trouble, they often turn to God as a way out, but they don't come with thanksgiving, they don't come with gratitude, they don't come with humility, they kind of swagger up to God as if God owed it to them. With a sense of entitlement. Let me tell you something, friend. When we come into the presence of God, we better come with humility And we better come with praise and thanksgiving for everything that God has done. And guess what? God doesn't owe us anything. Now He's a God who delights in mercy. He's a God who is gracious and giving. But friend, we need to come and recognize that before God we are nothing. He owes us nothing. And we need to come with humbleness, humility. We don't come because of our merit. We don't come because you know we deserve to be there. We don't deserve to be there. The only reason we can even come into God's presence in prayer is because of what Jesus did on the cross. Because his blood gives us access before God So we don't come to God based on our merit. We come to God based on His mercy and the mercy of Jesus Christ And if we come with a with an arrogant sense of entitlement, we're not going to get anything from God. A sense of entitlement causes us to ask for things that we have no right to. Remember that passage in Matthew where James and John is asking to be the greatest in the kingdom? Lord give us this. What do you want? I want that we sit, you know, one on the right hand, the other on the left. Remember what Jesus said? You have no idea what you're asking You're asking for things that are way above you, that are way beyond you. Pride hinders prayer And so let me just close by saying, listen, rest assured that God loves to answer the prayers of his children He loves to give gifts to his children. If you as parents love to give things to your children, how much more does God love to give to his children? But he's not going to do it if we have these things in our heart, if we're hindered by carnal motives or unconfessed sin or secret idols or stinginess or unforgiving spirit or or family conflict or a doubting mind or an arrogant attitude And if if God reveals that any of these things are true in your heart, then what you need to do is you need to repent and ask God to forgive you and cleanse you. So that none of your prayers are hindered when you go to God in prayer, so that you have full access before God. About a year ago I visited the Niagara Falls. You know w it is it's estimated that five hundred thousand tons of water rush over the Niagara Falls every minute. If you've ever been there, you know it's a mighty rushing sound that is there constantly. But on March the twenty-ninth, nineteen forty-eight, the falls suddenly stopped. People within the sound of the falls were awakened by the silence. They no longer heard the rushing water or the falling of the water. And they were wondering what was wrong, it brought fear. And what happened? What happened they found out is the heavy winds had set the ice fields of Lake Erie in motion. And tons of ice jammed the Niagara River entrance near Buffalo. And as a result, it stopped the flow of the river. And it and it actually stopped that flow for about 90 minutes. And it wasn't until the ice shifted that the water began to flow again. And when I read that I thought, you know, God's mercy and grace are like the Niagara Falls. They they come without fail. It falls to us abundantly. It falls constantly. But God's mercy and grace in our lives in our life can be blocked by our own sin, by our own coldness of heart. And when we through repentance and faith and we through repentance and confession acknowledge those things and we confess those sins. then the mercy and grace of God will flow once again and we'll be people that have access, people that have answers when we go to God in prayer. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we are such a needy people, desperately in need of you. And Lord, we fully acknowledge the words of our Master, Jesus, who said, without me you can do nothing Lord, I confess that fully and freely. I can do nothing without you, Lord. Just like a branch can do nothing without the vine if we're not connected to the vine. And we need to continually abide in you, to have the life-giving source of the vine flowing through us. And we also need this access that you've granted us. Because we're your children, and because we have been justified, and because we have peace with God, we have access into your presence. And Father, how we need this access in prayer. Because every day we need to seek you. We need to pray without ceasing. We need to ask for things constantly. Lord, we are in need of you. And Lord, yet every once in a while there is something that hinders our prayers. One of these things where it may be something, maybe What's not covered here? Maybe there's some other scripture that can enlighten us on it. But Lord, I pray that you will search our hearts and help us and reveal to us if there's anything that's hindering our prayers. So that, Lord, we can restore the flow of grace and mercy through prayer again. We can unblock that through confession and repentance. Speak to hearts tonight, Lord. And may we all be on praying ground. We need it in this day in which we live. We need to continually pray for our family, for our friends, for our church, for our special needs. Lord, may we all be people that stand on praying ground with access to you. So, Father, use this word in every heart here tonight, Father. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.