Would you take God's word this morning and open please to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and we're going to look at verses 9 down to verse 11. And if you would stand for the reading of God's word, please. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Verse 9. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Thank you. May you may be seated. May God bless us as we go to the Word today. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for your word, how very clear it is. Lord, give us in these days the courage to stand upon the truth of Scripture. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Recently the Canadian government passed a bill in their House and Senate, which became law last week. I think I may have mentioned this to you last week, but the bill is a ban on what they call conversion therapy. Now what is conversion therapy? Let me just read to you from their bill what it says. It's, quote, a practice, treatment, or service designed to change a person's sexual orientation to heterosexual. To change a person's gender identity to cisgender, change a person's gender expression so that it conforms to the sex assigned to the person at birth. Repress or reduce non-heterosexual attraction or sexual behavior. Repress a person's non-sis gender identity or repress or reduce a person's gender expression that does not conform to the sex assigned to the person at birth And so basically what the bill does is it criminalizes anyone who tries to convert or do any kind of conversion therapy for someone who is homosexual or transgender. Uh the preamble of the bill says that the belief that heterosexuality, cisgender gender identity and gender expression that conforms to the sex assigned to a person at birth are to be preferred over other sexual orientations. Gender identities and gender expressions, listen to this, is a myth. A myth. So according to Canadian law, as of last week, the belief in God's design for marriage and sexuality is now seen as a myth. It's a myth. And this definition is intentionally broad because it can clearly be used against any creature who speaks against homosexuality or transgenderism. Or who counsels a person to obey Christ, repent of your sin, be converted, be saved? And so as of January 8th in Canada, it's against the law to preach or teach or to counsel regarding God's design for marriage and sexuality. And if you do try to do that, it's a guilty you're you're guilty and it's indict indictable y you're liable for imprisonment up to five years. Well you might be thinking, well that's Canada. We live in the U. S. Well the U. S. is not far behind. There are already four states in the U. S. that have passed bills banning what they call gay conversion They are California, New York, New Jersey, and Nevada. On August 8, 2020, the Democratic Party declared at the National Convention that it would quote, ban harmful conversion therapy practices. And so we're not far behind that. We really aren't. And so today I would just like to stand up and take my stand on the Word of God, beside a lot of other faithful preachers who stand on the Word, and in a spirit of love and mercy, confront These sins that are being legalized in our culture. Because you know what the gospel does? It brings conversion. That's what the gospel does. This is an attack on the Word of God because the Bible says the Word of God converts the soul. The Bible says in Psalm 19, verse 7: the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. My calling as a preacher is to help bring conversion to people. And by the way, you know what? All of us need conversion because we're all sinners. My calling as a gospel minister is to preach the truth, confront sin, call all men to repent and obedience to the gospel. It is the gospel that brings conversion. It is the gospel that saves sinners from eternal wrath. Jesus said this in Matthew 18:3. Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted. And become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of God. You need to be converted, or you're not going to heaven. In Acts 3. 19, repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. And James said this, he said, Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him, let him know that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall mu hide a multitude of sins And beloved, that's what we want to do. We don't hate anyone. We want to bring people to know Jesus Christ. We want to save their soul from eternal death and hell. We want them to know Jesus. We want their sins to be forgiven. We want them to have eternal life in heaven. That's all, and that's what the gospel does. And so just a few thoughts. First of all, the church is called to share God's love to all people And let me let me just say that all people, it doesn't matter who you are, where you're from, it doesn't matter your social status, your race, your nationality, your religious background, we share God's love to all people. All people. The doors of this church are open for all to attend, to worship, and to hear the word of God. We love all people. We seek to minister to all people. You know why? Because every person is created in the image of God. That's why prejudice is so evil. Because an attack against our fellow man is an attack against God because all people were created in God's image. And that's what the Bible teaches us. It teaches us to love all. It teaches us to hate partiality and to hate racism. And so we believe that. But the ultimate expression of God's love is through sharing the gospel. That's the ultimate expression. This is the supreme way we show others that we love them. God loved us enough that He sent His Son Jesus to die for our sins so that people people could have an eternal home in heaven. And when Paul went to the city of Corinth, we just read these verses a minute ago He went there to a city that was a seaport city where it was very diverse. People from all over the world were there. It was known for its immorality, it was known for its vice of all sorts And when Paul went to Corinth, he went there simply doing that very thing, preaching the gospel, preaching the cross of Jesus Christ In fact it says in first Corinthians chapter one verse seventeen, Paul said, For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Paul said, I just straightforward preach the cross. I don't try to do it in a way that will bowl you over with my rhetoric or my oratorical ability. I simply preach the cross because the power is in the cross. And as a result, there were people there at Coreans that were converted from sin. And that's what the gospel does. The gospel of God and God's love confronts sin. You understand that's what the gospel does It confronts all sinners. And before a person will repent of their sin and come to Jesus, they have to see themselves as sinners. They have to understand that. And again, we're all sinners, all of us. And God is a holy God, and His holiness demands that sin be punished. And He's a God of love, and He doesn't want to punish you. That's why he sent Jesus to be our substitute, so his holiness would be satisfied with the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. And so salvation is a gift offered to all who will repent, who will understand that they are sinners. And that they will repent. But you know what? No one likes to be called a sinner. In fact, people are offended by that And then there's an offense to the gospel, I admit it. In fact, if you're not offended by the gospel that I preach sometimes, I'm probably not preaching it right. That's why the people the Paul said that to that the that the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness But unto us which are saved, that is the power of God. That's why Jesus said in Luke 7. 23, and blessed is the one who is not offended by me. But if you see yourself as a sinner before a holy God, and you will not be offended by the gospel, and you understand that Jesus came to die for your sin, and you repent and you turn to Him, you're going to be blessed. You're going to have your sins forgiven. You're going to have Eternal life. But you see, what society is doing today is it's saying there's no sin, there's only alternative lifestyles. Just be who you are, and you'll be fine And beloved, that's a lie. If people don't see themselves as sinners and they don't repent, they'll never come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and they'll die without Jesus and go to an eternal hell. Now many of the Corinthians that heard Paul preach the gospel, they turned. And Paul said he he listed the sins that a lot of them committed. We see them in verse nine. Fornicators, idolaters, adulterers, effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, Paul said, These who do these things, if you practice this continually, you're not going to enter into the kingdom of God. And then on the list of sins, of course, fornicators, we know what fornication is, and idolaters who worship false gods, adultery, we know that. Effeminant is the Greek word, malakoi. Abusers of themselves of mankind, that's one Greek word. Arseno cotois uh or kotas, excuse me. And both of these words are words that refer to homosexuality. One is being sodomized, the other is the sodomizer. And that's on a list of other sins that Paul gives here. And Paul said, you know, if you do these, if you live like this, you're not going to enter inherit the kingdom of God. But look what he said in verse 11. And such were some of you. This is not what you are anymore. You've been washed, but you're sanctified. You're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. Paul said, you were that But now you're justified. Now you're saved. Now you're washed. That's all in the past. Their sins have been forgiven, and now they're on the way to heaven. But they had to acknowledge that these were sins. In Paul's day, homosexuality was rampant all through Greece and Rome. William Barclay writes that Socrates was a homosexual and Plato was as well. Plato wrote a book, Symposium of Love, which is basically a treatise glorifying homosexuality. It is likely that 14 of the first 15 Roman emperors were homosexuals. Nero, who put Paul to death, was a homosexual. And it's likely that many people in the city of Corinth were practicing this. And Paul went there simply preaching the gospel, and they were converted. And they came to the Lord Jesus Christ. But now we have a society today that says there's nothing wrong with this. That you need to just be who you are. That God loves you just the way you are. And when by saying that, you know, that's such a lovely expression. But what you're doing is, and they don't realize this, but they're confusing God's common grace with God's special saving grace. Because let me tell you something. Does God love ever all people? Of course he does. He loves all people. That's called God's common grace. Jesus made it clear in Matthew 5. He said this. Yeah, heard that it has been said Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy, but I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you That ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to sh to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust You understand what Jesus is saying there? Jesus is saying to us, we are God's children. We're to love everyone, even our enemies. Why? Well, because that's the way God the Father loves. And how do we know that? How do we know that God loves everyone, even his enemies? Because he makes the sun to shine on them every day. And he pours rain out on the just and on the unjust. Everyone in the world are recipients of God's common gr grace, the blessings of life are all illustrations and demonstrations that God loves everybody. That's the love of God's common grace. And that is a unconditional love. You don't have to meet any conditions to receive that love of God's common grace. But let me tell you something, beloved, there is a love of God's special saving grace, and that is conditional. You don't just get that just because you're born. This special love of God is condition conditional and it's conditioned upon the sinner's repentance. God does love all sinners, but he calls on all sinners to repent of their sin. And when they do, they become the recipients of God's special grace. Because at that point their sins are forgiven. They have eternal life in heaven. They become a child of God. And again, the gospel calls upon all men to repent of their sin. And let me tell you that homosexuality is a sin like the other things that are on this list. It is a sin. Now the problem today is that society is again saying that it's not a sin. That it's an acceptable lifestyle. Homosexuality and transgenderism is an acceptable lifestyle. And society today is seeking to normalize it, to just make it normal. So I want to just in this sermon ask three simple questions about homosexuality and transgenderism. Number one, is it biological? Because you know I have people that say, well, a person is just simply born that way. Is it true that a person is just born this way Well, uh I would agree with that and at the same time I would disagree. If you're trying to tell me it's biological, I would have to disagree. Biologically, the Bible is pretty clear, and the Bible says in the beginning God made male and female. Genesis 1. 27, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. I don't know how much clearer the Bible can be than that. I just don't know how much clearer it can be. You're either XX or XY. That's it. Now I understand that there are some, one out of every one thousand boys who get a extra Y chromosome. I understand that. But there are still boys Now what's the transgender interpretation of Genesis 127 and Genesis 2? Well the transgender interpretation in of of that is that when God created Adam in the g in the beginning, he created a being without gender That after all, he created Adam out of the dust of the ground. The word Adam means earth person. So God created a genderless earth person in the beginning. And only after God noticed that Adam was lonely, then did God create two sexes. That's the transgender interpretation of that. But that's not what the Bible says. It's very simple. It simply says that out of the gender of man, God created the gender of woman. That's what it says. The only physical change in Adam was that God took one of Adam's ribs and he made woman. God created the gender man first, then he created the gender woman second. Why did he create man first and woman second? Because God didn't want advice on how to create a man Two genders. Only two. But you know the uh The transgender interpretation of Genesis says there was more. I'm reading from uh a book, Family, Faith, and Equity by Orlando Espin. He writes this quote: The book of Genesis shows us a creator who is imaginative and celebrates an incredible range of beings, such as coral that is both plant and animal, or the startling array of ways that life manifests on our planet Rather than an argument for limitations, Genesis speaks to us of possibilities. In other words, many genders. Uh as of twenty nineteen, I I read an article, how many genders are there? Uh as of twenty nineteen, there were 112 gender identities. That's not a joke. I there it was I I read through the the list, it's alphabetical A through Z. It's bizarre. You talk about confusion, creating confusion. I received a letter from a man who who sent me also sent me a copy of his book called The Process. He was trying to help me out on this issue of homosexuality and transgender. The whole idea of the book is that reincarnation is really behind the whole issue. He he basically what he says in the book is that You know, it's really people who lived in the past life. In the past life they were a woman and now they're a man. They're reincarnated as a man and they're a little confused. And vice versa, you know, was a woman in the past, now as a man, man in the past, now a woman He said his mission was to share this knowledge with the Christian community. He ended his letter to me by saying this. I don't envy you, Dr. Harmon. God has put you in a position not to question God. But to question the whole historic Christian narrative. Well I would just say I'm not the one questioning God. It's people who don't accept the plain teaching of the Bible that question God. You don't have to have a PhD to know what the Bible says. There are only two genders, male and female. God chooses your gender at birth. Neither you nor your parents get to choose that gender, nor your public school, by the way. They're the ones questioning God. So biologically I say no. They're not born that way. But then what about neurologically? I I'm aware there's been studies about neurology. I don't have time to cite all the studies, but You know, I I read a book sometime back called Born This Way and it gives all the science and the research and from blame uh brain plasticity to free prenatal hormones, from neurological differences to DNA research, and the bottom line is this There's no research that supports neurologically that a person is born that way. Despite the idea, excuse me, despite the the aggressive pursuit of this idea There's no research that supports it. And I think I told you before, one of the biggest studies about this was by a neurologist named Simon LeVay. We studied 41 cadavers. He measured the area of the brain that's supposed to control sexual behavior, the INAH 1 through 4 region of the brain. And he measured it and he said that that area was bigger in homosexual men than than heterosexual men. And s from that he postulated that there's a neurological difference. But Uh that's been very inconclusive and how do you even measure that area of the brain? You're talking about all these nerves and things running together there. It's kind of subjective, but there also came a study out of UCLA that revealed that behavior can determine brain circuitry. You can shape your brain by the way you behave. And uh the other thing was LeVay was a homosexual himself, who when his partner died said he's going to find a neurological cause for homosexuality or he would quit the science altogether. That doesn't sound like a very objective study. Are they born that way? Biologically? No. Neurologically? No. There's no evidence of that. Spiritually, I would say yes, because all people are born with a sin nature The sin nature was passed down from Adam. The Bible says in Psalm 51, 5, Behold, I was shaped in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. All people have this sin nature. That's what Jesus said when he he was being criticized by the Pharisees because he and his disciples didn't wash their hands Remember what Jesus said? He said, look, it's not the things on the outside that defile a man. What defiles a man is his heart. It's the things that are on the inside. He said, From from out of the heart there comes evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, and so on. And he said, All these evil things come from within It's the heart of man. And so all people are born with a sin nature. They have a sinful heart, and there's always these sinful desires and lusts that well up. No one is free just to yield to all those things To yield to the baser elements of our sin nature and say, this is just the way I am. This is just the way God made me. What does that work for stealing? Is it okay just to steal and say, well, look, it's just who I am? It's just the way God made me. I just love the steal. Please don't repress who I am. Is it okay to do that? Is it okay with adultery and say, well, this is just who I am? But that's what the world wants us to do with respect to these things. And if we don't accept it, we're called homophobic. We are bigots No, friend, we're not bigots. We love all people, and we're not homophobic, we're theophobic, we just fear God. We fear what we reverence God, we believe his word. We do no service to people who struggle with this by telling them it's okay. We do no service to people by doing that. Why? Because we are alienating them from the greatest love that they could ever receive. If we tell them that it's okay. So is it biological? No. But here's the second question. Is it biblical? Is it biblical? Because this might surprise you, but do you know there are even Christians and theologians that are rising up and saying there's nothing in the Bible that condemns homosexuality? There's nothing in the Bible that says these things are wrong. Let me give you a quote here from Walter Barnett. Some theologians and a number of gay Christians working from a growing understanding of biblical text, have come to the conclusion that the Bible does not exclude homosexual people from the Christian fellowship. Another man, John McNeil, wrote, Nowhere in the scripture is there a clear condemnation of a loving sexual relationship between two gay persons. And we would ask, how can anyone read the Bible and honestly believe that the Bible doesn't call homosexuality a sin? How how can that happen? Well, let me tell you how. There's a man by the name of John Boswell. John Boswell is a Yale professor. He authored a book called Christianity, Social Tolerance and Homosexuality. This was a landmark book. Uh it's the strongest pro-gay argument to date on the Bible and homosexuality. This is the textbook that all the pro-gay or uh uh and Christian gay movement uh uh they use this book as their kind of their Bible, you could say. As the textbook. And what John Boswell does in this book is he takes the key passages, and there are basically three in the old and three in the new, and he takes those passages and he reinterprets them. In a in a new way. He spends ten years doing all the work and the research in this pro-gay theology. And really in the book, you don't have to read it. Let me just save you some time. Let me just tell you what it says. It has two main arguments in it. First, the Christian Church has not always disapproved of homosexuality. That's what he spent some time doing in history and so on. Really, he's a history teacher. He's not a linguist or a classicist, he's simply a history teacher. So he he takes a lot of history there. And then secondly what he does is he goes to the Bible verses condemning homosexuality and he says they really don't refer to homosexuality, they refer to other forms of immorality. And what basically he does is he he takes the reader, if you were to read that book, what he would do in it is he would try to dismantle your confidence and your ability to read the Bible and really understand what it means. You have to be a professor with degrees To really understand the Bible and know ancient languages and all that. And so he dismantles your confidence. You don't really understand that. So let me help you. I know the languages and I can do this. And let me show you what this really means You know, it's funny to me how the average man can pick up the Bible and with an unbiased reading walk away concluding that God prohibits homosexuality. You have to be a PhD and do hermeneutical somersaults to come to the conclusions that he comes to. To say that the Bible doesn't condemn it. So let me just give you Two things, uh two two examples of of him. Go to Genesis nineteen real quick. Look in Genesis nineteen. Let me just show you what he says about this. This is the passage where God is going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, right? Lot is living in Sodom. There's some messengers of God that come to Lot. They're a messengers sent by God to tell Lot and his family to, you know, eventually get out. But they come to Lot and Lot serves them dinner and ninth chapter 19 verse 4 It says this, but before they lay down the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compass the house round, both old and young, all people from every corner. And they called on the Lot and said unto him, We are the men which came into thee this where are the men which came into thee this night? Bring them out unto us that we may know them. And Lot went out at the door unto them and shut the door after him, and he said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly Behold now I have two daughters which have not known man. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them which is as is good in your eyes, only unto these men do nothing, for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof. So what happens? Well these men of Sodom come to Lot's house. They command they plan to commit a homosexual act with these men. And verse 5, bring them out that we may know them, Yada, in the same sense that Adam knew Eve, his wife, and had a son. This speaks of physical intimacy of sex and Lot refuses and he and he says, you know, please don't do this. And the men, the messengers, pull Lot inside, close the door. And the men on the outside are judged by God, judged with blindness, because they try to still get into those men. And then in verses uh twelve to twenty-four Or 23 rather, the the messengers of God tell Lot and his family, get out of Sodom. Get out of Sodom, it's going to be destroyed. And in verses 24 down to verse 29, Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed. This is straightforward, right? I mean, this is not hard to understand. What does Boswell do with this? Well, he says, Sodom and Gomorrah was not destroyed because of homosexuality, it was destroyed because of inhospitality. They were inhospitable, and God didn't like it. Lot was violating Sodom's custom by entertaining guests without the permission of the city elders. And this is what prompted the demand to bring the men out so we may know them. Look, Lot, you brought these guys in, you didn't tell us. We just want to simply get to know them. We want to welcome them to our city. Boswell says the word no doesn't necessarily have a sexual connotation. After all, the Hebrew word yada is used 943 times in the Old Testament. Only ten of those times does it refer to sexual behavior. And and in that point he is right. You have to look at the context to see what the word yada really means. It can mean that, it can mean something else. So were the city elders just being friendly? Were they just they just wanted to get to know these guys? Well that argument makes absolutely no sense in the text. First of all, they surround the house, verse four. These guys must be really friendly. Verse 7. Lot says, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly. Why does Lot respond that way? Hey, Lot, we just want to Welcome these guys. We just want to get to know them and don't do that. That's wicked. Is it wicked to be friendly? Thank you. And then Lot does something that is unimaginable to us. He offers his daughters in verse 8. And he says, You can do what you want with them. He offers his daughters to satisfy their lust. This is a senseless gesture if the men only want a social conversation or So Lot's response makes it very clear what their intentions were, what the intentions of the men of the city were. They were not in a sentence And by the way, if their intentions were innocent, then why would it be necessary to destroy the city to destroy the city if it's in hospitality Seems like they were being very hospitable. The only one who's really, according to that interpretation, being rude here is Lot. And yet Lot is the one who's saved from the destruction of the city. So if you believe that interpretation, that makes God unjust. God saved the one who was doing the inhospitable things, and he judges the friendly people in Sodom. None of this makes absolutely any sense. And Jude helps us in this. Jude in the New Testament commented on this. He said, even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh. are set forth for an example, suffering to vengeance of eternal fire. The word fornication there, normal word in the New Testament, forneo It's a general word for sexual sin. This is ek porneo. The prefix is added because it's gross immorality. And what was it? Going after strange fle flesh. A clear reference to the unnatural sin of homosexuality. So, no, that's not what the Bible means there, Mr. Boswell. Let me show you another passage in what he says. Look in Leviticus chapter 18. Just look at this real quick. Leviticus chapter 18. Look down in verse 20, we'll start there. Moreover, thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbor's wife, to defile thyself with her. Verse 21, and thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God. I am the Lord. Verse 22, Thou shalt not lie with mankind as with womankind. It is an abomination. And Leviticus 20, down in verse 13, it repeats this. If a man also lie with mankind as He lies with womankind. Both of them have committed an abomination. They shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them. That was pretty serious because God punishes it with capital punishment here in the Old Testament. Well how does John Boswell deal with this? Well he says the practices mentioned in these chapters of Leviticus have to do with idolatry, not homosexuality. The Hebrew word for abomination, according to Boswell, has less to do with something intrinsically evil, more to do with ritual uncleanness. Homosexuality here is here condemned, not because it is wrong, but because it was practiced in connection with idolatrous worship. So as long as you do it in idolatrous worship, then you're guilty, but you're free to do it as long as it's not in the context of idolatry. It's okay. That's the idea there. Well, there are other uh sins things listed here, and and in order to be consistent you would have to say that all these other things are okay too. And verse 19, moreover, thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbor's wife to defile thyself. That's adultery. Are you saying that it's okay to commit adultery, not as long as it's not in the context of idolatry? It's okay to do that, too? In order to be consistent, you would have to say that. And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Molech. So it's okay to sacrifice your children in fire as long as you're not doing it is idolatrous worship. Okay to do that? And then in Leviticus 2017 it mentions incest, and then in verse 23 it mentions bestiality. Are all those things okay to do as long as you're not doing it in occultic practice or in Idolatrous worship, it's ridiculous. Of course not. And some will say, well, that's Old Testament. We're not under the Old Testament law. We're not under the civil law. We're not under the ceremonial law. Jesus Fulfilled all of that, but we're still under the moral laws of the Old Testament. Especially if those laws are reinforced in the New Testament, which these happen to be. And I don't have time to deal with all the other passages. I could spend all day showing you his interpretations. But let me just say this. Again, John Boswell was not a a a linguist. He was not a classicist. He had a very low few view of scripture. To him the Bible was an incomplete book. He didn't believe it was inspired in Aaron or anything like that. or sufficient. And finally, Boswell was gay and he died of AIDS in 1994. So his interpretations of scripture are not objective. They're not honest. And yet it's h him and his interpretation and his book that is used by pro-gay activists and even quote unquote gay Christians. And to help say that there's nothing in the Bible that says homosexuality is wrong. And so It's it's it's ridiculous. It's people not simply holding to the scripture. They don't want to hold to the scripture. Let me give you one more thing and we're we're done. Is it beneficial? Is it is it biological? No. Is it biblical? No. Is it beneficial? Again, if you study the facts, and we uh we're running out of time, but if you study the facts, homosexuality and transgenderism is not beneficial to the individual or to society. It's just not. In fact, it's very destructive. You know, when God gives us commands and prohibitions in Scripture, it's because He wants to protect us And a lot of times it's to protect us from ourself. Because if man allowed the sin nature to go unrestrained in him, it would destroy him and society. That's why God has these laws. In fact, in Romans 1, where Paul talks about the wrath of God, after the rebellious men knew not God, neither glorified, gave God the glory. God turned them over unto uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts. That was a judgment by God. One of the worst judgments that God could ever give a society or an individual is to turn them over to their own lust. It's for God to withdraw his restraining hand and allow them to go headlong into their own lust Because of the sinful heart of man. And this is what Paul said God does to those that rebel against them. And I think that's what's happening in our country today. Our country is so rebelled against God that God is saying, okay, you don't want me, then I'll I'll just turn you over to who you are. And this is what's happening. When God abandons man, it's because man has already abandoned God. And it's an expression of God's wrath. Dr. Frank Dumas, a licensed psychologist and former chair of the Department of Psychology in Augusta, he spent years studying this one question. Is gay good? And after years of research, he answered the question with an emphatic no And he wrote a book, Gay is not good, and he compiles in that book an arsenal against homosexuality. And he cites numerous studies to underscore the strength of his argument. He studied the social impact in-depth, the psychological impact, the biological dynamics and so on. And he concluded that it's dangerous to society. And let me just read you one quote. Some of the big lies are gay is good, gay is normal, gay is healthy, gay is beautiful, and so on And the lies are reinforced sometimes blatantly, sometimes subtly by important people in the arts, theater, music, literature, and science They repeat such falsehoods over and over in dozens of different contexts and in a hundred different ways, just as other lies were believed in Nazi Germany, so in modern sophisticated America, many people are believing. that gay is good and it's not. So what is our response to all of this? Again, you know, we we don't hate anybody. We love everyone And the expression of that love is just simply sharing the gospel in love and meekness because you know we're sinners. We're no better than anyone else. We're sinners and we need Jesus. So we have to have compassion and quite frankly the church has failed in showing the right compassion to people in this, I believe. We need to be loving. We need to be compassionate. But beloved, we cannot compromise what God's Word says. We cannot back up. We have to contend for the faith with meekness and grace and speak the truth in love. Because the worst thing we could ever do is let people continue to believe a lie. And I know many of you know I have an invested interest in this. I have a son that I love with all my heart, that I'm praying that God will bring to repentance. The worst thing I could ever do for him is to say it's okay. It's okay. It's the worst thing I could ever do. Instead, I will speak the truth and plead and beg for repentance. Let me just close with this. A while back I got a phone call from a pastor in Mountain Home, Arkansas. Let me tell you his story. He's a very godly man. His name is Herschel Connolly. Herschel Connolly had a son who was a teenager who came out as being gay. And Herschel wanted to help his son. He was a Baptist pastor and he wanted to help his son. He took his son to a a conversion therapy camp where they would help young men that struggle with this. And many of the things they did there, Herschel found out later, he didn't really agree with all of that, but he wanted to help his son. It it really didn't work. His son grew up, became a gifted writer. He wrote his whole story in a book, and that book was turned into a movie. And the movie is called Boy Erased. Some of you may have heard of this movie advertised. The Hollywood actor Russell Crowe plays the part of Herschel, who called me this Baptist pastor. The the pastor's wife, uh Herschel's wife was played by the part of Nicole Kidman. And the movie basically is designed to promote homosexuality, make the idea of conversion or repentance something that is hostile or cruel. And Herschel was telling me on the phone that one Sunday morning, he's a pastor of a church. It's not a big church, it's there in Mountain Home, Arkansas. He said one Sunday morning, Russell Crowe, the actor, came walking into his church. And Nicole Kidman. They were preparing to play their part in the movie. And so they came to church and Herschel told me in his southern draw, Brother, I preach the gospel to Russell Crowe. And when the movie was released, it brought a lot of hostility against him, against Russ uh Herschel. And he was under fire. And there were people around them saying, you know, you need to stop being so stubborn, you need to accept this, this is just the way your son is. But Herschel refused to compromise the Word of God. He's a godly man. Every time I talk to Herschel on the phone, he he weeps over his son. He says, I pray for him. And by the way, I pray for your son too. But the those that were closest to him around them were saying, Maybe you're wrong. And one night Herschel and his wife were watching TV and they saw my son Jeremiah singing on American Idol. And they heard about me, his father, a Baptist pastor. And his wife said to him, Herschel, why don't you call that preacher in Baltimore? I bet you he could give you some advice. I bet you he probably accepts his son the way he is. And Herschel thought, well I wonder where he stands on this. So Herschel called me on the phone. And after about an hour on the phone, he got off the phone. He later told me this. He got off the phone. He said to his wife, Honey, I just talked to that Baptist preacher up in Baltimore, and I got news for you. He's worse than I am. And I said, Herschel, that's the best compliment I've ever received. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to those who believe. All of my hope is in Him Let me read to you one verse and we're done. Second Timothy two, verse twenty-four. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, and meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. If God per adventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil. Who are taken captive by him at his will. That's all we're trying to do. That's all we're trying to do. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we pray for your help in this. Lord, we live in a world today that is so hostile to the truth, your truth. And Lord, these are challenging times, and we need boldness to stand. Well, Lord, help us to do it in the right way. Help us to do it the way our Lord Jesus taught us. To love even our enemies, those that hate us and are hostile against us, and yet we love them and we simply speak the truth in love, knowing that, Lord, this is the only thing that will set them free. It's the gospel that changes lives, and we refuse to compromise it. We refuse to be intimidated from it. Help us, Lord, to continue to speak truth. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ. Lord, that today would be the day of salvation. That they would come to know him, call upon him as Savior, turn to him, and be converted. Be saved. And friend, if you'll reach out in prayer, and if you'll just run to him in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, save me. I'm a sinner. Forgive me, cleanse me. You know what? He'll save you. And you'll have eternal life in heaven. That's all we want for you. Father, bless this word to hear your hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.