Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter thirty-five. We have been doing a study in Ephesians, and we're going to get back to that, but we're going to look at a different passage this morning in light of the fact that it's Father's Day. And I want to talk about honoring fathers and happy Father's Day to all the fathers that are here. One little boy defined Father's Day like this. He said, Well, it's like Mother's Day, but you don't spend so much. Someone said a father is someone who carries carries pictures in his wallet where his money used to be But we want to honor fathers today. We certainly want to reflect on the fathers that have had an impact on us and look at the legacy that they passed down to us. There's an eye-opening book that was written. It was called Only You Can Choose the Legacy You Leave. And the whole thesis of the book was that you're going to leave a legacy. You can you're going to do it one way or another. You can do it deliberately and do it in a way that has a positive impact. And they basically in the book cited a study that was done in the late 1800s. And in this study, two men were studied, their life and then their succeeding generations. One was a man by the name of Max Jukes. He was an unbeliever. He lived a godless life. And the other man that was studied was Jonathan Edwards. You might know that name. He was a renowned Puritan preacher devoted to Christ And again, they studied these men and they studied their descendants. Of Matthew Jukes, 1,026 descendants were studied. 300 were sent to prison. 190 were prostitutes, 680 were habitual drunkards. His family, it was noted, cost the state hundreds of thousands of dollars and brought virtually no honor to society In contrast, Jonathan Edwards, 929 of his descendants were studied, 430 became ministers of the gospel Eighty-six were university pre professors. Thirteen became college presidents. Seventy-five authored worthwhile books. Seven were elected to the U. S. Congress and one became Vice President of the United States. Edward's family did not burden the state at all, but rather they blessed the world. What was the difference between these two? Well, in large part, it was the legacy that they left. One had a legacy of faith. Jonathan Edwards loved the Lord. He disciplined his children. He prayed for them. He taught his children to follow in the ways of God. But Matthew Jukes followed sin and idleness, and tragically his children did the same. And then the authors gave a conclusion in the book, and it's not hard to figure out, the conclusion, they said the best thing that you can do for your families is to love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul, with all your mind and strength. And then they go on in the book to give countless examples of those who followed that advice and left a great legacy. Now, in that idea, I want us to look at Jeremiah chapter 35. This is a somewhat obscure passage of scripture, but I think it's really instructive for us. We're to look at a family No a little known family, but they're called the Rechabites, and they're the descendants of Jonadab, a man in the Bible that we don't really know that much about. But they're held up as an example of Obedience and honoring their father, and God's going to use them as an object lesson. God notices this family. Now this whole passage was was uh the context of it historically took place during a time when Jehoiakim was the king on the throne of Judah. This was during the divided kingdom era, and Jehoiakim was a wicked king of Judah. In fact Uh his um he's noteworthy in the Bible because he was cutting up pages of the Word of God, part of the scroll of God's Word, and throwing it into the fire. So he's a man who did not fear the Lord. And the nation of Judah is about to be judged for their sin. And God wants to give this nation an object lesson And so he's going to use this family to do it. So I want to talk to you about just three things. I'm going to talk about the test of the Rechabites, then the the tradition and then the testimony of the Rechabites. First of all, the test. Look in chapter 35. God gives instructions to Jeremiah the prophet. Look in verse number one. The word which came unto Jeremiah from the Lord in the days of Jehoiacim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, saying, Go unto the house of the Rechabites and speak unto them, and bring them into the house of the Lord, into one of the chambers and give them wine to drink. So God gives Jeremiah a commandment. Go to this family, the Rechabites, bring them all into the temple, bring them into a side chamber. And then I want you to in that chamber, I want you to offer them wine to drink. Now this is a curious thing to do. Why would God want Jeremiah to do this? Now there have been some that argued that this was wrong you know, to for God to do this. They say that, you know, God is tempting these people. And uh the answer to that is no, God is not tempting this people. Why do we know that? Well because the Bible says in James 1 13 Let no man say what I'm tempted, I'm tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. And if you want to tempt someone There has to be an evil purpose in mind, a sinful purpose, and God who is holy only has good intentions. And besides that Who are you to judge man uh to God to judge God, O man, as the Apostle Paul would say in Romans 9. 20. Who are you to reply against God? God always does what is right. And God is using this family to make a point. He's going to use them as an object lesson. So who are the Rechabites? Well again, they're the uh descendants of a man by the name of Jonadab. We don't really know that much about Jonadab, other than that, he was a zealous man because in Scripture he's mentioned in 2 Kings chapter 10, and he was uh in the chariot with King Jehu and they were ex exterminating from the land all of the Baal worshippers. That was an idolatrous group of people that had replaced the worship of God with the worship of a false God. And so Jehu, who was zealous to do that, had a companion in Jonadab. So Jonadab has a zealous heart for the Lord. He loves God, and he wants to do right before the Lord. But also another thing we know about this family is that they were related to the Kenites, who were descendants from Moses' father-in-law. So this was a non-Israelite people. And yet they had kind of converted into the worship of the one true God, but they maintained their own tribal identity. So they weren't necessarily absorbed into the twelve tribes of Israel. They maintained their own identity, yet they worshiped just like the Israelites. And they were also nomads. They lived in tents in the deserts, in the south of the wilderness And so this was a Gentile convert, Jonadab, who had a passion for holiness amid this idolatrous culture. And seeing the moral corruption of his time, seeing the drunkenness, seeing the idolatry, seeing the worldly indulgence, Jonas Jonadab established some family rules, some things for his household. We could say that He was kind of a Puritan separatist of his day. I guess the best way to compare it would be maybe like the Amish uh today. Anybody ever go to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, just to stare at those people? You know, it's rude to do that by the way. But uh William Barclay writes this. He said the the Rechabite community was founded in protest against the corrupting influence of the Canaanite life and religion. So Jeremiah gives this invitation to this family. And notice in verse number three, then I took Jaazaniah, the son of Jeremiah, and the son of Habazaniah and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites. Verse four. And I brought them into the temp into the house of the Lord, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God, which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Maesiah, the son of Shalom The keeper of the door. What a list of names there, right? So Jeremiah brings them all into the temple. Now notice in verse 3 it says, he brought the whole house. So all of them were there, the whole family. This was a family reunion there in the temple. Husbands and wives and children and grandchildren, aunts and uncles and cousins, they all living descendants, they were all there at the temple. Jeremiah brought him in. And notice he put him in a chamber and he goes on to describe the chamber. I don't want to spend too much time here, but it was really an important place. Now the temple had side rooms all around it, and sometimes they were used for storage, sometimes they were used for um for places for apartments for the priests to stay, and sometimes they were meeting rooms, uh uh, you know, like a conference room, so to speak. And the one room that Jeremiah is describing here is a very important room. Kind of like this, when you were called to the principal's office. You ever hear that principal's office all of a sudden you get a little afraid? They're being called into a very important room here with very important officials. It's likely that there was a group of priests and temple officials that were present at this gathering. Remember. God's going to use this family as an object lesson. So they're all watching this group of nomads come in, the whole family, and Jeremiah sets bowls full of wine with cups before them. And look at verse number five. And I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine and cups, and I said unto them, drink ye wine. That's a command. They got out all this wine in front of them. Drink you wine, all of you. Ye is plural. Everyone, drink wine. Now this was really kind of an offer of hospitality. And remember who it's coming from. It's coming from a prophet of the Lord, Jeremiah, someone surely that they respected. And so there's some pressure being put on them at this point, this whole family, hey, here's some wine. I want you to drink this wine. But here's the second part. I call this the tradition. of the Rechabites. How do they respond? What do they say? We'll look down at verse number six. But they said, We will drink no wine. They refused. Flatly refused. No, thank you, Jeremiah. It was a firm decision. They didn't say, well, hold on, Jeremiah, we need to talk about this. Let's have a family conference. Let's all talk about this. This really puts us in a dilemma. We don't want to be thought of as being unsociable or rude or anything like that. No, nothing like that. They didn't hesitate. No. No, thank you. You see, when you live by conviction, you don't have to hesitate. When you live by principle and standards, you know that those decisions are already made. That decision was made years ago in the family that they would not drink wine. So when the time came, it wasn't hard. No, we're not going to do that. You know, uh I don't think you should make a decision every Sunday whether or not you're gonna be in God's house. I think you should make that decision once and just come. There are certain things that we don't have to decide because we make that decision. These are convictions. It was also a family decision. Notice they said, but we will drink no wine. It wasn't just one, it was all of them together. They went total unison. There was no dissension. There was no son saying, Hold on, Dad, I'm a little thirsty. Do you guys want to do that? I'm on No, they were all together. It was total unity. They all made the same re refusal. Philip Riken writes this, together they cited the family catechism. I like that. What was the reason? Look at again in verse number six. Look at the the end. But they said, We will drink no wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechav, our father, commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine, neither, ye nor your sons forever, neither shall ye build house, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any But all your days ye shall dwell in tents, that ye may live many days in the land where ye be strangers. And thus we have obeyed the voice of Jonah of Jonadab, the son of Rechov, our father, and all that he hath Charged us to drink no wine all our days, we our wives, our sons, nor our daughters. So why did they firmly refuse? Well, because their father, Jonadab, gave them a command. So you're not to do this. He taught them how he wanted them to live. He taught them to abstain from wine. Now, Jonadab lived at a time of unprecedented apostasy in Israel. It was a time when Ahab was the king and Jezebel was his queen. He was one of those 7,000 that did not bow the knee to Baal. He was a man of conviction. He replaced all of the Baal worship with the true worship of Yahweh. And dr and wine drinking was so much a part of the ancient Canaanite religious worship. It was all a part of that bail worship. It was all part of that ritual in their worship. And Jonadab hated idolatry so much that he said to his children, Don't drink wine. I mean it's so insidious. I don't even want I don't want you drinking wine. He didn't want his family to be influenced by that Canaanite culture at all. So he said, let's just make the family rule here We're not going to drink any wine. But also along with that, don't build houses and settle down. I want you to live in tents. He didn't want them living in the city because he saw how corrupt the city was. He said, You know what, we're just going to dwell in He was the opposite of Lot. Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom because he wanted the city life. Jonadab pitched his tent away from the city, and he taught his family to live that way. He was repulsed and disillusioned by the corruption that was in Israel. And so he gives this prohibition in verse number seven. And by the way, this is uh in the Hebrew it's a permanent prohibition. This was not only for just his immediate family, but for all of his descendants. Don't drink wine. And he taught them, look, if you listen to my commandments and you do this, you will be blessed. Because at the end of verse 7, notice what it says: that ye may live many days in the land where you are strangers. And here he is repeating Exodus twenty, verse twelve Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. This is one of the commandments, and this tells me that Jonadab taught his family God's commandments. He's saying, Look, if you honor me, if you honor what I teach you, God is going to honor you. God will honor you. Proverbs 1:8, my son, hear the instruction of thy father. Listen to what I'm teaching you. Proverbs 4:10: Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings that the years of thy life shall be many. And so notice the resolve of this family. Again, look in verse number eight. Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadad, the son of Rechob, our father, and all that he hath charged. Us. They were committed to keeping their father's commands. He did a pretty good job instilling into them these values They said, we're going to listen. Now it's remarkable that they lived this life all these years. Remember, this began during the days of Elijah. And now here they are in the days of Jeremiah continuing to keep that command. That is 250 years later. To kind of put it in our context, what if I was living in a tent? And you said, Pastor, why are you living in a tent? And I say, well, because my father told me to. And you say, really? Your father? Well, actually, as my grandfather Actually it was my great grandfather. Well actually it was my great great great great great great grandfather that told me to do this. In fact, he lived in the 1700s. And you're obeying him from the seventeen hundreds, living in a tent? You'd walk away from me saying, you know what pastor needs to have his head examined. I mean, even in that day, that way of life was out of fashion. Israel had settled in the land. They were now living in houses. They were no longer in tents. They crossed the Jordan River. And so the people of Israel, when they saw this one family still living in tents, they would just stare at them like, who are these people? They're so out of step, you know. You'd think it would be hard on a young man living in this family to find a wife. Will you marry me? Where are we gonna live? Well, I don't have a subscription to home and gardens. Because you're not going to have a house, we're not going to have a garden, we're going to live in tents. I mean to live this lifestyle all that time. You'd think it would be so difficult, but yet here they are, years, hundreds of years later, they're still obeying the command of their Father. And William Barclay wrote this, in Jeremiah's eyes, their attitude shone like a beam of sanity in a corrupt society. And they and you you might say, Well why were they there in Jerusalem if they're living in tents? Well look verse eleven tells us but it came to pass when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up into the land that We said, Come and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, for fear of the army of the Assyrians. So we dwell at Jerusalem. They were simply taking refuge there in Jerusalem temporarily because Nebuchadnezzar and his army of the Babylonians were sweeping through the land and they were Killing and pillaging and they wanted that protection. And so they the whole family just came to town to Jerusalem. Can you imagine them coming into town one day? Everybody's probably staring at him. It'd be like Amish horse and carriages riding into Las Vegas. This whole family is just coming in and they're the talk of the town and everybody's looking at them These Rechabites. But I want you to see the third part here. Not only the test and the tradition, but what I want to call the testimony of the Rechabites. Because well g well Jeremiah is with this family and they're in the temple in that side room and Jeremiah's offered them wine and they said, No, we're not going to do it because this is what our father said and we've obeyed his voice and we're going to continue to obey his voice During all of that, God speaks to Jeremiah. Look in verse number 12. Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, will ye not receive instruction to hearken to my words, saith the Lord? The words of Jonadab, the son of Rechob, that he commanded his sons not to drink wine are performed, for unto this day they drink none. But obey their father's commandment, notwithstanding I spoke unto you, rising early and speaking, but ye hearken not unto me So God says to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, you see this. I want you to go and tell all the men in Judah, all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. Tell them about this family. Tell them how they are, how they obey their father. What is this? This is a rebuke against Judah. This is a rebuke. God was saying, look how faithful they are to the word of their father Jonadab. He commanded them this 250 years ago, and here they are, they're still obeying the values and the words that Their father gave them, but Judah is not obeying me. You're not listening to my voice. Twice we see the phrase Rising up early and speaking. We see it in verse number 14. We also see it in verse 15. Rising up early and speaking. This is a Hebrew idiom meaning again and again. God says, you know what? I have spoken unto you again and again. I've given you my word over and over again. And you know what? Inhabitants of Jerusalem and people of Judah, you have not listened to me You have not obeyed my voice. So there's a purposeful contrast that we see here. There's the word of Jonadab. That was spoken once. And it was obeyed. Then you have the word of God that was given again and again and again, and it was disobeyed. You have the word of Jonathan that was given long ago, long ago, and it was obeyed. But then you have the word of God that is given daily, over and over again daily, and it's disobeyed. I mean, what a rebuke. What an indictment the Rechabites are against the rebellious people of Judah. And God calls upon Judah to repent. Look in verse number 15. I have sent also unto you all my servants, the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from his evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve them And ye shall dwell in the land which I given have given unto you and to your fathers, but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto me Again, God's calling upon them. Look, repent. Judgment is about to come down upon Jerusalem and Judah. And yet here God at the last minute is still saying, Look, you can still have time to repent. You can still turn to me if you listen to my voice, if you'll just obey, if you repent of your evil, I'm not going to do evil against you or punish you for your sin. But they would not listen. They would not listen. And that's the problem with man today, by the way, beloved. Say, why is the world in this way it is? Because man doesn't listen to God. Because men are rebellious in their heart against God Because people don't fear God. Even though the word of the Lord is given constantly, people harden their heart against As a country, we have drift drifted away from the Word of God. That's why we're in such sad shape today. If we just listen to what our fathers taught us many, many years ago and stuck with it, stuck with God's word. So the problem is not unique to Israel. This is an indictment against even Christians, even those who name the name of Christ, call themselves believers, and yet live in continual disobedience to God. How can you call yourself a Christian? a child of God if you disobey your father as a pattern of life. That's incompatible with scripture, by the way. Incompatible with being a child of God. If you're a child of God, you're going to obey. You're going to obey God. And so God is going to punish Israel because of their disobedience. And uh it'll be severely. But not only is this a rebuke for Judah, but this was also a reward for Jonadab because look how this chapter closes out. Look in verse number 18. what God says. And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, because ye have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab, your father. And kept all his precepts, and done according to all that he hath commanded you. Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab, the son of Rechob, shall not want a man to stand before me for ever As a result of this faithfulness and obedience to the Father's command, God blesses this family. And actually it's it's blessings really for Jonadab I mean he's he's he's dead, and yet God is still blessing his family. What a legacy. You know, some of God's blessings transcend our earthly life. They continue on even after we're left this world. The blessing of God still continues. And notice what he says. You know, because of this, because your family has been so faithful to obey your word, they will not want a man to stand before me all the days of their life. In other words, stand before me again is a Hebrew idiom used about a hundred times in the Old Testament. And what it signifies is special service. God said, I'm going to bless your family. I'm going to use them. I'm going to use them for service. You see, a priest in the tabernacle in front of the Holy of Holies would be standing before the Lord serving. And so it's the idea of special service. When a priest ministered in the temple, he stood before the Lord. Samuel stood before the Lord when he was there at the holy place. And God promised to set aside and use some of these descendants for special service. Again, forever. The Septuagint makes the promise to the Rechabites even more emphatic by closing it with these words, to stand before my face while the earth remains. It's interesting to note that in Nehemiah chapter 3, verse 14, 150 years later, we find a Rechabite faithfully serving the Lord. And then also to illustrate how enduring this promise was, there are historical accounts suggesting the Rechabite's legacy continued thousands of years later. For example, I researching this I read of a Reverend Joseph Wolfe, who is a nineteenth century missionary, and he wrote of a meeting that he had with a man in Mesopotamia who identified himself as a descendant of Jonadab And this Arab was delighted to read Jeremiah chapter 35 to him, proudly reciting Jonadab's ancient command, saying, We drink no wine and plant no vineyard and sow no seed and live in tents, as Jonadab, our father, commanded us. Come to us, and you will find us sixty thousand in number. And you see, thus the prophecy has been fulfilled. Therefore, thus saith the Lord Jonadab, the son of Rachel, shall not want a man to stand before me forever. This is what he said to this missionary. It's incredible. Now, in the few minutes we have left, how do we apply this? Well, let me just give you a few things. First of all, the children, this is not new, but always honor your father. Always honor your father. You say, well, you know, my dad, he you know, I don't live under my parents' roof anymore. I'm out on my own. So what? Your your dad's never too old to honor. Honor him. You say, well, my father's not here. You can still honor him. Even if he's not with us today. Yonedah had been dead for 250 years, and they were still honoring him. How? They listened to his counsel. They took his advice seriously. And by the way, kids, dads are not as half as dumb as you think they are. They're a whole lot smarter than you really think they are Love them, serve them. Do things for your dad. Do acts of service without having to be asked. Care for him in your old age. If your dad is passed on, honor his legacy by the way that you live. Number two, remember that God honors people who honor their father. And we see this all throughout the Bible. I don't have time to elaborate on that. That's very obvious. Number three, carry on a legacy of faith. Perhaps your father was not a believer. You came to Christ on your own, okay, then you start a legacy of faith with your family. You be a Jonadab to your family. You set up some godly standards in your family that help to point to true biblical living, live it out in front of them, and let that be a legacy for your family. Set godly standards for your children to follow. The legacy's got to start somewhere. So let it start with you. And then here's another thing. Teach your children to hate sin. That's one major lesson they learned. They learned the danger of sin. They learned the corrupting influence of it. The Bible says in Psalm 97, verse 10: Ye that love the Lord hate evil And then here's number five. Teach your children to look at this world to look at this world as a pilgrim. Give them a pilgrim's perspective. This means that you know what, this world is really not our home. This is all temporary. The problem we have nowadays is that the younger generation, they they have no concept of eternity. They're living for the here and the now only. But I got news for you. Guess what? You're going to get old too. And you know what? You're gonna die one day. There's a new statistic out. One out of everyone dies No, it's not new. It's old. And you know what? You need to remember this life is only temporary. We're just pilgrims passing through this world. You better be ready for the next world. You better be ready for eternity because you're just here for a little while and it passes by just like that. So the question is, are you ready for eternity? And there's only one way to be ready, and that's by knowing Jesus Christ as your Savior. He's the one who gives us eternal life when we put our faith in him and what he did for us on the cross. That's the only way of salvation is through Jesus Christ. You better make sure that you're ready. And then here's the next thing. Remember, God expects obedience from his children. This is what God wants. This is a major overall lesson in this narrative. You know what God wants from you? He wants you to obey him. And if I could sum up being a follower of Jesus Christ in one word, it would just be that one word, obedience. You show that you're a true child of God by your obedience. Again, the verse I'd love to quote, 1 John 2, 3. Hereby we do know that we know Him. Here's how you know that you're a true believer. If we keep His commandments. That is, if there's a pattern of obedience, if you just want to obey Jesus, again that's not talking about perfection. It's just talking about the overall pattern of your life is one of obedience to Jesus Christ because you want to obey him. His commandments are not grievous. You want to do what he says. That's the mark of a child of God. We have eternal life when we put our faith in Christ. But you know why? Because Jesus, when he came to this earth, lived an obedient life before the Father. He did everything that the Father wanted. He was absolutely committed to obedience to his Heavenly Father. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross And that's why the Bible says, wherefore God highly exalts him and gives him a name above every name. And friend, that's the only name by which you can be saved. It's through the obedience of Jesus Christ that salvation is now offered to us when we put our faith in Him. But what God wants from you is He wants Obedience. He wants you to walk in his way. So in closing, remember God's promise to the Rechabites. God said, I'm going to bless your family. There's going to be, there will not want a man to stand before me forever. May it be through our faithful living and witness. That the legacy that we create, fathers, that our descendants will be blessed. That Our children will stand before the Lord in salvation. You know, the desire, my heart's desire, my biggest prayer and desire in this life is that all of my children know Jesus Christ. And all of my grandchildren know Jesus Christ. And that they obey him and love him. So I'll meet them one day there in heaven. I pray almost every day the prayer of Katherine Booth. She's the wife of the founder of the Salvation Army, William Booth. And she would pray this prayer. She would say, Lord, I will not stand before you without my children. It was a prayer of rebellion against the fallenness of the world. She said, Lord, I want all my children there with me And that is our heart's desire. But it starts with us leaving a godly legacy of faith. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful narrative and what it teaches us. Father, help us to follow in this pattern of godliness. Give us fathers, Lord, who are like Jonadab, who has a zeal in their heart for you, a love for your word, a desire to obey you, so much so that they lay down a tradition. Values that they teach to their family that reflect love for you, that reflect godliness, that it may have an impact on our family for generations. Father, I pray for children here today that they would embrace Jesus Christ That they would know beyond any shadow of a doubt that they're saved, that they belong to Christ, that they're on their way to heaven. I pray, Father, that This legacy of faith will continue throughout generations in the families that are represented here from before me this morning. And Lord, it's only by your grace. It's only by your help. But has got nice clothes. Can I ask you again, friend, are you absolutely certain of your salvation? Have you put your faith in Jesus Christ? Do you know with certainty that when you die, you're going to go to heaven because you have trusted in Jesus and Jesus alone as your way of salvation? Would you right now, if you're not sure of it, would you make sure of it? Would you right now reach out and pray and tell the Lord, Lord, I'm a sinner, I know that. But I know Jesus died for my sins on the cross. And I'm asking you to save me right now, Lord. I turn from my sin, I turn to Jesus, save me. Make sure of that, friend. Make sure of that Father, again, thank you for this beautiful passage. Help us, Lord, to apply it. May we honor our fathers by living out a godly legacy. We pray in Jesus' wonderful matchless name. Amen. Reverend Gorm.