Would you uh take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy, chapter five. We are in a study on First Timothy on Sunday night. It's our privilege to study God's Word in this wonderful pastoral epistle. And the key verse that we talked about was how to behave in the house of God. Paul is writing to Timothy and giving instructions on um how the church should conduct itself. And tonight we're going to be talking about the area of pastors. We talked about honoring godly widows. The sermon tonight is about honoring pastors. Now I know that sounds self-serving. I just want to apologize from the beginning of this sermon. I'm not trying to get you to honor me because I already feel like you do that. Um I'm not asking for a raise. Alright? I just want to make clear that clear. I'm gloriously content with what you've given me and um I'm I'm very very happy and and uh I I get more than I deserve But um but I want us to look at this passage here tonight because this is the next few verses that we're dealing with as we're studying through First Timothy. Look in chapter 5, look at verse 17. Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scriptures saith thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the labor is worthy of his reward. Christianity Today once uh get featured an article where they told the story of Pastor Steve from Montana. He had a wife and three children, and Pastor Steve tried to make ends meet somewhere below the poverty line For a while his family managed to scrape by and eventually the a depths the deaths, however, began to accumulate. The article goes on to say at one point Pastor Steve decided to spend a week of vacation And uh the whole family was to drive to Colorado for the week. But just before they were supposed to leave, the transmission on the car went out and they received the surprise medical bill. So it says the summer night before he planned to leave, Pastor C sat with his wife out on the deck of the house they were renting, and he wept. There would be no trip That week the family vacation in the basement of a relative's home several hours away. Eventually, Pastor C went to the church board to ask for a raise. And the board grudgingly agreed to a small raise, but it was not large enough to meet the family's monthly expenses. The article goes on to say the board thus recommended that Steve apply for assistance from Montana Power to help pay his utility bills. They also told him that if he needed more money, he ought to become a chaplain with the National Guard. They said after all it's only one week a month, they said. And the irony, however, The article says, was that the income of the church was exceeding expenses. There was money enough to spare. Not surprisingly, Pastor Steve almost left the ministry. It says he considered moving to a city looking for a job that would pay enough to settle his debts. He was a good man. He was not looking to lead an extravagant life. He was even willing to endure hardship in the ministry. But his own church led him into temptation by failing to meet his needs. When a church refuses to honor its pastor through respect and numeration, it is disobeying the will of God. Now again, I I I'm blessed here at Grace, but I know that many pastors out there that don't have the blessing that I have being in a church like Grace. So I want to talk about honoring pastors because again this is what Paul's talking about here. And uh it it may be that this will be uh an affirmation to uh you all, uh an affirmation of your generosity and respect and honor that you give not only to me but the rightfully so to all the staff that work here. We're blessed for all those that work here at Grace and Labor here. But again there w not every church has this situation. And so I want us to look at this passage here, and I want us to recognize uh three things that Paul's going to give us here, three important factors that we need to understand about honoring uh pastors. And first of all, we're going to talk about the role of pastor. Again, look in chapter 5, look in verse 17. Let the elders that rule well be worth be counted worthy of double honor. The word elder here is synonymous with pastor. I think we talked about that earlier on in chapter three when we studied the qualifications of pastors. But here in the church at Ephesus, there was more than one pastor or elder, because the word is plural here, it's not singular He's talking to one church, Ephesus, and yet he refers to elders, not elder. So Timothy was a leader of these elders, evidently a leader among equals, we could say. And this brings up a question about the biblical form of church government. What is the biblical form of church government? What is the pattern of church church government. Now in order for us to really understand this, what I want to do is kind of give you a little survey of what ch different types of church governments there are out there and then look at what Scripture says. And so throughout history, the form of church government can be broken down basically into three categories. There's the Episcopalian form. Then there is the Presbyterian form, and then there is the congregational form of government. We're going to talk about, first of all, the Episcopalian form of government. In the Episcopalian system, there's an archbishop who has authority over many bishops, and they in turn have authority over what is called a diocese. Which simply means the church is under the jurisdiction of a bishop. So you have an archbishop, then you have under them bishops who are in have authority over diocese. The officer in the church of a local parish is called a rector or sometimes a vicar or maybe even sometimes an assistant, one who substitutes for the rector. And so you have archbishops, you have bishops, and you have rectors. They're all priests, since they have all at one time been ordained to the Episcopalian priesthood. And so this form of government, let me just say, is not found anywhere in Scripture. I find this nowhere in the Bible. Where did this come from? I think this was an outgrowth of the development of the church after the first century and towards the Middle Ages of the development of the church, uh it just kind of formed this way. There's no such thing as the archbishop in the Bible. that is superior over bishops and a bishop is kind of taken out of the context of what the Bible calls a bishop and again puts him over a guy called a Again, we don't see this in the Bible anywhere. But this form of government kind of came out of a time in church history when the church got away from the expository preaching of the Word of God. And this is what formed as a result of that. Then there's another form of government, and that's the Presbyterian form. In this system, each local church elects elders to a session. You know, you see that diagram up there. I hope these diagrams help you. I work hard on those. So picture's worth a thousand words, right? The E in the there it stands for elder. The dotted lines indicates the whole congregation that elects the elders The pastor of the church will be one of the elders in the session, equal in authority to the other elders, and this session has governing authority over the local church. However, the members of the session, the elders, are also members of a presbytery which has authority over several churches in a region. Are you confused yet? I am. But anyway, moreover, some of the members of the Presbyterian are members of the General Assembly, which usually will have authority over all the Presbyterian churches in a nation or in a region. Now again, I don't see this form in the Bible anywhere. I'm not trying to be critical to our Presbyterian brethren, but I don't see this form. Now that those who argue for this They say, well those who have wisdom and gifts for the eldership should be called to use their wisdom to govern m more than just one local church. That's one of the arguments that's given there. Or an a nation or or even worldwide government of The church shows the unity of the body of Christ, and they also say this system is uh able to prevent an individual congregation from falling into doctrinal error much more effectively than a voluntary association of churches. And I would just respond to that by saying, you know, uh again, nowhere in the Bible do we see an elder having authority over more than just the local church that he's a part of. Okay, I don't see that in scripture anywhere. I don't have authority over the other churches here in Baltimore, okay? I don't have any say so in those other churches. I'm just the pastor here in this church. And there's no biblical warrant for me to have any authority over other churches. And as far as showing the unity of the body of Christ, we don't need this system to show that we're unified, that we're one in Christ. And as far as preventing doctrinal error, I understood, but that hasn't prevented doctrinal error because a lot of the churches in the Presbyterian denomination have gone off into serious doctrinal error. And and just like Baptist churches as well. There's no system that's a foolproof system on keeping a church doctrinally orthodox. However, let me go on to the third type of general church government. That's congregational. And under the congregational system of church government, there are several subcategories First of all, there is the single pastor. And this is the one which is currently the most common among Baptist churches in the U. S. , the single pastor form of government And this kind of government, the pastor is seen as the only elder in the church where there he's elect there's an uh also elected board of deacons who serve under his authority and give him support. In this system, the congregation elects the pastor, and the congregation also elects the deacons. And the amount of authority that the pastor has varies basically from church to church. Uh you know, the longer a pastor seems to stay in a church like this under this kind of government, the more authority that a pastor will have, and that's just simply from building up trust and reliability from the congregation. The authority of the deacon board is often thought to be merely an advisory board. You know, they they simply are there to support the pastor and to give advice to him on issues that come in the church. Now, part of the problem with this is that this kind of ev uh kind of evolves into more of a uh the deacon board having equal authority with the pastor. And I've seen this a lot of times in little churches where, you know, uh maybe a small church will go through pastors quickly and the deacon board remains the same, and so what happens is the deacons say, you know what, the pastors come and go, but we're here to stay, and so we're gonna run this thing. And that's kind of how it it kind of devolves into something like that, to where the actually the deacon board then serve more like a group of elders than they do just deacons. But it it should be noted that nowhere in the Scripture do deacons have the authority to rule. They're given the job of serving in the church, not ruling in the church just as the Bible says elders do. However, there are arguments in favor of this system. In fact, A. H. Strong in his systematic theology, a text that's used by Baptist churches, argues that the New Testament does not require a plurality of elders, but the pattern uh of the plural of the plural elders seen in the New Testament was only due to the size of the churches at that time. Now under the congregational system there's also the plurality of local elders. And that is, the church elects a group of elders out of its own congregation. And within this, the elders govern the church. They kind of rule over the church. Within that group of elders, there will be the lead elder or senior pastor, we could say, that is kind of we call uh what is called a leader among elders. And so basically the difference in this kind of system here is that uh all these elders have equal authority in running and governing the church. They kind of work together as a team. It's just not It's not just one man that's doing all of it, but they're working together kind of as a team. And then it the pastor who is the lead elder in this group is normally someone who has the considerable authority to make decisions and to delegate responsibility to other uh elders that are there on the board. But then there's another form called the corporate board. And and see and reading about this, this is another system that I found. And this is patterned after a modern corporation where our board of directors basically hires an executive officer who then has the authority to run the business just as he sees fit. And let me just say here that again, I don't see this in scripture anywhere. You know, this is really patterned after, you know, the business world. You have a board The board's in control and they they they they bring in the higher gun who is the pastor or the CEO. You know, you could say, but they really run the church and the pastor is their guide. This form of government I also call you work for us kind of structure. You know, you you, the pastor, work for us, the board, and again, that is Nowhere in Scripture that we see that. But then there's another one called pure democracy. This takes the congregational church government to its logical extreme. In this system, everything has to come to the church congregation. Every decision that's made, every little thing has to be voted on, everything has to be, you know, democratic. We have to vote on how much How many paper towels we want to buy to fill uh the the restrooms around here? Aren't you glad that we don't do that? But I I have seen churches that do do that and normally what happens is decisions are They're debated endlessly. The church um reaches a point of near paralysis and able to being able to move forward because you're asking people to make decisions about the inner workings of the church that are not there most of the time And and you know, so again, we don't see this form in Scripture anywhere. And then there's my favorite here called the No Government but the Holy Spirit. Now in this view, uh this sounds very spiritual here, this view of church government. This is where the church says, you know We're going to just depend upon the Holy Spirit. We're not going to really have any kind of structure. So there's no real definite structure in the church. The whole congregation says we're just going to be led by the Spirit of God. And I'm not sure exactly what that means. I think everybody has to feel the right thing. It's all very subjective and it's all very confusing. And I think that churches that normally take this approach don't keep this structure very long. Because it brings a lot of confusion into the church. And what did Paul say? Here's something from the Holy Spirit. God is not the author of confusion. You know, he wants there to be order, he wants there to be structure, he wants there to be a system, he wants there to be something that we work with that is faithful to the scripture. Now the question is, is any one form of church government to be preferred above another? And I think out of all these models that I showed you here And studying out this whole thing, I think that the two that are debated the most that are the most faithful to the scripture would be the single pastor with the deacons and the group of elders. Now there's debate as to which one of these is more biblical, more scriptural. I would just say that either one of these forms of government will be suffice for the church as long as the men that occupy those positions are godly men. Now I've said this before. I've seen churches where They feel like they have their government structure in perfect order. However, the problem is the people that serve in those positions are not godly men And they're not for the unity of the church, the unity of the Spirit. And uh it doesn't matter what form you have, if you don't have good God-called men who love the Word of God, who love Jesus Christ, who love the body of Christ, it's not going to work No matter what you do. But we want to be faithful to the biblical pattern. And examining the New Testament, we we can see several things that we know of that the Bible teaches. First of all The churches had more than one pastor. If you look in the scripture, you'll find that that seems to be the pattern in the New Testament, that there was more than one pastor. However, there seemed to be one who was in charge. One senior pastor, we could however you want to call him, either a leader among equals or a leader among servants, whatever. I I think there's there's disagreement over this, and I and there again there's good arguments for both sides of these two different forms of church government. It seems to me that there should be room for gracious disagreement over this issue. This is not a gospel issue. This is not a core issue. And so there's room for gracious disagreement in this. We also saw already how that the word elder and pastor and bishop It's synonymous. It's all talking about the same thing. The word elder emphasizes the maturity that is needed for that role. It's from the word Presbyteras, wherever the word Presbyterian comes from, literally means old man, and it refers really to the spirituality, the maturity of someone needed in that office. Bishop is the word episcopas, where we get the word episcopalian, and that emphasizes the ability to oversee, to administrate And then there's the word pastor, which really is the word that means to simply shepherd, one who leads and one who feeds the flock of God. Three different words all speaking about the same office. But what we see in the Bible is several things. First of all, let me just kind of give you a few verses here. about about leadership. In Acts chapter 14, verse 23, we read this. And when they had appointed elders for them in every church With prayer and fasting, they committed them to the Lord in whom they believed. Now, this is on Paul's first missionary journey when he's returning to through the cities of Lystra, Iconium, Antioch The Bible says that Paul's normal procedure from the first from the time of his first missionary journey was to establish a group of elders in each church. This was shortly after the church began. He would find elders to lead in the church. We also know that Paul established elders in the church at Ephesus. Again we read here where Paul Paul uses the word elders plural, but we read in Acts 20, 17 from Miletus, he sent to Ephesus and call to him the elders of the church. Also we see Paul saying to Titus in Titus chapter 1, verse 5, Titus, this is why I left you in Creed, I want you to straighten out the things that need to be straightened out there in that church, and I want you to appoint elders in every town. Every town that there's a church, I want you to appoint elders. there in that church. So shortly after a church has been established, we see that the elders were established in the office. And again, the expression is used there in every town. James writes this, if there's any sick among you, let him call for the what? Elders of the church. If there's anybody sick, let him call for the elders of the church. And let them pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. Now that's a significant verse, and let me tell you why. Because the epistle of James is a general letter written to many churches. All the believers were scattered abroad. James calls them the scattered twelve tribes, the Despora. And this indicates that James expected that there would be elders in every New Testament church to which that epistle went. That there would be elders in all those churches. So all the churches in existence at that time, James expected that there would be elders in all of those churches. And we can draw a similar conclusion from 1 Peter. Peter says this, so I exhort the elders among you, feed the flock of God. Notice again it's plural elders. And again, Peter isn't writing a general epistle. He's writing it to churches scattered throughout the four provinces of Asia Minor. And he's expecting, again, there to be elders in all of those churches, whether they're dominated by Jews or Gentiles, or there's a mixture of Jew and Gentile in the church. Peter expected that in all those churches there that there would be elders in the churches there. Also the writer of Hebrews says, Obey Your leaders, again, plural. Submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls. That's just Some arguments that are used to say, you know, the the Bible seems to indicate a a plurality of elders that work together ruling the in the church and working together for the good of the church. However, there's also arguments for the single pastor deacons. Again, we can go into this in great detail, but one of the arguments that's used, we don't have time to go into too much detail because I'm already halfway out of my time and I haven't got into the main points here. But The uh when the letters circulated uh from John to the seven churches of Asia Minor, they're written to the to the angel of the church of Ephesus. And the angel of the church of Laodicea, and the angel of the church of Thyatira. And the argument there is, the angel there is this word, Angela simply means messenger or the pastor of that church. So those that are for the single pastor idea of church government use that to say that indicates that there was a Pastor that was in charge of those congregations there, and that is to whom the letter is directed. But again. Either one of those, there are good biblical arguments, but again, the key thing is to have godly people in place in the church, leading the church. uh in the way that God would have it go. Now here at Grace we have deacons and I use them as an advisory board um and and we you know we have wonderful deacons we have a wonderful unity among our men which I'm so very grateful for. And that really is a a testimony to the previous pastor, Pastor Johnson, who did such a wonderful job in teaching and training men in the church who love God and love his word. And we come together and serve and we we just I just have So much uh joy in knowing the unity that we do have here among our men here in the church. And I want to tell you, I've been to several churches and it's not that way in all those places. I was in a church where we had about fifty deacons and that was about twenty-five too many, to be honest with you, and there was trouble And because some of those men were very simply they were not walking with the Lord. They were not godly men, and that leads to a problem. But the Bible is clear, however, that deacons serve and elders rule. I've often said there are deacons here, I treat you guys a little bit more like elders than deacons, because I depend upon you so much. But again, the Bible's clear. Elders are to rule. And this gets to point number two, the responsibility of pastors. What is the responsibility? Look again in verse 17. Let the elders that what? Rule well Be counted worthy of double honor. What does the word rule here mean? It's a word that means to manage or to direct the affairs of This Greek word is used six times in the New Testament in this sense. The idea of to stand before and to lead, to manage, to superintend. This word is used in Romans 12 8 to refer to the spiritual gift of leadership. Elders are to manage Elders are to rule. They are to direct the affairs of the church. They are to be the spiritual leaders that manage the household of God. That means also that the Word of God is to be taught. And they pray for the work of the gospel, for the gospel to get out And to help the gospel too get out. It means to care for the people of the church, to guard the people from error, to admonish them, to help them to grow spiritually into Christ's likeness. And so that's the whole idea here behind the ruling function of elders that are in the church. But what's the other Responsibility, preaching and teaching, again look in verse 17. Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor what? In the word and doctrine. So in addition to leading and ruling, they have the responsibility to labor in the word and to teach. They are to feed the flock of God. And it takes work. The word labor here, Capayo, work to the point of exhaustion. The ministry is no place to be lazy. It's no place to be undisciplined with your schedule. To truly feed the church God's word, again, it just takes a lot of work. And pastors have to work hard in this endeavor. I read about a pastor that had three young men installing insulation in the attic of the church building. And uh while they were up there doing that the first part of the day, he was in his study studying, but then he went up and he had lunch with them. And one of the men that was there working asked the pastor, said, Do you have a job besides pastoring this church? And the pastor said, No, this is my only employment. And he said, Well, Reverend, could you work if you wanted to? Uh, you're not laughing at that, and that bothers me. That's supposed to be funny. He is working. All right? Are you all okay with that? You g are you with me? Or do you think I should go get a job? He is working. He's studying. He's in the word. He's laboring in the word and doctrine. That's the point. Wake up, folks. Preaching involves about nine tenths perspiration and one-tenth inspiration. It's just work. It takes time to study, it takes time to pray, it takes time to think. in order to be accurate and clear when you're presenting the Word of God and to apply it. You know, someone asked me recently, how long does it take you to uh study for a sermon and uh it depends, you know, if the passage is a little more difficult, it'll take maybe twelve hours, maybe longer. If it's not too hard a passage and I've already been there before, maybe eight hours or so, anywhere from eight to uh maybe fifteen hours on a sermon, just to make sure that you know I'm getting it right. And I think that's what it requires. It requires that you study hard. And also, before a man can really preach to others, he has to let the Word of God preach to himself. I want to tell you something, folks, that um Whenever I'm studying God's word, it is working me over. A lot of times people leave church and say, oh man, you know, God really used that in my heart. Well, I just wanted you to know that he used it in mine first. It has to be something that God deals with in my own heart. And so he has to, a pastor has to properly allow the word of God to affect him in order for him to be effective in teaching it to others. Now some people say, well you're more of a teacher than a preacher. Now, I don't know if that's supposed to be an insult or what, but I take it as a compliment because pastors are supposed to teach you the word of God. I'm not up here yelling a lot or screaming a lot. I understand that And some people might prefer that. Abraham Lincoln says, When I hear a preacher preach, I like to see a preacher look like he's fighting off a beehive. And that's just not me. I'm a talking head up here, you know. But to me, again, my understanding of God's word is it's the word of God to change you, not my dynamics. If I can just clearly communicate to you the scripture, that's what God's going to use in your heart and in your life to sanctify you and to change you more into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, yeah, I'm a teacher. I'm, you know, pastor-teacher to me is the same thing in the in the Bible. Um and so that's the responsibility of pastors. Now let me get you to the third point here We talked about the role and the responsibility, and then number three is the remuneration. Because look what it says again in verse 17. Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. Verse 18, for the scripture saith thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And the labor is worthy of his reward. So the question that we come to here is, when it says be counted worthy of double honor, what does that mean? What does that mean? And then I think verse 18 kind of helps us understand what he's talking about when it says, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treads out the corn. What he's speaking about there is financial remuneration for pastors. And again, I want to qualify. I'm not looking for a raise, all right? Just want to make that clear. I wouldn't accept it if you gave it to me. Alright? It's spee it's speaking about, you know, financial remuneration. Now, what does Paul mean by double honor? That's the question that is debated when you come to this verse. The word honor here today often refer to an allowance or a stipend. It has the idea of finances there. It's, you know, when when a preacher preaches at a church, he's given an honorarium. You know, he's given a little money for that. That's kind of the idea of the word here. It's a gift given to a pastor, maybe on a special occasion, doing a funeral or a wedding or, you know, or Bible conference. The word honor is used that way. It was used to talk that way about widows. We are to honor widows that are widows indeed. What it's talking about is financial support. Those widows that don't have family that can take care of them, that are godly, you are to honor them, and the idea of honor is you you support them financially, you help them out financially. That's the idea there. And that's the way that the word is used here. But again the question is what does it mean double honor? Does that mean the pastor is supposed to get double pay? Alright? I'm for that. No, I'm kidding. There are some that debate that and say, well that's what it means. Double honor means you should get double pay. There's some that honestly believe that. So, but others say that this means double pay has the idea of of you know not only reward but respect. That's the double pay there. Not only are you given what's due, but you're also given respect. And I think that's the idea behind the word double here. It really just means ample. I think it's used in both ways, talking about respect and reward. And Paul goes on to quote Deuteronomy 25, 4. Now again, just to be clear, I don't think it means that a pastor should get double pay. I think what it means is that you you you take care of them with remuneration financially and also you give them your respect. I think that's the idea here. That's what he's talking about. And then Paul goes on to support his argument. He quotes from Deuteronomy 25, 4. Look again at verse 18. For the scripture saith, now he's quoting out the Old Testament, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And then he quotes from I think the Lord Jesus here and the labor is worthy of his reward. He's quoting there I think from Luke 10, 7. By the way, note Luke Paul puts Luke's gospel on the same part as Old Testament Scripture And so um but the scripture here is comparing pastors to unmuzzled oxen. That's not a very complimentary thing. I'm an unmuzzled ox. Don't muzzle me. Alright? Now what does he mean by that? And let me show you one other passage where Paul uses this same verse. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter. I've referred to this before, but look in First Corinthians chapter nine and look at verse number seven because Paul's using the same argument here and this will help you to understand what he's saying here. Now 1 Corinthians 9, Paul is arguing that the church should should uh should give financial remuneration to its ministers. Paul had refused to take money from the church of Corinth. But what he's arguing here is that even though I have refused to take money, it is right for the church to pay its labors. And that's the whole argument that he gives here. Look in verse number seven. Why? Well, there's the privilege of a workman. Verse seven. Now therefore there is utterly a fault Let me see. I'm sorry, I'm in the wrong chapter here. Verse 7. Who goeth to warfare anytime at his own charge? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? We're in chapter 9, verse 7, just to be sure I've got you on the right spot here. Who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of the flock? So what's Paul talking about? He's giving three illustrations to show it's common for a person to get his living from their work. He talks about a soldier. What soldier goes at war at his own charges? Any soldiers enlist in the military and say, I'll pay my own way, I'll pay my own wages, I'll go fight the battle for our country and I'll I'll finance myself. No, the government takes care of the soldier. Um what about a farmer who plants a vineyard and eats not the fruit thereof? Any farmer that plants uh or sows is gonna re is gonna reap the benefit of that, whether it be a vineyard or a crop. He'll eat of his own produce. That's just common sense. What about a shepherd? A shepherd who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of the flock. Shepherds don't work for free either. They expect some of the milk They expect some of the benefits of the wool that they that they give at sheep shearing time and they get the money from that. They'll glean from their own work. It was customary, it was right By the way, it's interesting that all three of these are illustrations that are used heavily in the Bible to talk about the minister of God. We are soldiers, we are farmers, we are shepherds. And Paul is saying it's right for them to be paid for their work. But then he goes on. Here's where he uses the verse again. Look in verse number 8. Say I these things as a man? In other words, Paul's saying, Is this all my idea? Is this what I'm kind of pushing? Or Saith not the law the same also? Isn't this written in the law? And here Paul quotes again from the same verse in Deuteronomy, for it is written in the law of Moses Thou shalt not mother the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. So what Paul is doing here is he's taking an Old Testament law. And he's kind of extracting the principle from that law. Now we know that this law was given for how the Israelites are to behave to one another in the Old Testament, but yet Paul sees under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, a principle that applies not just to that particular social, cultural circumstance, but also a universal principle that can be applied to all of the Lord's servants. If you don't muzzle the ox, he's arguing from the lesser to the greater. If God doesn't want you to muzzle an ox, then surely he would want his servants who work in his field. Surely he would want them to be remunerated as well. You see in the Old Testament, um normally and you've heard me talk about this before, but you know An oxen would basically be put on a uh on a kind of a a mill, a treadmill, where he would just walk around and tread out the corn and the and the and he would separate the wheat from the chaff And it would kind of the chaff would kind of blow up and they would kind of blow it away and and the kernels he would kind of crush out. But that oxen that was doing all that work, he was unmuzzled. So if while he was doing that work and he was hungry, he could just reach down and eat some of that That kept them strong. Now if you borrowed your neighbor's ox and you muzzled them, that was not a good thing to do. Because you're actually getting a healthy, strong ox and you're starving him to do the work, and you're giving them back to your neighbor uh half-starved. That's not a loving thing to do. And so the law was, look, you don't muzzle your ox. Don't do that. That's not right. Now, Paul asked the question in verse number 10. Or verse 9, rather, at the end of verse 9, doth God take care for oxen? In other words, it's got is the whole point here is that God just wants the oxen to take care of, or is God teaching us a principle? Look in verse number 10, or saith he it altogether for our sakes. Then he says, For our sakes, no doubt it is written, that he that ploweth should plough in hope, and he that threshes in hope should be partaker of this hope. In other words, this Old Testament law, which has this principle that transcends just that time That can be applied universally in the church is written for us as well. And that is, those who labor or plow should do it in hope that whatever work that they do, they should be able to benefit and gain from that labor. That's the whole point that Paul's making here. Now he uses that verse here, and we can go on, but we don't have time. And so go back to 1 Timothy chapter 5. And verse number eighteen, again he's using it for the scriptures say, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And again the labor is worthy of his reward. Again he's quoting there from the words of Jesus who Jesus established this principle with his disciples. And in the book of Luke, Jesus basically established this same idea when uh in Luke chapter ten verse seven when he was basically sending out his disciples and what he was saying was look you know You know, don't go from house to house just draining people of their resources. Just stay in one spot and let them and be content with whatever they give you, for the labor is worthy of his. He's worthy of his reward. That was the whole idea there. Stay in the same place, labor, and accept what they give you. Because, you know, there should be some remuneration there. Now, Paul here basically is establishing the principle that churches should take care of their servants. They should see that they're well taken care of, and that they should give them the respect and honor for what they do. Again, it sounds so self-serving for me to say those things. Forgive me. I'm not saying it for my benefit. All right? Please understand that. I am saying I wish I had churches in front of me that don't treat their pastors well. I would preach this sermon to them. You don't need this, but other churches do that are not treating their pastors well. Spurgeon once had officers of a small church ask him to recommend a pastor for them. And sometimes people will call me and say, Hey, you have a pastor, we'd recommend us a pastor. One time they went to Spurgeon and said, Can you recommend us a pastor? But the salary that this church was preparing to pay was so small that Spurgeon wrote back to them, this is what he said. He said, The only individual I know who could exist on such a stipend is the angel Gabriel. He would need neither cash nor clothes. He could come down from heaven every Sunday morning and go back at night. So I I advise you to contact him. Go ask the angel Gabriel, you know. So but you get the idea of what's being said here. Uh again, I I I want to close the sermon by saying I'm very thankful for the way grace honors its servants, its pastors, not just me, but the others here on staff. It speaks so well of you. I couldn't ask for more than I have received But I and I hope that this will be an affirmation to our church in many ways. Because in so doing that, what you're doing actually is you're honoring the Lord. You're loving the Lord. And when you're and when you give of your substance to the work of the Lord here and you're supporting the work, you are doing that as an act of worship to Almighty God. Now next week we're going to continue talking about pastors, but the next subject on this is accusations What happens if the pastor gets out of a line? What does Paul say that you're to do in situations like that? And we'll talk about that the next time. Alright? So let's let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for your word. It's so practical, it's so clear. And Lord, thank you for the privilege that we have to serve you. in this wonderful church and this gracious congregation of people that love you. And Father, I pray that we'll be faithful to the Word of God. As you've called us to do, that we will labor hard in the Word to see the growth and sanctification of the people that are here. That we would see you, Lord, do great things for your glory, not for ours. That you would send people whose hearts are hungry for the truth, who want to be sanctified in the Word of God and grow in Christ. And Lord, that this will be a place that will hold forth the word of life for many, many years to come. It will be a place where the of where the truth of God is not compromised, where the word of God is preached faithfully. That's our legacy, Lord, and that's what we want to continue to do, and we want to do it for your honor and your glory. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.