Would you take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, and I want you to look at verse 23. We'll be looking at that verse together. It'll kind of be a springboard into other passages that we'll look at. Would you mind standing this morning for the reading of Scripture? I just want to read this one verse of Scripture together with you. Let's stand for the reading of God's Word, honor the Scripture. Hebrews 11 verse 23 says this, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your word. Lord, help me to make it clear today and may it bring comfort to those in need. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we've been looking at the book of Hebrews, this specific chapter, chapter eleven, and dealing with what has been called God's Hall of Fame of faith. We've been looking at different characters. that are brought up in Hebrews 11 and how they illustrate and to us a life of faith and how to live by faith. In this next verse, the writer brings up the parents of Moses in verse number 23. Specifically, really, we could refer to Moses' mother, Jacobed. Her name is given in the book of Exodus in the Old Testament. And how that she had to, by faith, give up her son. And I'm sure you know the story here in the Old Testament, how that during that time the Pharaoh of Egypt was putting to death all the male children that were being born in the kingdom Uh he was afraid that the Hebrews were growing too powerful, too strong, and so his solution to take care of that population control was simply to kill all the male babies. And so he had the midwives And of course you know the scripture the Bible says uh that they refused to do it, and yet it it it was still Pharaoh who decided that he wanted them to throw those babies into the river Nile, actually throw them to the crocodiles. But it was the mother of Moses who hid her son, the Bible says for three months, but eventually she had to let him go, and she made a little ark uh and put her baby in that ark and actually that was an incredible act of faith if you moms can picture that in your own heart Putting your baby into a little basket, a little ark that was made, and putting that ark on the Nile, and basically entrusting that child to Almighty God. What an incredible thing it was for her to do. This is interesting that we came to this verse, especially in this month, because this month, October, is infant loss awareness month And so what I would like to do today is preach a sermon in honor of those moms and parents that are here that are living with the pain of the loss of an infant of a child. And I my hope today is to offer comfort from the Word of God for you who are living with that pain of loss, and maybe provide some answers from the scripture about these things. Now in and of myself I have no uh power to give any comfort, but God's word has the power to do that. God's word is our source of comfort. And so I want us to look in scripture about what the Bible says about the death of infants, the death of children, and how can we learn from that? What can we learn from that? from the Word of God about what Scripture says about that. And so the sermon today is going to be in the form of just answering some basic questions about the loss of a child. And here's the first question. Why did God allow my child to die? Why did God take my child? I want you to take your Bibles and I want you to open to 1 Kings chapter 14. We'll look at this passage of Scripture The Bible offers us some insight on why God takes children, at times why God chooses to take infants. And I I see it in this story here in 1 Kings chapter 14. This is the story of God taking a child. And it tells us why he did it. It gives us the circumstances of God taking this child and why he did it. Now, this is the story of a king in Israel whose name was Jeroboam. Now he was not a good king. He was not a man who followed the Lord in any way. In fact, he led the people away from God. He was an idolatrous king He didn't obey the Lord. He didn't worship God. He never went to the house of the Lord to worship. In fact, he led people to commit idolatry against God. And Jeroboam had a son whose name was Abijah. And the Bible says in 1 Kings 14, verse number 1, that he was sick. Look in chapter 14, verse 1. At that time Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, fell sick. And look at verse 2. And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam, and get thee to Shiloh. Behold, there is Ahijah, the prophet which told me that I should be king over this people. And so Jeroboam does not want his child to die, his son to die. He wants his child to be healed of sickness. He knew that there was a prophet in Shiloh by the name of Ahijah. This was the same prophet that prophesied that Jeroboam would actually be the king. And because he's a bad king because he's not following the Lord and because he's leading people in idolatry, he doesn't want to know that it's he that is inquiring about his child. So he has his wife go and visit Shiloh and he has her uh put on a disguise, so to speak, so that she's not known to be his wife. Look what he tells her in verse three, and take with thee ten loaves and cracknels and a cruise of honey, and go to him, and he shall tell thee what shall become of the child. Verse four, and Jeroboam's wife did so and arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah, but Ahijah could not see for his eyes were set by reason of his age And the Lord said unto Hijab, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son, for he is sick. And thus then thus shalt thou say unto her, for it shall be when she come in, that she shall feign herself to be another. woman. And so the Lord kind of knows what's going on here. Of course he knows everything. And he warns his prophet Ahijah, there's going to be a woman that's going to come and visit you. She's going to pretend to be someone else. But she is the wife of Jeroboam the king. And when she comes, you give her a message from God. You tell her what will happen. Look at verse six. And it was so that when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam, why faintest thou thyself to be another? For I am sent to thee with heavy tidings. Go tell Jeroboam, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, for as much as I exalted thee from among the people and made thee prince over my people Israel, and rent the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it thee, yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments and who followed me with all his heart So she comes to the prophet, and of course he's not fooled because God had already told him what this uh what was going to happen. And he says, Come in, wife of Jeroboam. That had to startle her. Not a very good disguise. Of course you can't fool God. So he says, I have a message for you. And it's it's heavy news. It's not good news. It's not the news that you want to hear. I know why you're here, the prophet says. I know exactly what you're looking for. Um but the news that you're you're going to hear is not good news. And then he goes on to tell her, you tell your husband, I put you over King of Israel, you haven't followed me, you haven't obeyed my voice. But then look down at verse number thirteen. And all and she said and uh look at verse 12 actually, arise thou therefore and get thee to thine own house Go back home, and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die. This is heavy news for this mom. Your child will die. And then God says something very particular in verse 13. And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him. For he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing towards the Lord God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam. Interesting. Why did God take the child? Very interesting because God favored the child. God loved the child. God found some good thing in that child. The Hebrew word here for good is desirable, useful. God in a way was saying, I want to set this child apart for myself. It was because of love that God had for that child that he decided to take him. God's favor was on that child. This might answer a question that some parents may have. Why did God decide to take my child? Well, God desired them. God loved them. There was something good found in them. God sometimes delights in bringing children to himself Sometimes God delights in bringing infants to Himself. There are children in heaven, I think, that make heaven all the more sweeter. That there are children there in heaven, and God sometimes delights in taking the most beautiful children to bless his holy habitation. You know, we pick flowers from our garden. We only pick the choicest flowers. To put in our house, to beautify our house. Even so, God in his wisdom at times decides to take children up to heaven to be a part of his kingdom. But also there's another thing in here. God knew the future of Israel and Jeroboam's kingdom. And God was wanting to save this child from that terrible future. And the prophet even says in these verses, we don't have time to look into all of it, but there's trouble coming for Israel. This is not going to be a good time This is going to be a difficult time, especially for this dynasty, for the family of Jeroboam, who have committed idolatry and turned their back on God. There's a sense in which God decides to save this child the misfortunes and the bad things that are to come by taking that child unto himself. God knowing the future, knowing that it wouldn't be good. Was it going to be good for that house, for that family, for the things to come? And so God did something good in taking that child to himself This is where we get the word providence. Providence comes from two words, pro, meaning before, video, to see, to see beforehand. God's actions today are based on what he sees way down the road, way into the future And what might happen today may seem to us to be something that is harsh and cruel is actually kindness, is actually love. Because God's actions today are based on what God sees way down the road in the future. And God saw down the road that it wasn't going to go well for Jeroboam or his family or the future. And God said, I'm going to take this child because I delight in this child. I want to bring him to myself because God saw something good in that child. And I've got to be honest with you folks, when I look out in this world today and I see the direction this world is headed, I see the evil of this world. I see so much heartache, so much trouble, so much anguish. I wonder what it's going to be like for my grandchildren. And for their children. What's it going to be like? I wonder about the sorrow and the pain and the trouble that they're going to have to bear in this sin-cursed world. But when a God chooses to take a child to heaven, guess what? That child has spared all the evil of this world. Spared all the difficulty, all the sorrow Heaven is a place of perfect bliss, of perfect happiness, of perfect joy. And for a child it is better. To be in heaven is better than any amusement park they could ever go to. You know, I used to take my kids to the amusement park. They would never want to leave. Couldn't get him in the car. How many parents had that problem? They're having such a blast. Well you added up ten thousand times. That's what heaven heavens like to a child The Bible says, in the presence of God is unspeakable joy. Psalm 16, 11, in thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. And to bless a child, God may choose to take them from this world of trouble and bring them to his kingdom of eternal joy and eternal happiness. John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace, he wrote to friends who lost a child, and this is what he wrote in his letter. I hope you both or are well reconciled to the death of your child. He writes, I cannot be sorry for the death of infants. How many storms do they escape? Nor can I doubt in my private judgment that they are included in the election of grace. End quote. And I agree with that, absolutely. Children that God takes are chosen by him, chosen by his grace to call them unto himself. Now here's the second question. How can I be sure that my child is in heaven? How can I be sure that when God takes a child and infant that they go to heaven? Well, friend, that's based on the authority of God's word. What does God's word tell us about this? Scripture teaches us that there is a condition of accountability and children who have not reached that age where they're able to distinguish between What is right and what is wrong between moral absolutes, the judgment of God is not upon them. They are what the scripture calls innocent. They haven't yet reached that age of, or we could call it even a condition of accountability, because I think that there are people that are Very well, mature physically, adults, but do not have the capability to understand right from wrong. And I think that they're in a condition of innocence before God You say, how do you know that? Well, there's a testimony of Scripture, there's a testimony of Moses in Deuteronomy chapter one. It says in chap in verse thirty four, moreover, your little ones which he said shall be afraid, and your children which in that day had no knowledge between good and evil They shall go in thither, and unto them I will give it. They shall possess it. In other words, God exempted the infants and the young children from the sentence that he put on the adults of Israel, because God said they don't know right from wrong. They're not accountable. And he explains why he did this because they and the verse they had no knowledge of good and evil. No knowledge of good and evil. Once a child matures and comes to the point where they understand good and evil and the consequences of their choices, they then become morally accountable to God. But until that time, God says they're innocent in my sight. And then there's the testimony of Isaiah Write down Isaiah chapter 7, verse 16. There's a story when God told his prophet Isaiah, Go to the King Ahab, or King Ahaz, I should say. and make a prophecy about what's going to happen in the future. And by the way, Isaiah, when you go and make this prophecy, take your child. Now Isaiah's wife had just had a baby So when Isaiah goes to make this prophecy to the king, he's carrying in his arms his little infant child, and he goes to King Ahaz and he makes a prophecy and he says this. He said For before the child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land which thou abhorst shall be forsaken of both her kings. In other words, when Isaiah made this prophecy to the king He's holding a baby and he says, King, before this child shall know to choose between the good and the evil, this is what's going to happen in the land. In other words, before this child reaches the age of accountability. And by the way, when did this actually happen? It happened eight years later So this child is approximately eight years old. And thus he was still considered innocent by God, even at that point. And again, I say that the scripture teaches that those who do not have that sense of that comprehension of moral evil and right and wrong, they're covered by the grace of God. And then there's a testimony of Jeremiah in Jeremiah chapter 19. God said, I'm going to judge Israel. You know why? Because it says in verse 4, chapter 19, because they have filled this place with the blood of innocents. Who are the innocents that Jeremiah is talking about there, or God's talking about? Because the nation of Israel had been so wholly committed to idolatry that they were actually offering their own children in the fire to the god Molech. Can you imagine that? Taking your own baby and putting that baby in the fire, offering them as a sacrifice? to that God, Molech. And God said to them, you have filled this place with innocent blood. God said, you've burned the innocent. God viewed the children as innocent, even though the parents were idolaters. These were not children of believers. These were not baptized babies, and I bring that up because sometimes I hear preachers preach and they say, well, when a child or a baby dies, we're not really sure where they go. If their parents aren't Christians, we're not really sure where that baby goes I just couldn't I can't comprehend that. I totally disagree with that. These children were not the children of believers. These were people that were putting their children in the fire. Sacrificing their own children. And God is calling them into account. God says, I'm going to judge you for taking an innocent baby and putting that baby in the fire. Doing such an evil thing. Now folks, let me ask you a question and think about this with me. How could God render judgment against Israel for putting their babies in the fire, if God would turn right around and after that baby died, cast that soul into eternal fire. God wouldn't do that, that would make God unjust. God's condemning them for putting them babies in a temporary fire Where they would suffer on a temporary basis, and then you want me to believe that God would then turn around and cast that soul into an eternal fire? That makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. None whatsoever. I don't see how preachers can say, well, we don't know what happens to babies when they die. I know what the Bible says. They go to heaven. They're in the presence of God. God would never cast a baby into eternal judgment, especially when that child would have no idea why they're there. No idea why they are suffering. And in Ezekiel chapter 16, verse 20 and 22, God calls these children sacrificed to God, my children. God says to the Israelites when they were taking their children and sacrificing them in the fire, God says, you are doing that to my children. These are mine. They belong to me. God claims ownership of these infants. He claims ownership of these babies. So think about that. And then there's a testimony of David. I think we know this story in the scripture. In 2 Samuel, when King David had a little baby that got sick, and he really wanted this baby to live. David therefore inquired of God for the child. The Bible says in 2 Samuel 12, 16, he fasted, he prayed, he laid all night for seven days. He fasted and he prayed and he laid before the Lord and he asked God to heal the child. And the child did not get well. The child died. That infant baby died on the seventh day. And the servants were afraid to tell David. They were afraid of how he would act. Because he hadn't eaten in seven days. He hadn't even gotten off the floor in seven days to do anything. And they thought if they told David that this baby died, that David perhaps couldn't handle that It would be too much for him. And David could overhear them talking. And David asked them, is the is the baby dead? Did the baby die? And the servant said, yes, the baby died. And you know what the Bible says? David got up and he cleaned himself up. He had a meal. He sat down. And the servants were baffled. And they said to David, they said, we don't understand, you know, while the child was sick, you didn't eat, you you fasted, you didn't do anything, and now that the child is dead, you you get up, you you eat, you're you seem to be fine. Can you explain this? Remember what David said? David said, well, here's the bottom line. I can't bring the child back, but I can go one day to be with him. I can go to be with him. Friend, that's proof positive. That David was thinking about heaven. Now I've heard some commentators say, well, David was talking about he'll be buried next to him in the grave. Really? Seriously? You actually gonna write that? That's ridiculous. You I I'm comforted now because I'm gonna lay down in the grave next to him That's what brought David comfort? No, this is the same David that wrote in Psalm 23, I shall go and dwell in the house of the Lord forever. He understood heaven. He understood eternity. He knew that one day he would go and see that child again in heaven. He knew that. And then there's the testimony, of course, of Jesus in Matthew 19, where it says, Then were brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them, but Jesus said, Suffer the little children, and forbid them not to come to me. Listen to this, for of such is the kingdom of heaven Jesus says the kingdom of God belongs to little children like these. Of such. This is an incredible statement from the Lord Jesus. He said, the kingdom of heaven is for them. Of such is the kingdom of heaven to infants and to children. Well you say, well, some might say, well, aren't you s are you saying that they're not sinners? No, I'm not saying that they're not sinners. We're all born sinners All of us are born in sin. But the Bible tells us that God calls them innocent. And I believe that when a God chooses to take a child, God simply covers that child in his grace. They're saved the same way that any of us are. By the simple grace of God, God chooses to extend to that child grace. And in the Gospels, that's why you see Jesus blessing children all the time. They are part of the kingdom of God. Well here's a third question I want to address, and that is, will my child know me? And are they still my child? I've had parents ask this question. Will, you know, because there have been some who taught that when we get to heaven we're going to have a new identity. That the identity that we have on earth is not going to be the same one that we have when we're in heaven. And again, I say that's utterly ridiculous. That's not according to the scripture. I think I told you before one day my son walked into my office and he said, Dad, will you still be my dad in heaven? Will I still be your son? Because he heard some teacher teach that when you get to heaven You're going to have a totally new identity. Your old family will not be your new family in heaven. And that really bothered him. And so he asked me, he said, Dad, will you still be my dad in heaven? Will you know who I am? And I said, Let me tell you, you'll always be my son, even in heaven. You'll be the son of Jerry Harmon and if you get out of line in heaven, I'll spank you up in heaven. You remember what the Bible says in the Old Testament when a person died? The Bible says he was gathered unto his people. Of his people there in heaven. In Exodus 3:6, when God spoke to Moses at the burning bush, he said to Moses, I am the God of your father, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob And present test. Where was Abraham and Isaac and Jacob at that time? They had already died. They had already died. They were already in heaven. And God said that Moses, I am the God of the. Well, these guys used to be your father. They're not because they're here in heaven, they're not your father anymore. No, that's not what God said. God said, I am the God of your father, Abraham and Isaac, and Jacob. The identity that they had on earth was still the identity that they had in heaven. You're not going to get a new identity. God might give you a new name, but he's not going to give you a new identity. You'll always be who you were. Only a perfect version of what you are right now, a fully sanctified version. When David died, he expected to go to heaven and see that very child that went to heaven. And so, and the New Testament is even clearer on this. Remember in the Last Supper in Luke 22, Jesus is sharing the Passover meal with his disciples. And this is what he said, I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And Jesus was prominging promising his disciples that he wouldn't again Drink of the fruit of the vine until they were all together there in heaven. How could he promise that if they all had new identities? How could he promise that? And then he said this in Matthew eight eleven, I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the new Kingdom. Again, I ask, how is that possible if we all have new identities? They're in heaven. No, all the saints of all the ages will keep their identity. When we get to heaven, we're gonna know. Who they are. We're gonna know our family members that are already there. We're gonna know saints from the Old Testament. You say how are you gonna know? I don't know. I'll just know I said, there's Moses? There's Peter? How do you know? I just know. How did they know on the Mount of Transfiguration it was Moses and Elijah? You just know we're gonna know all of them those saints and the Bible says we will fellowship there in heaven forever. We're not going to get new identities. Remember what Paul said to the Thessalonians? When they were grieving, they thought that their loved ones who had died had missed the second second coming. And Paul said, no, those who died in Christ, they're going to be raised first. And one day we're all going to be together in heaven, all of them, all your family, and you. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. How would this be a comfort if when I got to heaven I wouldn't recognize any of my family? Or nobody. That wouldn't be a comfort to me. No, we will know each other in heaven. Our identity will be the same. If you have a little baby that's waiting for you there in heaven, they're going to know who you are. They'll know who they are. They know whose they are. They will know who you are. They know all of that and we will know them. And then finally, another question here. What happened to my child at death? You know what the Bible says happens at death? Remember in Luke 16 where it says the man who died was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. I believe that when death comes for a believer, God dispatches his angels. When God wants to take an infant child, God will dispatch his angels and carry that child all the way up to the bosom of God the Father. there in heaven where they are loved with an eternal love. Because God says to those infants and those children, they're mine. The Bible uses the phrase my children the innocent. What's interesting in this story in 1 Kings 14 is the name Abijah. It's a very interesting name. Absolutely the Hebrew word for father. I is the mine, my father is Yah is my father is Yahweh. And this child that God took unto himself, God said, He he belongs to me, he's mine, I take him to Myself. And I say to every parent here that has lost an infant child, God has brought them unto himself They belong to him. They're yours, but they belong to God as well. And they're there in heaven, and they're experiencing the joy of heaven, and they are there, they're waiting on you. to come and be with them one day. Which let me get let me just give you the last question on this. How are we to respond to the death of our children? When God chooses to take a baby, when God chooses to take an infant child, I think first of all, we're to submit to God's will and humble faith We submit to God's will in humble faith. This isn't an easy thing to do, but it's what God wants us to do, to trust Him, that He knows what is best. That he knows what is good. I remember one day I was in a bookstore and a title of a book jumped off the shelf. It was the title of the book was A Crook in the Lot. It was written by Thomas Boston, one of my favorite Puritans. He was a Scottish minister. He ministered in one church for 25 years. He wrote several books. But Thomas Boston was kind of a melancholy type personality. He was prone to seasons of discouragement in the Christian life. He has been described as someone who is poor in health. Even though he never missed a turn in the pulpit, he was always faithful to be in his pulpit. He suffered from chronic illness in his body And his wife also was someone who was somewhat frail in health, but the greatest trial that Thomas Boston and his wife ever had to bear was the death of their children. Thomas Boston lost six of their ten babies. Six of ten babies. One loss was especially tragic. Boston had already named a son Ebenezer, which in the Bible means hitherto has the Lord helped us, but that baby died. And his wife gave birth to another son. And Thomas Boston considered naming this child Ebenezer also. And yet he hesitated. Naming the boy would be a testimony of hope and faithful uh in the faith of God, hope and the faithfulness of God, I should say. But what if this child died too, he thought This would be too big a burden to bear to bear for his family, too bitter a loss to name this child Ebenezer and then lose him. But by faith He decided to go ahead and name this next son Ebenezer as well. And this child was also sickly, and despite his prayers, this child never recovered. And he wrote in his memoirs, it pleased the Lord that he was also removed from me. He lost that child as well. Now, after suffering such a heavy loss as this, many people would be tempted to blame God or get angry at God or abandon their faith Or at least drop out of ministry for a while. But Thomas Boston did none of those things. Rather than turning away from the Lord in that time of sorrow and grief, he turned to the Lord. Even more with all his heart. And he wrote the book, The Crook in the Lot, which is based on Ecclesiastes 7, verse 13. This verse, consider the work of the Lord For who can make straight that which he has made crooked? And when Solomon was talking about crooked here, he didn't mean something morally wrong. He meant something that is difficult in life to bear, some heartache, some tragedy Because all of us have our lot in life, right? I have my lot, you have your lot. And the idea is that every one of us at some point in our lot is going to have a crook, some difficulty, some trial, some burden. And Thomas Boston read that verse and he kind of latched onto it. And he referred to this as this crook. The things that happened to him with his children were the crook in his life, the thing that he had to bear, that difficult sorrow. And in the book, he talks about the crooks in our lot, the things that happened to us that we wish did not happen. The things that we cannot change. And he explained it like this. Let me just quote. He said, There is a certain train or course of events by the providence of God falling to every one of us during our life in this world. That is our lot, as being allotted to us. And then he says this, in that train or course of events, some fall out crossed to us or against the grain. And these make the crook in our lot. Everyone's lot in this world has some crook in it. There's no perfection here. There's no lot out of heaven without a crook. And that is true. Every one of us, we all have a crook in our lot We have something in our life that comes that we wish we didn't have to bear, that we wish didn't happen. And Thomas Boston offered Many reasons why we have a crook in our lot. He says a test to help us determine whether we're really trusting Christ for salvation. He says or to turn our hearts away from this vain world, to teach us to look to heaven And prepare us for heaven, he writes, or to humble our pride and help us see our own sinfulness. And he lifts many, many more. But the purpose in him listing these reasons is not because we can always figure out why, but to let us know that God knows why he put the crook in our lot. I can't tell you why God has us bear certain things that we have to bear. But I know this, God knows why. He has a purpose in it. And that's what we have to put our trust in God's using it in our life. And when God chooses to bring us through the valley of sorrow, and he takes from us a baby, a child, that's a crook in our lot And we have to humble ourselves under it, and we have to trust and know that God has a reason. God knows what is good, what is right. And we have to trust him in it. And rather than run away from God, we have to run to God more than ever. Like the song that we sing, More Love to Thee, O Christ. More love to thee. You know who wrote that hymn? A woman who just had lost two infant children. When she lost those children, she picked up her pen and she wrote, Let sorrow do its work. Send grief and pain. Sweet are thy messengers, sweet their refrain, when they can sing with me, more love, O Christ, to thee. And that's what we have to do. We have to run to the Lord. We have to ask God for His help. But here's the last thing. How are we to respond? We submit to God's will in humble faith when God puts a crook in our lot. We accept it by humble faith. But then here's the next thing. We have to make sure of our own salvation. Friend, make sure that you're saved. Make sure that you know Jesus as your Savior. We here on this side of the condition of accountability, we know right from wrong. We know what sin is. We know sin is against God, and we know that a holy God must judge sin. But a God of love doesn't want to judge you, so he took all of your sins and placed them on the Lord Jesus Christ, who paid our sin debt. That you might have salvation in heaven. And you need to make sure of your own salvation. One time Charles Spurgeon was preaching to Console grieving parents who had lost their children. And this is what he said. He said, Now let every mother and father here present know assuredly that it is well with a child if God has taken it away from you in its infant days. And then Spurgeon turned this conviction into a kind of an evangelistic call. He goes on to say, Many of you are parents who have children in heaven. Is it not a desirable thing that you should go there too? And then he wrote this or said this, mother, unconverted mother, from the battlements of heaven your child beckons you to paradise. Father, ungodly and penitent Father, the little eyes that once looked joyously on you look down upon you now. And the lips which scarcely learn to call you Father, ere they were sealed by the silence of death, may be heard as with a still small voice saying to you this morning, Father, Must we be forever divided by this great gulf, which no man can pass? Doth not nature itself put a sort of longing in your soul, that you may be bound in the bundle of life with your own Children. And so he he turns this into a call To get saved, to know the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, when we place our faith in Christ and trust Him, we'll go to heaven. That's the way of salvation. And if you happen to be a parent that lost a child, an infant child, they are there in heaven. And if you want to see them again, the best thing you can do is put your faith in Jesus Christ. And you will see them again. And one day we'll all go to live in a place where we will never again have to say goodbye. Let's all pray together. Let's pray together. Let us resolve by grace to make sure of our own salvation and determine to meet Our family there. In that place where we never, ever have to say goodbye. And friend, I want to ask you with heads bowed and eyes closed, are you sure of your own salvation? Do you know Jesus as your Savior? Maybe hear that you're a parent of a child that you lost, infant child, baby. And you were wondering what happened to my child, friend, they're in heaven. God took them to heaven. And I would encourage you To make sure of your own salvation so one day you can meet them there. If you're not saved, would you just take this moment right where you are? Right where you are To pray and ask Jesus to save you. Would you say the words, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. I don't deserve to go to heaven Because of my sin, but I know that you you died on the cross to pay my sin debt. Please come into my heart Please save me, Lord Jesus. Would you be willing to pray that right where you are? Save me. Make me your child. And if you pray that in faith and you mean it, for now I'm telling you on the authority of Scripture, He will save you. He will give you eternal life. How many here see it? That's my prayer preacher. I want to know Jesus. I want to be saved today. That's your prayer today, friend. You sure of your soul? All right. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts. I pray that this will bring comfort, perhaps, to some who are Who are suffering in their heart. Some parents that wonder about their infants, their babies. Lord, let this be a comfort to them, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.