It's good to be in God's house, isn't it? And I want you to take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of First Peter, chapter one. We begin a new series in this epistle of First Peter And I'm going to call the whole series Living Hope because really that's what the letter is about. But tonight the sermon title is Hope for Hard Times. Hope for hard times. I heard about it uh during World War II a a U. S. submarine was doing some maneuvers off the coast of New Hampshire and it lost power and sank to the bottom and immediately a dis a um signal was sent out, a distress signal was sent out from the sub and they They they came to where it was and they sent some divers down and they held up listening devices next to the sub and they could hear someone tapping on the inside. It was Morris Code and it was in the form of a question, is there any hope? I think that's the question that many people are asking today. Is there any hope? Well the message of Peter is designed to give us hope in times of trouble. Someone has said that Paul was the apostle of faith. He wrote, The just shall live by faith. And John was the apostle of love. He wrote, Beloved, let us love one another. But Peter was the apostle of hope because he wrote, look at verse number three Chapter 1. Blessed be God in the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again into a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. We could call that a living hope. And a Christian has a living hope because our faith is in the living Lord Jesus Christ. Now Samuel Coleridge said this. He said that hope without an object cannot live Hope has to have something to be based upon. It must be based on something. And for the Christian, our hope is based on the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why we have a living hope. And so this living hope is really the major theme of 1 Peter. Now, let me just define hope for you because when we talk about hope, it's not a worldly hope. When a person uses the word hope, they normally are saying, I I wish something would happen, or I'm wanting something to happen, but I'm not sure that it's going to happen. They might uh have a hope for their investment, the investment they made, they're hoping that it will be profitable. But it's really more like a wish. And that kind of a hope doesn't really bring a settled assurance or peace. There's a lot of anxiety involved in that. But when the Bible uses the word hope, it's not talking about a wish, it's talking about a certainty. And to give illustration, you remember when the Ravens played in the Super Bowl in 2012? And I remember watching that game, and some of you might remember, it came down to the wire. I mean we were winning that game at halftime and then someone turned the lights out in New Orleans. And they did that to try to beat us, I'm sure there's a some kind of a plot going on there. And the second half of the game they kind of turned around and the other team was just trying to uh you know catch up and they almost were able to get us and it really went down to the very last play of the game. How many of you were sitting on pins and needles and were all anxious? You know why? Because we weren't certain how that was going to turn out And but we were hoping that they would win. Now, you know what? I recently watched that game again. And you know what? I wasn't sitting on pins and needles at all. I had a total peace. I had a total assurance. You know why? Because I knew the end. I was certain about the end. Now that's the difference between a worldly hope and a biblical hope. Now when the world, when they say hope, they're not certain about how things are going to turn out. And so they're filled with anxiety. But for the Christian, you know what? We're certain about how things are going to turn out. That's why our hope brings us a settled assurance. That's why we have peace. And that's why when we talk about Jesus being the blessed hope of the second coming, we're not saying that because we're we're not sure about if Jesus is going to return or not. And so we're kind of hoping for that. No. We know that he's coming back. We have a certainty about that. He is our blessed hope. And so when the Bible talks about hope, it's not a wish, it is a certainty. And hope is something that keeps us going. It keeps us going through these difficult, hard times. And that's what Peter is going to write about. Now we're going to look at that here in 1 Peter, but before We look at the this wonderful little letter. Let's talk about Peter. Look at verse number one. Peter, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter identifies himself as the writer of this letter. We know that this was the Peter, the one that Jesus called out to. Peter lived in Capernaum. He was a common fisherman. In fact, you can go over to Israel today, you can go to that little village of Capernaum, and guess what archaeologists have uncovered? They uncovered the very house they believe that Peter lived in Right there on the shores of the Sea of Galilee is the home. And by the way, Jesus stayed there in that very home with Peter there. But Peter was a common fisherman when Jesus called out to him. And Peter was the spokesman for the disciples. You might say he was the leader among the disciples. Some have said that Peter had a foot-shaped mouth, because w w ev whenever he opened his mouth, he was always putting his foot in his mouth, it seemed like Whenever there was a question the disciples wanted to ask, they were too timid to ask it, Peter was the one who was the spokesman. And sometimes Peter said some things that were foolish, and sometimes Peter said some things that were very profound. And he was the leader among the disciples. But did you know that the Lord Jesus changed his name from Simon? Actually, his given name was Simon Barjona, which means Simon, son of Jonas. And Jesus changed it to Peter or Cephas. Cephas in the Aramaic is the same as Peter in Greek, which is rock. Peter the Rock. Now that name change had a very big significance. First of all, it showed that there was a new thing that God was doing in Peter's life. Listen, if this morning we were talking about the authority of Jesus, remember that sermon, how many were here for that? If not, buy the CD, I need the money. I'm just kidding. He was talking about the authority of Jesus. And you talk about Jesus' authority. Jesus had the authority to change Peter's name. His name was Simon. And Jesus said, Peter, after Peter was obedient to the call and began to follow, he said, Your name is no longer going to be Simon. Your name will now be Peter. Now if you can change someone's name, that gives you authority. What if on a Sunday morning baby dedication I said, I'm dedicating this baby, but I'm going to change this baby's name? This baby is no longer named Michael. This baby will be named, and then you're sitting there going, Pastor, you've lost your mind. Where do you have the authority to change the name of a baby? I can't do that unless you're God. And if you're God, you can call a person whatever you want. You can change their name. And so when Jesus changed Simon's name to Peter, he was signifying that he had authority over Peter's life now, and that Peter had a new relationship with Jesus. He was now going to be his servant And the word Peter again means rock, and I think that speaks about what the Lord was going to do in the life of Peter. Peter was a man who was very unstable. And the Lord was going to make him a rock. Peter was a man that had some weaknesses, and the Lord was going to do a work in his life and make him a rock. Let me read you what Wordsby said about this. He said, perhaps the two names suggest a Christian's two natures. An old nature Simon that is prone to fall, and a new nature, Peter, that can give victory. As Simon, he was uh he was uh only another human piece of clay, but Jesus made a rock out of him. I like that. As Simon he was a piece of clay, but Jesus was going to make a rock out of him. And if you look throughout the New Testament, whatever Simon was acting like the old person, Jesus would use that name, Simon Barjonah. It's kind of like when you were growing up. You know, when your mother used your first and your middle name, you knew that you were in trouble. Jerry Randall? That wasn't something good that was going to happen after that. Simon Barjona? But yet, when Peter would do something good, Jesus would also recognize that by calling him Peter the rock. Now, Peter failed in a lot of ways, but the Lord Jesus did make him a rock. You may be here tonight and you might say, you know, I'm I'm such a weak servant. There's not a whole lot I can do. I mean, I have failed the Lord again and again, but you know what? Jesus can make you a rock. He's not done with you yet. I thank God for that because you're looking at one weak servant, you're looking at one failing servant. I fail all the time, I'm weak all the time. But you know what? God can take the weakest people and he can make them strong. Even Peter's name. gives us hope because we see in Peter someone that God used in a great way. As a matter of fact, Peter, the one who denied Jesus would one day become so strong in his faith that he would die for Jesus. And tradition tells us that he was crucified under the persecution of Nero in Rome, but he was crucified upside down because he didn't feel worthy. And so even the name Peter gives us hope. Now, with all that in mind, what I want you to see in our passage tonight are three reasons why hope is so valuable valuable for us to have. And what we're going to do is we're going to just look at the first two verses, and we're also going to pick out from there really some major themes That are going to be in 1 Peter as we study it. We're going to kind of look at the book. We're going to introduce the book, but look at it in the first two verses and see those themes that are there in seed form. So here's the first thing reason. Three reasons why hope is so valuable. Number one, hope helps us to endure suffering. It helps us to endure suffering. Now look in verse number one, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ to the strangers scattered throughout Pontius and Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bathynia Notice he calls them strangers. This is a word that means to live as a foreigner or to live as an exile. It's par epidemic. It is someone spending time in a foreign country. You ever go to a foreign country? Uh I remember the first time that my son Jeremiah and I we went to Africa, we went to Cameroon, Africa. We went really in a remote area. We drove for two days way back into this jungle village area And I remember we walked through some of those towns and villages in that certain region, and you know what? We could not seem to blend in there. And you know why? There was that fiery red hair. In fact, whenever they saw Jeremiah, they would say, tubong, tubong. They kept pointing at him, saying tubong. That was the African word for redhead. And I'm convinced some of them never saw hair that color before. They were just kind of fascinated with Jeremiah. Of course, they knew that we were foreigners. We kind of, you know, we kind of stuck out as foreigners there And there's a sense in which, as believers, the world should look at us and they should look at us and know that we are citizens of another country. And the reason they should know that is by the way we live, by the way we act In fact, there's a word that Peter likes to use over and over again in 1 Peter, and it's the word conversation, but the Greek word actually means lifestyle. Look in chapter 1, look down at verse number 15. Notice what he says there. He says But as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of what? Conversation. That's the word there. And he'll use that word over and over again A lifestyle. In other words, it's the idea of having a way of life, a behavior. And Peter's whole point is that the Christian, our way of life, our conduct, should cause us to stand out like foreigners in a foreign land. Just like we stood out there in that foreign land, a place that we had never been before. We were obvious uh uh not from that country, there's a sense in which as Christians In this world, we should stand out. Why? Because people see something different about us. They see a holiness about us. And it's something that's not of us, it's from the Lord. And yet it's us, it's in us. And so we're distinct, and that's the whole point that he's making here. He says we're strangers. Did you know that we're pilgrims just living in this world? This world's not our home. Our home is in heaven. We're just here for a time And so Peter calls them strangers. We're foreigners living in a foreign land. We're strangers living in a strange land, and the world should see that in us. But here's the next thing. He says they're scattered. Look again in verse 1, scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bethynia. Now, when Peter uses this word scattered, it's the word dysphora, and it was a technical term used about Jews who lived outside the land of Palestine. But here Peter is using this term to refer to Christians who have been scattered abroad. Really, the literal word is like seed that has been dispersed. They were Christians that had been dispersed. And he mentions the region. If you'll notice the The uh places that he mentions here, if you look on a map, you're gonna find that this was an area roughly the size of America's southwest The southwest, if you go from Texas to California, roughly that kind of landmass, that's how big the area that Peter is talking about when he mentions these places. And the idea here is that they're scattered all over. Now, why are these believers scattered? I think this word implies persecution. It implies suffering. The reason they were scattered is because some of them, I think, were running for their life. Why? Because at this point a severe persecution had hit Now let me let me just give you some historical background in order to understand this. Write down a date. We don't have to write it down, but just remember July 1964 A. D. You say, what happened on July 19, 64 A. D. ? This was the day that Rome burned, and while Rome burned, you know the story, Nero played his what? His lyre, his fiddle, his violin, whatever they called it. He was playing his violin while Rome burned. The great city was consumed in a holocaust. And you have to remember this about Rome back then. Rome was a city that had narrow streets, it was densely populated On both sides of those narrow streets there were wooden uh tenements where people lived. And when the fire started It just literally consumed the city of Rome. The streets were so narrow that the fire could literally jump from one side of the street to the other. And so just the city just went up in flames. It was just a terrible event. The first three days the fire spread rapidly. It was finally brought under control somewhat. But history tells us that the flames were not completely consumed, and it it it began to roar again, and it got out of control. And the and the people were just uh many were killed at that time. And many believe that Nero was the one who started the fire. Why? Because Nero wanted to do some urban renewal. There was a certain section of Rome that he wanted to rebuild. That's where he wanted to put his palace. You know, you've heard of Caesar's palace. He had a big plan to rebuild this certain area and yet he was voted down in the Senate. And so not long after that this fire mysteriously started. That's why some people blamed Nero for this fire. But not only that, it was his attitude, while the fire raged Uh Nero, he didn't really care. He watched the city burn. One historian says he found a front row seat in the Tower of Mesanas. And he watched the raging inferno consume the city. Historians say that he was charmed by the flames that he saw. He thought that they were beautiful. He considered them very lovely And yet all that time people are dying in the fire. It was devastating. And when Rome was burned, there was such an economic loss. There was a social loss. And there were some people that were angry. They were angry because some of their religious symbols, their deities, were burned up in the fire. By the way, if you have a God that can be burned up in a fire, you probably need to change gods Their gods were burned up in the fire. It was a devastating loss. The people were homeless. They were resentful. They were angry And they wanted someone to pay. There had to be a scapegoat. And when things started turning against Nero, Nero did something that was pretty brilliant from his perspective. He had to find someone that he could blame, and you know what? He blamed the Christians. That was an obvious choice But first of all, w why was it a good choice for him, an ingenious one, to blame the Christians? Because they were already hated. This was a s a little group A little sect in the city that was already somewhat despised. Why? Well, first of all, because they associated with the Jews in Rome. And the Romans hated the Jews there, and that the Christians actually associated with the Jews, that made them hated already. But also, these Christians, they would not cooperate with empire or emperor worship. They refused to acknowledge that Caesar was Lord. They said Jesus was Lord. And these Christians were also called atheists because they refused to believe in the gods of Rome. They believed and worshipped only one God. The one called Jesus Christ, and they refused to worship anyone else. And when they met for the Lord's Supper, they wouldn't let anyone else that wasn't one of them participate in the Lord's Supper. And so pagans would would listen in and they would watch on or hear what was going on. And these Christians were talking about eating the flesh. of Jesus and drinking his blood. And so therefore a vicious rumor went out that they were cannibals. And people believed the Christians were cannibals. And they were also always talking about a baptism of fire And so these this group of people were despised, they were hated. And Nero then pointed to them and said, they're the ones that started this Holocaust. They're the ones that started this fire. So when he picked them, he picked the right group for all those reasons and there followed this tremendous persecution. Now up until this point, Christians were persecuted somewhat, but it was very mild. But after this, the persecution got worse. One Roman historian, uh Taxitus, wrote this. He said That Nero rolled Christians in pitch, then set them on fire while they were still alive, and used them as living torches to light his garden parties. He sowed them up in skins of wild animals, and he set his hunting dogs on them to tear them to pieces. They were nailed to crosses. And so Christians began to be persecuted. It wasn't just Nero doing it. All over the empire, it was open season on Christians. And they would have lynchings. Christians were nailed to crosses. And so this was this fierce persecution that just went on for months. They were imprisoned, they were seared with hot irons, they were cast To the lions. They were stoned. All these things were done to believers. And as a result, you know what happened? Believers began to scatter. They began to run all over the area. They were persecuted. And Peter calls them these who were scattered throughout Pontius. They were scattered throughout Galatia and Cappadocia and so on, and sometime during this, we're not exactly sure when, but after this persecution happened, Peter picked up his pen and he wrote this letter of first Peter And it was designed to give hope to these Christians who were suffering so very terribly. Now, I know when here in America to preach 1 Peter, you know, we don't really have it that rough, to be honest with you. In fact, we're kind of spoiled as Christians. But did you know this letter, 1 Peter, in some countries this is their favorite New Testament epistle? You know why? Because many of them are going through vicious persecution. And they find great hope in it when they read the message of Peter. In fact, one of the major words that we see in this letter is the word suffering Or suffer, it's used sixteen times. Look in verse number six of chapter one. He says, Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season If need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations, and that is just trials. Look in chapter 2 and look down at verse number 20, where it says, For what glory is it If when you're buffeted for your faults, you take it patiently. But if when you do well and suffer for it, you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. In fact, back up to verse 19. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience towards God endure grief, suffering, wrongfully. Many of them were suffering wrongfully. We can go on. Look in chapter 4 and look down at verse number 12. It says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. And these are just a few verses But we trace this theme of suffering through 1 Peter. It's obvious from these verses that they were suffering. Now, the emphasis in this letter is to teach believers how to live victorious in the midst of such suffering, to do it without losing hope, without growing bitter. Let me ask you a question, you ever, are you going through a trial tonight? Is there some fiery trial in your life? You know, sometimes we have to be careful that we don't grow bitter in the trial. And we have to be careful that we not lose heart and just throw up our hands and give up and say, What's the use? You see, part of the design of this letter is to keep believers from doing that by reminding believers of our hope. Even in the fiery trial, we have hope. That's why what you'll see in 1 Peter is so many times he will focus on the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Why does he do that? Because when the Lord returns, you know what you're going to get if you've been through suffering and you've been through trials and you've done it patiently You know what's going to happen when Jesus comes back? You're going to be greatly rewarded. That's why Peter says, keep your eyes on that. Again, look, go back to 1 Peter. And look in chapter one and look down at verse number seven. He says this though the trial of your faith be much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise An honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. That is, when Jesus appears Your faith has been tried, but it's going to come forth like gold, and when he appears, you're going to receive glory and honor and praise and reward when he comes back. You know what? This world tries to give out awards. Let me just tell you, they mean nothing. They mean nothing. The real reward that you're going to get for your faith and persevering through difficulty with hope. It comes when Jesus comes. That's when you're going to get your reward. You're going to be rewarded. And again, throughout this letter, Peter will talk about the revelation of Jesus Christ, his second coming, the glory, the day of visitation. All those things Peter refers to because that is our hope. You see, along with suffering, there is glory that will follow And the greater you suffer, the greater will be your glory when Jesus comes. That is your hope. That's my hope. Hope helps us to endure suffering. Now write down number two. Here's the second lesson I learned from this letter. Hope Helps us to enjoy salvation. It helps us to enjoy salvation. Because Peter, another theme in this letter Is the greatness of our salvation. And Peter, he wants you to focus on that. He wants you to realize how wonderful your salvation is. Look at verse number two. Elect, he's talking about Christians here now. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. And so our hope is in Christ and the great salvation that He gives us. And again, when we say hope, we're saying something that is certain Our salvation, our eternal salvation is certain. Now listen, I would argue that a person who believes that they can lose their salvation can never really enjoy it Now, I don't know what your theological background is. I know that there are many out there that teach that a Christian can lose their salvation. But I would just say this: if you believe that, how can you possibly enjoy your salvation? If I actually believe that, I would be anxious all the time. I would be worried about what I did about 10 minutes ago. I wouldn't trust the best five minutes of my life to keep me saved. I mean, friend, if it's up to me to keep myself safe, I'm going to be worrying all the time. I'm not going to be able to sleep. Because I know myself, I know how sinful I am. I know that I would do something That caused me to lose my salvation. But listen, thank God my salvation can't be lost by me. Because I have a hope, and that hope is certain. It's the hope of salvation. You say, how certain is it? Listen, do you know how certain it is? All three members of the Trinity were involved in my salvation. That's what Peter is pointing out here. This is what I want you to see. I can't lose it because if I would, you know, if if I lost my salvation, that means one of the members of the Trinity wasn't doing their particular responsibility or job. And that is impossible So let's look at it. How's all three members of the Trinity involved in my salvation? Well, write down, first of all, the Father thought it Look in verse 2. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God. Your salvation did not begin with you, it began with God the Father. Your salvation wasn't your idea, it was God's idea. Because the Bible says He foreknew you. He planned it in eternity past. God saw you, God chose you in him in eternity past. Write down Ephesians 1:3. Blessed be the God of our Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings. in heavenly places in Christ. Listen, according to He has chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world. You see, your salvation, my salvation, took place in the heart of God all the way in eternity past And the word for know here means more than just knowing something would happen. It means to set your love upon. All the way in eternity past, God set his love upon you. And he said his love upon me. And so what Peter's doing here, he's emphasizing the sovereignty side of salvation. But now let me just be quick to point out. That the sovereignty of God never negates human responsibility. Peter doesn't negate human responsibility. In fact, he'll emphasize it later on. In fact, look in chapter 1, look in verse 22. Notice what Peter says there. He says, seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love. What truth is he talking about there? Look at verse 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but But of incorruptible. It's the truth of salvation. In other words, he's emphasizing the fact that you obeyed the call of the gospel. It's like I said this morning. The gospel is not an invitation. It's a command. You know, I can, if someone gives me an invitation, I can turn it down without being punished. But a command, you can't turn that down. We could actually call it a summons or a subpoena to court. You can't turn that down without receiving some punishment. And the gospel is a command. God commands people to repent. And Peter says to these believers, you obey the gospel. You obey the call. That's the responsibility side. You're born again of corruptible seed. And so there's the sovereignty side. God thought it in eternity past. He set his love upon you. But then there's also the human responsibility side. You have a responsibility to obey the gospel. Just to illustrate it, here's a homeless man. He's walking down the street. He sees a huge mansion. And he sees a sign on the front of the door of that mansion, and the sign says, Whosoever will may come. And he says, You know what? I need a place to stay. I'm a whosoever will. I want to come. So he goes inside the door, he goes to that mansion, he opens the door, he closes it behind him, he turns around, he sees a sign on the inside of the door, and the sign on the inside of the door says, chosen from before the foundation of the world. And then he sits down at a table, and guess what he sees? His name is on the table. You see, God had planned for his coming And yet both of those things are true at the same time. You say, who are the elect? Let me tell you who the elect are. The elect is anyone who wants to come to Jesus. You want to come? Come. Let me ask you a question. Are you thirsty? Come and drink. Are you hungry? Here's a table that's fully loaded with bread. Eat. The Bible says, Come, Revelation 22, 17. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come, and let him who hear say, Come, and let him that is a thirsty come. And whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely. Friend, it's whosoever wants to come, but yet you must also realize that when you come, just know that God knew you before the foundation of the world. God the Father thought it. But here's the second thing: God the Son bought it. Look again in verse number two, where it talks about the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. The sprinkling of the blood of Christ. And this is really it's referring to what happened in the book of Exodus when the people of God made a covenant. They entered into the covenant and Moses was there. You know what Moses said? He took the blood of the sacrifice which was in a bowl. And you remember that story in Exodus 24 when the people said, Yes, we will enter into this covenant relationship. Moses took part of the blood and he sprinkled it on the altar. What did he do with the other part of the blood? He sprinkled it on the people. What if on a Sunday I just had a bowl of blood up here and I decided to sprinkle you all with it? You know, just fling it out there to you That's what Moses did to the people. And what that did, that was a symbolic action that signified that they are now purified Symbolically, they will be forgiven for their sin. Now, the writer of Hebrews applies this to Jesus Christ and his once-for-all sacrifice. for the new covenant. And so as a Christian, when you enter into the new covenant, it's like you have been sprinkled with the blood of Christ You have been cleansed with the blood of Christ. Our hope is in that blood of Jesus Christ. One of my favorite hymns: my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. This is what Peter is talking about here. The blood of Christ purifies us. It covers us. Dennis Fulton was a former pilot with the wings of carrying ministry in Zaire. And he tells a story about landing. He had a new plane, a new Cessna 402, and he was going out on his regular stops, and he stopped at one place there in the backcountry And as always, the villagers, they gathered around that plane. They were very excited. But this time there was something new. He noticed that a man was coming forward the plane. He had in his in his hands he had a chicken, a live chicken And as the man got closer to the plane, he noticed how that the man holding the chicken separated the head from the body of that chicken. If you know what I mean, you ever see that done? I mean he just well, I don't want to pay a gross picture in your mind But he just tore the head off of that chicken. And then he began to take that chicken and swing it around. And of course the obvious happened. Blood was sprinkled all over the place. Here he was, he got out of that plane, brand new white shirt, blood sprinkled all over him. And that man Dennis asks what that meant when the native was sprinkling that blood, that sp uh splattered blood. What did that signify? And the answer was given to the people of Zaire. The sprinkling and the spattering of the blood was a symbol of hope to them. A symbol that the suffering was over. That they had hope. Now in a graphic way, that's exactly what Peter is saying. The sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ gives us hope, friend. My salvation is not a wish. It's not a maybe It is a certainty, and it's based upon the blood of Jesus Christ. And so the Son bought it, my salvation. The Father thought it. The Son bought it, but here's the third thing: the Spirit wrought it. Look again in verse number two. He says, Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through sanctification of the Spirit And there's the spiritual in our salvation. Now, the word sanctification, when we use that word, a lot of times it's used to speak about the process of making us more like Christ. But this is not how the word is used here. The word sanctification is used here with the idea that at salvation, the Spirit of God sets you apart. You see, when you're saved, what did he do? He took you out of the world, he set you apart into the kingdom of God. You've been taken out of the kingdom of darkness, you've been translated into the kingdom of his son. You have been placed into the body of Christ. Who does that? The Spirit of God does that He's the one who set you apart in your salvation. That's what he's referring to. Here is a work of the Holy Spirit of God. So in my salvation, the Father thought it The Son, he bought it. The Spirit, he wrought it. As far as God the Father is concerned, I was saved. when he chose me in Christ before the foundation of the world. As far as the Son is concerned, I was saved when He died for my sins on the cross. As far as the Spirit is concerned I was saved when I heard the gospel and I trusted Jesus and He placed me into the body of Christ. He sanctified me. He set me apart. That's why it's impossible for you or me to lose our salvation, because if we could lose our salvation, that means that one of the members of the Trinity did not fulfill their responsibility. That means that what God the Father planned in eternity could be undone in time by sinful man. And friend, that is impossible. It means that the blood of Christ would not cleanse me from all of my sin, and again, that is impossible. Because when you're saved, the blood of Christ cleanses you from all of your sins. And it could also mean that if I could lose my salvation, that means that the Spirit of God didn't fully set me apart in Christ. And again, that's impossible. So friend, your salvation is sure. Hope Helps me to enjoy salvation. Friend, just enjoy the fact you're going to heaven. It is our hope. Now let me give you one thing, and we'll just deal with it quickly because we're out of time. Hope helps us to embrace submission. That's the third major theme. Go again to verse number two. And notice what he says here. He says, Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the of the Spirit, unto obedience. Just look at that. We're unto obedience. Another major theme. When we're saved, the mark of being a child of God is our obedience And so Peter, throughout this letter, is going to emphasize submission. As Christians, we need to learn to submit. We need to learn to submit to the will of God. We need to learn to submit to government authorities. And Peter will talk about that. You say, now wait a minute, the government authorities when Peter wrote, they were corrupt. Will you show me a government that hasn't been corrupt? Show me some government that's been perfect. You won't see that until Jesus Christ comes back. We all work among sinners, but Peter said, yet we need to learn like the Lord Jesus. Jesus learned to submit. himself and he he uh committed his soul unto a faithful creator, God. We need to learn to submit to our spouses, husbands. Need to love their wives, but wives need to learn to submit to husbands, bosses, and employees. In fact, let me just show you one verse. Look in first Peter chapter two. Look in verse thirteen. He says this Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme. Learn to be submissive. You know, if you don't learn submission, you're going to have trouble Because in God's economy, there's a chain of command, there's an authoritative structure that God designed, and we need to learn to be submissive within that. And this is what Peter is saying to these believers here. Learn to be submissive, learn to obey, because with that will come blessing. You say, now how can we do that? Our hope is Jesus. Put your eyes on Christ. If you want to learn how to be submissive, look at Jesus. Look at the life of Christ, because he was the most submissive person that ever walked the earth, and yet he was so blessed by God. Hope helps us to endure suffering. Hope helps us to enjoy salvation. Hope helps us to embrace submission Our hope is in Christ, in Christ alone. And without him, you don't have hope. But friend, you don't have to live without it. You can have that hope if you come to him. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, thank you for the message of this letter. I pray that you'll bless us as we dig into it, as we study it Lord, may it minister to our hearts. We need this message. We need to be reminded of the hope that we have. I pray, Father, that you'll bless these, your servants, your people. Many I know tonight may be going through trials. Heartaches. Lord, I pray that they'll lay hold of the hope that they have in Christ. They'll be encouraged through the message of Peter, through your love for them. Lord, to use these words. And maybe you're here tonight with heads bowed and eyes closed to say, boy, I need this message of hope. I'm going through a trial right now. I've kind of taken my eyes off the Lord. I need to put my eyes right back squarely on the Lord Jesus Christ, where my hope is. And remember that He's there with me. And beloved, he will strengthen you and he will help you. And guess what? He will bless you and reward you. So keep that in mind. Lay hold of that hope that you have in Christ. I'm going to say, would you pray for me tonight, preacher? I need the prayers of God's people as I go through these trials in my life. Father, bless these your servants. That need to lay hold of this hope in a fresh and new way. Lord, minister to their heart. Strengthen them, Lord, I pray. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.