Thank you. Should take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Judges. We're in chapter number 13 tonight as we continue studying through this wonderful Old Testament book. And tonight I want to talk about hope in times of darkness. Hope in times of darkness. In Judges chapter thirteen, uh, God is going to give hope to Israel in a very difficult time. It was in Uh Christmas Eve on nineteen fourteen, in the middle of World War One, that bloody war, for months the Western Front had been a nightmare of mud and and blood and uh Bobwire, you might remember during that time there there was trench warfare in when which millions of soldiers died uh in a in a vicious way. And yet that night, that Christmas Eve, something remarkable happened. British soldiers began to hear a sound drifting from the enemy line. It was singing and they were hearing the song Silent Night, Holy Night. And soon the British Army joined in with that carol. And soldiers from both sides stepped out of the trenches and they met in that neutral zone, that no man's land there, and they began to shake hands and they exchanged gifts and they played soccer And they shared food. For one brief night, hope pierced the darkness of that war. And that's what Judges 13 is teaching us really about, is about hope in dark times. The nation of Israel was trapped in a spiritual night. No one was really singing or praying, and no one was really looking for deliverance. Yet into that silence God spoke a word of life to a barren woman A woman that's without name here, as we're going to see in the narrative, and yet a woman that God used. And so through her hope broke through the dark This narrative is all about the announcement of the birth of Samson, who would be a coming deliverer. And the birth of Samson reminds us that when God's people are silent, he is not. And when the night is long, his mercy is already at work. God gives his people hope in times of darkness. It may be that you're here tonight and you're going through your own time of darkness. I hope that this narrative will speak to you and encourage your heart as you read through it. So notice three ways that God offers hope in times of darkness that we experience. Number one, God begins his work when we've given up. He begins his work when we've given up. Have you ever reached the place in your life where you say, I give up? Well, those are the times where God works the best. Israel's story kind of opens up, we could say, with a sigh, because we see, first of all, what I call corruption. Look at verse number one of chapter 13. Where it it tells us that and the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. That sounds awful familiar, doesn't it? We see the same pattern of corruption in Israel Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord. How many times we have we read this phrase in the book of Judges? And we read it yet again. Israel doesn't seem to really learn. They keep repeating the same cycle of sin. And the author again summarizes this by their spiritual regeneration by saying, again, they did evil in the sight of the Lord again Well this time we're going to see this phrase for this is the last time it appears in the book of Judges. And it also introduces the longest period of oppression. We see next correction. And in the second part of verse one it says, And the Lord delivered them into the hands of the Philistines forty years. This time God raises up the Philistines as their oppressors to correct Israel. The Philistines were a very formidable foe. Now who were they? We read them often in the Old Testament, especially in this time and in the time of under David. They were what historians call the sea people. They uh were around the 12th century BC, they migrated from a certain area of Greece. to the southern coastal plain of Canaan, and they formed a confederation of five strong city-states made up of Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron, and Gaf. Once on a visit, I was doing an archaeology dig in Israel and we had the opportunity to go to Ashkelon and see the ruins of that city and it was right there on the beautiful beach. It was a s just a city right there on the beautiful Mediterranean Sea, so beautifully situated, as were some of these other five cities of the Philistines. When you think of the Philistines, think of them as beach bums. Because they live right there on the beach. When you think of the Israelites, think of uh mountain people, hillbillies. Because uh they lived in the mountains and in the hills. And in between the beach and the hills, the mountains there was a buffer zone that was called the Shapela. This was a this was a very um fertile uh low country. In fact Shapela means low country. This is a area where the fertile uh the the the uh soil was so fertile that the crops were rich in The Philistines in Israel were constantly fighting over the Shephala because of the rich soil there. Well, why were the Philistines such a strong foe? Well technologically they were superior because in back in that day they were the ones that first began working with metal and iron. They kind of cornered the market on that. Therefore their weaponry was much better than Israel had a bunch of sticks and stones and uh the Philistines had swords and they had military weapons. Also They were politically organized. As I said, they had five city-states and they had five lords over them. Israel was not really organized. Remember, we we see the refrain, Israel, every man did that which was right in his own eyes And because the Philistines had unity, they had military efficiency, they trained their warriors from youth. Remember it was said of Goliath of Gath that he's learned warrior warfare from his youth because the Philistines uh trained their men from youth. And so because of that, they were a a formidable foe. And the Bible says that for forty years They oppressed Israel. They dominated Israel. Think about that. 40 years. 40 years of oppression. And this leads us to the next point, complacency. Because we read nowhere in this narrative where Israel cried out to God for deliverance during this 40-year domination. There's no confession, there's no cry for help, there's no repentance, there's only resignation. And after four years of being under bondage, they kind of just really adjusted to that life. They'd just given up. The enemy was so formidable that they just said, what's the use? Maybe at first they began to try to fight against uh the Philistines, but they saw that resistance was futile. And so uh they just simply gave up. And they're absolutely complacent during this time. There are seasons when a struggle first enters our lives like an intruder. And at first we fight against it, we resist it, we pray about it. But if it lingers long enough, that trouble per perhaps can outlast our own zeal. And we get to the place to where, since we really can't move it, we just accept it. And that's where Israel is. For forty years, they this they were under this oppression. That's long enough for a whole generation to be born into oppression, growing up thinking, well this is just the way it is. This is just the way that we live. And there's a danger for a believer to have that kind of mentality with with things in our life. What has been in your life so long that you no longer even call it a problem? You just accept it You're just complacent about it. It might be a besetting sin. That Philistine comes into your life and seems to defeat you over and over again. It could be a conscience that has grown quiet or a prayer life that has grown thin. Sometimes the Philistine is a controlling fear or an anxiety. There's some anxiety, some fear that it constantly pops up into your heart and life. You don't step out in faith. You don't trust God's promises. And so that fear dominates you. Maybe it's some kind of a relational bitterness that is the thing that you can't seem to deal with or get over. The something happened years ago that was an offense. It was very painful, but instead of bringing it to the cross and asking for for forgiveness and asking God to help you with it, you kind of You kinda allow it to reshape your whole life and uh bitterness is just the way you live. You live complacent with that idea. Sometimes the Philistine is not a sin. Maybe it is a darkness, a lingering trial, maybe a long illness, some kind of prolonged hardship that you're going through. Even faithful believers can reach a place in their life where they are complacent and they simply accept what is. They don't really seek the Lord about it. And this is where Israel is in Judges 13. So we see the next thing, and I love this compassion. Compassion. Because God breaks into this darkness. God has compassion in Israel. Israel may have settled, but God did not. God is not accepting this. God stepped into the silence and he chose a nameless barren woman to bear a son. Look at verse 2. There was a certain man of Zora, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife was Baron and bare not Now we have seen before in the book of Judges how God brought deliverance through a woman. We saw how God brought deliverance through Deborah and Jael and the nameless woman who crushed the skull of Abimelech. And God is going to use yet another nameless woman here in the book of Judges. The author introduces us to a man named Manoah. And his wife is unable to concede. Her name is not mentioned. Her barenness is out of her control, but it was under the sovereign will of God. And God is getting ready to do something marvelous in the life of this woman. Now the Bible says Manoah was from the tribe of Dan. They were originally supposed to occupy the land next to the Mediterranean Sea. That's where the Philistines had actually occupied. And and since they were unable to dislodge the coastal inhabitants, they dwelt in uh north, they moved up north and dwelt there. And this gives a little bit of motivation for Samson, who's born of this tribe, to kind of harass the Philistines, and we'll see him doing that later. But God sends an angel to announce this miraculous birth. Look at verse 3 And the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, Behold now thou art barren and bearest not, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son When God wants to do something great, sometimes he just sends an angel, not an army, an angel to make an announcement. And this angel visits this This couple, first the woman as we see here, and promises to send a baby. This is a pattern that we see in Scripture often, don't we? God visited Abraham and Sarah and said he was going to give them Isaac. When God wanted Israel delivered from Egyptian bondage, God sent a baby named Moses. Later on, Israel desperately needed revival, and God gave a baby to Israel, gave a baby to Hannah. A baby named Samuel. And so this is the way that God works. A baby is a gift from God, a new beginning. It carries with it the promise of God. Now the question is, who is this angel? that comes to make this announcement. The Bible says in verse 3 it's the angel of the Lord. This isn't just an ordinary angel This is a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ Himself, of the Lord Himself. How do we know that? Well later on in verse 16 this will be made clear. The angel will accept worship. He'll accept the burnt offering from a Noah, and we'll look at that as we go on. But we see then not only corruption and correction and complacency but also consecration. The angel announces to the wife of Manoah that this child that you're going to have will have a special calling. He will be therefore consecrated to the service of the Lord. Look at verse 4. Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink. And eat not any unclean thing, for lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head. For the child shall be a Nazareth unto God from the womb And he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. This child would be a Nazarite from his mother's womb, as the passage tells us. Now in the book of Numbers, chapter 6, a Nazarite was someone who voluntarily separated himself unto the Lord for a specific purpose. And there were three marks of a Nazarite. When a person took this vow, there were three distinct parts to this vow. First of all, no wine or strong drink, even the avoidance of grapes. No cutting of the hair, and then thirdly, no contact with dead bodies. Each of these symbolize something deeper. They symbolize self-denial. visible consecration, ceremonial purity. It was a way of saying, you know, this whole life, my whole life is completely set apart unto God. But there's something distinct here, however, about Samson's Nazarite vow. It was unique for several reasons. First of all, it's not voluntary. This is something that is sovereignly appointed. Samson doesn't choose this. God chooses it for him even before he's born. So his his consecration is not an act of devotion. It is a divine purpose from Almighty God. And also it's not temporary. It's not for a short time. His Nazarite vow will be lifelong. Most Nazarites make this vow for just a season. But Samson will be set apart from his mother's womb until the day of his death. But also, again, it begins in the womb. Even his mother has to abstain from wine. We see this in verse number four. Why? Well, because the child is already considered consecrated. And that is very remarkable. God is claiming this life before it ever enters into the world. Now how does this fit into the story? Well The instruction comes at a time when Israel is spiritually and morally compromised. And God, in effect, is stepping in and saying, I'm raising up a man who will be a visible sign to the nation of what they should be separated devoted unto me. Samson's Nazarite identity was meant was meant to stand in stark contrast to the spiritual and moral corruption of Israel. He was to be a rebuke to Israel. Israel had blended in, Samson will stand apart. Israel had compromised Samson will be consecrated. Israel had grown dull dull. Samson was to be a reminder of the devotion that God expects. His very appearance, the uncut hair, the disciplined life That was supposed to preach a message to Israel of what God expected of them. And by the way, this is going to create tension in the whole life of Samson throughout the narratives that we're going to study. Samson is consecrated to the Lord, but what we're going to find out is he's not consistently committed to that calling. And he'll compromise it himself. He set apart, but he doesn't live that way. He's marked by God, but frequently he will disregard that mark. But that's why this Nazarite vow matters so much in this story. It's kind of the background of all of this. And because of Samson's uh lack of full devotion, he'll become uh a partial deliverer of Israel. He will he will begin to deliver Israel. Look in verse number five at the latter phrase where it says, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. The emphasis is on the beginning, and that's not accidental. It signifies that Samson's role will be real and yet it'll be incomplete. He'll be unable to finish the task. Like all the other judges, he's going to fail. And that's the thing that we see often in the book of Judges. God is showing that this system in itself is insufficient. The judges are not getting the job done. And that's why we see the refrain. In those days there was no king in Israel, and every di every man did that which was right in his own eyes. What what is the writer doing? He's preparing for what is to come, which is a king. Israel needs a king. And by the way, this also prophetically points forward to David. David does what Samson never could. He unites Israel. He will subdue the Philistines. He will ultimately defeat the Philistines. And you get to 2 Samuel in chapters 5 and chapter 8. We see David completely overcoming the Philistines, establishing a kingdom. In this sense, Samson begins something that David later will complete on a national level. But even David is not the answer because what do we find about David? He was also flawed, wasn't he? And he fell. So the trajectory moves more forward to the need for the greatest king that will ultimately be fulfilled and the perfect king, and that's Jesus Christ. And the perfect deliverer. But despite all of that, Samson, his birth, represented God's grace and mercy to Israel in a time when things were very, very dark. Before Israel ever reached out, God reached down. And that's the thing I want you to see. We have a merciful, gracious God. who comes to us in times of darkness. When we've stopped praying, God has not stopped planning. He begins his work when our strength ends. Some of you are, again, you're in the midst of darkness. Maybe you're praying for a prodigal child. Maybe you're praying for something for the Lord to do in your life. And it just seems like, you know, it's dark for you right now. But the stars are always there. We just can't see them until the darkness sets in. And that's the way it is for God's grace. God's grace shines brightest during the darkest night. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Number one, I said that God begins his work when we have given up. But number two, God speaks his word when we don't understand. But Noah's wife told her husband about the angel's message. Look in verse number six. Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible. But I asked him not whence he was, neither told me his name. But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son. Now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing, for the child shall be a Nazareth to God from the womb to the day of his death. Now It's interesting that the angel appears to the woman, not to the man. This may be a way of God showing esteem to women in that society where they weren't esteemed very highly. uh God appears to the to the wife and not the husband. And so there's first of all what I call confusion. Manoah hears this and he's a bit he's a bit bewildered. He's a bit confused. He's he's heard this report, and it's glorious on one hand that they're going to have a child, but on the other hand, he's left with all kind of questions, you can imagine. You know, are are what specifically are we supposed to do? He wants confirmation that this is really something that is from the Lord. You know, there are moments in our life when God's providence doesn't come really neatly packaged and with all the questions answered. Sometimes God's providence will arrive to us in ways that unsettle us, just like we see here with Manoa. Maybe an unexpected diagnosis or sudden opportunities or changes And like Manoah, we hear something that seems like it might be from God, but we don't really understand. We don't really know for sure. And so we want confirmation. And so what does Manoah do? He turns his confusion into prayer. And that's something that we need to really learn from this. He's bewildered. But he turns to the Lord and he asks the Lord. Notice his request. And look down in verse number 8. Demon Noah entreated the Lord and said, Oh my Lord. Let the man of God which thou dost send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born. Notice what his request is. Teach us what we shall do. He wanted to have confirmation, first of all, and then also instruction on what he should do. Because again, a lot of this was not really making sense to him. And so he he gets this confirmation from the Lord. And uh notice verse number 10, or actually verse 9. And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah. And the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her. Verse ten. And the woman made haste and ran and showed her her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me that came unto me the other day. And Manoah arose and went after his wife, and came to the man, said unto him, Art thou the man that spaketh unto the the woman? And he said, I am And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child? How shall we do unto him? So Manoah approaches the angel of the Lord. Again, the angel appears to the woman. And I think part of this is because the text shows that she's more spiritually perceptive than he is. Okay? Guys, you ready for this? Sometimes they're a lot smarter than we are. And God has to speak to us through them. Alright? I know you don't like that. I'm getting dirty looks from some of you guys. Sometimes God has to speak to us through our wives. And Manoah is presented here as someone who uh he's not really all that spiritually sharp, if you know what I mean. But she seems to be And the angel's appearance to her is not a rejection of Manoah, but really a the confirmation of the original revelation. I think that's why the the angel comes again to her. But also this is the wider context of Judges, where the book repeatedly shows unexpected instruments that God uses. uh that will s stands in in stark contrast to the spiritual dullness that we see in some men in the book of Judges. But now Manoah approaches the angel in verse 11. He wants to authenticate the messenger, so he asks, you know, are you the one who came to the woman? And he said, I'm me in the Hebrew, I am. And then in verse 12, he wants to authenticate the message. He asks for clarification. And I love this that the angel of the Lord does not rebuke him. He meets him in his uncertainty. You know, God graciously condescends to give us wisdom when we need it. Aren't we aren't you grateful for that? This is really a uh a New Testament an Old Testament illustration of the New Testament truth That if any man lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God. And God will give liberty to all men who ask. It shall be given him. God will give him this wisdom. God does not scold him, but he doesn't give him the details. He refers what He refers to what he said to Manoah's wife. The instructions I gave her was sound. Listen to that. Also they had the word of God. to instruct them. The Old Testament law speaks specifically about the Nazarite vow. So really what we see here is that in our confusion, God's word is our compass. He points to the Word of God. We don't need to see the whole road. We just need to see the next step. When you don't know what God is doing, open his word and let him remind you of who he is. And find your instruction from the Word of God. of God. God begins his work when we have given up. God will speak his word when we don't understand. But here's number three. God reveals his presence when we feel small God reveals his presence when we feel small. Now, somewhere in this interchange, Manoah finally understands that this is not just any normal man of God, this is not just any ordinary angel But this is the angel of the Lord. This is God that has come. And you know, the only way he knows this is because God will reveal himself to Manoah. God will make that clear to him. The Lord will make it clear. There are many times when we're going through a period of darkness that God will manifest his presence unto his children. And he'll come in a in a maybe through some providence, maybe through an overwhelming sense of peace, and that notable presence of the Lord in your darkness. God manifests his presence to his children. Notice several things that God did for Manoa and his wife when he manifested his presence. First of all, God redirected their focus to worship. Look at verse number 16. And notice what it says. And the angel of the Lord said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread. If thou would offer a burnt offering, thou must offer it unto the Lord. For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of Now prior to that in verse number 15, Manoah said, you know, st you know, don't leave, let me detain you, stick around and uh let me fix a meal for you. And here the answer of the angel of the Lord is, look, I'm not going to accept your dinner invitation, but what I will accept is worship from you. That's the idea here. The angel says, offer it unto the Lord. And here he reveals himself as the Lord. You see, God turns their attention away from entertaining a guest to worship. To worship. You see, we often approach God casually. But his presence calls us to reverence. You know the thing that God wants from us? He wants our worship. He wants our worship. The best thing you can do in your time of darkness is to worship. The Lord, when God reveals Himself, He reorients our lives around this idea to worship Him But here's the second thing. God reminded them of his incomprehensibility. Look at verse 17. And Manoah said unto the angel of the Lord, What is thy name? And when thou and and when thy sayings come to pass, we may do thee honor. But Noah again is presented as a bit slow to perceive here. He still doesn't understand that he is talking to the Lord, so he says, What's your name? Literally, who is your name? Or that that kind of reads awkwardly in English, but we could say, who are you? Uh you know, what is your name? And instead of responding by giving a name, the angel of the Lord poses a question to Manoah. Look at verse 18. And the angel of the Lord said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret? Now the Hebrew word here for secret, uh Peli, uh is the word which means wonderful. And some translations, if you don't have a King James, you might have another English translation, it'll translate it that way, seeing my name is wonderful. And the word wonderful here in Hebrew, too difficult to know. Incomprehensible is the idea there. This is the same exact word used in Isaiah 9. 6 where it says, And his name shall be called wonderful. Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father. In other words, Manoah is seeking to understand who this visitor is, and the angel has responded by saying, You can't possibly understand or know who I am. It's too beyond you. You'll never be able to fully grasp the ways of God And I tell theology students and systematic theology we have to start out with this idea of the incomprehensibility of God. If you think you're going to be able to figure all things out about God, you're sadly mistaken. Because the Bible says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. You start out with incomprehensibility. You're just not going to be able to comprehend All of God's ways. God says, my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither my ways are your ways, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways. And we need to remember that, and we need to remember in our time of darkness that God does nothing arbitrarily. God has a plan for everything that he does, and it's wonderful. But also God revealed his glory in a way they could not ignore. Look in verse number twenty. For it came to pass when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. Imagine that awesome scene there. As the flame goes up from the altar, the angel of the Lord ascends up in that flame. What a visible, undeniable, unforgettable manifestation of God. This makes his presence known in ways that leave no doubt as to who he is to Manoah. You know, there are moments when God makes himself so real we cannot dismiss him. We know that it's the Lord. But also notice next, God brought them to a place of humility and reverence. And when the when the angel ascends up in the flame, look at the rest of verse 20. And Manoah and his wife looked on it and fell on their faces to the ground. But the angel Lord did no more appear to Manoah and to his wife, then Manoah knew that he was An angel of the Lord, and Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die because we have seen God. But his wife said unto him, If the Lord were pleased to kill us, he would not have received the burnt offering. Now, when this angel ascends up, they they fall on their faces. They understand now that this was God. And the reason Manoah says, you know, we're going to die is because there was a deeply rooted conviction that whoever s sees God will die. And this is not really s just superstition because When God revealed himself in Exodus 3320, he said, There shall no man see me and live. Of course what God meant there is that no man can see the unadreat unadulterated full glory of God and be able to take it all in. He'll be consumed by that But nevertheless, this was what was thought of by the Israelites that those who see God will die. But basically Manoah's conclusion was based on that. But this is why the burnt offering was necessary. That's why they needed a burnt offering, not a casual dinner. Because the burnt offering is what made him acceptable in the presence of a holy God. You see, the presence of God should produce a holy fear, not a casual familiarity, but a holy fear. And then God gave them assurance through his grace. And we see this in verse 2 verse 23. Now, we see here how a woman again is exalted over a man. Now, all of my life I've heard how that men are more logical to approach a problem and women are more emotional. Have you heard that? Men tell you what they think, women tell you how they feel. Men respond calmly. Women respond with panic. You know, have you heard that? You know, men are the ones that take charge of women, they're just unstable. Well, I just want you to know that verse 23 blows that stereotype completely out of the water. Blows it out of the water. You say why? Well, because we see Manoah, he's the one responding with emotion, with panic, with fear, with irrationality. And the wife, this no-name wife, gives a calm reasonable theological response. Women, she may uh ladies, she makes you look good. Here. What does she tell her husband who is in a panic? Oh, we're gonna die. We're gonna die. We've seen the Lord. But notice what she says in verse 23. If the Lord were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering. Hey, genius That's the reason for the burnt offering. And if God were going to kill us, he wouldn't have received that burnt offering that He just received. In fact, when the angel ascended in the flame, that was a visible sign that God had accepted them and not condemned them. But a second reason she gives is that the Lord is the one who revealed these things to us. Look at verse 23. But his wife said unto him, If the Lord were pleased to kill us, He would not have received a burnt offering and a meat offering in our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things So the fact that, you know, the implication being, why would God communicate anything to us if you're going to turn right around and then kill us? That doesn't make any sense. And then finally, a promise was given to both of them that they're what? They're going to have a special child. How are they going to have a special child if they're both dead? That's not going to work out And so God does not reveal Himself to destroy His people, but to assure them And she lets him know that the presence of the Lord there with them was not a curse, it was a blessing. God did not reveal himself to say to them, get ready, you're going to die. That wasn't his purpose. God revealed himself to give his grace and to let them know that he desired to bless them. And that's what God does. In our times of darkness, God will come to us in his presence, and he will manifest himself unto us. to bless us, to give us His grace, to turn our fear into worship and to turn our despair into peace. God's presence in our weakness doesn't destroy us, it strengthens us. It strengthens us. John Newton, who wrote Amazing Grace, once said before he was saved, every clap of thunder made him fear God's wrath. But after salvation, he said, those same storms reminded him of God's majesty and mercy. The presence that once terrified him after salvation had comforted him. And this is what we see here. God's presence comforts in times of darkness. So Judges 13 is not just the beginning of Samson's stories. It's really the reemergence of hope. It shows that when Israel had given up, God began his work. When confusion clouded their faith, God spoke his word. And when weakness overwhelmed them, God revealed his presence. And that's how he still brings hope to us. today. Now we're going to see uh notice how this ends real quick. Let me give you these last two verses. In verse 24, the woman bare a son and called his name Samson and the child grew and the Lord blessed him. And the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zora and Eshtol. And so God fulfills his word. And Samson's birth points forward to the deliverance, but even more so to a greater deliverer who will come, just as Samson's uh birth uh pointed to great delivery. So our ultimate hope rests in Jesus Christ, whose birth that was announced by an angel, whose life was set apart To God from his birth, whose spirit moved upon him to deliver perfectly God's people. Just as Samson's birth pointed to that hope, Jesus Christ gives us our hope. When the world was at his darkest, God sent his son. And so when life is at its darkest, God still brings hope. He brings his work when we've given up. He begins his work when we've given up. He speaks his word when we are confused. He reveals his presence when we feel small. Let's bow for prayer to get tonight. Maybe you're here tonight and you're you're battling with darkness. Is that you? And you just need some hope from the Lord. Take a moment. Talk to the Lord where you are. And remember these things from this story here. I pray again it'll encourage your heart. You may have given up, but God hasn't. And you might be confused, but God still speaks his word to you. And you might feel weak, but God's presence will strengthen you Father, thank you for the hope that you give us in our times of darkness. Thank you, Lord, that you're sufficient for all of our needs. Use this word, Lord, to encourage hearts. We pray in Jesus' name.