Good to see you here tonight. Take your Bibles, open to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 3. As you know, we're studying this epistle. And tonight we come to chapter 3. And I want to talk about really a a foundation for marriage. That's what Peter's going to talk about, or we could call this hope for troubled marriages. Years ago a housing development uh firm built many houses, but they built on a site that was an old garbage dump that had been filled in. And when the houses were finished, they were as beautiful as any subdivision, as any neighborhood and neighborhood there. And they people just began to move in. And after a while, they noticed that the curves along the street began to crack, uh the the houses uh began to bow their walls, and and all kind of things were happening And finally, because the houses became so unstable, people had to move out. And two old timers that were watching all of this, they knew exactly what happened. It was all those houses were built on junk And they knew it. Well, if you're going to build something that lasts, the foundation matters, doesn't it? You have to build it on something that is firm. And so uh Peter here is going to give us really a foundation. This is a foundational passage of scripture that really i is talking about marriage. And really, basically, Peter's going to reference the story of Abraham and Sarah. He's going to talk about them and use them kind of as an example. of how a marriage can survive. Now if you read in the Old Testament about Abraham and Sarah, what you're going to find out is that if any couple had an excuse for getting a divorce It was Abraham and Sarah. I mean they had some problems. They were not a perfect couple by any means. One of the problems was there was an affair between Abraham and Hagar Sarah's handmaid, that could cause a marriage to split up an affair. There they he uh he had a child uh with Hagar from another woman. They had problems with their children. They couldn't get along in the family. They were a very disruptive family. They were constantly moving all around. They lived in tents. Not really a permanent home. That could cause a lot of stress Abraham was careless about the truth. He lied when it came to confessing whether or not he was Sarah's husband. So he was thoughtless. with the truth, thoughtless, many times with her, and selfish in the way that he dealt with the truth. And besides that, they went through a lot of stages. They went through middle age and old age together, all of that With all the problems they had to deal with, did they have problems? Yeah, they had a lot of problems. And yet their marriage survived. Why? Because they were committed. And I I think that's one of the basic things about marriage, and that is the word commitment. Marriage is a commitment. We're living in a society today that doesn't really teach that That it's okay, it seems like in the world today if things don't work out for people to bail out, and a lot of times people therefore they come into a marriage relationship with the attitude of a test pilot in a in a test plane ready to hit the ejector seat button if anything goes wrong. And so there's no commitment. And I think the reason that a lot of marriages don't last today in our world is because there is not that kind of commitment. Divorce is seen as a legitimate escape hatch. People who get a divorce and people who don't basically have the same problems. But uh and that's uh generally true. There are exceptions to that of course. But the key is commitment. And so I always say this to couples, especially in premarital counseling, cut divorce out of your dictionary. It's not an option. Just know that this is a commitment. I told uh people at times in marital counseling, if Carolyn ever leaves, I'm going with her. If she ever says I'm out of here, I'm that's a good idea, hon, I'm gonna come with you. Let's get out of here. She's not gonna get rid of me. Uh marriage is a commitment. We are going to stay together. And so Peter's going to talk about some principles here, I think, that could help with reference to marriage. And really, we could say that 1 Peter 3, verses 1 to 7 is really the his and hers chapter of the Bible. Because look what it says in verse 1. Likewise ye wives. So Peter first is going to address the wives. Look what he says in verse 7. Likewise ye husbands. So there he's going to address the men. In the first six verses, he talks about, he talks to the wives and gives them some advice about marriage. And then in verse seven, he talks to the men and gives them advice about marriage. Someone says, Yeah, but the women have six verses, and men only have one verse. That's because your attention span is shorter than the woman's. So you have to pay attention. But there's a lot of truth in these verses. So let's look at it. First of all, let's talk about the role of the wife. And Peter gives us some attributes and attitudes that will help the wife to be the kind of wife that God wants her to be. And first of all, under that, just write her submission. Look at verse 1. Likewise, you wives. Be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives. Now look at that word subjection, and it simply means submission. And uh, you know, I I know that in our day today, submission seems to be a dirty word, but you remember we already talked about the principle of submission. This is not the first time Peter brings it up. He's been talking about submission in chapter two. He talks about being submitted to governmental authorities. He talks about being submitted to bosses, even if it's not a good boss or a bad boss And then he points to the Lord Jesus as an example of being submitted to even an unjust government that crucified him And how he submitted himself, and he committed his soul to him who judges righteously, that is, God the Father. Now he's going to talk about this same principle of submission, and he's going to put it in the context of marriage here. And Peter is saying, listen, wives, be submissive to your husbands. Now you would say, well, that's okay if the husband is a Christian. If he's a good man, it's easy to be submitted to him if he's a good and godly man But notice what Peter says again in verse one, that if any obey not the word, in other words, he's talking to women who have husbands that don't obey the word. They're not God's children, a child. They're not saved. He says they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wise. Now, the King James translation here uses the word conversation. And but the word is actually referring to lifestyle, not what you talk, but how you walk. And so what he's saying is that even if a wife is married to a husband that doesn't know the Lord, you can win him by your lifestyle. If any obey not the word, you can win him to Christ by your life. And again, this brings up the question, are we to be submitted to ungodly people? Well, again, let's look at Jesus as the example. Because the connection, look in verse 1, likewise. Now, likewise, you have to look back. And remember at the end of chapter 2, Peter had just pointed to Christ and said, Look, you're called to follow in his steps. You're to submit the way Jesus submitted. Did Jesus submit himself to those who did not know God? Of course he did. But now He would never submit if there was someone that told him to do something that would disobey the Father or disobey the Word of God. And Jesus is the example. Would Jesus submit to someone who commanded him to do something that was wrong, that was a sin? Of course he wouldn't. He would submit to the Father. And I think the same principle goes true in the marital relationship. Why if you're to submit yourself to your husband, you say, what if he's lost? Well you submit to him unless He gives you something, he commands you to do something that is against the word of God or against what God would be pleasing in God's sight And in that case, you're following the example of Jesus, and you're submitting yourself to the Father. You're submitting yourself to a higher authority. And so Jesus is the example in all of this with respect to submission. Now again, I know that sometimes we have this idea out there that to submit means you're inferior. And friend, that just simply is not true. Let me show you a passage of scripture. Hold your place here in 1 Peter 3. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. And look in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. I want you to look down in verse number 3. I think this is a good verse that helps us when we think about this idea of understanding roles and submission. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 3 says, But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ. Now here Paul is giving God's chain of command, we could say. And Peter says, first of all, the head of every man is Christ. So Christ is over all of us. Wouldn't we agree with that, men? Christ is our leader. Amen. To that. The head of every man is Christ. The head of every woman is, or of the woman, rather, is the man. Again, I think this is referring to in the marriage relationship that the head of the woman is man. And the head of Christ is God. So you see how it's being laid out there. God the Father is on top is is at the top of this uh idea of authority. Under him is Christ. Christ is submitted to God the Father. Under Christ is man. We are submitted to Jesus, who submitted to the Father. And under man is woman. Now that's all God's chain of command. And by the way, you look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, he was the most submitted person to ever walk the earth. He was constantly submitted to the Father. He was always saying, I always do those things that please the Father. He was absolutely submitted. But let me ask you a question: Was Jesus inferior to the Father? Absolutely not. He was equal with God the Father. He was part of the, he's part of the Trinity. He's God the Son, and yet his role is to be in submission to the Father. But being in submission to the Father doesn't make Jesus inferior to the Father. He's equal with the Father. And we could use the same logic. The Bible says that the wife is to be in submission to the husband. Does that make the wife inferior to the husband in any way? Absolutely not. There's equality. There's no inferiority, and yet the role is different. This is the way God has designed it. It is his role. In fact, right down Galatians 3. 8, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ. You know what Paul is saying there? You're all equal, you're all one, you're all on the same level in the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no inferiority. God is no respecter of persons. We're all equal under the grace of God. So this is God's design. And so that's why Peter says, now go back to 1 Peter chapter number 3, that's why Peter says this again, that if any obey not the word They may also without the word be won by the conversation of the wise, while they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. This word behold here means to get the attention of Nothing will get his attention more than a wife's submission. Ruth Graham said this. She said, it's the woman's job to love and to submit to her husband. It is God's job to make him good. And she was talking about her own husband. She even said it, you know, it's it's my job to love and submit to Billy. It's God's job to make him good. And that is so very true. Uh you you can't with your manipulating, try to make somebody good with your own way or your own scheming. Uh it's not my job uh to try to sanctify you and make you good. It's my job just to love you and preach the word and God will make you good. And then the same true in the marriage relationship. We're to do what God commanded us to do, and we allow God to make our spouse good. And so submission is not inferiority You're never more like the Lord Jesus than when you live a life that is submitted. You're never more like the devil than when you live in rebellion. Because Satan was constantly rebelling And so uh I I uh the analogy I like to use is a football team. Uh, you know, here's here's this uh here's this world-class running back. I mean, he's so talented, he's definitely going to the NFL. And here's this mediocre quarterback. Now he's a good quarterback, but he's not the talent of this running back. And he's probably not going to go to the NFL. He'll probably be bagging groceries after college. No, I'm just kidding, I don't know. But but in it's the coach's orders that the quarterback call the plays Does that make the quarterback better than the running back? No. You know, you can argue that the running back is a much more superior athlete than the quarterback. However, somebody has to call the plays. And it's the design of the coach that the quarterback called a place. Well, it's the design of God the Father that in the home the husband is the leader. And he calls the spiritual place. And so, therefore, there has to be this understanding and there has to be this submission. And so Peter says to wives: be in submission to your own husbands. And then notice not only her submission but her silence where it says that if any obey not the word, they may without the word be won by the conversation of the wife. And what that's saying is That you don't have to nag him about his spiritual walk. You can win him without the word. Now, it's not talking about without the word of God, because we need the word of God to be saved. But what it's talking about is just you having a uh a spirit where you're not constantly on him without the word, just with your very life, your manner of living, your godly behavior. You can win him to the Lord. In other words, he's watching your life. If you happen to be here tonight and you're in a marriage relationship where your husband is not saved, This is for you. Peter is saying, look, you can win him by your godly living, by your godly life. Someone said you're writing a gospel, a chapter each day. By the deeds that you do, by the words that you say. Men read what you're writing, whether faithful or true. Just what is the gospel according to you? What is the gospel that you portray in your life? And so I would just say this. I have never met a man who was nagged into the kingdom of God by his wife. I've never met that. And Solomon has a lot to say about that. Write down Proverbs 19:3: A foolish son is a calamity of his father, and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping. You get that drip drip drip you know I I didn't write this Solomon did, so don't look at me like that. All right. In Proverbs 21, 90, it's better to dwell in the corner of a housetop than with a brawling woman in a wide house. And again, that's Solomon there, and Solomon should know he had a thousand of them. And so again, this doesn't mean that the wife shouldn't witness. There are opportunities to share the gospel. You share the gospel. It just means don't nag. In verse 20, or verse 2, rather, it says, While they behold your chaste conversation. Look at the word chaste there. It means pure, spotless, godly. As he sees your holy, godly life, it's going to get his attention. He will see Christ's likeness in you. So there's her submission. There is her silence. There is her serenity. Look in verse number three. Who's adorning? Let it not be that outward adorning of the plaiding of the hair. and of the wearing of gold or the putting on of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God, of great price Now here, God is telling the woman how to be beautiful. And God said part of a woman's beauty is a meek and a quiet spirit. Now I've read and heard where some have commented on these verses, and they kind of try to use these verses to say uh something that's completely wrong. It's not being taught here, and that is that women shouldn't wear makeup and they shouldn't, you know, wear some of these other things, these feminine things that make them look nice. That's not what these verses are saying Because again, look what he lists here in verse 3. The plaiting of hair. Is it wrong to plait your hair? The wearing of gold? Is it wrong to wear gold? Or the putting on of apparel? Is it wrong to put on clothes? No, of course not. If you said those other things are wrong, you'd have to say that putting on a pair was wrong. And God doesn't want us to go around without clothing. That's ridiculous. What he's saying here, it's okay to do these things. It's okay to outwardly make yourself look nice. It's okay to To fix your hair. It's okay to wear gold. It's okay to put on nice clothes. Those things are all good. Just don't forget that while you're adorning the outward part of you, don't forget to adorn the inward part. That's the part that's what he's saying. And he's saying, don't forget, when you're putting these ornaments on, don't forget there's an ornament that God really, really loves. What is it? It's the ornament that you put on the inside, and it's called a meek and a quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is what? Is of great price. There's an inward beauty that God loves, that's what he's saying. The ornament of a meek and a quiet spirit And which is so valuable to Almighty God. Remember that that's the most beautiful part of you, the part that is on the inside. And Peter now he refers to Sarah. Look in verse 5. For after this manner, in the old time, the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves. Being in subjection to their own husbands. Peter said, You look back, and you'll find that women in the older days, that's how they adorn themselves. Again, he's not saying there's wrong to adorn yourself outwardly He's just saying that they also adorned themselves inwardly because they had such a gracious spirit. And then he points to Sarah, verse 6, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him what? Lord. I know what you're thinking. You mean I have to call my husband Lord? Lord Jerry. Uh you uh I'm just you don't have to say that, Carolyn. Um uh no that's what what is what what is Peter talking about here? He's just saying that and that's just a term of respect. In other words, he was saying, you know, Sarah, she was submitted to Abraham, and she had a beautiful spirit. By the way, Sarah was beautiful outwardly. If you read the Old Testament, you're going to find that even at 80 years old, men were still just enamored by her beauty. But the most beautiful part of her, Peter is saying, is her beautiful spirit. Her meek and quiet spirit, so much so that she treated Abraham with great respect. Um and Calling him Lord. That was just a term of respect used back then. She was respectful in her attitude, in her speech, in her mannerisms. Towards Abraham, her husband. And by the way, do you think Abraham was a perfect husband? No, he was far from perfect And he did some stupid things in that marriage relationship. And yet she had this quiet spirit. And the word quiet here doesn't mean mute rather a tranquil, calm, not a compat a combative spirit. Um not out to prove anything. There's a quietness about that person. And it doesn't mean that you don't talk. It just means there's a confident quietness about you. You can still be very articulate You can still uh talk and and give great advice. It just means you're not combative in the way that you do that. And so that's what the idea here with quiet is. The word meek is the word used of Roman soldiers who are in line. Again, this is not weakness. Meekness is not weakness, it's strength. Under control. Roman soldiers weren't weak at all. They were but they were in line and they were effective in their role. And so we see all of this, her submission, her silence, her serenity, her service, where she obeyed Abraham. And by the way, the word obeyed here has the idea to meet the need You know, I say this all the time to couples in premarital counseling. Men, we have to realize that one of the greatest gifts given to this world is womanhood. And the Bible says, a prudent wife is from the Lord. And the actual word prudent there is a Hebrew word that actually means matched. God has matched you with the right per woman. And that is a gift from Almighty God. And so we're to treat our wives as gifts from the Lord because there's a sense in which the word obey here has the idea of completing or completing the husband Now, the word complete has the idea of just all the areas where we're weak, she helps us out in. You know. So you're to complete your wife, not finish him off, all right, but complete Someone said a wife i uh is to a husband what wind is to a fire, you can either fan the flame or you can blow it out A wife is to a husband what a bow is to a violin. A violin is no good without a bow. There's no music that's going to come out of that violin without the bow. So we see then The role of the wife. Alright? Now, ladies, relax. Now I'm going to turn to you husbands. It's your turn. We get to verse number seven. Likewise, ye husbands. Now, we saw the role of the wife. Now, notice next the responsibility of the husband. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. So notice Just five principles that I see here in this verse. Five. Here's the first one. We are to dwell with them with togetherness. Again, notice verse 7: dwell with them. Now the Greek word actually says to house together, to live in the same house. And it comes from two Greek words house and with literally letting someone else into your life. And you say, well, that sounds overly simplistic, really? Because sometimes I'll counsel married couples where they're living in the same house, but they're not totally together. There's not a total togetherness. They're not dwelling totally together in that marriage relationship. Steve Cole wrote this, and I want to read it to you. He said, in American culture, for some reason Men are often inept at understanding their wives on a deep level. He's right. So there are disappointments and hurt feelings that never get resolved The husband shrugs his shoulders, ignores his wife, whom he doesn't understand, and pours himself into his job, which seems to be something he can handle She shares her feelings with women friends and gets caught up in the frenzy of raising children and running a household. And then the nest starts emptying and the wife starts thinking about going back to school And getting a fulfilling job. At the same time, the husband realizes that he isn't fulfilled through his job. And what really he wants is intimacy with his different wife. It's no surprise, or excuse me, distant wife. It's no surprise that divorce that the divorce curve shoots up at this point in life. And it's all because there you might be living in the same house, but is there that total togetherness in your marriage? That total oneness. One woman said to her psychologist, My husband is like a mysterious island, and I'm like a plane I'm circling trying to find a beach to land on. But I can't seem to find that place to land. And there are sometimes men are guilty of this. You put a wall around you where you don't allow a person to get in. And you know, that's especially bad if it's your partner for life, if it is your wife. And so God wants a total, total togetherness. In that relationship, together intellectually, together emotionally, together spiritually, one in every way. He wants that total togetherness. And the key to this is communication. And this is where a lot of men are weak. And I say that based on marital counseling that I have done through the years. This seems to be an area where men fail, and that is communicating. Did you know the word intimacy comes from the Latin intimus, which means the innermost, and it's allowing a person to be in the innermost part of you. As someone said there are five levels of communication. Let me give them to you real quick. There is the frivolous level. And this is where when you talk to someone, it's very Frivolous, you know, you might talk about the weather, you might talk about sports, you might talk about you know just small things. That's a frivolous level. Then there's a deeper lever, there's the factual level And this is where we just share facts with each other. This is what you do when a television newscaster is reporting facts. That's another level of communication. But then there's a deeper level. There is a fellowship level And this is where you talk about your ideas and you talk about judgments and philosophies. And here on this level, you might begin to risk a little bit. As you get a little bit deeper here, but there's kind of a connection, a fellowship that you might have with a person, an agreement on some of the ideas. That's another level of communication. But then there's a level deeper than that And that's the feeling level. And this is where you not only talk about your ideas and your philosophies, but you begin to really open up And talk about how you really feel about those things. And a lot of people don't really get to this level And sad to say, even in the marriage relationship, marriage couples don't seem to get to this level where they're really able to express their feelings. But then there's a level deeper than that, and that's called the freedom level. And this is not only do we talk about our ideas and philosophies, but we are completely open on this level. And this is the level That husband and wife need to learn to get to, where there's this not only feeling, but a freedom, where there's that total oneness, where there's that communication, and there's an intimacy taking place there when there's this exchange. Between husband and wife. That's total togetherness. And let me just throw in a warning here. You know, again, in counseling, sometimes I'll counsel couples that are having trouble in their marriage. And when there's not that communication going on inside the marriage relationship, sometimes a wife will go find that communication somewhere else with someone who is not her husband. And I would say this to married couples, you know, um, there's a certain level I don't go with With people of the opposite sex, I only go there with Carolyn. They're not going to get in that close to me because that level is safe for just one person, and that's my wife. And if you find yourself beginning to go into those deeper levels with someone that's not your spouse, you're on dangerous ground. Because I have noticed that affairs in marriage happen when this it happens this way first, when there is that exchange of intimacy and communication on these levels. But there has to be communication. There has to be that total togetherness. Now let me give you another principle here. Not only togetherness, but thoughtfulness. Look again in verse 7. Likewise ye wives, you you husbands rather dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife. Now according to knowledge. So there's togetherness and then there's thoughtfulness. And again, he's talking to husbands. You need to dwell with your wife according to knowledge. And literally this means having good wisdom or good sense. And I have to tell you, sometimes men are so dumb when it comes to this. I can say that because I'm one of them and I've been dumb before with regard to this. According to knowledge, I heard about a man who went who watched one football game on Friday, he watched a football game on Saturday, he watched two football games on Sunday, and the wife came and she said, You love football more than me. He said, Yes, but you're ahead of basketball Uh that's you're flirting with disaster there. That's pretty dumb. And I and the reason I bring that up is you know what? A lot of times I get complaints From why is that, you know, that's all he does is he comes home, he sits and he watches TV and he zones out. Or I get this, or he comes and he plays, you know, computer games. And zones out. You know. Um and I've got this from several couples in marriage relationships, you know. Come home, do their own thing. There's no real talk. There's no real thoughtfulness there. And let me just say, and I hope I don't mean I don't I'm not trying to make anybody mad, but guys, you know what? It's time to put away the computer games after you get married And start being a husband. And use the time wisely. And so it's dwell with them according to knowledge. And what that means is you have to learn your wife. You have to know her. And that requires study on your part. You know, when you get that car, it comes with a manual. You read the manual, you can figure the car out. When you married your wife, she didn't really come with a manual So you've got to learn her. However, you do have a manual called the Word of God you can use. But you also have to study her. Know what she likes, what she doesn't like Know her personality, her particular bends, and and just do the things that she likes. It's just knowing her, you know. In our couples class at Sunday school, we went through a program called the Five Love Languages. How many have ever heard that? The five love languages. And the whole thesis and idea behind this book, written by Gary Chapman, is that we each have a love language. And uh the way I feel love Or the way I communicate love. The way someone loves me is, you know, if they give me a gift. He divides it up into five. There are words of affirmation, acts of service, receiving gifts, quality time, physical touch. What is your love language? Now for me, if someone wants to say they love me, you give me a gift, that expresses love to me. And I have a tendency of using my love language on someone else But that might not be Carolyn's love language. In fact, we found out that her love language is not necessarily receiving gifts. Her love language is words of affirmation. She would ten times rather get a letter or a note from me than for me to buy her something I wish I'd have known that years ago. You know how much money I would have saved in our marriage relationship if I just knew that years ago? But that's her love language. Now everyone has a different love language, and I think there's a lot of truth and practicality behind this book. And the good of it is that it forces you to study your spouse and learn them and learn what is that particular love language and how do you express value to her in that marriage relationship. And so again, Peter says, dwell with them according to not only uh togetherness, But thoughtfulness, know your spouse and know the personalities, and know the differences. And by the way, the differences shouldn't push you apart, it brings you together Because where you know you're weak, she's strong. Where you're strong, she might be weak. And together you become better than apart. And that's all part of God's plan. You know, you ever notice the differences? One is an early riser, one sleeps late. One is a talker, the other is silent, one is a spender, the other is a nickel nurser. One is organized, the other is disorganized, one is romantic, the other is a dud. One is punctual, one is late, one is impulsive, one can't make a decision. Neither are right or wrong, just different And you need to learn those personalities. Now, let me give you the next thing. There's togetherness, there's thoughtfulness, but notice the next thing, thankfulness. Look again in verse 7. Likewise, ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife. Notice the next friend, giving honor, and that is to means to appreciate, to show value. So again, in this we're dwelling with thankfulness. We're showing our appreciation, our value, and again, this is directed to husbands. Husbands, what you need to do. Constantly show value and appreciation to your wife. Let them know how valuable they are. I was reading about a study years ago, and according to a study from UCLA, that a person needs about eight touches a day for emotional stability. They need to be f uh valued in that way. And so kind of picture it like this, and I say this to husbands and fathers. If you're a husband and a father, if you have a wife and you have children, guess what? All of them have an emotional tank. Now when our car tank is on empty, what do we do? We go down to the gas station, we fill that tank up. But you have to look at your wife and your children as having this emotional tank, and every day it needs to be filled And you're the one who has to fill it. And you don't just run down to a gas station to fill it up. The way you fill that emotional tank is to value them and cherish them. And that means hugging them, meaningful touches, meaningful words. And each time you touch them in a meaningful way Are you express value to them? What are you doing? You're kind of filling up that tank a little bit more each day? And I'll tell you this, a lot of times what we call rebellious teenager is just a teenager whose tank is empty And they need to be valued. What sometimes what we call rebellious wife is just a woman whose tank is empty, who doesn't feel valued and appreciated by the husband. And that's his failure. And so we have to dwell with them, giving honor, the Bible says unto the wife. So there's togetherness, there's thoughtfulness, there's thankfulness, and then there's tenderness. Look again in verse 7. Giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. Are women weaker? Well, it depends on how you define that. I mean, they outlive us. They live longer than we do. They control a lot of the wealth of the world. What does it mean, weaker vessel? Weaker here just simply means fragile, means gentle, it means delicate. Doesn't mean inferior again. That's not what it's talking about. You know, what's what's more valuable that steel pot or that antique vase? Which one is more fragile? Which one is more valuable? I think that's the idea here. That steel pot is, you know, it's stronger, but it's not as valuable. That beautiful vase is delicate, it's fragile, but it's so valuable. And that's the idea here, the weaker vessel. God has created women differently than men. And so we have to treat them in a very gentle, gracious way. It was what Peter is saying here. Be careful with your words. And how you speak. Look down at verse number eight. Finally, be ye of one mind, have compassion one of another. Love as brethren. Be pitiful, be courteous, not rendering evil for evil. I think that all goes along with this The way we treat one another. You know, sometimes our tongue can get us into trouble. I think about Winston Churchill. One time Lady Ashton said to him, she said, if I were your wife, I would put arsenic in your tea. He said, well if I were your husband, I would drink it. That's pretty quick. But that's rendering evil for evil Be careful how you speak. Again, I tell couples this, it takes two to argue. If you just determine I'm not going to argue. That's not going to be me. There's ways that you can resolve conflicts without being hostile and angry and and talking down to someone And again, we fail at this, but we need to be careful that we're compassionate, that we're courteous, and that we understand how our words can really do a lot of harm And so there has to be togetherness and thoughtfulness and thankfulness and tenderness. And here's the last thing: trustfulness. Look again in verse 7. As being heirs together of the grace of life. That your prayers be not hindered. This means that heirs together is that is there's this total partnership, this oneness in the grace of life, in the beauty of life. God has put you together And that togetherness, uh, men is important to God. Um I again, I think Peter here's uh again attributing value to the spouse and Basically, one of the ways we value our wives is by valuing their opinion. And I as a general rule in our marriage, I don't make a major decision without talking to my wife. And if she's not in full agreement with that decision, then I don't do it. And that's just a general rule. And you know what? That rule has helped me. It saved me from a lot of bad decisions. Unless there's this total agreement In these decisions, because we're together in this. We're heirs together. And you know what? I trust her judgment. And I believe that God gives women a wisdom that He doesn't give to man And we're foolish if we don't tap into that wisdom and find out their perspective on things. You do a great disservice by not asking for her wisdom. and matters of decisions that you need to make because again, she is your prayers together. And it matters to God. Because notice what it says in verse 7, that your prayers be not what? Hindered A man says, well, I make my own decisions. I'm not going to listen to my wife. And the guy says, okay, I'm not going to listen to you. If it's not right between you and your spouse, It's not right between you and your God, and your prayers will be hindered. That's how important it is to Almighty God. And so again, these are some basic principles that Peter gives us that we just need to apply in our own life. And if we'll just apply these things. I think that marriages will be built on a strong foundation. And there'll be that total togetherness in marriage. All right? Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. We're out of time. There's more I could say, but let's let's pray together. And so, Father, thank you for how practical your word is. And I pray, Lord, that as we consider these words, that we would just evaluate our own life, our own relationships. according to these things. And that, Lord, we would just apply them to our life. Help us, Lord, to have the kind of humility That Peter talks about here to be submitted one to another. And let there be total togetherness and thoughtfulness and thankfulness in our relationship. And trustfulness, Lord, as being heirs together of the grace of life. So Lord, may we apply these things. May it help us in this area. We pray in Jesus' precious. name with heads bowed and eyes closed and I don't want to embarrass anyone. But let me just say this. If you're here tonight You know, in a marriage relationship, it doesn't take two, it takes three to really be successful. And the Bible says that a three-fold cord is not easily broken. In order for a marriage to really work and to be all that God wants it to be, Christ needs to be in the center of that relationship. So I want to ask you, is that true of you? Is Christ in the center? And again, this is, it takes two, it takes the leadership of the husband who says, we're going to put Christ first. We're going to honor him first in all of our decisions. And that the wife will follow that leadership, and there's three in that relationship. Friend, that that's a thr that's a cord that will not be broken. And so can I ask you, my friend, do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? Are you certain about that? Because if that's not if that relationship isn't taken care of, then none of these other things will really work because we can't do this on our own. We need the help of the Lord. And if you don't know Christ and you want to know how to be saved, why don't you just see me or see uh Pastor Jonathan, our founding pastor, or see Reverend Gwarm, one of us after the service, we'll be happy to share the Word of God with you and show you. How you can know Jesus as your Savior. And so, Father, take these words again and speak to hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.