Anyway, take your Bibles tonight. Go to the Book of James, chapter three. As we've been going through the book of James in our Wednesday night service. And we come to James chapter 3, verse 1. The thing that we've noticed about James as we've been going through it is it's a very practical book. He kind of meets us where we live. He talks about issues that are very, very practical, that are hard-hitting, and this is especially true in this passage that we're going to look at tonight, James chapter 3, verse 1. Uh my brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, and that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold, also the ships which though be so great are driven of fierce winds. yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindles And the tongue is of fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members. It defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and has set on fire of hell. So James is going to talk about this this animal that that's very hard to tame. He lives uh he's a little two-inch member that lives behind ivory bars in our mouth. And uh this is we could say the subject that's in everyone's mouth tonight, and that is the untamable tongue. You remember that James throughout this letter has been giving us tests of genuine faith. Remember he said that uh in the letter Don't tell me what you believe or tell me about your faith. Show me your faith. It's how how you re you act. So it's really a book about showing the genuineness of our faith. So really he's given us some tests. How do I respond to trials? A true believer will not quit on God even in trials. How do I resist temptation? A true believer will have a measure of victory over temptation in their life. How do I respond to truth? A true believer will apply the truth to their life. They will walk their faith. It'll be followed with works. Your faith will produce good works. And now here's the test. that we come to tonight. How do I restrain my tongue? You know, medical doctors measure your physical health by how the tongue looks, right? You ever go to a doctor and they say stick out your tongue? He can look at your tongue and he can determine a lot about your physical health just by examining your tongue. James seems to tell us here that the same is true spiritually. You can tell a lot about a person a person's spiritual well-being, their spiritual condition by their tongue. Justin Martyr, the church father and apologist, he wrote this, by examining the tongue of a patient, physicians find out the diseases of the body. Philosophers find out the diseases of the mind. Christians find out the diseases of the soul. And that's so true The great physician measures our spiritual health according to our tongue and how it acts. And so what we need to learn and what James is going to teach us tonight is how to hold our tongue and how to use our tongue. And so it's obvious that he's dealing with people that have not yet learned that lesson because in this letter he seems to speak a lot about this issue of the tongue in our speech. In fact, look in chapter one, look in verse twenty-six, look at a few verses here. If any man among you seem to be religious and bridleth not his tongue But to see with his own heart, this man's religion is vain. James says if you can't seem to bridle your tongue, you can't seem to control your tongue, your faith, your religion is vain. Look in chapter two, look at verse number twelve. So speak ye, and so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. In other words, just remember that you will be judged by the way that you speak. Look in chapter four, look in verse number eleven. He says, Speak not evil one to another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judges his brother, speaks evil of the law and judges the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. So James is saying, don't speak evil about The brethren, look in chapter five, look down at verse number twelve. He says, But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth. Neither by any other oath, but let your yea be yea and your nay be nay, lest you fall into condemnation Uh in other words, say what you mean, mean what you say. When you say something, don't be deceptive and don't don't use swearing. You shouldn't have to swear. A Christian couldn't have shouldn't have to say, I swear by this or I swear by that, because what you speak is so truthful. You don't need to swear, is what he's saying there. And so the issue here is dealing with your mouth, your tongue, how you speak, how to control your tongue. We just sang a song, I owe for a thousand tongues to sing. But the truth of the matter is you haven't been doing very well with the one that you have. So I'm glad that God doesn't give some Christians a thousand tongues. I'm just just kidding. That was a mean thing to say, wasn't it? Sorry, I I'm not going to be mean. James is going to be mean, but not mean. So we just need to learn these principles. So I want you to notice four truths about the tongue tonight. that James tells us. First of all, number one, there's the importance of the tongue. Think about that with me, the importance of it. He's stressing how How vital this is, this issue of bridling your tongue. Now why is this so important? Let me give you some reasons. Because of ministry. Go back to chapter three, look at verse one. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater what? Condemnation. And what James is saying is, don't be too anxious to be a teacher of the Word, because you understand if you're a teacher of the Word, you're going to receive a greater judgment All of us are going to be judged by our words, but people like me that stand and speak the word all the time or teach the word, I'm going to receive a greater degree of judgment. because of that very position. Now obviously there were some in the church who were clamoring for this position and James is saying, look, you better be careful. Uh you better be careful what you ask for because remember God will judge everything that comes from our lips, and those that teach will receive a heavier judgment. William Barclay wrote this. He must have every care that he is teaching the truth, and not his own opinions, or even his own prejudices. It is fatally easy for a teacher to distort the truth and to teach not God's version but his own. He must have every care that he does not contradict his teaching by his life. And that's so true This is important because of ministry. But also this is important because of maturity. Look again in verse number two of chapter 3. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able to bride the whole body. James says, look, we we offend in all. That is, we stumble over a lot of things, but nothing we stumble over more than our tongue, it seems like. You ever uh put your foot in your mouth? Uh or you ever s offend someone when really that was never your intention? Someone said that a lot of indigestion is caused by people eating their own words The ability to speak truth without offending someone, James is saying, is a sign of spiritual maturity. It's subtlety, the ability to speak God's truth. without offense. Now we know that sometimes the the truth itself is going to be offensive. I mean just the actual truth will offend. We understand that and I embrace that. I've often said I don't mind people being angry at me because of my position. But I don't want them to be angry at me because of my disposition. I want to be able to speak gracious words and kind words and yet firm. I'm going to stand firm on the truth, but I don't want to offend because of the way I say things. uh the uh I know the truth in itself will be offensive at times. Paul said it like this. He said to Timothy, look in 2 Timothy 2 24, he said, the servant of the Lord must not strive But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient. Paul said, Timothy, listen, if you're going to be a servant of the Lord, a minister of the Lord in a church, You have to be gentle. Don't strive. The Greek word there for strive is a very interesting word. It's the word macho my. You ever hear of a macho man? That's where it comes from this Greek word is kind of that, you know, I dare you to cross me in any way. You know, if you make me mad Uh don't push me, you know. Um and and Jane and Paul saying, here, look, the servant of the Lord can't be a macho man He can't be someone who is, you know, I dare you to push the knock this off my shoulder, you know, always ready to argument to argue or get into argument with someone. No, that's not the demeanor and the disposition of a servant of the Lord. But he says, look, be gentle unto all men. The doctor costs, apt to teach, skilled in teaching. I just want to teach you the truth. And I have to do it with patience. And then the Bible says in the next verse, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if per adventure God will grant them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Look, my job is just to pr to present the truth And to give the proof of the truth, it's God's job to do the persuading. But if I present the truth in a manner that is worthy of a servant of the Lord, And God the Bible says God will grant them repentance. God will turn their heart. You see, that's God's part. So it's it's a mark of maturity that you're able to speak And yet not be offensive in the way that you speak, in the manner in which you do it. That James says is a perfect man, and the word for perfect here again is maturity. It's a mature person that can do that. But then it's important not only for ministry and for spiritual maturity. And by the way, that doesn't just apply to a preacher or a servant of the Lord. That applies to all believers in general. That you learn to speak the truth in love, and and a mature person will do it in a way that brings a little offense in the manner in which they do it. But then also number three, because of mastery Because here's the principle. James says, look, if you can learn to bridle your tongue, if you want to learn self-control for your whole body, then it begins in the mouth. It begins with the tongue. Look what it says at the end of verse 2. And Abel to also to bridle the whole body. If you can learn to control and bridle your tongue and speak with self-control, then this Will also translate to self-control in other areas of your life. Spiritual disciplines will be helped in many different areas of your life. The commentator Moitier writes this, he said, if our tongue were so well under control that it is that it ref refuses to formulate words of self-pity, the images of lustfulness, the thoughts of anger, resentment, then these things are cut down before they have a chance to live He says the master switch has deprived them of any power to switch on that side of our lives. The control of the tongue is more than an evidence of spiritual maturity. Listen to this. It is a means to it. I like that It's more than just an evidence of your spiritual maturity, it is also the means to spiritual maturity. If you want to mature spiritually, it starts with learning to bridle the tongue. Now, just to encourage you Many servants of the Lord have struggled with this. You might be sitting there thinking, boy, this is hammering me pretty hard. And when I study this, it hammers me as well. But you know many servants of the Lord have struggled with this. Moses in the Old Testament. Moses, the Bible says of him in Psalm 106, verse 33. that that the people of Israel made him so mad, they provoked his spirit so much, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips. And you might remember that God judged him severely for that. Isaiah. Remember what Isaiah said? He said, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I'm a man of what? Unclean lips. He evidently had a problem in the way that he spoke. He said, Lord, I am a man of unclean speech, of unclean lips. David in the Old Testament, in Psalm 139. David said this. He said, I'm going to take heed to my ways that I send not with my tongue. He said, Lord, you know, I'm going to watch myself. I'm going to keep my mouth He said, I will keep my mouth with the bridle while the wicked is before me. You know, that's hard sometimes. You're standing there in a crowd. There's some people that are ungodly around, and they begin to speak. And you know, sometimes it's hard just to be silent. David said I was dumb with silence. I held my peace. He said, but my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me. Ever happened to you? You just start you feel it welling up on the inside and you can't control it anymore. And then he says, then spake I with my tongue. And then he says, as Lord, make me to know my man, the measure of my days. Know how frail that I am afterwards. He immediately regrets what he says. And then he says, he prays in Psalm 141, set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth, keep the door of my lips. Lord help me, set a watch over my mouth. Uh that that's uh that's an angel, uh I think what he's talking about. Lord, if you could just send an angel from heaven and I'm ready to say something bad, let him just grab me by the mouth there, you know. Of course we have those now, they're called wives, right Uh, you know, y your wife ever look at you as if to say, not saying anything out loud, but that look that says whatever you're saying, shut up. Ever happened to you? All right, well maybe you're more holy than me, you know. Carolyn gives me that look all the time. So I wish that sometimes my tongue came with that control Z feature on the computer. You know what that is? You type something, you go, I don't want to say that. So you hit Ctrl-Z and it erases it. Unfortunately, we don't have that. When we speak something, you can't really erase it. So we need to be careful. That's why David said, Lord, put a watch over my mouth. Set a guard before me A careless word may kindle strife, someone wrote. A cruel word may wreck a life. A bitter word may smite and kill. A brutal word Will accomplish nil, a gracious word may smooth away, a joyous word may brighten the day, a timely word may lessen stress, a loving word may heal and bless the importance of the tongue. But here's number two. Write down number two. The influence of the tongue. This member is very influential. And James tells us, look in look in verse 3. He says, Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn them out their whole body. Now what James is doing is he's giving us some analog analogies here, some illustrations. Remember we see from James that he is a master of just illustrating spiritual truth by using the world of nature. When he wanted to talk about doubting, he talked about a sea wave going up and down. When he wanted to talk about how money is temporary, he talked about it as grass in the field kind of withers. When he wanted to talk about um other things, he uses uh from the world of nature many illustrations. He used the illustration of a mirror to talk about of the Word of God. But here, when he's talking about the tongue, he's going to give us three illustrations that describe how great a influence this little member of our body has. And first he talks about a bit in a horse's mouth in verse 3. We put bits in the horses' mouths. Why do we do that? That they may obey us and we turn about their whole body. You ever go horseback riding? And they have that bit in the horse's mouth. I haven't been in a long time. I have no plans to go in the future. I remember I did go one time and um they gave me a uh a uh a horse. I should have been tipped off by the name of the horse. His name was Lightning. He was an old racehorse that still had some race in him. And the instructor said, look, whatever you do, keep the reins tight. Keep the reins tight. Don't loosen the reins. Well, I did pretty well until the end. You know, those horses know when it's about the end, they know the trail, so they know it's time to go to the barn and eat hay. And this horse happened to be very hungry, and I loosened the reins and he took off And I I'm ashamed to say I screamed like a woman when I was on there. That horse scared me to death. I just loosened the reins. And it's amazing how that that little bit in the horse's mouth can control that huge animal. And James is saying that he may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. How can you turn around this huge animal and make them obey? And well, it's that just that little bit that is in his mouth. And James is saying, you know, that's the power of the tongue. That little member in your body, that tongue, has incredible power. I mean, think about the power of that tongue and what it can do. Um, you know, one word. Do you know one word, one Sentence can change a person's direction. Can have such an incredible impact. One cutting word Can hurt not just once, but can hurt a person for a long, long time. This this tongue that we have has incredible power. We can direct a person's destiny. with the words that we say. One time a preacher was approached by a man. The man said, Thank you for leading me to Jesus. The preacher said, I don't remember witnessing you. He said, I overheard a conversation you had where you spoke the gospel and I got saved. We never know who is listening to us. The power of that tongue. But then here's another illustration, not only bit in the horse's mouth, but also look at verse four. Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm Whithersoever the governor listeth. Here's this huge, massive ship. And how is this massive ship controlled? Well, just a little rudder on the end of that ship. And how is that rudder controlled? Well, the the governor or the captain of the ship has control of that wheel. He he turns the wheel, it turns the rudder. The rudder controls controls this massive ship. with just that small rudder. On May twenty-first, nineteen forty one, the unsinkable German battleship called the Bismarck was sighted in the North Atlantic. Immediately the British Royal Navy dispatched some planes and ships to that place. And what they found is that the Bismarck was just had a zigzag erratic course. A torpedo had damaged the rudder. And the unsinkable Bismarck was uh was uh was vulnerable and was sinkable. In fact, they sunk it and uh because of that rudder, that one little rudder that could no longer control that ship. Um and so again the whole point is as the rudder controls the ship, so the tongue controls a person's life. Write down Proverbs 1821. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Think about the evil Adolf Hitler with his tongue. He killed millions of people. He brainwashed the nation Someone wrote that for every word in Hitler's book, Mein Kempf, My Struggle, 125 lives were lost in World War II. For every word. 125 lives. Proverbs 1020 says, The tongue of the just is a choice silver, the heart of the wicked is little worth. It says in Proverbs 12, 18, there is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword But the tongue of the wise is health. Now here's the third illustration. Like a bit in a horse's mouth, a rudder on a ship, but then a spark in dry wood. Look at verse six. And the tongue is of fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body and is set on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell And actually back up to verse 5, because at the end of verse 5, it says this, Behold, how great a matter a little a little fire kindleth. The word matter there, we could we could say wood or forest. How huge a forest, how much wood can be destroyed with just one little spark that can ignite One little bit of fire can start. And what he's talking about here is just kind of the chain reaction that one word can start. One thing that you say can have a chain reaction and it can build. It can cause a it can set in motion a series of events. And those events can be destructive events if we speak a bad word. It's just like a little spark. Can start a huge fire. On October the 8th, 1871, Mrs. O'Leary was milking her cow. The cow accidentally kicked over a lantern. She couldn't put the fire out. Finally, it was put out. After 1,700 buildings were destroyed, 250 people were killed, 125,000 people were left homeless. It cost the city of Chicago $400 million back in that day. That was the start of the Great Chicago Fire. Just one little spark started it all. And we hear about this all the time, right? The the huge fires out on the west coast. where someone might just uh maybe they didn't put their campfire out. They left a few ashes there burning. Or someone threw a cigarette out the window, a cigarette butt or something like that. It just starts a huge, huge fire. And James is saying that's what the tongue is like. Just one little word can set in motion a series of destructive events. But then also think about the positive side of that. A good word. A word spoken by a godly person, a spirit-filled word, can set in motion great events, positive events Zig Ziglar uh likes to talk about this whole principle of uh a chain reaction. He talks about this in his book. He says that he calls a man by the name of Mr. Sparks. to illustrate the principle. Mr. Sparks was late for work. He was a big executive. He was driving really, really fast. Cop pulled him over, gave him a tongue lashing, gave him a ticket. And on the way to work, Mr. Sparks is thinking, you know, how dare that officer talk to me that way? Does he not know who I am? So when he got to work, he calls in his assistant, did you finish that work I gave you? Well, no, not yet. Well, you know, I can I can fire you and f and get a good assistant who knows how to work. The assistant leaves the office mad. How dare him talk to me that way? I've always done my job. So he calls in his secretary. He's serious at her. And he takes it out on her And then she calls down to the switchboard operator and chews the switchboard operator out. The switchboard operator is mad the rest of the day, goes home, sees her son laying down in front of TV with a rip in his jeans, chews her son out. How dare you? You know how hard I work to provide for you and you don't take care of your clothes. Well he gets mad and he thinks, Well, you know, I I I grip my jeans cutting the grass like she told me to How dare why is she talking to me that way? He he walks upstairs and he sees a cat walking down the hallway. Oh, you guys are cat lovers, huh? He he just kicks the cat. That poor little cat. It started with a cop, it ended with a cat, right? And he was showing just how one word can cause a chain reaction. And really just give a lot of people a bad day. But again, think about the positive of it. Ed Kimball taught a Sunday school class. He uh was very nervous about witnessing the one new member of his class. This teenage boy worked at a shoe store, and he decided to go and visit him while he was there at his job. And he witnessed to this young man. His witness wasn't, you know, it wasn't smooth. He was kind of faltering in the way he shared the gospel. But this young man listened. And this young man trusted Christ, and that young man's name was D. L. Moody. And D. L. Moody became a great evangelist. And D. L. Moody influenced a man by the name of F. B. Meyer. And F. B. Meyer, because of the ministry of D. L. Moody, ended up coming to America and preaching, and it and a man by the name of J. Wilbur Chapman got saved under F. B. Meyer. And F. B. Meyer, uh J. Wilbur Chapman became a great evangelist, and he began, he led a man to the Lord by the name of Billy Sunday. And Billy Sunday started a tent ministry, and we know that name. He became a great evangelist and led a man to the Lord by the name of Mordecai Ham. Mordecai Ham also became an evangelist, and he led a young man to the Lord by the name of Billy Graham. And we know Billy Graham was a great evangelist So you can see how one witness had a chain reaction that has blessed multitudes of people because of men who shared the gospel. That's the whole point. That's the influence of the tongue. But let me give you the third point here. We saw the importance of the tongue and the influence of the tongue, but the iniquity of the tongue. We saw in verse six the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity, so is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature and has set on fire of hell. So James here is good describing the iniquity of the tongue, and he uses kind of some pictures. In verse six, uh it defiles, in verse six, it defileth the whole body It's possible for Christians to speak in a way that is off-color and it defiles when we use words that believers in Christ should not use. One person wrote, some Christians are bilingual. They have one language they speak at church and another language they speak the rest of the week. And it ought not to be. A farmer was driving his team of mules into town. He was very late returning home. His wife said, What took you so long? He said, Well in the way I saw the preacher on the side of the road. I had to pick him up. He needed a ride He said, from there on out the mules didn't understand anything I said. We as Christians need to be careful that we're consistent. Everywhere we go in the way that we speak. And we don't and and and there are words that should never come out of the mouth of a child of God. The writer of Proverbs said this: the heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. And so we need to be careful. that that doesn't characterize us. It can defile the whole body. Our tongue can defile all of us, James says But then it it it not only defiles, it destroys like fire in verse six. The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity And notice where he says at the end of verse 6, it is set on fire of hell. That's the word Gehenai, the word Jesus used for hell. It indicates that the tongue can be a tool used by Satan. And it can fulfill the purpose of hell, to pollute, to corrupt, to destroy. It can be so very destructive. But then also it devours. It devours like a beast. Verse 7. For every kind of beast and of birds and of serpents and of things in the sea is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. James compares the tongue to a wild animal that just can't be tamed Look out into uh the world, you'll see that man has figured out a way to tame just about every wild animal, but the only animal he hasn't really learned how to tame is the tongue. The tongue. Galatians 5. 15 says, But if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed one of another. Uh uh several years ago, uh a sports writer wrote something very good, I thought, in the Atlantic Journal. He he wrote this. He said, I'm more deadly than a screaming shell from a howitzer. I win without killing. I tear down homes. I break hearts, wreck lives, I travel on the wings of the wind No innocence is strong enough to intimidate me, no purity pure enough to daunt me. I have no regard for truth, no respect for justice, no mercy for the defenseless. My victims are as numerous as the sands of the sea, and often as innocent, I never forget and seldom forgive. My name is Gossip. And I thought that was a very, very powerful word there. And it's so very true. The tongue deadens in verse 8 where it says it's like full of deadly poison. It not only kills another, but it can kill the one who uses it as well. A. B. Simpson said, I would rather play with Fork Lightning. Or play with a live wire in all its current, than to speak a reckless word against any servant of Christ. And again, we have to remember that we're going to be give an account In the day of judgment, for every idle word that we speak, we're going to have to give an account. You know what science maintains they say that whenever we speak we set a sound wave in motion. And that sound wave just goes on a never-ending journey. It continues to travel. It never really ever stops. And they say if we had instruments sophisticated enough, we could recapture that sound wave and we could play the very sound wave, the very words that a person spoke. But as science, they say we don't have instruments with that kind of ability to recapture that sound wave, but you know what? Recapturing that sound wave is not hard for God. One day when we stand before God in judgment, he can recapture the sound wave that we started here and play before us the very words that we spoke. And so Jesus said, for by your words you'll be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Now let me give you the last thing We saw the importance of the tongue, we saw the influence of it, the iniquity of it, but now finally the inconsistency of the tongue. Look what he says here in verse 9. Now what he's going to tell us here is that Uh you know, it's sh our we need to be consistent. We we shouldn't use our tongue in an inconsistent manner. And he uses an illustration again from the world of worship. Look again in verse 9. Therewith bless we God, even the Father And therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. On one hand, we use our tongue to bless. And we come to worship, we bless God, we praise God, we thank God. But then on the other hand, James says we use it to curse our fellow men. We curse men, which are made in the image of God. James says there's a strange inconsistency there. It's amazing what is said after church is over with. How can we be inconsistent like that? And then he uses it from the world of water. Look in verse ten. Out of the same mouth perceived blessing and cursing My brethren, these things ought not so to be. Verse eleven, does the fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter? You go to a water fountain, you drink the water, it's pure, it's It's uh cool, refreshing. Then you go to that same fountain a little later and the water is foul and and terrible tasting and bitter That doesn't happen. You go to a fresh river and drink from the water, you expect to get the same thing every time. James says, you don't see that happening at a fountain And then also he uses from the wilderness from trees. Look at verse 12, this illustration, can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? Either a vine fakes, so can no fountain yield, both yield salt water and fresh water And so the same as w in the realm of the trees, you don't go to a tree and get sweet fruit, and then at the same tree get bitter fruit. And so really what James is telling us here is what is impossible, these things are impossible in the natural world. And what is impossible in the natural world ought to be improbable in the spiritual world. We should be consistent. And when our children hear us talk, one way at church and another way at home, what kind of message are we sending to them? So the importance, the influence, the iniquity, the inconsistency of the tongue. Now, let me just show you this one thing and we're finished. Go back to James chapter 3, look at verse 2. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. And verse 2, it says, we can bridle our tongue. James tells us to bridle the tongue. But then look in chapter 3, look in verse number 8. Notice what it says, but the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poisoning. Now you say, well, wait a minute, that's a contradiction. Here James is telling us to bridle the tongue, get control. But then here, James says, no man can tame the tongue, can control the tongue. So is this a contradiction? No. You know why? Because there is a way to bridle the beast. You can control it. You see, the bit moves the horse, but someone has to be in control of the bit. The rudder moves the ship, but someone has to be in control of the wheel, you see. And you know who that someone has to be? It has to be the Holy Spirit of God. It has to be God. We can't do it, but you know what? God can do it. The Holy Spirit of God can If we yield ourselves to the Lord, the way the Bible tells us to, when we're saved, what did Paul tell us in Romans 6? Yield your members. As instruments of righteousness unto God. And if we did that one simple thing, we yielded all of ourselves, all of these members of my body To righteousness unto God in Jesus Christ. You know what? God will use our tongue. Our tongue will not only be under control. But it will be under the control of the Holy Spirit of God. And think about how much good can happen if we yielded our tongue. To the Holy Spirit of God. And said, God, use me, use what I say for your glory. Let that be our prayer. And think about the life of our G our Lord Jesus, who lived three years. And he spoke nothing but truth. Peter said when one occasion Jesus said, Do you want to go away? Many were walking away. And Peter said, Lord, where are we going to go? You speak the words of life. Jesus' ministry was one of just speaking, life-giving truth. And may we be like our master in that. Let's pray together tonight. So Lord, this is an area that all of us need to work on. All of us are have been guilty of Using our tongue in a way that is not honoring to you. All of us, Lord, have had this little animal that lives in our mouth out of control at times. And we've said things that we now regret. And we've said hurtful things in the past. And we've had hurtful things said to us. And so, Lord, we can we bear witness with what James is teaching us here, how powerful this member is. And so, Lord, would you help us as your people? To remember this, to remember the influence of the tongue. And Lord, would you help us to use this member for your glory, for the edification of the church? For the evangelizing of the lost, for the exaltation of Christ, may we dedicate ourselves to this task. And Lord, remind us it's a daily battle. May we daily yield our members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Lord, may it be so. Help us in this. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.