Take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Mark, chapter four. Mark chapter four, verse thirty-five to verse forty-one. I would ask the congregation to stand in the reading of God's Word in honor of the Scripture. I'm going to read this with you, Mark chapter four, verse thirty-five down to verse forty-one. Mark four thirty-five. In the same day when the evening was come, he said unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships. And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep, on a pillow. And they awaken awake him and said unto him, Master, Carest thou not that we perish? And he arose and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? May God give us ears to hear his word today. Let's bow for prayer. So Father, help me, your servant, to preach your word clearly. And may we, like these disciples, marvel at our Savior and come to love him and know him more. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to preach today on how to weather your storm. How to weather your storm. I've had many people come to me and say, you know, I'm ready to turn the page on 2018 because there were so many storms that I faced in the last year. And uh there's a sense in which I feel that myself. But let me just remind you, friend, that we're probably going to face some storms in 2019 Storms have a way of showing up unexpectedly, just like in the passage that we read, when Jesus and the disciples launched out that day to go to the other side The weather was good, it was calm, but as they were there in the they got to the middle of the Sea of Galilee, a storm suddenly came up. Storms again have a way of coming Suddenly, unexpectedly, they show up. I heard about an old sea captain, he was quizzing a young naval student, and he said, What steps would you take if a sudden storm came up on starboard And the uh the young captain said, I would throw out an anchor, sir. He said, Well what if a storm popped up on the on the other side on the aft? He said, Well, I I would throw out another anchor He said, well what if it came up over the bow? He said I'd throw out another anchor. And the captain said, now wait a minute, where are you getting all these anchors from, son? He said, Well same place you're getting all those storms. Storms have a way of just coming. I think the best anchor of all in a time of storm is knowing the one who is bigger than any storm. And that's what this passage is going to teach us. Mark here is going to give us a story, an account in the life of our Lord Jesus that should cause us to marvel at him, but also should give us confidence to know that no matter what storm we go through, the Lord is going to bring us through it. He's going to bring us through it. And what we see here, what I want to show you, are really just uh we could say three things you should know uh in order to weather your storm or three anchors for us to hold on to when the storm comes. And here's the first one. Just write down this. Know what causes the storm. Know what causes the storm. The Bible says in verse 37, there arose a great storm. The word for great, the Hebrew uh excuse me, Hebrew, the Greek word, I'm in the Old Testament here. The Greek word is mega. Mega, not just a normal storm, a huge storm. Now, why were the disciples in this storm? Why are you in your storm? You ever ask yourself that question? And may I suggest some reasons that we might gain from reading our passage here as to why some people go through storms? It may be the reason that you're in a storm this morning. First of all, just write down teachableness. Or we could say just obedience. The disciples were in this storm simply because they were obeying the voice of their master. They were trying to do his will. They were trying to do what he taught them to do. Look at verse 35. And the same day when the even was come He said unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. Now then it had been a strenuous day for our Lord. It started out with blasphemous accusations. The Pharisees accused Jesus of doing miracles in the power of the Elzebub, Satan. And then his mother and brothers attempted to to to to take him home, to kidnap him, and take him back to Nazareth because they thought he was out of his mind. And uh and then the Bible says Jesus uh left the the house and there was a crowd of people pressed around him, so much so that he was backed up to the sea and he got into a boat. And he began to teach them all that day with the sun beating down. You could imagine how d uh difficult and exhausting that day would be until finally Finally, when the evening was come, Jesus said to his disciples and gave them a command, let's go over unto the other side The Greek tense of the verb suggests a note of urgency on the part of Jesus. He wanted to get away from the multitudes. He wanted to go to another location. In fact, if you read Matthew's account, Matthew says he gave a command He commanded the disciples, get into the boat, let's go to the other side. And you know what the disciples did exactly as Jesus told them He did what he wanted them to do. Why were they in this storm? They were simply doing or seeking to do the will of God. And I bring this up because Don't get the idea that just because you're in a storm, you're out of God's will. Sometimes people think that when they're going through a difficult time. When they're going through a rough sea, uh they think, I must be out of God's will. I must have done something wrong. Uh God is punishing me. And friend, that's not the case here with these disciples. They were going through the storm not because of doing anything wrong, but because they were doing what was right. They were trying to please the Lord. They were trying to do God's will. And friend, that may be the case here with you today. Let me just say this in the Christian life: God never promised that all the seas would be easy. He never promised that the journey would always be smooth, but that times there will be times when we will go through a storm. Remember Job? He suffered greatly. What did he do wrong? Nothing. He was trying to please The Lord. Remember the Apostle Paul on his journey to Rome, he went through a storm. What was he doing wrong? Nothing. He was in the will of God, trying to do what was right. And so sometimes the storm that you're in is because you're not doing anything wrong. You're trying to do right. But also write down in fairness, also write down not only teachables teachableness, but also transgression. There have been times, however In fairness, we have to say this, that it may be because you have sinned against God. There's cases in the scripture of that. We know that. Remember Jonah? God said to Jonah, I want you to go down to uh go to Nineveh. And preach in Nineveh. And remember the story of Jonah? He went to Joppa. He got on a ship to go to Tarshis. That was the opposite of Nineveh. Why? Because he was running from God. And what does the Bible say? The Bible says, but the Lord sent out a great wind in the sea. Interesting in that story, we see the sovereignty of God in that whole story of Jonah. First God sent out a wind, and then God sent out a whale. Someone said that the whale was a better missionary than Jonah, because the whale obeyed the Lord. And did what the Lord said. Jonah was running from the Lord. And what did God do? God raised up a great wind. Some storms that we go through are because We are disobedient as Christians. In front, if you're in a storm, ask yourself this question. Am I Disobedient. Have I disobeyed the Lord's word? So there's teachableness, there is transgression, but also write down this word, there is transition Transition. Look at verse 35 again, where Jesus said, Let us pass over unto the other side. Why were they in a storm? Well, they were in a storm simply because Jesus was seeking to bring his disciples to a new place. A new place of ministry, a new place of service. Could it be that in your life the Lord is bringing you Through a storm because he wants to bring you to a new place in your life, perhaps. He wants to do something new in you, and in order to do that, sometimes God has to send you through a storm. He uses that sometimes to bring us to a new place of service, to a new place of ministry. I think one of the reasons I'm here today at Grace is because God had to get me through a storm, He took me through a storm to awaken me. to bring me here to serve. Pastor Johnson had asked me to come back here. I was serving in a church in Tennessee. And I felt like, you know, this is where I want to be. And Pastor had asked me. And uh I basically had denied it at first. And then you know what happened after that? God said, guess what? I'm going to bring you through a storm And God used that to get my attention. I had a re a rebellion on my hands in that church. Can you imagine I'm such a nice guy? Why would anyone want to rebel and give me a hard time? Uh I had staff members that got insecure and and uh they led a rebellion and uh there's 150 people that met off campus to try to figure out how to get rid of me. And then it all culminated to a uh a meeting one Wednesday night in church when I was getting ready to come into the pulpit and and uh two of my deacons met me in the administrative hallway and said A letter was circulated. There's a crowd there. They're going to try to vote you out. And on a Wednesday night, we had a full crowd. I know how to fill a church on a Wednesday night. We had a auditorium with C 1400 there and the balcony of course was closed on Wednesday night, but the lower floor was filled. Some of those faces I had never seen before in my life The membership of the church was 2,500, but you couldn't find half of them if you hired the FBI. But they all showed up that night. And some of them wanted to vote me out. Well, as providence would have it, I was preaching that night on uh through Genesis, I was preaching on uh the story of how that the Philistines were trying to drive Isaac out of the land That just happened to be the passage. It seemed to fit perfectly for what was going on in that occasion. And by the end of the service, those who came with a plan lost their nerve and nothing really happened But God brought me into that storm. And he was trying to get my attention. And finally one of the godliest men I've ever known To this day, one of the godliest men I've ever known came to my office and he said, Jerry, he said, I don't know what the Lord is doing in your life, but if God is calling you somewhere else, you should probably go. You should probably go. And God used that storm to redirect me to get me to another place Now, and that may not always be the case, but there are some times when the Lord will put you in a storm because he's going to do a work of transition in your life. Teachableness, you may be in a storm because of your obedience. Transgression, you may be in a storm because perhaps you have transgressed God's word. Transition. It may be that God is trying to get you to a new place in your life, a new place of ministry, or new something new that God wants to do in your life. It could be just simple testing God is just testing you. Look at verse 36. And when they had sent and when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And notice this next phrase, and there were also with him other little ships. Notice that this is not just Jesus in the boat with his disciples, but there were other boats that were following him So you have this little flotilla of boats that were following the Lord Jesus across the Sea of Galilee, and suddenly a storm comes. You know what? These other boats were about to be tested, weren't they? They were going to be tested. Were they true disciples of Jesus? Were they willing to go through the storm with the Lord? What did the writer say, through many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come Friend, are you willing to go through dangers and snares to follow Jesus? Are you willing to follow him through the storms? These other boats were following him, but you know what? At the end of the story, we don't read any more about those little boats Suddenly somehow they disappeared. When the storm came, they suddenly were gone. And really, this is an illustration of what Jesus had just taught in Mark chapter 4. Remember, he taught about the parables uh the different kind of soils and there is uh the soil that was among the on the s shallow ground where it would sprout up just a little there would be foliage but when the sun came out it would wither and dry up and go away. And that is like the the Christian who gets offended. Persecution comes, difficulty comes, they're no longer following the Lord. We have an illustration of this right here. They got in their boats, they were following Jesus, but when the storm came suddenly they said, We didn't sign up for this This is too difficult for us. Jesus said in Matthew 11, 6, Blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. Blessed are those who will not be offended in me. That is, there are those who get offended in Christ and say, I can't go with this. This is too much for me. You mark it down, dear friend. If a storm comes and you stop following Jesus, you better check your salvation. You get offended in him. Someone said the faith that fizzles before the finish had a flaw from the first. You better make sure that that faith is a real faith. Storm is for testing. Teachableness, transgression, transition, testing, but also write down training. The Lord will bring us through a storm. Because he wants to train us. Someone said that the rough seas make the best sailors, and Jesus was teaching his disciples to have faith. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus know what he was getting them into? Surely he did. Surely he knew he who knows all things knew that they would encounter a storm on that sea. And the disciples uh were being trained here on how to have faith in the Lord Now these men were tr already good fishermen. I mean they literally spent almost every day of their life before they met Jesus on the Sea of Galilee. That's what fishermen do. They get in their boat, they go out, they fish. So a storm was nothing new. In fact, the Sea of Galilee was known for having storms. This Sea of Galilee was really thirteen miles long, seven miles wide. It was more like a big lake. It was shaped like a harp. And uh the basically the sea of Galilee sat seven hundred feet below sea level The mountains that were around it were two thousand feet above sea level, so it's almost like a bowl with the Sea of Galilee right at the bottom of it And the wind would funnel through those hills and create these really fierce storms. And so a storm was nothing new. They knew of these, but there was something different about this storm. This wasn't a normal storm. And Jesus knew that this was coming. Why didn't Jesus wait? Why didn't he say, you know what, let's go in the morning. Let's not go at night. No, Jesus took them at that moment He knew what was going to come, but I believe at this point Jesus was doing this to develop their character. He was teaching them to trust him. And there's a principle that we see here in this. It's an opportunity to strengthen faith. Did you know that the storms that you go through are essential to you for your development spiritually? It's not no accident. It's no accident that you may be in a storm right now. The Lord says, I need to train you, I need to teach you, and difficulty is what will do that. Difficulty is what will uh basically mature you. In your faith. The psalmist said this in Psalm 119, verse 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. In Psalm 119, verse 75, I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me And I can say from experience that the greatest spiritual lessons and the greatest maturity that has happened in my life came because of storms. And it'll happen for you as well. Someone wrote, I ask the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace Might more of his salvation know and seek more earnestly his face? 'Twas he who taught me thus to pray And he I trust has answered prayer, but it has been in such a way as almost drove me to despair. I thought that at some favorite hour, at once he'd answered my request, and by love's constraining power, subdue my sin and give give me rest. Instead of this, he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart, and allow the angry powers of hell to assault my soul at every part. Sometimes God will allow the assaults from the angry powers of hell to train us. And the fact is we would probably be spiritual pygmies, we would probably be self-centered, proud, and empty people without the storms that we go through in life. Well, let me give you one more thing. Teachableness, transgression, transition, testing, training, but also testimony. Just write that down. Because what we're going to see here in this story is that as a result of this storm, the disciples are going to see Christ in a new way. God is going to testify to them, to their heart, about His Son, about who Jesus really is. And it may be that you're in a storm because God wants to reveal to you Christ in a new way. He wants you to see his son in a new way. And the disciples are certainly going to do that. Spurgeon said this: I have learned to kiss the waves that throw me against the rock of ages. And sometimes the waves are designed to do that for you, to throw you on the rock that is called Christ, and you see him in a new way. So, number one, know what causes the storm. But write down number two. Here's the second anchor to hold on to. Know what calms the storm. Know what calms the storm. Now, there are three things I think that the disciples did here that led to the calming of this storm, and I think there are three things that we all also must do if we want to weather the storm that God may be putting us through. And number one is acknowledge our situation. Just acknowledge that you're in the storm and that it's more than you can handle. Look at verse 37. And there arose a great storm of wind. And the waves beat unto the ship so that it was now full. Now again I say this wasn't a normal storm. This was a great storm. And the disciples had to acknowledge that this was something unusual, something that they could not handle on their own. You must acknowledge your situation that you're in. You ever you ever um go through a storm on the sea? I like sometimes to tease about this. I was my dad uh had a boat and we would go out fishing. We'd go out on the ocean and one time we were out there and I could see those storm clouds rolling in and the wind picked up and the boat started to rock and My dad had his line in the water, I said, Dad, you see those storm clouds? He said, Yes, you're right, son. He pulled his line out of the water, he put on a rain jacket and threw the line back into the water It's not quite what I was hoping for. You know what? We have to acknowledge the storm. And the disciples, they had to acknowledge that this was not just a normal storm. In fact, when Matthew's account, when Matthew talks about this, he calls it a great Tempest. The word tempest is from the Greek word seismos. It's where we get the word seismograph. That's an instrument used to measure what? Earthquakes. That's where we get the word from. The Greek word actually means earthquake. And so it seemed to the disciples that the whole earth was shaking to them. This was huge We must acknowledge these storms that we're in. Sometimes when I hear we we we might hear this on the news, hurricanes come and there's been The a word is given, evacuate, get out of there. And there's always some people that say, well, we're just gonna stay where we are, right? We're going to ignore this, keep on living, sometimes to their own detriment. The disciples had to acknowledge the situation. But here's the second thing, admit our shortcomings. The Bible says the waves beat under the ship so that it was now full. And I can just imagine the disciples, their first reaction was, you know, we handle storms all the time. No problem. We're going to take care of this. No need to wake up the master. Jesus was asleep in the back of the boat. No need to wake them up. We can handle this. And things got worse. And worse. And suddenly they realized they're in a storm they can handle. This is something that is beyond them. You know, oftentimes when a storm shows up, it reveals something about us. It reveals our weaknesses. It reveals our deficiencies. And that's what this storm was doing here. What this storm first of all revealed was their own pride This idea that we can do this in our own strength. I want to tell you, beloved, you and I, we can do nothing in of ourselves. In 2019, I need the Lord's help in everything. I don't want to wait until things are out of hand till I acknowledge that. Lord, I need your help. You ever been there, Lord? I just need you to help me. What is coming in faster than they could bail it out? The Bible says the ship was full, full of what? Full of water. This wasn't a really big ship. When I was over in Israel, they made a discovery not too long ago. They call it the Jesus boat. They found a boat in the Sea of Galilee, about twenty-six feet long, seven feet wide. It's not really a big boat for twelve disciples and the Lord Jesus. And uh and so this was something that they could not handle. They weren't in a very big boat. And it revealed their pride, but also it revealed their lack of faith Sometimes the storm will reveal that about us. That we're not trusting the Lord the way we should. In fact, in verse 40, Jesus, after he steals the storm, he'll say to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith He rebukes them mildly because of their lack of faith. There are at least three good reasons why none of them should have been afraid or had a lack of faith. You know why? First of all, because of his promise. What did he say to the disciples? Get into the boat. We're going to the other side. Now let me tell you something, friends, when Jesus says you're going to the other side, you're going to the other side. You're not going to sink in the middle. They had his word. Jesus didn't say, come on, let's get in the boat. We'll see if we can make it. This thing may go down, we're not sure. No, he said, get into the boat. We're going to the other side. That should have been enough for them. That even in the worst storm, they had the promise of his word that they're going to the other side. Your friend, let me tell you something. When you're in the middle of a storm, remember his word He's not going to let you go down. He's with you. They had his presence. The Lord Himself was in the boat. Do you think God the Father is going to allow his son to drown? Of course not. You think Jesus is going to allow that to happen? Of course not. And friend, just remember this: when you're in the storm, not only do you have God's promise, you have His presence. in the storm. He's there with you. It may not seem that way, because Jesus was asleep. Perhaps they thought, you know, he He's kind of he's not here with us. He's he's asleep, but no, he was there, he knew what was going on. In fact, they should look at him and see his peace. Jesus wasn't worried about this storm, he was asleep He was asleep. He was eternal peace. And it wasn't until they came to the end of themselves that finally they came to Jesus. And here's the third thing. We need to not only acknowledge our situation in the storm and also admit our shortcomings. But here's the second thing, or third thing rather, awaken the Savior. Look at verse 38. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow, and they awake him and said unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? Now someone might ask, how could Jesus be asleep on a ship in a storm like this? Well he was a man. He was the God man, but he was man. And it was fatigue He could sleep because he has was exhausted. It was a day of ministry, as I described to you. He was exhausted after all day ministering and conflict with Pharisees and doing miracles. Let me tell you something, friend, ministry can drain you. Working with others can drain you. Remember one time I was in Cameroon, Africa, I preached and taught for seven straight days, all day long, all those days. And when they finally got me to the airport and put me on the plane, and by the way, I hate to fly But you know, I don't even remember anything about that trip. Because once I got on the plane, I went to sleep and I didn't wake up until we landed. It's a long flight from Africa. And someone said, What did you think about the storm? I said, What storm? I can relate to this. Jesus was on the ship, but he was asleep. It was fatigued, but I also think it was safe. The storm didn't bother him. Storm didn't bother our Lord. He who is the word by which all things were made has no reason to fear a storm. He's the maker of the heavens and the earth. He's not afraid by the outbreak of nature's peevish wrath or outburst. He wasn't afraid at all. It was fear. But notice there was no fear, it was faith. Look at verse 39. And he arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, peace be still. So the disciples come and they say, Master, don't you care? We're going to perish. And Jesus, the Bible says, got up. He stood up. And he said, peace be still. Literally, be muzzled in the Greek. Hush. This is the same word that Jesus used earlier when he commanded a demon to be quiet and come out of him. In the same way, Jesus rebukes the storm here. And you know what the Bible says? Look again in verse 39. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And look at verse 40. And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly the Lord of glory. Who created all, rebuked the elements, rebuked the wind and the waves, and literally it it became still in that moment. Everything ceased. From a great storm to great calm. Now remember I said that the word mega is used here. In fact, it's used three times in this story. There's a mega storm. And when Jesus rebukes it, what does the Bible say? There was a mega calm. That's the second time it's used. There was incredible calm. You know the third time it's used? When the disciples, where it says that in verse 41, and they feared exceedingly. Literally the Greek text reads, and they feared mega fear. Mega fear. Mega storm, which led to megacomb and megapear. It's funny. They were afraid of the storm. Now they're afraid of Jesus. And they said, what manner of man is this? Who can do this? I think the fear here is the idea of astonishment, amazement. And friend, let me tell you something. This is what Jesus can do for you. You say, I'm in a great storm. He can bring great calm, which can lead to great amazement, great wonder, great worship in your life. They see Jesus now in a new way. And what you must do is awaken your master. If you're in a storm, go to him. Give him the storm and say, Lord, help. And he'll bring calm. And there'll be amazement. You'll be amazed at what the Lord can do for you. Let me give you the third thing quickly. Know what causes the storm. Know what calms the storm. But here's the third thing. Know who controls the storm. You know what? This storm magnified Jesus to them, as I said in a whole new way. They never looked at Jesus the same Now they knew that Jesus could heal the sick. They knew that he could cast out devils. He had that authority to do that. But could he have control over the forces of nature? They had never seen anything like that Incredible that a person has that much power. And that's what, look at verse 41. They feared exceedingly and said one to another, What manner of man is this? That even the wind and the sea obey him. I mean, we get it about the healing the sick and demons and all that, but even nature, nature is subject to him. Nature is only subject like that to who? God. Only God can do that. So, what does this story tell us about Jesus? He is the Son of God. You see, all our creation is in rebellion against men. You go out and try to tell the ring what to do. See what happens All of nature is in rebellion against man, but all of nature is in sweet submission to God when God commands it. Fire, hail, snow, and vapor, stormy wind fulfilling his word, the Bible says in Psalm 148, verse 8. In Psalm eighty-nine verse nine, you rule over the surging sea. When its waves mount up, you steal them, Lord. You do that. You are God And so this, here's Mark giving a story, showing the disciples that he is God. I think some of them, they had embraced initially the claims of Jesus, but they were still wrestling with it. Is this man really who he says he is? And after this, they didn't doubt. What manner of man is this that even the winds and the ways obey him? He's the Son of God. But quickly, let me just say this: he's the sustainer. And this story is designed to teach you and I this one thing. He will sustain you, my friend. He will sustain you. Some of you might be here and say, you know, I just don't know if I'm going to make it. Well, let me ask you a question: Is Jesus in your boat? You're going to make it. He's going to sustain you. When the disciples said, Lord, carest thou not that we perish? It might seem that He doesn't care, but when He does And he brought you into this storm. He's teaching you, he's training you, he's working in your life, and you will make it, he will sustain you. This whole story shows the sustaining power of our Lord Jesus Christ. He will sustain you. He will help you. We have an anchor that keeps the soul steadfast and sure while the billows roll. Fastened to the rock which cannot move. Founded, grounded, firm and deep in the Savior's love. You know why you're going to make it? Because He loves you. And your anchor is grounded in his love, and he will bring you through. But let me give you the last thing that we need to be done. This this shows he is the Son of God. He is our sustainer. The friend, he's our savior. He's our savior. You know, the storm in the Bible is a picture of judgment to come. Did you know that? Remember in Matthew 7 when Jesus gave the parable at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, and he said there was a wise man, there was a foolish man. The wise man built his house on the rock, the foolish man built his house on the state on the sand. When the storm came And the winds blew, the foolish man who built his house on the sin, that house fell. And the Bible says, Great was the fall of it. But the man who built his house on the rock It stood. What was the difference between the two? The wise man heard the sayings of Jesus and he applied them. He obeyed them. The foolish man heard the same sermon. He just didn't apply it. He didn't do it. And the wise man revealed that his faith was real. What reveals that your faith is real? Obedience to the word of God. And if you're obedient to his word, that means your faith is real. That means your house is being built on the rock. But here's the thing: the storm came. You say, What's the storm? The storm is the day of judgment That's what that storm represented there. And this storm also, in a way, pictures that great storm in the future that all of us will have to go through. The the time of judgment, and friend, you better build on the rock. You better make sure that Jesus is your Savior. That you have obeyed the gospel, that you're obeying Him, your obedience to the gospel. When you turn from your sin and turn to Christ and you reach out by faith and make him your Savior, it is manifested that it's real. Because you continue the rest of your life beginning to obey him. You're building your house from the rock. But friend, just know this: the storm will come. Is he your Savior? You see, this miracle is a parable of Jesus' power and authority. It illustrates what Jesus is able to do in the physical realm, but it also illustrates what he is able to do in the spiritual realm. It's wonderful to see Jesus still the raging sea calm the sea. But friend, it's even more wonderful to see Jesus calm the storm in me. and calm the storm in you. And that's what he will do. You know what the human heart? It's like a troubled sea. It's restless, ceaseless. There will be no peace, no rest until Jesus, the Savior, is awakened in your heart And you know that you know him, and you're trusting him through the storm, and friend, he will bring you through the storm. Let me quote you these words and we're done. Jesus! What a help in sorrow, while the billows o'er me roll. Even when my heart is breaking, he my comfort helps my soul. Jesus, what a guide and keeper. While the tempest still is high, storms about me, night or takes me. He, my pilot, hears my cry. Hallelujah, what a savior. Hallelujah, what a friend. Saving, helping, keeping, loving, he is with me until the end. And he'll be with you, dear friend. Let's pray together. And so, Lord, we thank you for your words. We thank you for this story that speaks to us today of how, Lord, you bring us through the storms. You allow them to come. In fact the storm is sent by you many times. We know the causes of it Lord, you're teaching, you're training, you're testing. You're doing a work of transition in our life. You're testifying as to who you are in our life. But Lord, help us to realize that you're the one who calms the storm as well. And we need to look to you in a new way and see you in a new way. Lord, allow the storm to draw us closer to you Allow the storm to cast us upon the rock called Christ, so that we may know you in a greater way Maybe you're here today and you say that's my prayer. Would you pray for me, preacher? I'm in the storm and I want God to use it And I want him to deliver me and it to calm me. Would you raise your hand and say, pray for me? That's me. Kind of in that storm right now. God bless you, dear friends. All over. God sees your hand. He knows your heart. Maybe you're here and you don't know the Lord. And the storm that needs to cease in you is that restless storm in your own heart because Jesus is not there. And you need to invite him into your heart, into the abode of your life, so to speak. Reach out to him in faith and say, Lord Jesus, come into my heart. I need you to still the storm. I need you to prepare me for the day of judgment. Be my Lord and be my Savior. Friend, if you pray that He'll do it. He's a wonderful Savior. He's a great. He will come to you today. He will save you. I want to say that's my prayer today. I want him to still the storm that's in my heart. I want to know him as my Savior. Can I pray for you? Is that your prayer today? Would you lift your hand? I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you, friend. Do you know Jesus? We want to invite you to know him, friend, if you don't know him. Would you anyone here? Father, bless these words to our hearts. Sustain your people. Bless your people as they go through the storms. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.