Take God's word tonight, please. Open to the book of Psalm, chapter 119. We are continuing our study through this great chapter. We're going through the 22 stanzas, and tonight we're in verse 33 down to verse 40 This would be the fifth stanza of Psalm 119. I want to talk tonight about how to finish strong. In his book, The Mantle of a Mentor, Dr. Robert Clinton did a study of male leadership in the Bible. And he tells us that the Bible mentions about a thousand leaders. And from his studies he offers four different kinds of finishes for leaders. First of all, they're number one, those who are cut off early, that is, uh maybe they were assassinated, or maybe there was some kind of prophetic denunciation, or maybe they were overthrown. But they w they were cut off early. Secondly, those who finished poorly, and what he means by that is they were kind of in the downhill of their life. They really didn't uh uh you know, in the latter part of their life do much. And then number three was those who finished so and so, that is, they didn't do what they could or should have done. that it really complete God's purpose for them. And by the way, these could be pretty good guys, but they just finish so and so. And then number four, he said, were those who finished strong. These were those who walked with God. They were strong in their faith. They were close to the Lord, fully obeying the Lord, doing their duty to the end, and just faithful. Now in finishing strong, they had to withstand a lot of difficulty, a lot of challenges, some ambushes, some distractions. But he determined in his study, he said that only thirty percent Finish well. Think about that. Of all the leaders in the Bible, we said thirty percent finish well. Well, the odds are against us. Thirty percent. Well, not everyone who enters the race finishes well. Paul was able to say at the end of his life, I fought a good fight, I finished the course, I've kept the faith. That should be the desire of all believers that we finish well for the Lord. Now that was certainly the desire of the psalmist in Psalm 119. Look at verse 33, where he said, Teach me, Lord, O Lord, the way of thy statutes And I shall keep it unto the end. The word end here refers to the end of his life, after which he would receive his reward. In fact, this word end sometimes is translated as reward And so he says, you know, when he says way of statutes, he's actually referring to a lifestyle. He uses this expression again in verse 37, quicken me in thy way. Again, the word way here it means path or road. And it's used metaphorically to speak of a lifestyle. It's God's way is a godly way. It is a righteous road It is a pure path, and we're to stay on that path all the way until we reach the end. We're to be faithful until we get to the end And this is the prayer of the psalmist here. He wants to be faithful all the way unto the end, faithful to the Lord unto the end. Now, based on that then, he I want you to notice three petitions that he makes to God that I think will help him to be faithful to the Word of God unto the end. And here's the first one. Number one, teach me. We could say develop my mind. Again, we see this in verse 33. Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes. Now we never get to the point where we stop learning or or that we stop growing spiritually. Or at least we shouldn't get to that point. But we never arrive to the place in our life where we say, you know, I think I know all there is to know about the Bible. I don't really need to know anything else. We never get to that place. Spurgeon said this. He said, no one ever outgrows scripture. The book widens and deepens with our years. And I found that to be true. The more I study it, the deeper it is, the broader it is, and the more I realize how much I don't know and how much I don't grasp. And so the psalmist prays this prayer, and we've seen him make this request several times, but he's making it again. Teach me, Lord. And this could really be a prayer request that we should be praying every day, Lord, teach me And then in verse 34, where he says, Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. He's praying for understanding of God's word. It's not enough just to have a Bible. You have to read it. You have to understand what it says. I was reading about George Foreman, the heavyweight boxing champion who recently passed away He wrote a book called God in My Corner and he talks about that in nineteen seventy four before he went to Africa to fight Muhammad Ali Uh someone gave him a Bible to take along on his trip. He said, Here, George, take this along and uh is you know, just take it for good luck And so George Foreman said, I'm always looking for luck. And he said, so I just decided to carry it along, add it to all of my other lucky charms, you know, my uh rabbit's foot and all the other collection of superstit su superstitious Yeah, superstitious item, excuse me. And then he said after I lost the fight, I just threw the Bible away. He said I never even opened it. I thought, you know, it didn't help me, so why to why keep it? He said, I thought I had get I would have power by just owning it. I thought it would just give me something just by having it. He said, years later I come to realize that owning the Bible really doesn't do anything for you The Bible is not a good luck charm. The Bible is a roadmap. And he said, you know, just having a Bible does nothing. You have to read it. You have to understand it. You have to use it. You have to apply it. And we would all say amen to that. Just owning a Bible doesn't really do much for you. You must understand God's word. And so the psalmist here is asking for understanding, not so that he can boast about his knowledge And boast before others, not so that he can use it as a club against others, not so that he can teach it or preach it to others, but so that he can live it out himself, so he can apply it himself. Knowledge without application is useless. That's what he says in verse 34. And I shall keep thy law, yea, I shall observe it with the whole heart. And again, we see this expression, we've seen it before, wholeheart. He has a whole heart commitment to God's word. He has a whole heart devotion. Again, we saw this whole heart expression in verse 2. In Psalm 119, we see it in verse 10. We see it here in verse 34 We'll see it again in verse fifty eight, verse sixty nine, verse one forty five. Over and over again he says, With my whole heart, with my whole heart He's absolutely committed to this, the Word of God, to learning it and giving it all of his heart. Spurgeon again wrote this: God is not truly sought by the cold researches of the brain. We must seek him with the heart. And that is so very true. We have to apprehend them by affection. You know, if we uh approach the Bible with just a cold logic, you're not going to get much out of it. There has to be a desire of the heart to know the scripture to know the word of God. And here the psalmist is saying, I'm doing it with my whole heart. He has a whole heart devotion. Now when believers get half-hearted, there's a problem, right? We would say that physically, right? If you went to the doctor and he said, your heart's working halfway. We would say, okay, well, as long as it's working halfway, I'm okay with that, right? No, we'd have a big problem with that. Physically there's not something there's physically there's something that's not right. And we could say the same thing spiritually. The problem in the church today is we have so many half-hearted Christians. And uh they they seem to be okay with it. But here the psalmist is not. He he wants to uh He wants to seek after God. He wants to know God's word and he wants to obey it with his whole heart unto the end So his first prayer is, teach me, develop my mind. But then secondly, train me. We could say discipline my heart. Look at verse 35. Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. And now here again the psalmist is asking God to control the inclinations of his heart. Notice his his prayer, make me Again in verse 35, make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Now that's very interesting to me. On one hand the psalmist says he delights in God's commandments, but then here on the other hand he's saying, God make me go in that path. Now why does he ask that? I mean if you delight in something, you shouldn't have to be made to do it, right? What are the things that you delight in? The things that people delight in, you don't have to force them to do those things Because if you delight in it, you're going to want to do it. So why is the psalmist on one hand saying You know, Lord, make me do this because I delight in your commandments. Well, here again, what we're seeing here again is the struggle that every believer has in their heart. between uh the sin nature, between wanting to do what is right, between delighting in God's law, but then also in the struggle with the sin nature. This is this is Romans 7 again, isn't it? Romans 721. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present within me. Listen to what Paul said. For I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warning against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity of the law of sin, which is in my members. And then that's where Paul says, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? And so on one hand, we delight in the law of God as God's people, but then on the other hand, we are weak to fulfill it. We need God's help to fulfill it. We need a grace, an enablement to help us do it. We carry around this body of death, this sin nature. And so this is what the psalmist here is praying. Lord, make me to go into the path of your commandments. But then also notice what he says, incline me. Look again in verse 36. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies. And not on the covetousness. Incline my heart again. Lord, make me willing. Give me the desire. Here he's asking God to control again the desires of his heart. Make my spiritual desires greater than my selfish desires. Because again, all of us have this war in us And our hearts are prone to wander from the Lord. So he's saying, Lord, incline my heart to your word. And notice the rest of verse 36, and not un or not to what Covetousness, not to covetousness. Now why does he mention covetousness? Because again, we all struggle with this. This is at the root of all of our sins. This was the last one on the list of the Ten Commandments, but actually it is the root of all of the breaking of the commandments of God. The apostle Paul remember when he was talking about God's commandments in Romans 7, he said, you know, I was going through the commandments, I was doing really good until I got to that last commandment, thou shalt not covet, and then he said, Then, then it just the law slew me. It devastated me. The problem was not Paul's outward religion being able to obey some of those commandments outwardly. He recognized that the problem was inwardly with his covetous heart with his sinful heart. Covetousness is a strong desire for things. It's the opposite of contentment. It's a desira it's a desire for what is not yours. It's the desire for what is forbidden. It's the desire for what is against God's will. It's a desire for something that you have no right to. You're not entitled to it. And we all, as sinful people, have this tendency to want things that we don't have, and that we have we have no right to Now this word here, in the Septuagint, the way this word is translated into Greek is plion, exia, plion, which means more, exia, which means to have. And so what is covetousness? It's desire to ha to to have more, the desire to have more. And again, it's the fallenness of our human nature that wants to have things, to have more of things, especially those things that we are not. The Greeks defined it as the insatiable desire for that which can never be satisfied, to want which you don't have. When directed toward money, it ends up with stealing. When directed toward fame, it ends up with boasting. When directed toward worldly success, it ends up in selfish ambition. When directed towards power, it ends up with exploitation or uh intimidation or tyranny. And then on we could go. This is covetousness being expressed in so many different ways. Paul calls it in Colossians chapter 3, verse 5, idolatry. Covetousness which is idolatry. Because really, you know what it is? It's self-worship. It's self-worship. Again, although covetousness is the last of the Ten Commandments It is a violation of the first commandment, which is what? Thou shalt have no other gods before me. And covetousness is having a God before God, and what is that God? Yourself. It is self-worship. It's the opposite of seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Instead, you're seeking what is what you want. It's idolatry. You've replaced God with what you want. That's how sin works. You worship yourself, you then become greedy, and then you satisfy yourself. You begin to covet what you have no right to. Anything that you have no right to, that you want, is a test of who you worship. Think about that. Anything that you covet, that you have no right to, um, and what do you do about that? That's a test of who you worship. If you worship God You'll say no to that desire, no to that thing that you have no right to because you honor God, you put him first, you'll say no to that. But if you worship yourself, you'll say yes And at that point, you've taken God off the throne and you've put yourself there and say, what God wants is not important. What's important is what I want. That's the center of idolatry. Yielding to your desires is worshiping self instead of God. And the Bible tells us how covetousness has ruined so many people. Balaam stole out God's people and his own soul because he coveted. Ahab murdered because he coveted. David committed adultery because he coveted. Achan stole and brought defeat to Israel because he coveted. And then we could go on down the line, so many characters. Judas, he betrayed Jesus because he coveted. Ananias lied to the Holy Spirit because he coveted. And so the psalmist rightly sees that covetousness was a serious threat to him walking in God's way. And by the way, it's a threat to all of us. And so he's asking God to turn his heart towards the Word of God and away from covetousness, away from selfish pursuit. And so here's the bottom line. And I've said this before, if you don't learn to conquer indwelling sin, using all the available means of God's grace, you're not going to finish the race well. Covetousness will bring you down. That's why spiritual disciplines are necessary in the Christian re in the Christian life. That's why you Read, that's why you study, that's why you pray, that's why you meditate, that's why daily you're in the Word of God, because that's what it's going to take to incline your heart to God's Word and away from covetousness. So his prayer is teach me, develop my mind, train me, discipline my heart, and then number three, turn me, direct my steps. Look at verse 37. Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy way. Establish thy word under thy servant who is devoted to thy fear. Now, twice in these verses he uses the expression, turn away. We see it in verse 37. We see it in verse 39: turn away my reproach, which I fear. And then we also see the expression in verse 40: Quicken me. Turn away basically means to direct. And here the psalmist is praying for God, again, for his restraining grace. And he's asking, first of all, for a godly focus: turn away my eyes from beholding vanity. The Christian life is all about having the right focus. Jesus said this. He said, the light of the body is the eye. If therefore that eye be single, that whole body shall be full of light. But then Jesus said this, but if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of what? Be full of darkness. And so if you have the wrong focus as a believer, you're in trouble The Christian life is all about keeping your eyes and your focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, right? That's how we get saved by looking to Christ. We're going to end this life by looking to Jesus, by seeing him. And the key to running the race well, as the writer of Hebrews says is looking unto Jesus, keeping your focus on the Lord Jesus. We are to be preoccupied with Christ, preoccupied with his word, but that's not easy. Because the world and the devil will constantly dangle things before us to distract us. The world can focus us on vain and empty pleasures, the things that it offers. Much of temptation that we face in this corrupt world starts with what? It starts with the eyes, doesn't it? That's why the Bible warns us so much about the eyes and what we see. Listen to Proverbs 425. Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. Proverbs 23, verse 33, Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thy heart shall utter perverse things. Job 31, 1. I've made a covenant with mine eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? Psalm 123, verse 1, I would lift up mine eyes, O Lord, thou that dwellest in the heavens. And so again, these are verses on your focus, your eyes, what you look to. If you look to the things of the world and you're not looking to God, that leads to trouble. That leads to sin in your life. And so the psalmist here is praying, turn away mine eyes, verse 37, from beholding vanity, that is empty things, the empty things of this world. That's what the word vanity here means, emptiness or worthless The things of the world ultimately, I mean they look good on the surface, they look good on the outside, but ultimately they're empty. They're worthless. Worthless because they have no good in them. Worthless because they don't last. Worthless because they distract us from the truth in Christ. And they have nothing to do with Jesus. And so he says, look at verse 37, quicken thou me in thy way. And here again is another prayer for revival. Lord, make me alive. Turn away my eyes from this, from what is worthless, and revive me in thy word. So he wants a godly focus but also a godly fear. Look in verse 38. Stablish thy word unto thy servant who is devoted to thy fear. And then we also see the word fear again in verse number 39. Turn away my reproach which I fear. And so we have to fear God, and I think what we're saying here is fearing God and also fearing the consequences of sin. That's really what he's referring to here. Fearing God. Listen to what he says, establish thy word and thy servant. That is, make me to know how firm it is. Make me to know how real it is. In other words, help me to put away doubts and some of this the natural skepticism that might rise up in my sinful heart. And help me to be completely established in your word because I'm devoted to thy fear. You see, the reason people today don't have a fear of God is because they don't believe God's word. They don't hold to the word of God. And the psalmist is uh he he wants this godly fear. He wants to hold fast to the scripture. But then also a fear of sin, not only a fear of God, but a fear of sin. He says, Turn away my reproach which I fear, for thy judgments are good. And the reproach here means the shame that a child of God sh could suffer or should suffer as a consequence for their own sin. The psalmist, again, as we talked about before, is one of the exiles uh taken to Babylon as a judgment for the sins against Israel. And he was seeing before his own eyes the consequences of sin because those people were being punished because of it. He doesn't want to suffer it personally. And so there's a sense in which he fears sin. He doesn't want the consequences of sin to bring shame to the Lord and shame to him in his own life. Several weeks ago, uh I I read on social media a statement written from a nationally known preacher. If I if I mentioned his name, probably most of you here would recognize that name. He was one of the top level speakers and authors on on these national conference circuits. And uh he fell into sin. He had an inappropriate relationship. And uh he finally came out and repented and confessed it all and he had this written statement, a written apology, acknowledging his sin. repenting and then part of the statement he wrote how much he realized that in his act he brought great shame upon the name of Christ And I'll be honest with you, it's hard to read. It's hard to read. We should never think that something like that could never happen to us, right? We should be humble and meek, and we should fear falling into sin. The worst thing about sin is that it dishonors God. It brings shame upon the name of God. David wrote in his great psalm of Confession after a sin with Bathsheba: Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. And so when we sin, it dishonors God, it brings shame upon the name of God, and it gives the world and the enemies of Christianity a reason to rejoice. And we don't we don't want to do that. A sign of being a true believer is that we fear bringing shame to his name. And so he wants a godly focus. A godly fear, but then also a godly fervor. Look in verse number 40. Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Quicken me in thy righteousness. So three times in this chapter, the psalmist speaks of longing for God's Word. He mentions it here in verse 40. He mentions it in verse number 20. He'll mention it again in verse 174. Just this longing, this desire for God's word. And you know, your appetite determines your health, right? I mean, physically, if you have no appetite, there's something wrong with you. And the same we could say is true spiritually. A believer that has no appetite for the Word of God reveals that there's some problem there. There's some spiritual issue. We should never lose our longing, our hunger for the Word of God. When we do, friend, we're backslidden But when we have that fervor, that love for Scripture, I think that our spiritual growth will be in direct proportion to the hunger and the appetite that we have for God's Word. I was reading about D. L. Moody. I think we probably all have heard of that name. D. L. Moody was a a famous Christian of many years ago. He was kind of the b the Billy Graham of his day. That was back in the 19th century. And uh he was basically an unj uneducated man. He was a shoe clerk and uh his Sunday school teacher went to his his place of employment one day and took the Bible and he led him to faith in Jesus Christ. And D. L. Moody ended up becoming just this great, great preacher, and God used him in a great way, even though he was really uneducated. And people used to make fun at times of his lack of education. Someone said that he he pronounced Jerusalem with two syllables. I try to do that. It's not hard. It's not easy to do that. But When Del Moody became a Christian, he developed such a hunger for God's word. He spent so much time reading it and was so quick to obey it. You know, he was so passionate, so zealous in his relationship to God, with the Word of God, that he became a menace to some believers. And his rapid spiritual growth was an embarrassment to some believers who had been saved for decades. And they had not grown much spiritually. But here D. L. Mooney came along and he was uh he was so zealous and so passionate about the things of God and loved the god God's word so much that he was in it all the time. And even though he was relatively uneducated, he learned God's word. He was taught by the Holy Spirit as he dug into God's Word. And that's the reason God used them so greatly. His biographer, Elizabeth Barrett, wrote this, and I quote, his robust spiritual health and bounding energy disturb their napping. Talk about some of those Christians. who were didn't really appreciate the Omhuni back then. He was just too much, she wrote. So while they were sucking their thumbs, he was growing until he left them far behind. He grew more in a few years than they did in 30 years. So your spiritual growth and maturity will be in direct proportion to your hunger. and longing for the Word of God. And when that, if you ever lose that fervor, then you're not going to finish well. You're not going to finish for God will. So we all need to make a determination, like the psalmist here, to finish strong in the Christian race. And you know what, here at Grace we we have a great example to look to. I can't help but think about Pastor Johnson. He finished well, didn't he? He was faithful all the way to the very, very end. And he finished strong. He finished well. And we need to follow that example, don't we? We and be determined, like the psalmist here, to keep it unto the end, to keep God's word unto the end. So let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment while our heads are bowed and eyes are closed, and would you just ask the Lord to help you to stay faithful to the end? Give you the same desire, the same zeal and passion as the psalmist here has. And pray the prayer of the psalmist, Lord, teach me the way of your statutes, and I shall keep it to the end. Lord Teach me, train me, discipline my heart. Turn me, Lord, direct my steps, incline my heart, Lord, to your word, not to covetous. And help me to finish this race strong, leaning on you. Father, help us to truly finish well. Lord, we know that in this world there are so many distractions. It's very easy for people to get our their eyes off of God, off of Christ, to allow our desire for spiritual things to wane. And our hearts are prone to wander. Even though we delight in the law of God, Lord, we still at times we need to be made, we need to be inclined. Our heart needs to be made to go in the path of your commandments. So Lord, give us this grace. Help us, Lord, to keep our focus on Christ and to finish strong in the race of life. And we pray, Lord, all this in Jesus' name, Amen