All right. Would you take God's word tonight and open please to the book of Second Kings, Second Kings chapter eight. And we're doing our s continuing our study through 2 Kings, and we come to chapter 8, verses 1 through 6 is what we're going to deal with tonight. If you look in 2 Kings chapter 8, verse number 1, let me read this with you. Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise and go thou in thine household, and sojourn whithersoever thou canst sojourn, for the Lord hath caught a f for a famine And it shall also come upon the land seven years. And the woman arose and did after the saying of the man of God, and she went with her household, and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. And it came to pass at the seven years' end that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines, and she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land. And the king talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the things that Elijah hath done. And it came to pass as he was telling the king how he had restored a dead uh body to life, that behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life Cry to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My Lord, O King, this is the woman, and this is her son, and whom Elisha restored to life. And when the king asked the woman, she told him, so the king appointed unto her a certain officer, saying, Restore unto her unto all that was hers, unto all the fruits of the field, since the day that she left the land, even until now. Someone has said that for every New Testament truth, there's an Old Testament illustration of that truth, and I believe that. This whole story that we just read here is not a very long narrative, but it's an incredible story. It is a story that illustrates the New Testament truth of Romans 8. 28. All things work together for good. It's a wonderful illustration of the providence of God. Now the doctrine of God's providence is a very misunderstood doctrine. Part of understanding it is is understanding this concept along with others, but The word providence comes from two Latin words pro, which means before, and video, which means to see. And so the etymology of the word is to see before. And it's the idea, we can say that the providence of God carries this idea that God knows everything and God sees way down the road into the future. And God's actions today are based on what God sees tomorrow. The psalmist, when he was talking about God, he used a lot of metaphors. And one of the metaphors he used was this, the Lord is my high tower. And he uses this in Psalm 18, verse 2. And in Psalm 144, verse 2, Psalm 182 says, The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I trust, my buckler, and the horn of my salvation and my high tower. In that metaphor, it it communicates a lot of things about God. But did you know that in this day shepherds would uh go up into the high towers when they were watching over their sheep, they would sometimes go into a a watchtower. uh that was way high, they could see out over the pastures and they could better watch their sheep and they would bark out orders you could say to the under shepherds, the ones who were there helping them to guard the sheep and the orders that they gave were based on the v the view that they had, which perhaps the shepherds could not see at ground level. Military generals would sometimes go into the top of a watchtower on a battlefield and be able to give military commands based on what the general could see. And so when the psalmist said God is my high tower, he's basically saying God is able to see things that I can't see. That no one else can see. Psalm 11, verse 4 says this: The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven, his eyes behold, his eyelids try the children of men. And so God sees, not as man sees, that's very obvious. God sees way out into the future. And again, God's actions today are based on what God sees into the distant future. And this is part of the providential actions of God. And this story illustrates that. In this drama that we see, there are really four characters. There's Elisha the prophet. We've We've studied Elisha. We've seen his miracles. Um he was the protege of Elijah in 2 Kings. And you remember he prayed that God would give him a double portion of Elijah's spirit Did you know the Bible records that Elijah did seven miracles and Elisha performed exactly fourteen? So that prayer was answered. And each of the miracles that we've seen here in these narratives, it demonstrates the power of Yahweh over the false God of Baal. And then we also know that there's another character, and this is the woman in the story that we read about, the Shunammite woman. This is actually the second time we see this woman in 2 Kings. We already saw her the first time in 2 Kings chapter 4. In fact, I want you to just go back there for a minute. Let's reintroduce ourselves to this Shunamite woman. Look in 2 Kings chapter 4. And look down in verse number eight. And it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunim, and there was a great woman, and she constrained him to eat bread, and so it was that as often as he passed by, he turned into there to eat bread. You might remember this story. Elisha would travel a lot between his hometown and Mount Carmel. Mount Carmel was a special place because of the things that took place there Uh there may have been a school of the prophets there, and so Elisha would travel there often. He would travel from his hometown of Abel Mehola to Mount Carmel, which is about fifty miles. Uh the the town of Shun was about halfway. The average walker could walk about twenty to twenty-five miles a day, and so this was a perfect halfway point. And this woman here saw Elijah pass through, no doubt. several times. The Bible says in verse 8 she was a great woman, the Hebrew word gadol. That is she was a woman of status. She was a woman of wealth, of influence And she was also a generous woman because she would invite him to eat bread in verse 8. She constrained him to eat bread. And of course, bread is a general word for just food. She would have them in for lunch, she would have them in for dinner, she wanted them to she wanted to be hospitable. And this became a regular th thing. Um And then notice in verse number nine, and she said unto her husband, Behold now I perceive that this is a holy man of God, which passes by us continually. Let us make a chamber, I pray thee, on the wall, and let us set for him There a bed and a table and a stool and a candlestick, and it shall be when he cometh to us that he shall turn into there. This is the first prophet's chamber, right? Here's this woman and she is so generous and she makes this room and there was Elisha would go and he would stay and and and she takes it upon herself to take care of a servant of the Lord which shows her heart. And she was a grateful woman. Notice verse eleven, and it and it fell on a day that he came in thither, and he turned into the chamber and lay there, and he said to Gehazi his servant, Call the Shunamite. And when he had called her, he s she stood before him, and he said unto her him, say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for thee? Wouldest thou be spoken to for a k king, or to a captain, of the host? And she answered, I dwell among my own people. So Elisha is so thankful for her generosity that he calls her in and he says, Look, I want to do something for you. Is there anything I can do for you? Can I can I get you any tax breaks from the uh uh uh IRS, the Israeli Revenue Service, or can I is there anything I can just do for you? And uh She says, you know, her response is, nay, my Lord. No, not really. You know, I am I can I'm content. I'm content. Um and so really she doesn't really have anything that she wants. But Elisha is not content with that answer, and so he asks his servant, What do you think? And the servant gives a suggestion. She doesn't have any children. She doesn't have a son. It's just her and her husband. And so Elijah makes a promise. Look at verse 16 and he said, In about this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son And she said, Nay, my Lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid. This was such an incredible promise of hope for her That she didn't want him to tell her something that was not true. Don't tell me this if it's not going to happen. Obviously she was a woman who couldn't bear children. She wanted to have a child. She couldn't have a child. And she's saying to Elisha, please don't tell me this if it's if it's not true. She did not want her emotions to get up and then not be able to have a child. But remember part of the theme of Second Kings is the word of a prophet, and how when God speaks to a prophet, then the word is true. And of course God's word is fulfilled in verse 17. And the woman conceived and bare a son in that season that Elijah had said unto her according to the time of life. So she ends up having a child just like he said. But the story turns bad here. Because if you remember when we dealt with this this this woman's son, he grows a little older, he's helping his father work in the field. He says, my head, my head, there's something wrong, maybe it's a heat stroke, no one really knows for sure. But he's taken back to the the house by a servant. And basically the the mother takes him and she cradles him in her arms. Look at verse 20. And when she had taken him and brought him to his mother, when he had taken him brought him to his mother, she sat on her knees till noon. and then died. She cradles her son in her arms at noon and he dies. This is a just the worst sorrow that any parent can ever bear. But that's not the end of the story. Even though she's going through this difficult sorrow, she still has hope in Elisha and she w and she runs out basically. She doesn't tell her husband She lays the body of her son there in the room and she closes the door and she runs to go see Elisha. And as Elisha sees her running, uh he fight finds out what's wrong. And uh you remember this woman, you know, Gehazi came out to meet her, and she just passes by him and she wanted to go straight to Elisha, and she tells Elisha what's wrong. And in the rest of the story, he comes to her house, and miraculously he resurrects this child from the dead. Just an incredible miracle of God. And that's where we see this woman before. Now we're going to see her again here in chapter number eight But let me just tell you another character in the story, Nazgehazi Elisha's servant. We see him here in this story. We have to know a little bit about him We we have been introduced to Gehazi several times in the miracle narratives, but the Bible does not present him in a very positive light In fact, we see them the first time here in 2 Kings 4 in that whole story where the Shunammite woman will cling to Elisha's feet and Gehazi attempts to pry her away. And uh Elijah tells her not to do that, tells him not to do that. And then Elisha gives Gehazah his staff and says, Go back to this woman's home, put the staff on the boy. And you know, see and he'll be healed. And Gehazi does that and nothing happens. So it's kind of like almost God's commentary on the servant He he's not really a good servant, and the reason we know that for sure is he appears again in 2 Kings 5, and this time after Elisha heals Naaman from leprosy, Gehazi runs after Naaman. Naaman offered a big reward to Elisha and Elijah said, no, I don't want that. He didn't want to make the it seem like that the the work of Yahweh, the miraculous power of Yahweh is for sale or it's for any reward. He wanted this pagan king to get an understanding of the free grace and power of God. So it doesn't take any money. But Gahazi, however, runs after the chariot of Naaman and and secretly uh lies to uh Naaman asking for money, and because of his greed, he's found out, and then Gehazi is inflicted with Naaman's leprosy. And so he's not a good servant. That whole story reveals that the heart of this servant was filled with greed. And we're going to see him. He's going to appear here as we read in 2 Kings chapter 8. And then there's another character in this story, and that's the king of Israel. In this story, the king of Israel is not mentioned, his name's not mentioned in the text. However, we do know that it the king at this time was a man by the name of Joram. He is a wicked king. He's the son of Ahab and Queen Jezebel. He's an apostate king who has no regard for God. He has no regard for Elisha, the prophet of God At one point you might remember we were studying these narratives that Jehoram or Joram, uh that both are names are given there in scripture of the same person. He wanted to uh cut off Elisha's head. He threatened to cut off his head because he was blaming Elisha for the bad things that had happened So these are the characters of the story. Elisha, the Shunammite woman, Gehazi the servant, and the king of Israel, this apostate king So with these characters, let's take a look at this other narrative here now in chapter eight, and we can divide the story up into three parts. Number one, I call this the prophecy of the famine. And verse one Elisha speaks to this woman again in verse 1, then spake Elisha unto the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise and go thou in thine house. And sojourn where whithersoever thou canst sojourn, for the Lord has called for a famine, and it also shall come upon the land seven years. It's very obvious that Elijah cares for this woman. And the absence of her husband in this narrative suggests that he probably died, so she's probably a widow. And so once again we see the author focusing on God's care for widows and orphans, as we've seen so many times in these narratives. And Elisha tells her, you know, God's revealed to me that there's going to be a famine on the land. It's going to be here for seven years. Why the famine? Well remember Israel is an apostate nation. They're not walking with the Lord. And another thing that you might remember is in 2 Kings, the writer has been faithful to point out That the the curses that were uh given in Deuteronomy 28 for a disobedient people are all coming to pass. All these things we see happening, or all that God said would happen if the people didn't obey. And a famine was part of it, you might want to write down Deuteronomy 28, 38, thou shalt carry much seed into the field and shalt gather in little. And so this is the famine that God said. And again, this demonstrates the fulfillment of God's word, and it demonstrates God's sovereignty over nature. God can bring in a famine whenever he wants to. God is absolutely sovereign over nature. The psalmist tells us this many times. Whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and on earth and the seas and all the deeps. Psalm 135, verse 6. And so God is able to judge an apostate nation that is ungodly. And yet at the same time, he's able to preserve his people in that judgment. And that's what we see here with this woman. But for this woman, this is a trial. Because now, if she believes the word of Elisha, she has to leave her home, the home that she had been in for so many years. And this would cause trial. Would she ever get her home back if she leaves for seven years? Is she ever going to be able to get her home back? God is asking this woman to leave a land that she loves, the only land that she's known. And so this is a trial for her. Some trials and sorrows we go through in this life are not because of any wrong that we have done. This woman didn't do anything wrong. God's judging the land because of the disobedience of the people, and yet this woman is is kind of facing some of the consequences of that. And so this is how God watches over her. He tells her to leave. But yet again, this is a burden. But then I want you to see secondly, not only the prophecy of the famine, but secondly, the pilgrimage of the woman. Look at verse 2. And the woman arose and did after the saying of the man of God, and she went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. So she obeys the word of the prophet She went to the land of uh Philistia to dwell there as a foreigner, and so here she lives seven years in a strange land. It becomes a temporary home, but there she's protected from the famine and God's punishment on the people. Now, it's worth remembering that the writer of 2 Kings, who is he writing to? He's writing to exiles who were in Babylon Remember that? They're strangers in a strange land. And they're probably wondering, are we ever going to be able to return to Israel? Are we ever going to be able to get our home back, our land back. And so I can imagine that when this story was originally read to these exiles that are in Babylon, it has their interest because this woman's situation represents their situation. She had to leave her homeland and she had to go and live in a foreign land. And it wasn't because of any sin she had done, she was just obeying what God had put on her. And so this story had to provide hope for these exiles. You remember that when Nebuchadnezzar came in and he destroyed the temple and he he he he attacked Jerusalem on three different occasions, he carried away captives. Now we might have had a tendency to think, well, the captives that were taken out of the city of Jerusalem and forced to go into Babylon, they must have been really bad people. And the ones that got to stay behind in Jerusalem, they must have been really good people. No, that's not the case. How do we know that? Because Jeremiah the prophet uh told the people that that very thing. He told the exiles in Babylon, look, the reason you're there is not because you're bad or you've done anything, excuse me, anything wrong. In fact, the reason you're there is because God wants to preserve you. He wants to protect you. And he's going to bring you back. God took you to Babylon as a means of protection. You remember God gave Jeremiah a vision of two baskets of figs? One th basket of fig was was the figs were were ripe were ripe, they were perfect. The other basket of figs, they were rotten. And God says to Jeremiah, what do you see, Jeremiah? Jeremiah says, well, I see a basket of ripe figs and I see a basket of rotten figs. And God says, that's right. The rotten figs are the ones that I'm leaving in Jerusalem. The good figs are the ones I am taking to the land of Babylon. Now we if from our human perspective we would have assumed the exact opposite. We would have assumed that the good figs are the ones that God left in Jerusalem. God was being good to them by not allowing them to be carried away, and the bad things were the ones being carried away. That's the way man would have seen that situation, but that's not the way God was doing it And the reason I say that is because it might be that you're here tonight and you might look at yourself and from a human perspective it might look like you're in a bad situation. Things are really terrible. And you look at others, and man, things for them seem to be a whole lot better. And you might Uh get the idea that maybe I'm a bad fig. Maybe I'm just not God is not pleased with me. I've got things in my life that God's judging me for. But the quality of your life and character cannot be determined by your circumstances. It might be the exact opposite of what you're thinking. God might be doing these things in your life because he has something good later on that he wants to do. So these exiles that are reading this story of this woman, that probably gives them hope because they're wondering what's going to happen to them. And so I want you to see the third part of the story. I want you to see the next part is the providence of God. We see the prophecy of the famine, the pilgrimage of the woman. And then thirdly, I want you to see the providence of the Lord. In every Old Testament narrative, there's a crisis and a conflict. And then there's a resolution. So whenever you read these Old Testament narratives, I had a tendency to read it like this. I'm re if you read it, it's kind of like a plot. You want to find out what's the crisis in this story. Because every story has a crisis or a conflict that needs resolution. And so what is the crisis of this story here in chapter eight? What is the big question that needs to be answered? I kind of alluded to it. When the woman returns home after seven years, will she have a home left? Will she have land to return to? She had no husband to help her keep her claim on her land. She left no one behind to take care of it. In verse 2, it says when she left the land and went to uh Philipsia, that she took her household, in verse 2. That means she took everyone with her So she left no one behind to tend her house, to tend her land. And according to the customs of that day, when a property and a home were abandoned, it automatically became the property of the king. The king then takes full control. It's now his. It's his property. So in many ways, her situation is kind of parallel that of Naomi and Ruth. She's flat of famine. She lost her main supporter. She seems to be at the mercy of a political system So the big question is, how will she be able to ever go home and reclaim her property? This is the crisis that's in the passage. This is the crisis that needs to be resolved. And again, think of the readers, the exiles, they're wondering the same thing as they read this whole story. But I want you to see what happens. I want you to see God's providence at work here in this story. Notice there's three wonderful, what I call three wonderful providences that take place in this story. First of all, the conversation, I call it. Look in verse number three. And it came to pass at the seven years' end that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines. And she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land. So the seven years are over. She's coming back out of the land of the Philistines. She knows that in order to get her property and her land back, she has to get it from the king. He's now the owner of it. What do you think her chances are getting her property back from an apostate wicked king? What do you think our chances are of getting anything from this guy, Joram? If there's anything like his father Ahab, remember what Ahab did? He stole property from another guy. He was there very, very greedy. And so what do you think her chances are? All sh you know, after all, I mean she left It could be very well that the king would consider her to be one of his enemies. I mean she wasn't loyal. She left Israel. She went and dwelt in a land of what could be considered enemies. She showed disloyalty to the king, disloyalty to Israel by even leaving. But notice the timing of the events in this story. Look at verse 4 So she's going to go get her land back from the king. But look in verse 4. And the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha has done. That's interesting to me. She comes in right at the time when King Joram is having a conversation with who? Gehazi. And who is he? He's the servant of Elisha. I don't even know how these guys know each other, for one thing. But the fact that he's there in the presence of the king and they're having this conversation, the Bible doesn't tell us why he would even be there. It simply reveals this as a coincidence, which we know that's not a coincidence. Like I like to say, there are no accidents, only acts of providence. So And notice also the king asked Gehazi to tell him about some of the miracles that Elijah did in verse 4, the great things. This is a word that refers to miracles. Why would an apostate king want to know about miracles from Elisha? A guy he doesn't even like. Tell me about some of the great miracles that Elisha did. Why would he want to know about that? This is a guy who had no regard for Elisha, yet at this particular time, the king's heart was moved to learn about Elisha. This is God's providence at work. Remember Proverbs 21, one, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turns it whatever way he wants. God turns the heart of the king any way he wants. A king is an absolute monarch. It's kind of hard for us here in America to understand that because we live in a democracy. But a king does whatever he pleases But the most stubborn will of the most powerful monarch on earth is directed by God as easily as a farmer directs an irrigation canal on his farm. God can turn that heart whatever way he wants. This is comforting to know, isn't it? Because there's times in our life when we might feel like our future in the hands are in the hands of other people. You know, their decision determines our destiny. A government can block a visa, a professor can determine the academic success of a student, a supervisor can promote a career. It might seem that times we're at the mercy of men, but again, God rules in the hearts of the monarchs, the kings to do what he wishes I think I I told you one of my favorite stories is of George Washington. He wanted to join the British Royal Navy when he was seventeen years old and his mother gave her permission, her consent for him to do it. And so he he uh ran down to the dock. He had all his things together. He was ready to to to launch out and get on the boat. And then while he was getting things ready to to get on a rowboat to go out to the main ship, word came back to him that his mother had changed her mind. She refused to sign the consent form And so George Washington had his mother signed that consent form, likely would have been fighting for the British instead of the Americans during the war for independence. But the mother changed her mind at the last minute. I don't think that's an accident. The Bible says in Proverbs 169, a man's heart devises his way, but the Lord directs his step. And here God has the heart of this king in his hand, and he wants to know more about the miracles of Elisha. But then notice the next thing in this Another providence I call it. I call it the confrontation because look down in verse number five. And it came to pass as he was telling the king how he had restored a dead body to life. That behold the woman whose son he had restored to life cried to the king for her house and for her land. You think that's a accident? Right when Gehazi is telling Joram The greatest of all of Elisha's miracles, that Elisha actually resurrected a young man from the dead, right at that time. She is coming to the king and she's crying out for her land. The word for cry out here in the Hebrew is the idea of making a claim. She's making an official claim for her land. How is that for timing? How's that for lining things up timing-wise? Right when she comes in to make this claim, here this king is hearing this incredible story. of how her son was resurrected from the dead. And then while e while Gehazi is telling this story, look at the next part of verse 5. It says, And Gehazi said, My lord, O King, this is the woman And this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life. In verse 5, you notice the word behold, which says, behold the woman whose son he had restored to life. And so this this has the idea of amazement, of surprise. So you can just I think of it like this, here's Gehazi, and he's talking to the king, and he's telling her about this woman, her son being resurrected, and he turns and there she is. Whoa! Hey, here she is right here. This is the woman I've been telling you about. She came in at that very moment. This had to shock Gehazi and the king. She's standing right there. And then notice the final part of the story. I call this the concession. Look at verse number six. And when the king asked the woman, she told him. That is, um The king gets confirmation. Is this really true? Did this really happen? Is he telling the truth? And she confirms the story. And so in response to that, the king does several things. First of all, he appoints a an official For her, look in verse six. So the king appointed under her a certain official, saying, Restore all that was hearse, and all the fruits of the field Since the day she left the land, even until now. So he does three things. First of all, he gives her an official to make sure that she's going to get everything that she wants. And then he restores not just the land, he restores more than what she wanted. Restore all that was hers. And notice the next phrase, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now. He doesn't have to do any of this. He doesn't have to give her the land for that matter. But not only does he give her the land, he says, give her the the the r the money he they obviously couldn't give her the the fruits of the land because that wouldn't still be available. It's been seven years. So what he was basically saying is Give her the value of all the crops that her fields would have produced during all that time, and restore all that to her. Isn't that amazing? She doesn't just get her home and her land back. She gets the value of what she would have gotten had she been there the whole seven years. Wow That's incredible. All the income. She doesn't get just her house and her land. She gets all the income of her land that she would have received had she been there at that time. Are you amazed like I am at this? This is incredible. God is taking care of this woman. God, in his gracious providences, is able to restore to us whatever may have been lost in our life due to men's sin and failure. God gave it, he's able to give it all back. And again, this whole story is an illustration of Romans 8. 28. What we have here, if you think about all of this, if you go all the way back to chapter 4 and you put all these events together, what you really have here is you have a series of bad events that all turn out to be good. You have a woman's son dies, you have a famine in the land, her husband dies, she has to leave her home, not knowing if she'll ever get it back. She has to live in the land of the Philistines for seven years. An apostate king seizes her property. Which means no one else can take it. By the way, if you think about that, the fact that the king sees it means no one else could grab it. And in that way, God was preserving it for her through the king. But you notice that all these events Individually, if you look at them, we would say these are bad things. But they all work together for good. It all works out for good. There may be some people here tonight that have have had some bad things happen, some setbacks over the last few years in your life. And from your perspective, it just doesn't look good. I've had one bad thing happen after another after another. You've had to endure one trial after another trial after another trial, one sorrow after another sorrow. But the way to have peace is to apply the promise of God's providence to your life and circumstances. You have to remember that for God's people, if you're a child of God, God works all things together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And so let me just give you just uh real quickly here, just three ingredients you have to have if you're going to enjoy God's providence if it's going to give you peace. Number one, trust. You have to trust God. I know you may be going through bad individual circumstances right now, but are you willing to trust God with that? Are you willing to say, God, I trust you? I don't understand it. I can't see. I can't see way down the road. But God's actions today are based on what God knows about tomorrow. And I'm going to trust God. This woman trusted the Lord. How do we know? Well, she she obeyed the word. The prophet said, Leave the land. That was a hard thing to do. And she she picked up all her stuff and she left. And then she came back. And and she went to the king. All of this demonstrates her trust. But also time is another thing I would tell you. You have to give God time to work things out. All these things took place over a decade, over a 10-year period. It didn't happen overnight. It took place over time. We can't always see what God is doing in individual acts or circumstances. We have to look back. You ever get to a place in your Christian life where you look back and maybe something that happened to you ten years ago down the road, you can look now, you can look in the rearview mirror, and you can say, you know, I I I understand that now I understand why now. You know, you know, there have been times in my life I I had disappointments and then years removed from it. I look back and I'm like, now I'm grateful for that disappointment. Now I'm thankful that I had to go through that. God knows what he's doing, but you have to give God time. And then here's the last thing, tenderness. Tenderness. Don't harden your heart. When you're going through a trial, don't harden your heart This woman kept believing in the goodness of God. She trusted God by patiently waiting for seven years. She could have she could have just said, you know, I'm done. She could have been there for two years and said, you know what? Forget this. I need to get my land back. What would you think would have happened if she just said, I'm gonna go back and I'm gonna grab my land? She never would have gotten it. It would have been a world of trouble for her to try to do that But she patiently waited, and her heart did not grow hard. You see, beloved, a trial can either make you bitter. Or it can make you better. But it's all about your attitude. And if you keep your heart tender before the Lord, God will Make it all work out, and he'll bless you through it. Remember, James, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith works patience. But let patience have her perfect work. And so this story is given to the readers, these exiles, that it might give them hope. Because again, remember, they're living in a foreign land. They're want wanting to come home. They're wanting to get back their land. They're wondering if it'll ever happen. So when they read this story and they see the providential hand of God in the life of this woman, it had to give them hope. That God could do the same for them. That's what it was meant to do. And it's also meant to do the same thing for you. God wants you to have hope even though you're going through difficulty. Just remember, God is in control And God is going to work things out for your good and for his glory. In the end, this woman was able to joy and to enjoy the blessing of God's providence. And that's what we need to do. We need to trust God, be at peace with what he's trying to do. I know things can be painful. But underneath all of that, if we trust God, He will sustain us and you know what? He'll work it out. Did you know the crucifixion of our Lord was a series of bad events that God arranged to make it all work out for good for all of us? That's what the whole cross of Christ was about. It's God allowing his son to go through these terrible things that we might have the promise of salvation. Place your faith in Christ and in his work. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this wonderful story tucked away here in 2 Kings, a brief narrative. It's pretty easy to read over it and not really see that this is a beautiful story of your providence. How you take care of your own. And even when you're judging a land You're able to take care of your own. Even when there's a financial crisis around, you're still able to take care of your own people in the midst of all of that. And when we go through trials and difficulties and heartaches, Lord You mean it for good. You are the God of the high terror. You see your actions today are based on what you know about tomorrow. And so may we put our faith in you and all the work that you're doing and trust you, even in the midst of the pain, to say, I trust you. I know that you know what is best. How many would say with heads bowed and eyes closed, that's my declaration tonight. I'm putting my faith in God, even in the midst of my circumstances. I put my trust in the Lord. Say that's with a raised hand. Say, that's my declaration to God tonight. God, I trust you. I I know that circumstances might not look good, but I trust you Father, grant peace to all of these that place their trust in your sovereign hand. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.