Take your Bibles tonight and open please to uh the book of Psalms. And I want you to go to chapter 90. Uh we've been going through some of these wonderful psalms. I should say take your hymn book out, meaning your Bible, because it's all about Hymn, right? But this this book of Psalms here is the Hebrew hymn book. If you don't think God likes singing, you better guess again. He's got a whole book in the Bible that is a hymn book. uh these Psalms and they have profound wonderful truth and I hope to encourage you tonight. Now I want you to look in Psalm 90. I want you to look at a very well-known verse in Psalm 90, verse number 12 Where it says, So teach us to number our days that we might apply our hearts unto wisdom. That's a verse I'm sure you've read before. And so really what the Psalm is telling us is to make time count. Learn how to number your days, and that's what I want to talk about. Recently, uh some of you know on the Facebook, uh every once in a while you get a memory that they send you of a previous post from years past And uh and a memory was sent to me of a picture of me in London standing there with my daughter Abby and my son Josiah and Annie, and behind us is Big Ben. and the the the typical London landscape behind us and that picture was seven years old and I just began to think I remember when that picture was taken and it seemed like it was just last week I just began to think about how many things have happened in that that time period in those seven years. I never dreamed that Abby would be living in London, that I would have two Brit British grandbabies Uh actually one of them was American because he was born right here in America. You know, right here in uh Mercy Hospital. But I look at Annie and uh that was seven years ago. Now she's married and Josiah, who is just a a young guy there, now he's a young man. And so um so much has happened in that time And time has passed by so quickly. I think it's the nature of human nature that we take things for granted, don't you? We have to value the days that God gives us because they pass by so quickly. One time David was being rebuked by Joab. He sent an old woman to rebuke him. And one of the things that she said to David, uh, who was ba basically had banished his rebellious son Absalom from his presence, and this woman in her rebuke, she said, you know, we're like water spilt out on the ground. Once it's spilled out, you can't get it back. Once time passes us by, it's gone. And so that's what this psalm is going to tell us about. It's about making time count, it's taking seriously the time, the days that God has given us. Again in verse number 12 So teach us to number our days that we might apply our hearts unto wisdom. Now, this psalm was not written by David. This psalm was written by Moses. And this is one of the oldest psalms. In fact, it was probably the first psalm written by Moses as a man of God. And you know and you know what the occasion was for him writing this psalm David, I told you David didn't write it, right? Moses wrote this psalm when Israel had rebelled against God. They provoked God. You remember that story where they sent out twelve spies to Canaan and they came back with a bad report. Twelve spies. Ten gave a bad report. Two gave a good report. But it was enough to cause the people to rebel against the commandment of the Lord and to disbelieve God, and they provoked God to anger. And that's why that event is called the Provocation, and it's recorded in Numbers chapter 13 and in chapter 14, where the people wept and they cried out And the Lord said this in Numbers 14, 11. He said, And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? How long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have showed among them And then God said, This, your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness. Now, the very next day they came to God and said, You know what, God, we had a bad day yesterday. We're ready to cross over now. And God said, No, it's too late. That's it. And so then for this newly formed nation, they were banished to wander in that wilderness for 40 years. Oldest of them from twenty years old and up, uh they would not go into the uh the promised land, but those who are younger twenty and down, uh I should say twenty and down and over twenty and up 20 and down were able to go into the promised land, but they had to wait for forty years. So for forty years, there were a time in Moses' life when he was surrounded by people that he knew that were just falling in the wilderness. They were dying. It is estimated that one and a half million Jews died in the wilderness during the next 40 years Years. That's a lot of graves in the desert. And so Moses sees all this. He thinks about the shortness of life. He thinks about the surety of death. He thinks about the sinfulness of man and the holiness of God. And as he's pondering all this, Moses writes down this Psalm, Psalm 90, where he says that we should learn to number our days that we might apply our hearts unto wisdom. Now really this psalm here is divided up into four stanzas In verses 1 and 2, he talks about the eternal nature of God. In verses 3 through 6, he talks about the mortal nature of man. In verses 7 through 11, he's going to talk about God's wrath over man's sin. And then the last part of this psalm is a prayer for God's mercy and for God's grace. But again, the central idea we saw in verse number 12, where Moses is saying, Teach us to number our days. uh to make time count, to make every day count. Do you number your days? We norm normally number our years or number our months. But do we really number our days? I heard about a little boy that went to his grandfather and he said, uh Paul Paul, can I live right for a whole year? And uh he said, no, you're going to make mistakes. You're going to sin. He said, well, can I live right for a whole month? He said, no, that's not possible. You're going to make mistakes. He said, what about a whole week? He said, no He said, what about a whole day? He said, no, not a whole day. You're going to make mistakes. He said, what about a whole hour? He said, knowing you? No. You're not going to be able to do it for a whole hour. And then he said, Well, what about just a moment? And the grandfather thought and he said, You know what, you can you can live right for a moment. He said, well, okay, Grandpa, I'm going to live then moment by moment. I'm going to live moment by moment. And that's actually pretty profound. And this is what Moses is telling us here. Number your days. Value every day. Now, he's going to give us four lessons to encourage us to number our days. And if you're taking notes, here's the first lesson. Just write down number one, the timeless nature of God. The timeless nature of God. Look in again in verse number two. He says, Before the mountains were ever for formed or brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth or the world Even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. And so Moses jumps off here in the deep theological waters. He Starts off by talking about the eternal nature, or we could say the eternality of God. God is from everlasting into everlasting. He has no beginning and he has no end. God dwells in eternity. Theologians call this the eternality of God, that he has no beginning, end, or succession of moments in his own being. He sees all time equally vividly He sees events in time, and yet he sees events in time and he acts in time, and yet he sees all time equal visitly. I know that's hard for us sometime to grasp, but he's timeless in his own being I like to think of it like this, you know, you ever see those little hamster farms where there's a little tube and the hamster is just crawling down that tube? I'm standing here on the outside. I can see where he's been, where he is, and where he's going And that's the way God is. You see, we live in the tunnel or the tube called time. God lives outside of time. God doesn't live in time, he lives out of time. God doesn't come from time, time comes from God. It is something that he invented, and he is eternal. And so Moses wants us to know this. God, you are everlasting. You are the eternal God. You're an eternal being. Just write down Job 36, 26. Behold, God is great, and we know him not. Neither can the number of his years be searched out. And another way of saying this is God, as he revealed himself to Moses, God just called himself. He said, I am. I am the great I am. When Moses said, Lord, who are you? God said, I am Which again, I think is uh this concept of God being eternal is wrapped up in that revelation about God. And so here's the bottom line. God doesn't look at time the way we do. God is outside of time, he sees it. And he created it. He sees it all vividly. And time therefore is a gift, something that God has given us He slices off just a piece of eternity, and he gives it to us, and it's this little thing called time. I know this is not a profound truth. It's not a new revelation, but you know that you only have just a little bit of this thing called time that God's given you? Just a slice of it? Just a tiny little minute, only 60 seconds in it, forced upon me, can't refuse it, didn't seek it, didn't choose it, I must suffer if I lose it Give account if I abuse it. Just a tiny little minute, but eternity is in it And every minute that God entrusts to us is a gift. And so we need to understand that God, who is the eternal God, gives us time as a gift. And we dare not abuse that gift that He's given us, that gift called time. Friend, how about you? And how about me? And so uh it's God doesn't see time the way we do, but he gives it to us as a gift. Write down 2 Peter 3. 8. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. One day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. And so God gives us this gift from eternity to us, this thing called time. Not only the timeless nature of God, but then I want you to write down number two. Then he talks about the temporary nature of man, right on the heels of that. Look down to verse number three: Thou turnet man to destruction, and saith, Return ye children of men. Again, verse 4, for a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday, when it is passed, and as a watch in the night. Now, Moses says he returns man to destruction in verse number three. And Moses is saying, you know, man came from dust and dirt, and guess what? He's going to go back to dust and dirt. And I think he's referring here back to the curse that God imposed upon man in Genesis 3. You remember when God said after man sin, he said, out of dust Thou was taken, and unto thus thou shalt return. It was part of the curse of death that came upon man after And so again, Moses is emphasizing this life here is just, it's temporary. God has measured, he measured out our days from the beginning to end. And it's temporary for us here on earth. I read about a man named Arthur Reed. He was 123 years old. 123. Think about that. It's amazing. He married for the third time when he was 92. His two previous wives died. He took five-mile walks when he was 100. He rode a bicycle until he was 110. He worked until he was a hundred and sixteen. When asked the secret of his long life, he said this, they made me out of good dirt. Good dirt. But you know what? As good as that dirt was, he still died. And he was returned back to dirt. It doesn't matter how good the dirt was that made you uh we're all going to die and and Moses says this uh that it's going to be returned back we're gonna be returned back to that And it's going to be very soon from the perspective of God in verse 4. For a thousand years in night cider, but as yesterday when it is passed, and as a watch in the night I mean, to God, it's just a moment. A thousand years is just it's not very long at all. And in fact, he says it's like a watch in night. A thousand years is like a watch And then what's a watch in a night? Well the Jews had the night divided up into four watches, or four three-hour periods, from six to nine was the first watch, from nine to twelve was the second, from twelve to three, the third. And then from three to six, that was the fourth watch. And so it's really a qu uh a three-hour time period. Just that one little watch. And and the and the writer says that a thousand years to God It's just like a watch in the night. It goes by so quickly. So quickly. And and and God sa says that to us, uh, we need to understand how short Our life really is, relatively speaking. It goes by so, so quickly. And Moses isn't trying to be morbid, and neither am I. I'm just trying to be factual. I just want you to understand that whatever days God has given us, each day is a gift, and we need not to waste any of that But to use it for his glory, don't waste any of the days that God has given us because, relatively speaking, it's really not that long, this life here Those the days that we have are not that many compared to eternity, compared to the way that God sees time. And uh that's the the message that He wants to give us here. It's a gift, it goes by so fast We better utilize what God's given us. In fact, how how swiftly does life go by? And he gives us some poetic images here. He talks about a flash flood. Look in verse number five. Thou carriest them away as with a flood. There's the first thing. Lord. Death comes just like a flood suddenly. They're carried away. Just like a flash flood. Now, around here close to Ellicate City, we understand what a flash flood is, right? We've had two of them. They come quickly, they come unexpectedly. And this is what he's saying here, just in a moment Death can come and carry a person away when we least expect it. And then he says it's also like suddenly falling asleep. Look again at verse 5. Thou carriest them away as with a flood They are as a sleep. In other words, it's just like falling asleep. You know, it just comes upon you. And you just can't keep your eyes open. And the next thing you know, you're asleep. When, you know, this is especially when you're trying to stay awake, next thing you know, you wake up in the morning and you think, what happened? Sleep overtook you It just came upon you. When your body is weary, when sleep comes, you can try to fight it off, but guess what? Sleep will win. And this is the idea here. It's like sleeping, falling asleep, it says here. And then it's like grass that is withering away. Look again in verse 5 at the end where it says, they are like grass Which groweth up in the morning it flourishes and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withered. Did you know that in the ancient near Esau Grass can live just one day, it can be uh it can grow there and be there in the morning. When the rain comes, it'll sprout forth, but when the hot desert sun beats down upon it, it can wither by evening. The life of grass is so short-lived there in Palestine, especially. And that's what Moses is saying our life is like. It is short Someone said that life is so short that the wood of the cradle rubs tar tightly against the marble of the tomb. The Bible says our days are on earth are a shadow. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. In Job 7. 7, remember my life, it is but a breath. And Psalm 102 verse 3, my days are consumed like smoke. In Psalm 102. 11, the psalmist said, My days are like a shadow that lengthens, and I wither away like grass. And again, Moses is not being morbid. He's just reminding us of the brevity of life. It's so quick. It goes by so fast. And as much as you might want to, you can hold off death to for a while, perhaps from a human perspective, but death will come. And from a man's perspective, you can't have victory over it. From man's perspective, you will get caught by this thing called Have you heard of cryonics? It's a science that freezes a person's body after death, hoping that science later on will find a way to resuscitate that person? And people are actually signing up for this. In fact, there are thousands of people already that have said, you know, I want you to freeze my body, and we believe that one day medical science will figure out a way to give me back my life Ted Williams, the famous baseball player, had his body frozen. His daughter said, some people believe in God, they put their faith in God, we put our faith in science. And some people actually live that way. But friend, I want to tell you something. Thank God for science. Thank God for technology. But science and technology is not going to deliver you from death. There's only one person that can deliver you from death, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're going to see that as we go on. Of course, we know that, but our our life matters as we are linked to the Eternal through our relationship to God. That's the only way we beat death. That's the only way we have abundant life. But let me go on here. We talked about the timeless nature of God and the temporary nature of man That's what Moses talks about. But I want you also to write down number three, the terminal nature of sin. And what Moses is going to tell us here is that one of the reasons why Life is short, is because of sin. Sin has invaded our existence. Look in verse 7. For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath we are troubled. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. And so there's a sense here in which Moses is saying, really, sin robs us of life Sin provokes the wrath of God. Now keep in mind the context about this passage. Moses writes this because he's seeing people all around them fall in the wilderness And why are they falling in the wilderness? Because they refuse to believe God, they refuse to trust God, and they are experiencing the punishment of God because of their unbelief. God's wrath has come down upon those who would not believe in him. And so uh every day There are people dropping all around. And Moses said, You know what? Sin provokes God's wrath. But also sin is witnessed by God. God sees it in verse 8. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee Our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Beloved, you know this, but let me remind you that God sees everything that you do. He knows all your acts and all your thoughts. and all your motives, all of that is open before God. He sees all of it. This is the omniscience of God. And of course we know this. Even the things that you might think are secret sins are not secrets to God. God knows all about it, Moses said. And then also sin makes life short. Look at verse 9. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. Man's life is a tragic, short story, a tale that is told. And actually the word for story here in the Hebrew is a word for a sigh. Life is just a short sigh. A short sigh. And then he said, sin causes the suffering. Look in verse ten. The days of our years are threescore and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years. Yet is there strength, labor, and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. And so Moses gives the average lifespan. And based on his observation, he's saying, you know, the average lifespan is about 70 years here, three score and ten. He says, and if by reason of strength they be four score years Uh that's the life I was reading some statistics about life expectancy. Did you know that what the life expectancy is for uh for men in the United States? Let me give it to you. According to one statistic, the life expectancy for men here in the U. S. is 75 years. 75 years. So guys, write it down. Some are some of you are you know you're gonna make it to 75. For women it's eighty. How come they always outlive us They always outlive us stronger than us. Eighty years. And Moses is saying, you know, if by reason of your physical strength you live seven or even more. That's good, but still in this life there's toil, there's trouble, there's sorrow. And so There's another thing he brings out. People think lightly sometimes about God's wrath. Look in verse 11. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. And Moses is just Contrasting here man's mortality with God's eternality, and he's contrasting also God's holiness with man's sin. Who takes to heart the full intensity of God's anger on sin is what he's saying, even in this world. You know, what's amazing is that people live as if they're going to live for for eternity. They just don't think about death. They have no thought about it. They have no thought about the fact that perhaps maybe what they're doing might bring God's wrath down on them. That he's a holy God and he will give an a demand an account of us. And Moses is saying, people don't take that thought seriously. Think about it. He's out there in that desert seeing people fall And yet it just seems like people don't take the fact that they're going to die and they will face God, and God is a holy God, and he will judge sin. And uh he's amazed that people don't really think about that or take it into account. And so uh we need to take heed from that. And that's why it says, look in verse 12, so teach us. To number our days that we might apply our heart unto wisdom. God help us. to live in the fear of God each day, recognizing that we will one day stand before a holy God. Now let me give you the last thing. We talked about the timeless nature of God and the temporal nature of man and the terminal nature of sin. But right down number four, let me talk about the transformational nature of prayer. Because in the last stanza here in this Psalm, Moses prays and he makes several requests. And these are things that we should do as we read this psalm, things that we should pray for as we learn to number our days and make our time count. And so first of all, pray that we value each day, according to verse number 12, to apply our hearts to wisdom. That is to make sure that we don't spend our life on things that aren't worthy of our time and attention. Apply your heart to wisdom. That is, make the right choices in each day that God's given you. Don't waste your time on silly things, misspent activities. Write down Psalm 118, verse 24. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. And again, each day is a unique gift. And we need to recognize that. And we need to make sure we value that day and we don't spend it on things that are silly or are not worthy of our time. You know. And so we pray that we value each day. Also write down, pray for God's wisdom for each day. Here is what he's saying. And wisdom again is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. It's making the right choices each day. If we want to live make each day to the fullest, then we have to make sure that we choose not necessarily between good and bad, but between what's good and what's best for this day. What's the best thing? Um you know we got all these uh Books out there about time management and saving time and things like that. You know what? I think as a believer we need to be yielded to the Holy Spirit and say, Lord, teach me to make the right decisions today, to spend my time on the things that are the best things. And not the time wasters, you know. I can tell you the equivalent of reading a 50,000-word book per minute. Find a book with 50,000 words that's not worth reading and don't read it. I just saved a lot of time there. You see, time is not valuing time and getting the most out of the day is finding the right things to do and not doing the things that are wasteful. And don't insult God by saying you don't have enough time. God gave you plenty of time. Make sure that you're doing the right things in that time. Jesus could say at the end of 33 years, Lord, I finished everything you gave me to do. And I don't read in the gospel where Jesus was running around all over the place. I see him ministering graciously Doing the right things that God wanted them to do. Here's the next thing. Pray for God's mercy for each day. We pray that we value each day. Pray for God's wisdom for each day. Pray for God's mercy for each Fate And verse 13, return, O Lord, how long, and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. And when Moses uses the word return here, he's making a reference to what he previously said in verse 3. Return to us with your divine favor is what he's saying. And mercy before you return us to the dust. Before you return us to the dust, Lord, return to us with your favor. And then verse 13, notice what he says, how long? What does he mean by that? How long must we endure without your favor? And so Moses is praying for mercy. How many of you know that we need mercy every day from God? Oh Lord, please be merciful. Give us your mercy. And again, think about the circumstances. Moses sees what's going on, and he's praying for the mercy of God. But also this: pray to see God's hand at work each day. Look at verse 16. Let thy work appear into thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. Now in this these lines, which are parallel here in verse 16, God's work is showing us his glory. And so this takes spiritual discernment. Moses praying, God, give me enough spiritual vision to see your hand at work each day. Let me see what you're doing. Because I want to tell you, God works every day. He's constantly at work. And I want to be working where God is working. If I see God working in a certain situation, I want to have enough spiritual discernment to pick up on that and say, Lord, this is where you're working, so this is where I want to go. And work alongside of what you are doing. And so here's the next thing. Pray that we experience God's love and favor each day. Pray that we experience God's love and favor each day. Look down in verse 17. And let the beauty of our Lord God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands. Yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. And when he says, let the beauty of the Lord be upon us, the word again is a word here from the Hebrew Noam, favor, pleasantness, love. Remember the mother-in-law of Ruth, Naomi? Her name comes from this root word here in the Hebrew. And again, it means pleasantness. The blessings of the world are so fleeting, so fickle, but God's blessings, they truly do satisfy. And they are lasting. Alexander McLaren said this, the only thing that will secure lifelong gladness is a heart satisfied with the experience of God's love. So we pray for that, and then we pray for God to establish our works. Moses is really praying here that God will help him to do the work. that God called him to do. Lord, help me to do the thing that you have called me to do. And so we see the timeless nature of God, we see the temporary nature of man, we see the terminal nature of sin, the transformational nature of prayer. And every day should be a time of us praying for these things in our life. But really, the ultimate lesson of this whole psalm is the one thing that gives that gives us meaning to this temporal life Is the fact that we have a relationship with an eternal God. And that's what I want you to see. If you don't get anything else Understand this. What gives your life meaning here is your relationship with an eternal God. In fact, go back to verse number one. Let's go back to where we started. Look at verse 1. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Think about that. For forty years, Moses and Israel had no place to call home as they wandered in that desert. They were without, you could say, an earthly dwelling place. They never unpacked They never settled during that 40 years. Numbers, uh, according to the book of Numbers, it gives uh 33 names and 42 places they camped during their journey. But in the midst of that, Moses knew one thing: God is our dwelling place. God is our home. And it's upon this verse that Isaac Watts wrote that great hymn. God, our help in ages past. He wrote this, O God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blast, and our eternal home. And that song reminds us that without God, our life really here is nothing. God is our dwelling place. God is our eternal home. And our life here only has real meaning as long as we have a relationship with that eternal God So the question I would pose to you tonight is this, do you know God through Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ came that he might link us up with that eternal God. This temporal life is linked up With the eternal God. And you know what? Because you know Jesus Christ, because you know Him by faith, guess what? You'll have eternal life We're going to live forever. I don't need science to try to you know bring me back to life after freezing me when I die. Friend, I don't want this body back. I get a brand new body. The Bible talks about a glorified body that God will give us, the resurrection, the power of the resurrected Christ. We are temporary creatures, but when we get saved, we're linked up with a timeless God. And that's why Moses could say, Lord, you've been our dwelling place. I don't really have a home here that's permanent. You are my dwelling place. I look forward to spending my eternity with God in heaven. I let me close with this. I read about a young man who uh in 1981 he was flown to a remote Alaskan wilderness. He wanted to photograph nature. And and he had a wonderful time out there. He had all this photograph equipment. He had 500 rolls of film. He had firearms. He had 1,400 pounds of provisions. And he was having a great time month after month, just photographing nature, enjoying his time out there. But suddenly his dream turned into a nightmare. Because in all the planning that he did for this adventure, he forgot to plan how to get out of the wilderness. He never planned for anyone to come get him and to fly him out. In that remote Alaskan wilderness. And he wrote in his journal in August, I think I should have used more foresight about arranging my departure. And then he said, wrote, I'll soon find out. And he waited and waited to see if someone would come to him, and no one came to him. And tragically they found his body next to a river. There in that remote wilderness. And the investigation revealed he carefully mapped out where he was going to go and his adventure and all his provision, but he just didn't map out how he was going to get out of there. And you might think, man, what a foolish thing. The only thing more foolish are people who map out everything in this temporal life, but they don't map out what happens after they die. They don't map out how to get out of here. You know what? You better make provision for eternity. You better make sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, thank you for this wonderful psalm. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to remember the message of it. Time indeed is a gift that you have entrusted to us, a gift from an eternal God to finite temporary man. And we must give an account for how we use it. But most importantly, Lord, we better make sure that our life This temporary life here is prepared for eternity. And I pray, Lord, that we everyone here under the sound of my voice has made preparation for that. That they know beyond any shadow of a doubt that they have trusted Jesus as their Lord and Savior, that their faith is in the risen Christ, the one who died for them and paid their sin debt on the cross. And they can say tonight, My hope is in the Lord, I trust in Christ in Christ alone. Christ and no other And friend, can you say that tonight with heads bowed and eyes closed? If you can't say that, I want to invite you right where you are to make a decision to trust Jesus. Right now. Make provision for your eternity. And would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, please come into my heart. Please save me. I know I'm a sinner. And I know you came to die for sinners like me. And I believe you died for my sin. I'm turning to you and I'm putting my faith in what you did for me on the cross. And I'm receiving the gift of eternal life. The Bible says, friend, if you reach out to Jesus in faith, he will receive you. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Him that cometh unto me, I will now wise cast out. So friend, have you made that decision to trust Jesus tonight? Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. May we apply these truths to our life. For your glory, for your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.