Take take your Bible tonight, please. Open to the book of Psalm 119. As you know, uh several years ago we started this study. I'm just kind of teasing. Uh I started this in the Psalm 119. It seems like one thing after another has come up and we haven't gotten back to it. I feel like we've been out of it for a while. But Psalm 119, verse number 25. We're going through Psalm 119 just one stanza at a time. You know, there are 22 stanzas in Psalm 119 after the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And tonight we're going to look from verses 25 down to verse number 32, which is the Dalit section of Psalm 119. And I want to talk tonight about how to pray when you're down. In his book called The Body, A Guide for Occupants, the author takes the reader on a head-to-toe tour of the human body. And he begins by describing the largest organ in the human body. Can you guess what that might be? That's the skin. He says that we have a the inner skin, which is the dermis, the inner layer, then the outer layer, which is the epidermis. And he says the outermost surface is made up entirely of dead cells. Whereas he says when our body meets air, we are all cadavers. And then he concludes by saying, you know, basically, these outer skin cells, he says, are replaced every month. We shed skin copiously, almost carelessly, sometimes 25,000 flakes a minute. all uh over a million pieces every hour. So we're leaving pieces of ourself everywhere, according to this man here. He says, run a finger along a dusty shelf and in large part you're clearing a path through fragments of your former self. Well, so we're all turning the dust. Um now the psalmist is very aware that we're nothing but dust. Because in this stanza, the opening line kind of grabs us in verse number 25 when he says, My soul cleaveth unto the dust. I'm nothing but dust. What did the psalmist mean by this expression, my soul pleaves to the dust? Well it could be several things. First of all, it could be talking about depravity. It may be a poetic reference to his own sinfulness. Matthew Henry, the great commentator, said that if he could be referring to his corruptions, his inclination to the world. uh and the body, w which both of which he says are dust and which follows upon it. A deadness to holy duties, he says. When we would do good, evil is present within us. I think we all understand that struggle as Christians, right? We desire to do good. We want to get victory in our life over sin, but it just seems like we have this depravity, this inward sin that at times defeats us and lays us low. Maybe he's referring to that It could be that he's referring to depression. It may be that he's just downcast. He's going through a very difficult time. In verse 28, he talks about my soul melts for heaviness. So maybe he's talking about depression. This is a battle that all of us are going to face at times on the Christian journey. We will all fall into a time of depression. In the book Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan points this out in that beautiful allegory, Christian is on his way to the celestial city from the city of destruction, and on the path, he falls into a muddy pit that is called the slough of despondence. And he finally someone comes along and helps him out of the pit. And when the man helps him out, Christian turns and says to him, Sir, where for cents are Is it that this plat is not mended, that poor travelers might go thither with more security? Translation, why don't you guys fix this road? We say this in Baltimore all the time. Why don't you fix this road so no one else falls in? And notice that his response, the man says, It uh he says basically the the Mari Slough is a place as cannot be mended, and that's so very true. That on this road that we're traveling, this pilgrim journey, this Christian path that we're on, uh This is a road that can't be mended. We will all fall into this pit of depression from time to time. That's just the way it is. Maybe you're in that pit already. He could be referring to depravity, he could be referring to depression, or maybe derision. He's tired of being the object of the world's um ridicule. Remember that the writer of Psalm 119, I proposed to you the idea that he was a young man being carried away into exile uh by the Babylonians, a young Jewish man, and uh he's determined to follow God's word, but Uh the uh Babylonians were very cruel to the Jewish uh exiles and he experienced all types of uh ridicule. And maybe he's tired of all that. Maybe that's what he's referring to. Or maybe he's referring to some disappointment that came into his life that is causing him to feel this way. Or maybe it could just be death itself Dust here could refer to his mortality. God said, you know, from dust you came, from dust you're going to return. Maybe there was something in his life that reminded him of his own mortality, his own death. Death was taking place all around him as an exile being carried away. Certainly he saw a lot of death and maybe it was causing him to think about his own death It could be any of those things, but regardless of what it may be, we do know this. He's down. He's down. Emotionally, he is down. He's going through a difficult time. And what we see here in this stanza are some ways that we can pray when we're down. And so notice he wants to pray, he wants to uh to pray according to God's word. He gives us this pattern of praying when you're down according to the word of God. He uses that expression in verse 25, Quicken thou me according to thy word. Verse 28 again he uses the phrase, strengthen thou me according to thy word. So he's making these requests according to the Word of God. And so I want you just to see uh what I see here is just four We can summarize this in four requests to pray when you're down. Here's how to pray when you're going through a difficult time. Notice the first expression, empower me. Empower me. Again, verse 25. My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. God's word has life-giving power. God's word is alive, right? Martin Luther said, it speaks to me. God's word has feet, it runs after me. God's word has hands, it lays hold of me Jesus said in John 6, verse 63, The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are what? They're life The Word of God imparts life. Life does not come from within us, it comes from outside of us And that's true from the very beginning. In the beginning, God said, His word declared, let there be light. And there was light And so everything that took place in creation came about as God's divine fiat, as God spoke, and things came into existence The Word of God created it all from the very beginning. The Bible says by faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. And so the Word of God is quick and powerful and parts life. And that's true for us as believers. It will revive us. It will make us alive spiritually when we are really down. There are several metaphors that we see in the Bible, and you know these, but let me remind you, these are metaphors that teach us that the Bible is a It gives us life. There's the metaphor of the sea, which tells us it gives us po the word of God is has power to regenerate. Peter said, you've been born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible seed by the word of God which lives and abides forever. And then the there's another uh imagery of uh used in scripture, and that is of water. That speaks to us of power to renew. Um, you know, you ever you ever see a plant that was close to dead And um, you know, all of a sudden you just start to water that plant and pretty soon it was withered up and now it starts to after a while the soil soaks in that water and you and you begin to see life. And the leaves begin to, you know, bud again and fruit eventually comes white because it was revived through that water that it was given. And that's again a a picture of God's word. God's word is that power to renew. But also, the Bible's like wind. It's uh that speaks to us of power to resurrect. One of my favorite stories in the Old Testament is when God said to Ezekiel to preach to a valley of dry bones. Remember that he was carried away to see this valley of dry bones. And uh God said to him, Son of man, shall these bones live? And Ezekiel said, Lord, you know. And then God said, Preach to these bones. And so Ezekiel preaches a sermon to Drybone Baptist Church there at that congregation. And you know what happens as the Bible says they begin to live. And that is a beautiful illustration of the power of God's word to resurrect. Power to give life. And so the psalmist here is just saying, you know, revive me, Lord, quicken me. Give me life. Give me energy. Give me power. The reason some Christians don't have reviving power, or maybe they're so weak in their life, is because they're not in God's Word. God's Word gives us that strength. But here's the second request. Not only empower me, but number two, educate me. Educate me. Look in verse 26. I've declared my ways and thou heardest me. Teach me thy statutes. And then again in verse 27, make me to understand the way of thy precepts, so shall I talk of thy wondrous works. You know the one thing that affliction does for us is it makes us more teachable. I notice that people when they're going through suffering are more ready to receive God's word than at any other time. Our trials inspire us to learn Scripture in a greater way. Martin Luther said that there are three ways to learn God's Word or become a theologian. He said, first of all, there's prayer. Secondly, he said there's meditation and reflection. And thirdly, he said there's suffering and affliction. If you want to be a theologian, you have to learn all those things. You have to go through suffering. Suffering and affliction teaches you not only to know and understand God's Word, but also to experience how true God's word is. Also, how right it is, how comforting it is. There's a sense in which you have a deeper level of understanding when you go through a time of trials. And so the psalmist is praying in verse 27, make me Understand, Father, the way of thy precepts. This is a sincere prayer from the heart. He knew that there were some spiritual lessons and truths that he was never going to be able to understand unless God made him to understand those things. And I believe that there are certain things in Scripture, certain spiritual lessons, certain spiritual truths that you'll never really understand unless you first go through suffering. That's one of the ways God has for us to learn God's word. I've never been in a well, but they say that if you're in a deep dark well, when you look up, you can see the stars. I don't suggest you try that. I've never been in a well, but I I do remember uh going down through the Grand Canyon with answers in Genesis when they invited me along on this seven-day rafting trip. And when we were in a dark hole at night, that that deep canyon, and I do remember looking up, and I honestly folks, I've never seen the stars so bright and so beautiful I've never seen them that that that it was almost like it was daytime. They were shining so bright. And uh just something about it. And I think that there are certain truths in God's word that you're that are going to shine brighter Now that you're going through this difficulty, this hard time, and God has ordained it so, that we understand His precepts sometimes through. suffering. And then you know what happens? We bend we begin to talk about it. Notice what he says in verse 27. So shall I talk of thy wondrous works. There's something innate about wanting to share something wonderful you just learned or you just saw. And when God teaches you new things, you're going to want to go out and you're going to want to tell others. You're going to want to share that with others. And so the psalmist is saying, first of all, empower me. And then secondly he's praying, Father, educate me. But here's a third request that I see in here: enable me. Enable me. Look at verse 28. Again, my soul melteth for heaviness. Strengthen thou me according unto thy word. God's word will enable us. It will strengthen us. God's word is meat, it's spiritual protein that makes us strong. And what I see here are three specific areas where the psalmist alludes to where God's word will help sh help him, will strengthen him. First of all, to overcome our weakness He says, my soul melteth for heaviness. We could say that like this, my melting away, my soul melts. or melting away in the trickling down of tears. That's the way one Old Testament scholar, Dalich, explains it. Heaviness is the Hebrew word for sorrow or grief. And we could say to weep, to fill with tears, or be sleepless. That's what the word sorrow there means. And so his heart was just heavy with sorrow. Another way to say it would be, my sadness is about to is about to kill me. Or I have drowned in a tears of pain. Have you ever noted known anyone that had that kind of sorrow, that kind of deep sorrow? I remember years ago, I got a call on a Sunday morning from a staff member who told me that one of the younger men in our church had passed away. This was in another church that I had pastored. And I went up got up early that Sunday morning and went to the hospital, went to his room, and there he was. His lifeless body was there in the bed. And next to the bed was his wife, his young wife. He had three children And and she was just crying her eyes out. I mean the sorrow was just so difficult to even explain. And I I I noticed that uh after the funeral that she carried this burden and she began to lose weight and she was just carrying an immense uh weight of sorrow on her, thinking about her children. And I remember just praying so fervently for her Now I can say years now removed she's she's doing well and God's grace has upheld her and and and brought her through that. But I'll never forget just seeing her experience that kind of sorrow. And I think that's what the psalmist is referring to here. When he says, you know, my soul melteth for heaviness. And then he asks for strength, strengthen thou me according to thy word. You see, this is when God and His grace comes to His people. When we're in this kind of sorrow, this kind of heaviness, it is God's word that gives us that grace and that strength. Let me just give you some ways that God's word strengthens us in times of deep sorrow. Number one, God's word reminds us of God's love and faithfulness That's why we need to be in God's Word, especially when we're going through sorrow. Because we're reminded over and over again that God He's with us, and that nothing can separate us from the love of God. And then number two, God's Word offers hope for the future. We have promises in the Word of God that remind us of this. Jeremiah twenty nine, eleven, for I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans for welfare and not evil, plans to give you a future. But also God's word shares with us stories of resilience. There's many stories in the Bible of people who went through terrible struggles and burdens and afflictions and yet God in his grace brought them through. And these stories are recorded there to help us, to encourage us, because if God did it for them, guess what? He's going to do it for you too. God hasn't changed. He loves us just like he loves the people back then. But also God's word reminds us of the assurance of God's presence. Isaiah 41:10, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. But then also God's Word provides a framework to understand suffering. The Bible helps us to understand why God allows suffering to come in our life and his plan for that, what it produces in our life. But then also God's word teaches us to pray, how to pray, and how to depend upon God in times of suffering. That's why God's word strengthens us So beloved, if you're going through a difficult time, don't alienate yourself from God's Word. God's Word will strengthen you and help you through that. But then also not only to overcome our weakness, but also God's word helps us to overcome our wickedness. Look in verse number 29. Remove from me the way of lying and grant me thy law graciously The Psalmist knew his own propensity to resort to lies and deceitful practices. He knew his heart. The Puritan said that we always have to maintain a holy self-suspicion. I'm always to be suspicious of myself. Such is this in nature. And the psalmist knew that lying is in his heart. And he's praying, God, take away uh this this the deceitfulness that is in me, this thing about lying. Take all that away from me. And so he wants to be a person of truth. He wants to be a person of integrity. And he knows that the way to do that is through the Word of God. God's word helps us to do that. So and then he says, grant me thy law graciously. And again, God's word helps us several ways. It teaches us that God hates lying. The Bible says these six things does the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination. And on the list is a lying tongue. In fact, it's mentioned twice. A false witness that speaketh lies. I mean, two times on this list of things that God hates, He mentions lies. And so God hate the Bible teaches us that God hates lies. But also the the Bible teaches us that the truth will eventually come out. If you're someone that's you know it's easy for you to be deceptive or to tell lies, just always know this. The truth always comes out. God always makes sure that it comes out. Remember that story in the Bible in Jeremiah twenty eight? Hananiah was a false prophet And he caused the Israelites to believe a lie. But the Lord didn't allow this to go on. Instead, he revealed the truth to Jeremiah, and eventually it all came out how that Hananiah was a false prophet and a liar, and he was judged severely for it God didn't allow the lies to continue. He'll always let the truth come out. But the Bible teaches us and enables us to replace lies with the truth. And it helps us to call upon God to help us speak truth. And so he prays that uh God will uh help him to over to strengthen him, to overcome weakness, to overcome wickedness, but also to overcome waywardness. Look at verse number 30 I have chosen the way of truth. Thy judgments have I laid before me. It's important to be in God's Word constantly. You know why? Because it'll keep us from wandering off the path. That's why he says, Thy judgments have I laid before. We could say it like this, I set your rule your rules before me. They are my path. And uh in other words, they're my fixed point, they're my kind of point of reference that keeps me on the path. Uh did you know that people if you don't if they're out in the woods If they don't have a point of reference, they can get lost very easily. You ever notice that anyone don't raise your hand, you ever get lost in the woods Because maybe your point of reference was lost. It got cloudy. You couldn't see the sun or you know the landmarks were gone and all of a sudden, well you don't have a point of reference, you're you get lost And a lot of people are like that spiritually. When they lose their point of reference, our point of reference is the Word of God. I know some young people that were taught God's Word when they were young. And when they got out of the home and got on their own, uh someone else may have taught them that the Bible was not reliable, and so they they lost their point of reference. And you know what? It opened them up to all kind of things. And they wandered off the path of truth And so here the psalmist is saying, Lord, I want to stay on the path of truth. Look what he says in verse 31. I have stuck unto thy testimonies. Or we could say cleave. That's what the word there means. I have I'm cleaving to your testimonies, Lord. I'm holding on to your word. This word is the same word used of Ruth, how she clung to Naomi. And the psalmist here is clinging to God's word. Why? He says, Oh Lord, put me not to shame. He doesn't want to sh uh suffer shame by abandoning his God and wandering off the path. And so he prays for the Lord to enable him to overcome any weakness, any wickedness, any waywardness in his life. So when you're down, just pray this: Lord, empower me. Lord, educate me. Lord, enable me. But then here's a fourth and last one. Enlarge me. Enlarge me. Look what he says in verse 32. I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. The soundness is asking God for a greater love and desire for God's word. Some people they just need to love God more. They just need to love God's Word more. We need to ask for an enlarged heart. That's what he's saying here. Give me a greater desire. Give me a greater willingness to run after your commandments. He doesn't just want to walk after God's commandments. He wants to run to do God's commandments. He wants to have that zeal for God's word. You know, many believers are like Jonah. God called him to go to Nineveh. And Jonah, when he knows God's will, instead of running to do God's will, he ran the other way. Jonah needed a larger heart. In fact, we see at the end of the book of Jonah how that he's on the side of the hill pouting because God brought judgment, or excuse me, God brought revival instead of judgment. He wanted God to judge the Ninevites. Instead, God brought revival. And here's Jonah pouting on the side of a hill. Jonah needed uh uh uh a he needed some heart work done. He needed to have a larger heart Spurgeon wrote this, O for a heart full of love to God, then to have that heart made larger, so as to hold more of God's love. Lord, enlarge my heart in that sense. Let me feel at home and at liberty. with the I love the story of um Secretariat, the Great Racehorse. And if you uh go to horse races, don't raise your hand But I remember this, you know, when I was a kid, I used to like to watch some of these, and you all r probably remember the story of Secretariat. Um he won the Triple Crown, which is, you know, like the Super Bowl in and in race and and hor of horse racing. Uh he he won the Kentucky Derby and then he won here at Pimlico. And then the final race is the uh Belmont race and he won that race by 31 links. I mean that has never been duplicated. I mean he he dusted all the other horses. I mean he just it was just literally incredible. And uh no one has ever seen any horse run like that before. But you know what they found out? They found out that he was actually a freak of nature because when he finally died, an autopsy was done And they found out that his heart was twice the size of the heart of a normal horse. So that tells us why he could run faster. He had a bigger engine than all the other horses. But I mean his heart was twice the size. He had a larger heart. Therefore he could run faster. And I think of that when I think of this verse here. I will run the way of your commandments, Lord, when you enlarge my heart. So when you're down, we need to follow the pattern of the psalmist here. Pray these things. Pray that God will empower us. He'll quicken us according to God's word. Pray that God will educate us. There are things that God wants us to learn when we're going through these difficult times. So pray, Lord, educate me, show me, teach me Enable me, Lord, strengthen me during this time when I'm down. And also enlarge my heart. Give me a bigger heart. You know what? Normally When we're down, how do we often pray? We often say things like, God, change my circumstances. Take away the things that are happening in my life that are giving me this sorrow. Take away this burden. And God may eventually do that. He may eventually take away those things. But you know what I notice here? The psalmist, he doesn't ask for God to change the circumstances. He doesn't ask for God to take away those burdens. What he asks for God to do is look change me, God. Change me. That's the whole point. That's why God brings us through these things. Because He wants to change us. And when the circumstances God uses finally does change us the way God wants us to be changed, you know what God does? Then God removes the burden. The burden is done with, and God uh will take it away. But but the thing is this: God wants us to be different. He wants us to change. And this is what I see out of the psalmist here. The psalmist is praying, God, change me. My soul cleaves to the dust. But Lord, change me. Work in me and do what I what I'm asking you to do, Lord. Do these deep works in my heart. That's a good way to pray when you're down. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Maybe you're here tonight and maybe you're you can relate to what the psalmist is talking about here. So would you be willing to utter these requests to the Lord right now? Lord, empower me Quicken me according to your word, Lord. I can't do this on my own. I can't handle this. God, I need your strength. Lord, educate me. Teach me. Teach me truth, Lord, that I can learn no other way than by right now. Lord, make me understand. And then Lord enable me. And enlarge my heart, Lord, enlarge me Do it a work of spiritual growth inwardly in me. Father, again, thank you for This psalmist, when we read of his passion for your word, his passion, Lord, for you, wanting to obey your word, wanting to do your will, Lord, I ask that you would give us that same heart. That same passion, commitment to your word, to live according to your word. Lord, may it be so in all of our lives. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.