Well, I invite you to take your Bibles, open to the New Testament book of 1 Peter, chapter 4. 1 Peter chapter 4, and we're going to look at verses 1 to 6 this morning. First Peter chapter 4 verses 1 to 6. And would you stand for the reading of the Word of God, please, this morning? 1 Peter 4, verse 1. Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that hath suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, reveling, banquetings, and abominable idolatries, were in think When they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you, who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead And for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, and that they might be judged according to men in the flesh. But live according to God in the Spirit. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless us this morning. As we consider this passage of Scripture, may the Lord open our eyes to see His truth in his word. Pray with me today. Father, thank you for your word, the power of it. Lord, we pray that today you would bless us through this passage of Scripture and challenge our hearts. As we consider this subject, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Tommy Lasorda is a former uh Los Angeles Dodgers manager. And he once described the battle that he had with bad habits. This is what he said. He said, I took a pack of cigarettes from my pocket, I stared at it and said, Who's stronger, you or me? And the answer was me. And he said, I stopped smoking. He said, then I took a vodka mortini and said to it, Who's stronger, you or me? And again the answer was me, and I quit drinking. He said, then I went on a diet and I looked at a big plate of linguini with clam sauce. And I said, who's stronger, you or me? And the little clam looked up at me and said, I am And Tommy Lassorda said, I can't beat Linguini. How many of you have done battle? in your life with some bad habit or some sin that you just really can't seem to beat. It seems to have a grip on you. All of us as Christians, we do battle against sin, right? I mean, before our salvation, we weren't concerned about having victory over sin. That was not in our heart. But now as a Christian, we have a new sensitivity to sin. And we want to have victory over it. We want to please the Lord. In fact, the difference between a true believer and a non-believer is this. A non-believer will leap into sin and love it. A true believer will lapse into sin and he will loathe it. That's the difference. We're not running towards sin anymore. We're running from it. But sin is very fast, and sometimes it can catch us. In fact, there are times when sin gets a grip on us, and that grip seems to be very difficult to break. Erwin Lutzer is right when he wrote in his book Winning the Inner War, he said this sinful habits begin innocently enough, but if we don't master them, they will surely master us. And then he goes on to describe the war that we face. He writes, quote, We have all experienced the cycle, enjoy forbidden pleasure, feel guilty, determined never to do it again. We take pride in brief moments of self-control and then fail once more. Each time we repeat the pattern, the ruts are cut a bit deeper and the chains are pulled tighter I think it would be honest for all of us to admit that we all have besetting sins. And the writer of Hebrews says that we are to Lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. We have these sins that seem to trip us up in this race of life. And in this battle, one of the great knowledges is the knowledge of yourself, knowing yourself, knowing your weakness, knowing the moments that you are susceptible. Jesus said to his disciples in Mark 13, 37, Take heed or your hearts will be weighed down. David recognized his weak areas in times when he wrote, I have kept myself from mine iniquity. He watched out for all his ways and and and uh He understood that there was a certain sin that would get him down, and at times he failed. He said this, Oh Lord, make me to know mine. This is Psalm 39, verse 4. Lord make me to know mine end and the measure of my days. And what it is that I may know how frail I am. Lord, help me to see how weak I really am. And then at the end in verse 7, he says, And now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee Deliver me from all of my transgressions. Is it possible to overcome these stubborn sins that seem to dominate us and get us down? Well, Peter is going to give us some help here. And let me remind you that Peter was writing to his believers who were being persecuted for their faith. Some of the believers that Peter was writing to were being ridiculed. by their friends because these believers refuse to participate in the things that they used to do, these drinking parties and these immoral practices. And now they were under persecution for being a Christian. And many of them were wondering, is it worth it? Why am I enduring all of this? Why not just like the the old beer commercial once said, get all the guest gusto you can. You're only gonna go around once. Why not live it up? And Peter's answer to this mentality is this, yeah, you only go around once and remember that after that you got to stand before the Lord in judgment. And you have to stand before the Christ who suffered for your sins and who will judge you for what you've how you've lived. So in light of that, you should have uh an intention in your heart to live a holy life. Any suffering you encounter for Christ's sake should steal you with this idea that you are going to pursue holiness. Now there are six principles that I see here in this passage. We'll see if we can get through all six But here's the first one that he gives us. If we're going to break sin's grip, here's the first one. Meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Look again in verse 1. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh. One of the dominant themes of this letter is suffering. Peter is constantly pointing to the sufferings of Christ as a means for encouragement to the believers who were there that were suffering. And he says, you know, remember that Jesus suffered for you in the flesh. What is he referring to there? He's referring to the passion and the crucifixion of Christ. Remember that Christ suffered vicariously. That is to say, He suffered as our substitute. He suffered in your place. Write down Galatians 3. 13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. When Jesus died on the cross, he bore the real curse, the curse of a broken law, the curse of sin. The curse of God's wrath, all of that fell upon Christ on the cross. And when it says in this verse in Galatians 3. 13 that he suffered for us, The normal Greek word for for is gar. It's not the normal word used here. The word here is hyper, which means in the place of. Christ became a curse in the place of me. In the place of you. You and I are the ones that should have borne or endured the curse of God. But he said it was Christ who did that. And then Paul quotes from the Old Testament when he says, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. He's quoting there from Deuteronomy 21-23. You know, Jews didn't crucify if they found a person worthy of death. They would stone him to death. That was their means of capital punishment. But after that, they would take the body of the person and they would hang him on a tree as a sign that that individual was cursed by God. And by doing this, they were following the Old Testament commandment in Deuteronomy 21-22, where it says, If a man hath committed a sin worthy of death He is to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree. They were to put that body on a tree as a sign. that they were cursed by God. And then it says in verse twenty three, in Deuteronomy twenty-one, His body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt not in any wise bury him that day, for he that is hanged is accursed of God. That's why the Jews found it hard to believe that Jesus was the Messiah, because Jesus hung on a tree. And in the Jewish mind, anyone who hangs on a tree Is subject to the curse of God. They're bearing the curse of God. But what the Jews failed to realize was that Jesus was bearing the curse of God in their place. Because they're the ones who broke the law of God, not Jesus. We're the ones who broke the law of God. We are the ones who sinned. We are the ones that should have borne the curse. But instead Jesus bore that curse for us. No wonder the songwriter said, Oh wondrous love is this to bear the dreadful curse for my soul. And that's exactly what Jesus did. Now, the question here, however, is how does the suffering of Christ affect our relationship to sin? That's the issue here. And the point is this, because Christ suffered for our sins on the cross, our relationship to sin has to be radically changed. How can we ever think about sin the same way knowing that Christ Bore the curse of sin for us. How can we ever look at sin the same way? The things that I used to do, the things that I used to love, now I hate them. Now I can't stand them because they are the things that put Jesus on the cross. They're the reasons why he bore that Curse. How could I ever in my life make peace with sin, knowing that it was that sin that caused Christ to suffer so greatly? That caused him to suffer so violently there on the cross. How could I ever make peace with those sins? We could ask the question like this Will a parent make peace with the cancer? that just killed their only son? Would a parent ever do that? Would a parent ever make peace with the thing that killed or took their son? And the answer is of course they wouldn't. Neither should we ever make peace with the thing that took the Son of God on the cross when he died for us. And so when you're tempted to sin, think about the sufferings of Christ. Think about how he bore the curse of sin for you. We need to dwell constantly on the cross and meditate on the sufferings of Christ, because that should cause us to hate sin all the more. That's by by the way, that's why we have the Lord's Supper, because we go back to the cross, we think about the sufferings of Christ. And it should renew us in our spirit. It should give us a holy resolve to wage war against sin in our life. So that's the first thing. Meditate on the sufferings of Christ. But number two, here's another thing. Arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Look again in verse one. For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now Peter says here, arm yourself with the mind of Christ. Arm yourself with the same mind. Arm yourself is a military term. It's like put on your armor. Get into that warfare mindset. You're ready to go to war. This should be the mindset of the believer against sin. We have that warfare mentality. The word mind means intention. It usually when we be we pursue holiness in our life, it begins in the mind. In our mind, we should have a warfare mentality against sin. We should have every intention to live in righteousness. Notice the next phrase in that verse. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. This is describing the mindset of Christ Now this particular phrase here in verse 1 has some interpretive difficulties. There are different ways that Commentators interpret this. There are some that look at that phrase, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, and they think that what Peter is saying here is that suffering purges a believer from sin. The more we suffer in this life, the more we're going to be able to get rid of sin in our life. That's what some people, that's how they translate that or interpret that. And I don't think that that's what it's talking about here. There's another view that says that this is referring to the believer's physical death. You know, when when we die, when it when it says has suffered, it's referring to parallel as Christ suffered and died. If we suffer and die, we're going to cease from sin. Well, that's pretty obvious. I know I'm not going to w wrestle with sin or worry about sin once I die. That seems uh awkward to say that there. I don't think that's what he's talking about here What's he talking about here? Well the he in verse number one, where it says, For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin The debate is, who is the he referring to there? Who's the antecedent? Is it the believer? Is it us believers? Or is it referring to Christ? Well, the he there is singular. And so it's referring to an individual, it's referring to Christ. And what it's saying is this: that Christ has suffered in the flesh. When he suffered in the flesh, he has ceased from sin. Now some people will say, now wait a minute, if you say that Christ ceased from sin, that implies that he what? That he sinned. That's why they're not willing to take that interpretation to say that this is referring to Christ here. Because Christ never sinned But I would counter that by saying that's not necessary in this interpretation. We know that Jesus is sinless We know that he never sinned. In fact, Peter makes that very clear in chapter two, verse twenty two, where he says, Who did no sin Neither was Guile found in his mouth. In chapter three, verse eighteen, it says, For Christ has suffered for us, for our sins, the just for the unjust. Peter makes it very clear that Jesus was sinless. And so this is not saying that that when he he ceased from sin, that Jesus ever sinned. Listen very carefully. This is what Peter is saying. He's saying that Jesus had a relationship with sin. And that relationship, since he suffered and died, has ceased. What was the relationship that Jesus had with sin? It certainly was not as a sinner, because he never sinned, as we said. His relationship with sin was as the sin bearer. He came to bear our sins. And that's why in the garden, when Jesus prayed, he said, Father, If it's possible, let this cup pass from me. What cup? The cup of bearing sin. This is the natural response of a holy nature shrinking back from sin Is there any other way that I can do this other than having this relationship with sin where I have to s have to be the sin bearer? And of course there was no other way And so Jesus said, Nevertheless, not thy will but mine be done. He became submissive to the Father, even in this thing that was extremely horrible in the mind of Christ, which was bearing the sins of all the world, bearing all of our sins. But on the cross, when Jesus bore our sins and he took the curse of God upon himself, after all that was over with, remember what he said? It's finished. It's finished. The price of sin has been paid. And you know what the mindset of Christ was from that point on? Now I want nothing more to do with sin ever again. I bore the sins of all the world. I don't want any relationship with sin anymore. I want nothing more to do with it. That's what Peter's talking about. When Jesus died, As the sin bearer, taking the curse of God, and when it was finished, at that point Jesus ceased from sin. He ceased from any relationship with sin anymore. Every once in a while I'll hear a Christian who's talking about trying to live victorious, and they'll say something like this, they'll say, Well, you know, I've learned to lay my sins at Jesus' feet. Well, let me tell you something, beloved. Your sins were already laid on Jesus' shoulders at Calvary. He wants nothing more to do with your sins. Don't bring your sins and lay them at Jesus' feet. Here's a better idea. Have the mindset of Christ. Have nothing to do with sin and just stop doing it That would be the better response. Don't bring your sins to the feet of Jesus. He doesn't want them there. At the cross, when Jesus defeated sin and death, and you became a Christian, you now have the power to say no to sin. Through the Holy Spirit, through the power of the cross, you now have the ability to say no to the old sin nature. He no longer dominates you. But you have the power to say no. And so Peter is saying, look, arm yourself. In this war against sin in your life, make sure that you arm yourself with this mentality. Put this armor on. You know, remember Paul in Ephesians talked about the spiritual armor, you know, the helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness, the belt of truth, and so on. And that's all good. But Peter says, look, I have one weapon for you to put on. Just one. And it's a very powerful weapon. It's a very formidable weapon. It's simply this: have the mind of Christ. And have the same determination to wage war against sin and say, you know what, I don't want I want nothing to do with it. Nothing to do with it. Let me give you the third principle. Number one, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Number two, arm yourself with the mind of Christ. Number three, focus on doing the will of God. Look at verse 2. For he no longer that should should live the rest of his life in the flesh, but to the lust of men, but to the to the will of God. In other words, you should live the rest of your time. This where it says he should live, that's an expression of purpose. We could say it like this. So that, in order that You can live the rest of his time, that's referring to us. We could live the rest of our time on earth, all of our days, all the rest of our days, doing the will of God. Not fulfilling the lust of men. And Peter teaches us here that there's really only two ways to live. You can live your life either fulfilling the lust of men, or you can live your life Doing the will of God. And so we must arm ourselves to be holy because there's a fierce battle going on. How many of you understand that since you got saved, there's still that inward battle because we still have that sin nature in all of us? And it's that sin nature that battles against us, and there are evil, sinful lusts that are still a part of our sin nature that we're constantly waging war against. In fact, Peter says this. Look in chapter 2, look in verse 11. He says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. There's a war going on. That war is inside you, whether you call it the old man or you call it the flesh. There's this strong inward desire of sin that wants to pull you away. And we will do battle with this inward, sinful nature until the Lord Jesus comes or until we're glorified. That battle will continue to go on. And we need to wage war against this battle. That is inside of us. It's a lifelong war. But it's winnable through the power of Christ. And so what he's saying is you have this battle. You need to have the mind of Christ to arm yourself against the sin, but also be committed to doing the will of God, because this is one of the ways that you win against in this battle. That is to be so consumed with doing the will of God. that temptation is is is not easy. Or temptation is much more difficult. The devil, it's harder for him to get at you if you're committed to doing the will of God. You know, it's harder for the devil to hit a moving target. It's harder for sin to attempt a moving target. And so we're so busy doing the will of God. We're so Focused and committed to doing the will of God, that it makes temptation a little bit more difficult to get at us. Spurgeon said this: an idle man tempts the devil to tempt him. But the believer who is committed to doing the will of God is a hard target for Satan. And this also, by the way, reflects the mind of Christ, because if you look at Christ all during his earthly ministry, What was he committed to doing? He was committed to doing the will of God. That's all his life was about in Matthew 12, verse 50. He said, For whosoever shall do the will of my Father, which is in heaven, the same as my brother, my sister, my mother. You want to really be a part of my family? I'll tell you the telltale sign of someone who's truly part of my family is the one who's committed to doing the will of the Father. That's how you know you're saved. In John 4, 34, Jesus said, My me is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. In John 5, verse 30, I can do of my own self I I I can of my own self do nothing, as I hear I judge, and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will, but the will of my Father which has sent me. And then in John 6. 38, he said, For I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him that sent me. Christ was absolutely committed. To doing the will of the Father. And that's also part of the mind of Christ. So let me give you the fourth principle. Number one, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Number two, arm yourself with the mind of Christ. Number three, focus on doing the will of God. Here's number four. If you want to break sin's grip, remember what you were before you met Christ. Look at verse number three. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, reveling, banqueting, and abominable idolatries. Now what Peter is saying is: look back. Remember what you were Before God changed your life. You remember in the Old Testament, God told Israel, Remember what you were when you were in Egypt. You were slaves in Egypt before I delivered you And we need to remember that before Christ set us free, we were slaves to sin. We were lost. The things that He mentions here in verse number three were part of our life. That was a part of our past. Now you need to be careful in this, beloved, because sometimes people can look in the past at those things with fondness. That's not what he's talking about here. You look in the past at the things that you used to do and you hate those things. And you remember that was a part of your life. And you think of all that as wasted time doing things that we shouldn't have been doing That was shouldn't have been a part of us. Wouldn't you like to have all that time back? That time that was wasted We wasted enough years living in sin and living for the devil. That's what Peter is saying here. You've had enough time. Enough already with that. And when when he says here to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, he's usually the word for Gentiles here is to speak of those who are pagan who don't know Christ, the heathen, he could say, you have lived like a heathen long enough, doing what the heathen wanted to do. Put all that stuff in the past, but remember what you were Remember what was in the past. And then he talks about these sins in verse three. Lasciviousness, that's just behaving with a Lack of moral restraint, lust, that's sinful desires, excess of wine, that's literally wine bubbling up. It means drunkenness or intoxication. It could also refer to the effects you of narcotics Revelings, that's wild parties, immoral parties, banqueting, that's drinking, abominable idolatries. You remember in ancient Rome they had these Bacchanalian feasts where people got so drunk because they were Uh dedicated to the God of wine, they thought that maybe when they got drunk that they could get in touch with their God. That was the type of idolatry that they engaged in. That was part of people in that day And quite frankly, there's a a lot that are still living that way today with all these sins and more we know in our world. And Peter says, look at verse 4, wherein they think it's strange that you run not with them to the same excess of riots, speaking evil of you. People look at believers today who are unwilling to engage in this kind of behavior, in this kind of shame, and they look at you as if you're crazy. As if you're strange. What's wrong with you? You don't want to do these things? And they're offended at it. They don't understand that since you met the Savior, you're no longer the person that you used to be. That's not you anymore. They don't get that. They don't understand that. Like the song that we sing in Sunday school, the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. The places I used to go, I don't go there anymore. The things I used to say, I don't say those things anymore. Because of the great salvation that God has given us. Augustine was one of the early church fathers. He was a great theologian. But before that, he lived a wild immoral life. He was born in 354 A. D. His father was a pagan, but his mother Monica was a godly Christian, and she prayed for her son to get saved. His father wanted him to have the best education, so he sent him to the best schools in Carthage, but it was a pagan education, and he rejected the Christianity of his mother. And he, however, was a great intellect, and the Roman government made him the professor of rhetoric But there was a dark side to Augustine. He lived a wildlife, and he wrote about it in his book, The Confessions, where he was a very immoral man. And during those days of wild immorality and loose living, his mother continued to pray for his salvation. One day he was in Milan, Italy. He was visiting a friend. This friend had a big, beautiful house and a big garden. And this friend would read the scripture to Augustine, and it made him even more miserable. He was under conviction, and one day he was walking through his friend's garden and he sat down on a bench, and there next to him was a Bible that was open. And there were some kids playing in that garden, and as Providence would have it, they were playing one of those little games where they were singing, and the and the words to the song that the kids were singing were, pick up and read, pick up and read. So there he picked up the Bible that was next to him, and he began to read it. And again, as providence would have it, the verses that he read were Romans thirteen, verses thirteen and fourteen. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness. Not in chambering and wantingness, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. In those words Reached out and grabbed his soul. And Augustine later wrote in his confessions, no further would I read, nor did I need to. For instantly, as the sentence ended, by a light, as it were, of security infused into my heart, and all the gloom vanished away, he was instantly converted He repented of his sin. And he went to tell his mother. And she rejoiced because she had prayed so long for his salvation. And then he tells one day, not long after his conversion, he was walking on the street in the city of Rome, and one of the women of his old past began to call out to him. And he began to walk faster away from her. And she called out louder. And he began to run. And she said, Augustine, it is I. And he yelled back and said, Yes, but it is no longer I. Because he was a different man. And Peter is saying, look, look back to your old life, but remember what God saved you from. Remember what you were. So let me give you the fifth thing. I said number one, meditate on the sufferings of Christ. Arm yourself with the mind of Christ. Focus on doing the will of God. Remember what you were before you met Christ. But number five, don't forget about the coming judgment. Look at verse five. who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. Those who live for this present world and the lust of human desires, just remember they will give an account to Almighty God. There's going to be a judgment. The word account, this is a courtroom word. There's going to be this final judgment, and Jesus will be the one who will judge the living, those who were alive, when Peter wrote this. and the dead, those who already died. The word quick just means living, and those who already died, Jesus is going to judge all of them. The idea here is isn't no one is going to escape judgment. All will be judged. The Bible says in Hebrews 9. 27, as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. So you need to remember that You need to remember it. Don't forget the judgment. Sam Jones, the old Methodist preacher, tells a story about one day his wife said, Sam, you need to go visit the sheriff. He's on his deathbed and And Sam said to his wife, he's always he never wants to hear me. He he's so hardened. I think a a visit would be wasted. And she said, Sam, you need to go see him. Go see him So Sam Jones went over, went into this sheriff who's been so hardened against the Bible and the gospel, and the sheriff looked at Sam and said, Sam, I'm not afraid to die. And Sam said, yes, but what about the judgment? And he said, when he said that, the sheriff shot up out of bed, sat straight up, with a look of horror on his face, and said, I forgot about that. I forgot about that. But don't forget about the judgment. It's one thing to die, but after that there will be a judgment. And Peter's saying, don't forget about that. But then finally, let me give you the last principle here. Number six, think about the purpose of the gospel. Look again in verse six. For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead. That they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. Peter reminds the believers to think about the purpose of the gospel. The reason of the God the gospel was preached was to give you eternal life in heaven And when he says even to them that are dead, he means those Christians who already died. Those who already died. Some interpret this to mean that Christ Preaches the gospel to people after you die. You get another chance to hear after you die. Like there's some kind of post-mortem evangelism that will take place. No, friend, that's not going to happen. You have to make that decision now while you're alive. What he's referring to here are Christians who already died. And and what he's saying is, when he says in verse number six That they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. What he's saying is that though men may judge your you according to your sp Your s their standards in this life, your outward life, their judgment is really not the judgment that really counts. It's God's judgment that counts. And if you've trusted Jesus as your Savior, God will grant you eternal life in the Spirit. If you trust the Lord Jesus Christ, this is the purpose of the gospel. This is the reward of the gospel. And Peter again, remember he's writing to persecuted Christians who were worried about they were always worried about their loved ones that had already died. Many were asking questions like, have they missed this? Have they missed that? And Peter saying, They haven't missed anything. In fact, now that they're safe in heaven with Christ, you have the freedom to live boldly For God right now, even in the midst of all this persecution, you don't have to be afraid, you don't have to be worried, don't worry about your loved ones, they're already there in heaven. Now that they're there safely, you focus on living for God right now, even in this difficult time, you live for God When I was a teenager, I read a book called Torture for His Faith. It was a story of a pastor, Harlan Popov, who was a Bulgarian pastor. He was arrested by the communists. He was put in prison for 13 years And always the communists would try to control him by saying, if you don't do this, this is what we're going to do to your wife and your children. They would use that. And so he was always very careful while he was in prison. He wanted to share the gospel when he did, but he was very, very careful. But he said there came the day when he received the news that his wife and his children made it safely to Switzerland. They were no longer in a communist country. They were safe. And he says in the book, when I heard this news, it was like all the chains fell off. I was free now to live boldly for Christ, not fearing what they would do to me, and knowing that my family was safe. I was free to live boldly, and boy did he ever. He shared the gospel. Many of those prisoners got saved. It's an incredible story. And what Peter here is saying to these believers is, look, your loved ones, they're already in heaven. They're safe. You're free now to live for Christ with all your heart, with all boldness, live for Him. That's the purpose of the gospel. And so how do we break sin's grip? We meditate on the sufferings of Christ. We arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. We focus on doing the will of God. We remember that what we were before we met Christ. We do not forget about the coming judgment. And we think about the whole purpose of the gospel. And friend, with this, you must arm yourselves with a decisive intent to be holy. May God help you break sin's grip. Let's pray together. Let's pray together today. And so, Father, we thank you again for your word, how it ministers to our heart. And Lord, it is our desire as your children to walk. In the footsteps of our Savior to model his life. And we know that really we can't do that. It's not a matter of imitation, it's a matter of incarnation, allowing Christ to have full control of us. And in this battle that we wage with sin, sometimes sin is hard to break. And Lord, we need your help. We need your grace. So Lord, will you help us? Help us to be armed with the mind of Christ. To be fully committed to doing the will of God in our life and pleasing you in everything that we do To remember what we were until Lord you your grace entered into our life and saved us Lord, may we fulfill our calling, the purpose that you have for us, the purpose in which the gospel was given to us. And may we live for your glory. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask, how many of you are saying, this is my prayer that God will help me? To break sin's grip in my life. Would you pray for me, preacher? Would you just lift your hand and say, that's me? I have such a desire to break this grip in my life. May God use this. God bless you, dear friend If you're here and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, let me just say that the first step is that To repent of your sin, to realize that Christ is your substitute. He was the one who bore the curse of sin in your place so that you could have eternal life. And what you must do is put your faith in what Christ has already done for you on the cross. Not what you can do. There's no works that you can do to make you s acceptable to God. But it's putting your faith in what Christ has already done. He is already accepted by God. And he offers you his salvation if you'll just put your faith in him and say, Lord Jesus, save me. And if you'll pray that, friend, he will save you. The Bible says, Him that comes unto me I will in no wise cast out. Pray that and mean it. Father, again, thank you for your words. Speak to hearts. Use it for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.