It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles open to the Book of Colossians, chapter 3. We are continuing our study through the book of Colossians. And we've come to really the second part of the letter. We get into chapter 3 and chapter 4. This is more the practical part that Paul is giving application to as he laid a foundation of strong doctrine. And now he is going to help us to apply it. And the title of my sermon tonight is How to Live with a Bad Heart. We could call it that, I guess. We could call it Principles of the Resurrection Life. Dr. Christian Bernard was the first doctor in the world to perform a heart transplant operation. After a the first successful heart transplant surgery, Dr. Bernard was talking to the patient to whom he had done the surgery on, and that patient had recovered. And he was doing well, and they were talking on a hospital visit, and suddenly Dr. Mazard asked his patient, he said, Would you like to see your old heart? This was kind of shocking to the man uh because he said, you know, he had never thought about that But after thinking about it, the man said, yes, I would like to see my old heart. So they set up an appointment and at 8 o'clock one evening. Uh they stood at the room in a the Grote Shore Hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa And Dr. Bernard went into a cupboard and he pulled out a glass container and he handed it to the patient. And inside that container, of course, was the man's old heart. And for a moment he was just stunned in the silence. For the first time in human history, a man held his heart in his hands. And finally he looked at his heart and he pointed at it and he said, You are the one that's been giving me all this trouble. And then he handed it back to the doctor, and he walked away, and he left it forever. You know, spiritually speaking, we all have a bad heart. Thank God when we come to the Lord Jesus Christ, we're saved, we're cleansed by his precious blood. And the new nature, the Holy Spirit, lives inside of us and He plants in us a new nature. He plants in us the seed of righteousness. But we still have that old heart. It's still there. It doesn't go away. And we can't hand it to a doctor and walk away from it forever. We still have to deal with it. And so we have to learn how to deal with this problem heart that we have, this old heart that will not be taken away until we uh receive our glorified body until we're finally perfected in our s salvation. And when ultimate salvation comes, then the old sin nature will be finally eradicated. But until then, we still have this heart that gives us so many problems. Jesus said in Mark chapter 7, verse 21, For within, out of the heart of man, proceeds evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, and so on. And he says, all these evil things come from within and defile the man. And so the question is, how do we overcome this old part that gives us so much trouble? And let's face it, we all do battle with it. We all battle our heart. But thank God, through Jesus Christ, we can have victory. And we can overcome this. And so I want you to notice tonight four principles of victory over our sin nature or over our sinful bad heart. And here's the first one if you're taking notes. Write down, number one, the principle of mortification. The principle of mortification. Look again in verse 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, and so on. So first of all, he says mortify. Now what is mortification and how does one mortify? The word mortification simply means to put to death, to slay, or to kill. And Paul is referring here to that old sin nature that lives inside of us, that old heart. And notice he used the word members in verse number five. Mortify therefore your Members. Why does Paul use the word members? Members is talking about our physical body. It's talking about our body parts. And Paul uses that word because the sin nature works through our physical body. He works through our members, our body parts. When our bad heart, our sin nature wants to manifest itself, he manifests itself through our parts, through our members. And so Paul is saying, don't allow your body parts, your members, to be used by that old sin nature. Don't let the old sin nature use your eyes. Don't let the old sin nature use your tongue or your mouth or your hands. Those members, listen, now belong to Jesus Christ. Write down Romans chapter 6 verse 12. Let not sin therefore reign. We could say it like this. The word sin there is used in a noun form, so we could say it like this. Let not the sin nature Therefore reign in your immortal bodies, that you should obey it in its lusts, neither yield your members, that is your body parts, as instruments of unrighteousness unto the sin nature But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members, your body parts, as instruments of unrighteousness unto God. And this whole process is called mortification. You say, now how do we do that? Well there's a few things here in the passage it tells us, first of all, focus on Christ. Look again in verse number five. Notice where it says mortify. What's the next word after mortify? Therefore. And remember, we always look back to that. Now remember when Paul uses that word, he's making a conclusion based on what he's already said. And we already looked at those first four verses. And what is Paul talking about there? He's talking about our union with Christ. We're one with Jesus. We're united with him in his death, burial, and resurrection. And so, and where is Jesus now? He's seated in heavenly places. He's seated at the right hand of God. He therefore has all authority. And so guess what? I am seated there with him, and so are you. Remember that? We're united to Christ. In the House of Representatives, all the Democrats sit on one side. Now all the Republicans sit on the other side. And I heard a congressman say one time, he said, here in the House of Representatives, where we sit determines how we stand. And that is also true of the believer. As a believer in Jesus Christ, I'm not seated on the left-hand side or on the right-hand side in the House of Representatives. I'm seated with Christ in heavenly places And where I sit now determines how I stand. As a believer, I'm seated with Christ, and where is Christ in heaven at the right hand of God? That's the seat of authority, and so therefore Jesus has authority, and I share in that authority, and since I have that authority, I have authority over this world system. And I have authority over the old sin nature. That's the idea there. As a believer, we're seated on the throne with Christ. And so, therefore, as if we're seated there, we should constantly keep our affection there. We should constantly focus on Christ. You know, believer, you can literally have days of heaven on earth if you keep your hearts and your minds on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's like the song that we love to sing, turn your eyes on Jesus, look full in his wonderful face and the things of this earth will grow strangely dim. The sin nature and all of its power is mortified as we focus on our Our place where we are in Christ, where we're seated. If we keep our affections, our focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, the sin nature dies in us more and more. It's like John Owen said. He said, focus your expectations on the cr the reality of Christ and his death and his resurrection. Focus on Christ. And by the way, you understand that's what we do every time we have the Lord's Supper together. We are putting our affections on Christ. We're thinking about all the blessings that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's the next thing. Not only focus on Christ, but put to death your desires. Look again in verse 5. Mortify therefore your members, which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness. in order to affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. And so here Paul is saying, put to death all of these evil desires, and he gives us a list here of things. Paul is saying, all of these things you have to put to death In Romans 6, Paul said it like this: reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, or you're dead to the sin nature, but alive unto God. Paul says, reckon yourselves as dead. Now the word reckon just means count it as true. Don't try to figure it all out. Just count it as true. You're dead to the sin nature. So when the sin nature comes to you with all of his evil desires, and he says, I want to use your your body parts, you say, no, you can't do that Because Jesus is now my master, and all that belongs to Jesus. You ever hear someone say, you're dead to me, or I'm dead to you? What does that mean? There's a separation in that relationship. I'm dead to you. I'm no longer a part of you. There's a sense in which that's what we say to the sin nature. When the sin nature comes, you say, I'm dead to you You say, when the sin nature comes to me and says, Excuse me, Jerry, I would like to use your tongue to say something, I say, no. My tongue doesn't belong to you anymore. He says, What do you mean it doesn't belong to me? I say, well it belongs to Jesus Christ and you can't use it. to the Lord Jesus. He says, Well, can I use your eyes? I say, no, you can't use my eyes. They belong to Jesus. He says, well what can I use? I say nothing. You can't use any of my parts. Again, I am yielding all of my members now as instruments of righteousness unto God. And I say furthermore to the sin nature, I'm dead to you. He says, Well, when did you die? I say, I died when Jesus died. When I got saved, I was so united to Christ in the mind of God that when Jesus died, I died. When he was buried, I was buried. When he rose, I rose, and he's now seated in heaven. That's where I am with him. And so I'm dead now to you. I'm dead to this whole world system. I'm alive to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I live for him. So bug off old sin nature. Don't bother me. And the old synaecre says, well, you never used to say no to me before. And I say it's because I didn't have the authority to say no to you before. But now since I'm seated with Christ and He has all authority, I share in that, and now I have authority to say no to you. And so you're done. Because of my oneness with Jesus Christ, I have this authority. I'm seated with him. And so my answer is no. And the old synonym teacher says, well you don't love me anymore. I say you're right, I don't. My affections are in heaven My affections are on the Lord Jesus Christ. And listen, beloved, every time you say no to the sin nature, you know what happens? He dies more and more inside of you. And that process of mortification is taking place in the life of the believer. The problem is when believers are still listening to that old sin nature. When he comes with all of his subtlety and tries to convince you to do something and you listen to him, the Bible says you make yourself a slave to whomever you yield yourselves to If you yield yourself to that sin nature, you become a slave to that sin nature. But if you yield yourself to Christ as those that are alive from the dead, Then you yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. And so when the sin nature comes with all of those evil desires, you Do not give in. You say no. You say, what are some of those desires? Well Paul mentions them. Look again in verse 5. Fornication. We know what that is. Immorality in general. Uncleanness just means lustful impurity. Ignorant affection is describing a state of mind that excites impurity. People sometimes cultivate that. Evil concupiscence means base evil desires. Covetousness is the sin of always wanting more. The covetous person is never satisfied with what he has. He always wants more And so the sin nature comes and he brings all of these things to our heart. And he says, I want to use your body to fulfill these things. And we say, no. They belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is mortifying the flesh. This is mortifying The old sin nature. And you know what? We have to do it every day. You say, man, I had a good day today. I I put to death the sin nature. Okay, he's going to be back tomorrow He's coming again. It has to be done daily. The word for mortify in Romans 8. 13 is a present tense, continually put to death Continually mortified. And it's a command. God is commanding us to do this constantly. It's to be done daily, it's to be done diligently. You can't afford to be uh passive. in this area, in this warfare against sin in you. You can't be passive. Daily, diligently, decisively. This doesn't happen automatically. You have to determine every day to do this. And friend, you have to do it defiantly You have to purpose in your heart and say, I will not yield to the old heart. I will not yield to the old man that is still there in me. Like the psalmist said, he said, I have sworn and I will uh performing that I will keep thy righteous ordinance. It is a defiance against sin. I'm going to obey God. I'm going to yield to the Lord. And so we focus on Christ where we're seated. We put to death the desires And what else do we do? We remember God's wrath. Look in verse 6. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience? You want a good reason why to put sin to death? Well here's one right here. God hates it. He hates it. This is the reason why God punishes people You say, what is it, sin? God hates sin so much that Paul says, this is the reason why God's wrath comes on those who don't know him. This is why God deals so severely with sin. He hates it. It's an expression of his holy nature and his hatred against sin. This is the reason, beloved, why people die and go to eternal punishment and hell is the full expression of God's hatred against sin. A. W. Pink said this It is the holiness of God, talking about this wrath, it is the holiness of God stirred into activity against sin. I heard about a pastor who preached a series of sermons against the sins of the saints, and one saint finally came to him and said, Why do you keep preaching on that? I mean after all, sins of the believers are not the same as sins of those who don't know the Lord. It's different. And the pastor said, yeah, it's worse. It's worse in the life of the Christian. And that's true. But then here's another thing. Not only remember your pat uh your of God's wrath, but remember your past. Look in verse 7 into which he also walked sometime when he lived in them. The idea here is that a believer doesn't live this way anymore We don't live under these things with these things. Paul said, this is the way you once lived. Before you knew the Lord, you may have been given to those things. You may have given in to the sin nature. But that's not how a believer lives now That's why I can't understand people who claim to get saved, they claim to know Jesus, and they come to church perhaps and walk down an aisle and they just go out and they just keep living the same life they've always lived That's not real salvation, beloved. Salvation without transformation is a fabrication. It's just not true. Paul said this is this is the way you may have once lived, and in times past, perhaps. But not now, a slave who has been made free doesn't turn back into slavery. When a person's living in the slums and they're made rich, they don't go back to living in the slums This is what Spurgeon said in light of this. He said, Christian, what hast thou to do with sin? Has it not cost thee enough already? Burnt child, will thou play with fire? What wilt thou then has when thou hast already been between the jaws of the lion, wilt thou step a second time into his den? Hast thou not had enough of the old serpent? Did he not poison all thy veins once And wilt thou play upon the whole of the asp? Oh, be not so mad, so foolish. Did sin ever yield thee right pleasure Did it thou find solid satisfaction in it? If so, go back to thine old drudgery and wear the chain again if it delight thee But inasmuch as sin never did give thee what it promised to bestow, but deluded thee with lies, be not a second time snared in the old fowler be free. And that's so true. Remember your past. That's the first principle. The principle of mortification. We focus on the Lord, we put to death desires, we remember God's wrath for sin, we remember what sin did to us in the past. All of those things help us in this thing of putting sin to death But now here's the second principle. Write this down. The principle of modification. Not only the principle of mortification, but now the principle of modification. Look at verse number eight. But now ye also put off All these. Notice the word put off there. In verse 9 again, we see it again. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man. And verse 10, and have put on. There's the phrase put on, and then look at verse 12. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God. Look at verse 14. And above all these things, put on charity. Now did you notice the contrast between putting off and putting on? We see that there, right? This is a picture of a person who's changing their clothes That's the imagery that Paul's giving here. And this relates to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Beloved, when Jesus came out of that grave, he left the grave closed behind. He then entered into a glorious resurrected life. There was no need for those grave clothes. And that's a picture of believers. When we rose with Christ, you know what? We're to leave the grave clothes behind as well We don't need them anymore. Remember in John chapter 11 when Jesus came to uh the the grave of Lazarus and they rolled the stone away and Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth And one country preacher said, It's a good say good thing he said Lazarus, or everybody would have come forth. And Lazarus got, and you know that story, he he came out of that tomb, but the Bible says he was bound in the grave clothes And what did Jesus say? He said, loose him. Loose him. You see, friend, the grave clothes represent the old life with its sinful deeds. You know what salvation is like? It's like a resurrection. When God saved me, you know what? I was dead in my trespasses and sins. And God said, Jerry, come forth. And you know what? The Bible says you're quickened. You're made alive. And you know what? We come out of that old grave. We come out of our past life. But you know what? We're still bound in those grave clothes When we come forth. And you know what I do now? Now that I have to walk in newness of life, I gotta get rid of all those old grave clothes. I gotta get them out of my life. And you know what? I can't do that myself. You remember the story of Lazarus? Jesus said to the men around him, Lose him. Thank God for people who have taught me the Word of God, for pastors and teachers who have taught me the Word of God. You know why? Because as they teach me, I'm loosing the grave clothes. I'm getting rid of those excuse me. I'm getting rid of those old rags and I'm putting them off and I'm walking in newness of life. That's what God wants to do in your life. He wants you to get rid of those grave clothes. You say, what are the grave clothes? Well again, Paul mentions them. Look in verse number 8. But now you have put off all these anger and wrath and malice We know what anger is. Someone said it's one letter short of danger. The word it just means a deep smoldering resentfulness, wrath. That's an outburst of violent temper, malice, is someone who's mean-spirited and vicious who wants to harm someone else. Blasphemy, literally, to speak ill of someone else To try to give them a bad reputation, filthy communication, that literally means a foul mouth. There's no place for a Christian to have a foul mouth. That's the grave clothes. We get rid of that in our life. And then he says in verse number 9, and lie not one to another, seeing ye have put off the old man. We're taking all those clothes off. And you know what we do? You say, man, what happens when we take off the grave clothes? Then we put on the grace clothes. We put off and now we put on. Look in verse 10. And had put on the new man. Which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him. What does that mean? It means through this whole process of putting off and putting on, the original image of man is being restored. That image that was the image of God in the Garden of Eden before sin marred it, that original image that reflected the holy image of God, that image is being restored. As we go through this process. That's what he's talking about. As a young boy, theologian Alistair McGrath enjoyed experimenting with chemicals. And uh he liked to tamper with coins, tarnished coins. And one time he found a coin, it was a penny, of uh on that was the image of the Queen Victoria. And he took any the but the problem was this penny, you couldn't see the image on it because it was so it was so tarnished. Because of the accumulated grime that was on that penny. And you know what it is? He he dipped it into a beaker filled with uh diluted nitric acid. And you know what happened? By and by, there was a process where that grime was just taken away and pretty soon he could see that original image that was there on that coin. That's exactly what happens when you get saved. You know what? You're baptized, you're placed into Jesus. And you know what happens? There's a process that happens, and all the grime of sin is that process is being taken away, and what's happening? That original image is being restored again And that image reflects the Lord Jesus Christ. And what is a part of that image? Look in verse 11, where there's neither Jew nor Greek. What is Paul saying? When we get back to that original image, it tears down all of the man-made barriers that are up. You know, a man makes a lot of barriers that mess us up. And he's talking about racial barriers where there's neither a Jew, a Greek, nor Jew. You think we have racism in our country today? That was nothing compared to the racism in the ancient world between Greeks and Jews. Jews wouldn't even enter into the home of a Gentile They would never eat food that was cooked by Gentiles. When they were in Gentile lands, just before they crossed the border back into the Holy Lands, they would shake the Gentile dust off That's the disdain that they had for Gentiles. They called them dogs. But when you come to Jesus Christ, you know what? That man-made barrier is removed, is gone. It's torn down. Circumcision or uncircumcision, that's a religious barrier. Barbarian or Scythian, that's a cultural barrier. Barbarian was someone who uh A Cynthian was a warlike person that everyone was afraid of. They delighted in murdering They would actually drink the blood of their first enemy. They would make napkins out of the scalps of their enemies. They would make their skulls water bowls. That's how those people were. But you know what happened? And by the way, it also mentions bond and free. That's social barriers between the slave and the free man. But you know what they would see in the early church? They would see the Lord Jesus Christ entering into the heart of these people. And people would go to a church, and you know what they would find there? They would find Gentiles and Jews. Barbarians and Synthians. They would find free men and slaves all together, all one, all loving each other. Why? Because the new man was being restored. That image was being restored. All those barriers were being taken away. What else do we put on? Look in verse 12. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God holy and beloved, bows of mercy. That word just means love, sympathy. In the Greek world, they located emotions in the intestinal area. Whereas we do it in the heart. They called it the intestines. I'm glad we changed that. It sounds better to say I love you with all my heart than I love you with all my liver But that's where they put it. And Paul's just talking about a love, a sympathy, kindness. We know what that is. Just be kind to others. Humbleness of mind. You know, the Greeks and the Romans didn't really have a word for humility. We really, as Christians, had to coin those terms. Humbleness of mind, meekness, that strength under control. Long-suffering is just being long-tempered, forbearing. You say, what's that mean? That just means we put up with each other. God gives us the ability to put up with one another. Love covers a multitude of sins. That's why I don't make a big deal out of little things. You know why? Because love covers that. We just forbear. And notice verse 14 And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, or we could say the belt of completeness. This is the belt of love. And again, think about clothing. Back in this day, they would wear a girdle, which was really a belt, a sash around the midsection, and that would just hold everything together. It would complete the wardrobe, so to speak. And Paul said, of all these things you're putting on, don't forget to put on the belt of love, because that completes it all. And really love just keeps all these things in place. It helps us to do what the Scripture tells us to do. And so that's modification. We're modifying, we're putting off, and we're putting on. So how do we live with a bad heart? There's the principle of mortification. We put those things to death. And then the principle of modification we put off and we put on. But let me give you the third principle. It's what I want to call the principle of mediation The principle of mediation. Look down in verse number 15 now. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Notice where it says, let God's peace rule in your heart. What does this mean? Well look at the word rule there. This is a word that's used only here in the New Testament. This is the only time this Greek word is ever used in all the Bible Now, whenever we're studying and we see that, always it causes our antennas to go up. Because this is a unique word. You say, what does it mean? It's a word that means a mediator To mediate, but also it even goes beyond that. It means an arbitrator, or we would call it an umpire or a referee. Actually, this word is an athletic term. It means to preside at the games and to distribute prizes. But they would have an umpire or a referee or a judge at every one of the games. We're talking about Olympic Games that they had back in the ancient world. And you know what? He wa he had a lot of authority. In fact, I was reading about these guys. You know what? They're out there on the field with the athletes competing, and they had a big long stick. And if the athlete didn't do right, you know what he would do? He would whack them with that stick. He'd just whack them. Now today we don't do that. But you say, well what do you do t today? Well if you watch sports today, you watch a football game going on, you have a little guy down there with a yellow flag, and if somebody does something wrong, he throws that yellow handkerchief on the field And everybody knows somebody did something wrong or he blows the whistle in a basketball game. And that's what the umpire or the referee would do. Now, and by the way, this word, a variation of this word is used in Colossians 2. 18. Look at Colossians 2. 18. Let me show you a variation of this word. It's not the same word, but it is a variation. Look at verse 18, chapter 2. Let no man beguile you. Look at the word beguile. Kind of a same kind of a word there. was a little bit of a different variation. And it really just means disqualify. Let no man disqualify you. Getting back to this idea of a referee. A referee can disqualify you. A referee can throw you out of the game. A referee can say, you're done, or he can blow the whistle, or back in that day smack you with a stick. You say, well now how does this apply to us? Let the peace of God be the referee in your heart. Let him guide you. Let him govern you. Let him mediate for you. Let him be your counselor. You say, how does this work? Well, if a believer I'm walking in Christ, and if I get out of line, you know what? The peace of God will whack me. You say, how does he do that? The lack of peace. It's gone. Whereas before there was peace, you know what's in my heart now there's trouble. There's anguish. We step out of bounds, the peace of God lets us know. It's the absence of peace. That's the red the yellow flag. That's the whistle. I like what one commentator said. He said this, when faced with a choice, the believers should consider two factors First, is it consistent with the fact that he and Christ are now at peace and thus on the same side? Does it perpetuate that oneness with the Lord that is in the believer's possession? Second, will it leave him with a deep abiding peace in his heart? These are two factors and also the greatest deterrence to sin. I like that. These factors. Will it, does it perpetuate oneness? Will it leave me at peace if I do this? We let the peace of God rule. But now notice the rest of verse 15. Notice this closely. Notice what it says there. It says, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you are called. What does that mean? That means this is a normal part of the Christian life. This is how you're called to walk. This is the default setting of the believer. You know how we're this is a normal Christian life. How are we to walk normally every day? We walk in peace. That's what we do all the time. We should always be in peace In fact, tonight as you sit here listening to me, you should have the peace of God in your heart. You say it's not there. Well the question is then why isn't it there? What's keeping it from being there? That's the question you need to ask yourself. There's really only one thing that can rob you of the peace that you should have with God, that should be a normal part of your Christian life every day. And you know what robs us? Sin does So when we let the peace of God rule in our heart, we're letting Him mediate for us and tell us, get this right. You're out of bounds. Get that right in your life. Uh you you you're you're crossing the line and you need to do right. That's the principle of mediation. Now let me give you the last principle. There's the principle of mortification, the principle of modification, the principle of mediation, but now here's the last thing, the principle of meditation The principle of meditation. Look at verse 17. Or verse 16 rather. And let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns, spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. And he's saying, Paul's saying, now let God's word reside in you The word for dwell is to live in, to be at home. Let God's word take up residence in your heart We're to let it dwell in us. And notice the word richly. We could say abundantly, extravagantly. Let God's word permeate every part of your life. Get the word in you. That's what he's saying. Get it in you. Now some people say, well, I've read through the Bible many times. That's great. But how many times has the Bible been through you? That's really the question. Let it get in you. Let it get through you. And this is all about meditation. It's letting God's Word fill our mind, fill our heart. You say, what is meditation? Let me give you a few things from actually the Bible on meditation from the Hebrew word. It means to speak to oneself. To to reflect, to to just constantly roll it over in your mind, to keep speaking to yourself. You ever talk to yourself? It's all it's not just crazy people that do that, it's Christians We're to constantly talk to ourselves, but what are we to say? We're to remind ourselves about the Word of God. I want to tell you something, folks. I preach to myself more than I preach to you. I'm constantly talking to myself, telling myself what the Bible says. And you know what that is? That's the process of spiritual digestion. You know, when you eat a meal, in order for your body to really gain or benefit from that, you have to digest that meal And that's what meditation is. It's mentally digesting the truth because you think about it over and over, you roll it over in your mind. When you come to church and you hear the word on Sunday morning, don't just leave church and forget about it Think about what it says. But also the Hebrew word means another word means talk about meditation. It's a musical notation. To sing to yourself. That's actually what meditation is. When you sing to yourself. You ever hear anybody singing to themselves? As Christians, we should be doing that. That's a form of meditation. But remember, what are the songs that we sing? Singing to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, that's the word of God. It's put to music, it's just singing it back to us. And we're thinking about it over and over again. You ever hear a song and once it's played it, you just can't get it out of your mind? I mean it's just there the rest of the day. That's really meditation. We're singing to ourselves. It also means a pleasant reflection, to reflect pleasantly. You say, now why does God want us to meditate on God's word? Because it stirs our heart, it stirs our affection. And also, meditation is the bridge to application. You see, you come to church, you get downloaded with all this information, and you take notes, and that's good. I really am grateful for the way people listen here. But I want to tell you something, Fred. That's information. In order for the Word of God to really do you good, there has to be application. Now, there's a gap between information and application. And what bridges the gap between information and application? It's meditation. That's what Joshua said. He said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Why, Joshua? That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. And this is what God is saying here, really. It's God talking here to Joshua. He's saying, Joshua, you just keep on talking about the Word of God. You keep on rolling it around in your mind and talking about it. Why? Because when you do that, you will begin to obey it. You'll begin to apply it to your life. You know, whatever, you will become what you think about. As a man thinketh in his heart, finish that. So is he. And so what you think about, that's what you will become. Someone wrote, sow a thought, reap a habit, sow a habit, reap a character, sow a character, reap a destiny. Or reap a life, rather, so a life, reap a legacy or a destiny. And friend, whatever you think about is what you will become. And so God says, just Let the Word of God dwell in you. And you know what else happens when the Word of God dwells in you? The sin nature, that bad heart, is dying more and more. As the Word of God is in your heart. And notice verse 16 again, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. Look at verse 17, and whatsoever you do in word and deed Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father. You know what Paul is saying? When you get let the Word of God dwell in you, the result of that is you're going to have submission in your life. You're going to submit to one another You're going to have joy. You're going to have thankfulness. And by the way, if you look at the passage in Ephesians chapter 5, exact same results for being spirit-filled. You know why? To be scripture-filled is to be spirit-filled. Same thing. Because the Spirit of God and the Scripture are one together. The Spirit never does anything out of harmony with Scripture. So if you're letting the Word of God dwell in you and control you, you're letting the Spirit of God control you and to be Scripture-filled is to be spirit filled, and all these things will be manifested in your life. You'll be under the influence of God's word. And so, and what'll happen? You'll be walking in newness of life. You'll be walking the resurrected life. You'll be showing the preeminence of Jesus in your life. And that old heart won't give you so much trouble if you do all these things. Mortification. Put to death those desires. Modification put off the old rags. Put on the grace clothes. The principle of mediation. Let the peace of God rule in your heart. The principle of meditation. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Friend, if you do these things, I believe that you will have victory each day of your life, every day of your life, and will live a life that exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's have a word of prayer together. Let's pray together. So Lord, we just we come before you and we confess our utter need of you. Lord, we all have this problem of this bad heart. And Lord, we do, however, give you thanks that you have not left us without strength, without help, without victory. In fact, Lord, you have given us all the resources that we need to live a victorious life over sin. Lord, we realize that because of our union with you, we're complete We have all that we need. And so Lord, help us to apply those things that you've given to us. Help us, Lord, to realize the principle of mortification. Help us to realize we're united to you so much so that we have authority to say no to sin. No to this world Help us to see those desires die and weaken in our life. And then Lord help us to put off. the old rags of the past life and to put on the grace clothes of newness of life. And Lord help us to allow the peace of God to so control our heart that the moment we step outside of what is right that will respond quickly to the peace of God. And then Lord help us to let your word dwell in us so richly. That Lord will walk in your ways, we'll please you in all that we do, and may we live a life that demonstrates the preeminence of Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask, do you know him? Do you know Jesus? Because I want to tell you something, friend, the greatest decision you can ever make. Is to walk away from sin in this world and to come to Christ. And I want to tell you, friend, He loves you. It's no accident that you're here tonight. It's no accident that you're hearing the Word of God. It's no accident that you're hearing this particular message about uniting with Christ and dying to sin in this world. Maybe you're here tonight and you say, man, I'm so weary of my sin. I'm so burdened down by it. Well, friend, you don't have to carry that anymore. You don't have to carry it. Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. True peace comes from knowing Jesus Christ. Would you be willing to pray right there where you are, Lord Jesus? I lay down this burden of sin. Just say those words. Lord Jesus, I'm coming to you. I lay down this burden of sin. I ask you to come into my heart. Save me. Save me, Jesus. Forgive me. Make me a new child. Give me peace, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that in meaning, you can be victorious tonight. You can be a new creation. You can walk in newness of life. All your sins gone. Forgiven. Cleansed by the blood of Christ. Father, take these words, use them in the hearts of people. For your glory's sake, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.