Now, look in Psalm 18 tonight. I was reading this Psalm one morning and there's some things just that flew off the page. I just want to share some things here with you tonight out of this wonderful psalm. And look in Psalm 18, verse 1. I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust. my buckler and the horn of my salvation and my high tower. I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised, so shall I be saved from mine enemies. Now, one of the distinguishing marks of true salvation is the love for God. The lost man, the natural man, does not have a love for God. In fact, the Bible teaches us that there's a hostility and an enmity in the heart of lost man towards God. But the moment that person is saved, that hatred turns to love. And the Bible says the Holy Spirit sheds the love of God abroad in the heart. Love for God is a distinguishing mark of a true child of God. The Bible says we love him because what? He first loved us. And so we love God And that love for God I believe is evident in the true child of God. And I believe that it grows and I believe that it deepens and others can see that. You know, when you love something, others can know that you what you love because you talk about that I read about a man in the uh congregation of the great preacher Alexander McLaren. He was a man of powerful intellect. And he wasn't converted. And so Dr. McLaren decided he would preach a whole series of sermons dealing with intellectual difficulties, hoping that this man would get converted And one day this man came up to him and said, You know, I want to thank you. I'm now a child of God. I'm saved. And he said, Wonderful. What sermon convinced you? He said, What sermon? He said, It had nothing to do with any of your sermons He said, I saw a dear old saint in your church, an older woman, and she loved God. It was so evident on her, and that turned my heart And and God used her in my life. Do people see God's or uh your love for God, I should say, in you? Do they see that in you? I believe that that is a true mark of a child of God. Every once in a while, the heart of a child of God can grow cold. That love for God can get cold. The passion that we had for Christ can be gone, and the heart grows apathetic. You remember in the New Testament, Jesus rebuked the church at Ephesus. Why? Because they left their what? Their first love. That's why Psalm 18, I think, is so very important. Because this psalm, when you read it and you meditate upon it, can rekindle that love for God. It's a reminder of why we love God. It reminds us of what God has done for us. And so if tonight you might feel like your heart is growing passionless in its love for Christ, If you feel like your heart is growing cold, I want to challenge you to meditate on Psalm 18. Now there's no way we're going to be able to get through this. This Psalm has 15 verses in it And so there's no way we can get through all of this. We're going to really take kind of a bird's eye view on this psalm. But as you meditate on it and read it I think it rekindles your love. It can rekindle your love for God if that love is waning. And this is what David is doing here. Let me give you a little background in this. What's the background of Psalm 18? When was it written? Why was it written? Well if you look just above verse 1, what you'll notice there is a kind of a long subtitle to the psalm, and you might want to read that because this is included in the psalm Where it says the Psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who spake unto the Lord, the words of this song, in the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul So why did David write this? This is really when David is older. He's been king, he's been established for a while on the throne. And what is he doing now in this psalm? He's looking back. And he's remembering all of the times that God had delivered him and the times that he was in danger. All of his enemies that had been put down. All of the victories that God had given him, how God had delivered him over and over again from the hand of Saul. And so David is just remembering this. He's looking back to God's deliverance. What is it that is rekindling love in David's heart And can rekindle love in our heart? It's remembering the deliverance of God in our life. It's meditating on that. Have you ever been in trouble? You ever had a difficult circumstance in your life, a crisis? You ever been in distress? And then the Lord just deliver you out of that? We can all testify here tonight. If we took time to take testimonies, all of our hands would go up, and we could all talk about times in our life when we were in trouble and God delivered us. And that has happened in our lives again and again and again. Now here's the point. Don't forget that. We should never forget God's deliverance. And when your heart gets cold, begins to wane Think about, meditate upon the deliverance of God in your life because that will rekindle the love. Look in verse 1. I will love thee, O Lord. Notice it doesn't say I love thee But rather, I will love thee. David is making a decision to love God with all of his mind. He's making the decision to think about what God has done for him and doing that and meditating upon all of the deliverance of God. He is choosing to love God in his mind. And he's rekindling. He's deepening that love. By the way, just circle the word love there. That's not a typical Hebrew word for love. This is a very intimate word. This is a very strong word for love. It talks about the love that a mother has for a newborn baby. I've seen that lately. It talks about the love that a father has for a son, a protecting love. It talks about the love that God has for Israel. And so David is rekindling, actually he's deepening his love for God by remembering the deliverances of God in his life. It reminds me of that line in the song that we sing, Amazing Grace, 'twas grace that brought me safe thus far. And God's grace will lead me home. And so David is just musing. He's thinking. That's why this psalm is so long. It's the fourth longest psalm in the book of Psalms. And by the way, it's used twice, or this psalm, I should say, is recorded twice in the Bible. In 2 Samuel chapter 22, we find the same words. David wrote it in the history book of Israel, and he writes it now again in the hymn book of Israel, and I think the Holy Spirit does that for emphasis. And so David is talking about the deliverance of God. Notice how many times he uses the word. Look at verse 17. He delivered me from my strong enemy. And then drop down to verse 19, where it says, He brought me forth into a large place. He delivered me because he delighted in me. Look down in verse number 43. We see it again. Thou hast delivered me. from the strivings of the people. Drop down to verse 48. He delivered me from mine enemies. And then again in verse 48 where it says Thou liftest up me up above the those that rise up against me. Thou hast delivered me from the violent man. And then finally in verse 15, great deliverance giveth he to his king. And so this is the key idea. This is the key thought. God has delivered me again and again. And David remembers that very thing. Now, with that in mind, let me just give you three ways that David remembers the deliverance of God. And just write these down. First of all, I want you to think with me about the power of the deliverer. Because in the first eighteen verses, David focuses upon the character of God. God is the one who is the deliverer. Think about his power and how God manifests his power. And we see some symbols of God's attributes. We already saw this in verse 2, but notice the different metaphors that David uses for God. The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength. You know, someone said, Do you realize that my is the first pronoun learned by most children? They'd like to say my toys, my house, my room, etc. That's just their childish way of expressing what is theirs. And really what David is doing here is expressing simple, childlike faith in his relationship to the Lord. He's saying, God, he is my God. He is my rock. He is my deliverer, and so on. And we see these beautiful metaphors, really eight of them that's here. Notice where he says, first of all, the Lord is my rock. That's God being our stability. When everything else in this world is is unstable, don't we live in an unstable world? Yet we have a rock. And God is our stability. That's what David is saying here. And I think the rock in this whole chapter is a key metaphor because it comes up several times. We're going to see it again in verse 31 and again in verse 46, where God is a rock. And really, you could argue that all of the other metaphors used in verse 2 really relate to this one key metaphor that God is our rock, our refuge. Now, I think that what David might be referring to here is the place where he ran when he was trying to get away from Saul. And it was a place called Engedi. When I was over in Israel, I had the privilege of going to this place called Engedi, and really all it is, is it's just this high rock-like fortress. I mean, literally it is a rock All around that area is uh the Dead Sea area, and all the water is salt water except in this one place in Ngeti, this high rock fortress, there's a waterfall, and there's a beautiful spring there, and it's fresh water. And that was the place where David ran to when he was running from Saul. It was literally a high rock fortress And maybe that's what David has in mind when he says that the Lord is my rock. Look again in verse 2, he is my fortress, that his God is my not only my stability, he is my safety. This is the place that David could run to for safety. Don't you know that the Lord is a place of safety for us? We can run to him And my Savior in verse 2. He's my deliverer. And then my sovereign, where he says he's my God. That's the word El, meaning he's the God who's in control of everything. He's over all things. He's my strength in verse number He's my stability, my safety, my savior, my sovereign, my strength. And then he says he's my shield because he calls him my buttler. That is simply just a shield. That's all that means. You know, when trouble comes, sometimes the Lord might allow those troubles to come into our life for a purpose, but sometimes God will shield us from danger or trouble in our life. He chooses to be a shield for us. Heaven only knows how many times God has shielded us from danger. He's been a shield for us. I read about a little church in Kansas, and that church exploded on a Tuesday night at 7. 36 P. M. Now listen to this. The choir always met for practice on Tuesday night at 7. 30. About 40 people in the choir. But on that particular night When the church exploded at 7. 36, no one from the choir was there. Everyone had a reason why they were delayed. They just didn't make it there to church that night. And so at 736 there was a gas leak under the church and the whole thing exploded. And had there been anyone there, they would have surely died. You think it's any accident that no one was there? God is a shield, and so many times God will protect us. David says, God is my buckler, he's my supply, he's called the horn of my salvation And I think when I think of this horn of salvation, I think of the cornucopia, that uh uh goats horn, large ghost horn where they would fill it with fruit and and corn to overflowing and it speaks of supply and when we get salvation God just loads us down with blessings and he's finally he's my security my high tower in verse number two This again refers to the great towers that were built around ancient cities. And it speaks about how we are secure in God. Now those are pretty beautiful metaphors, wouldn't you agree? That's what God is to us. Now, that's why David was not afraid to call upon God When trouble came, look in verse 3. I will call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from my enemies. And so knowing this about God, David has great confidence to call upon God. Let me tell you something here tonight, dear Christian friend. Call upon the Lord. Don't be afraid to call upon God. He should be your first resource when trouble comes. When you need deliverance, say like David, I will call upon the Lord. Now notice that this the uh difficulty He says in verse 4, the sorrows of death, the word for sorrows there is a Hebrew word that means a cord or a rope. So we could say, the cords of death compassed me. David was tied down, he couldn't move. Death like a lion was approaching him. He was ready to be devoured. And verse number four he says the floods of ungodly men. That's the idea of being underwater. He's drowning under a flood of ungodly men who want to kill him. The snares of death David was in the grasp of death. And so you can see how he's describing this really bad situation that he's in. That may be that you're in a bad situation tonight. You might could relate this very night to what David is saying because that you could say, man, that's me right now. I feel like I'm tied down and I feel like I'm being devoured by all of these things that are happening round about me So I want you to notice what David does. Now we see the symbols of God's attributes in these metaphors, but now we see the swiftness of God's actions. Now, from verse six down to verse eighteen is just an incredible part of this psalm. It's just a magnificent way that God that David describes how God responds to his cry of help. And really just reading these verses should encourage us to cry out to God. You know, it might look like you, like there's no hope. Friend, there's always hope with God. And uh God runs to the aid of his afflicted child. Let me ask you a question. You ever see a mother run to the cry of her baby? I've seen that again, you know, when I was over in London. Newborn baby, a little whimper. Here's mom and grandmom right there They're right there. I think one of the most powerful forces on the face of the earth is the mother coming to the aid of her child. You ever see an angry mother defending her child? Let me tell you something, friend, it would be better for you to meet a bear in the woods than to meet an angry mother who is defending her child. But what we see here in verses 6 to 18 is how God is like that. God runs to the aid. of his child that is in distress. And what we see is the most majestic language describing the manner in which God rises up off his throne. When his child cries out, God rises up off his throne. And he runs to their aid and he uses incredible language to talk about this. The clouds of heaven part, the earthquakes, thunder rolls, lightning bolts strike And streak across the sky, smoke comes out of God's nostrils and fire out of his mouth because he's angry about anyone that would try to harm one of his children And what I want you to do really in this next section is I don't want to expound it. I just want you to read this with me. And I want you to just listen to what it says because it's a blessing just to read This beautiful poetic language that David uses conveying the idea that God is a mighty deliverer. And he runs to our aid. Look at verse 6. In my distress, I called upon the Lord and cried unto my God. He heard my voice. And watch this out of his temple. And my cry came before him, even into his ears. Verse 7, the earth shook And trembled. The foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken because he was wroth. Then went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured Coals were kindled by it. He bowed the heavens also, and he came down, and darkness was under his feet. He rode upon a cherub. And did fly. Yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind. He made darkness his secret place. His pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies. At the brightness that was before him, his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire. The Lord also thundered in the heavens. And the highest gave his voice, hailstones and coals of fire. Yea, he sent out his arrows and scattered them, and he shot out lightnings and discomfited them Then the channels of water were seen and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils. He sent from above. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. He delivered me from my strong enemy, from them which hated me, for they were too strong for me. Isn't that beautiful language? There's not a whole lot that I could add to that. In beautiful poetic imagery, David conveys this idea that God runs To help him. You know what he's saying here here in beautiful language? God will move heaven and earth to run to help his child who cries out to him. And he will deliver them. Now this language that David uses is familiar, really, if you read the Old Testament. I think you'll see some of this used in the book of Exodus talking about the deliverance of God from Egypt, I think verses 7 through 11, you can associate with Mount Sinai when God gave those great theophanic manifestations there on Mount Sinai. Verses 12 to 14 kind of reminds us of God's help to the Jewish people when they were conquering the land of Canaan. Verses 15 and 16 really I think describe the parting of the Red Sea. But David uses all this language and what's the point? God will deliver his people in a mighty way. The power of the deliverer. But then write down number two. The purpose of the deliverance. The purpose of the deliverance. Now David is going to talk about why God did this. Look in verse number 18. They prevented me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my stay Verse 19, He brought me forth also into a large place. He delivered me because he delighted in me In verse 20, the Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands, hath he recompensed me. Now here David is saying, this is why God did this. God delivered me because he delighted in me. Because I was walking uprightly. You might be sitting here and saying, now wait a minute. I was in distress. I called upon the Lord. Nothing happened. Very true. Could be one of two things. It could be that the Lord just wants you to go through this trial a little bit because He's going to teach you something. Or it could be that God's not pleased with the way you're walking right now. That you're not walking uprightly the way you should, because David here said that God delivered me because he delighted in me. Because I was walking uprightly. Look in verse 21, for I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my God, for all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me I was also upright before him. I kept myself from mine iniquity. And so David was saying, I was walking uprightly. Now David's not bragging. And by the way, there are some that would ask and say, wait a minute, how could David say that he's walking uprightly? David wrote this late in his life. The sin with Bathsheba and the sin against Uriah had already taken place. How could David, in light of that, claim to be walking uprightly in these verses here Well now let me tell you something. Walking uprightly doesn't mean that you're sinless. It doesn't mean that you never fail or fall. It means that the general pattern of your life is you obey God You seek to please the Lord. David was a man after God's own heart. Yet he failed. But you know what happened when he failed? He confessed it. And he got his heart right. And he began to walk with God again. Now, God judged him and he paid for it. But the whole pattern of his life was to walk in uprightness. Again, it doesn't mean sinless, but it does mean blameless in the sense that you seek to obey the Word of God. You seek to do what God wants you to do. And in verse 23, David said, Look, I kept myself from mine iniquity. David knew he had weaknesses in his life. He knew he had a besetting sin that he had to deal with. How many of us can relate to that? All of us battle against sin all of the time in our life. And just because we battle against sin doesn't mean that we're not walking uprightly. We're battling against it. You know the difference between a righteous man and an unrighteous man? A righteous man lapses into sin and he loathes it. A unrighteous man will leap into sin and he will love it. Here, David, he lapsed, but he was a man after God's own heart. And the normal pattern of his life was to walk in obedience to God, and he did do that. And friend, that's us as Christians. You know, I was talking to my Sunday school class, we're kind of going through the book of Romans and we're talking about Romans 8, the victory of getting victory over sin in our life, and Romans 8 tells us that we're debtors not to the flesh, but to the Spirit God's given us all the resources we need in the Spirit so that we can live above sin in our life. And we are debtors to the Spirit. And what we have to do is to learn to mortify sin, learn to kill sin in our life. You say, how do I do that There's a person to love, focus on Christ. You want to kill sin inside of you, focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, focus on the cross Focus on what he has done for you. That has a sin-killing effect. There's a person to love, there's a power to live, there's a Holy Spirit that lives inside of us. And that Holy Spirit gives us his power. And when we yield to the Holy Spirit, he helps us to have victory over sin And then there's a principle to learn. We have the Word of God. When we hide God's word in our heart, what happens? There's a sin-killing effect. We mortify sin. We put it to death. But a Christian will learn to do that. Now they might struggle while they do that, but they're learning. That's what David was doing. That's what you might be doing here tonight. You can walk uprightly as you battle against sin. But also there's another thing about David where he could claim he was upright. Look what in verse number 25. He gives us another principle. With the merciful wilt thou show thyself merciful. With the upright man thou wilt show thyself upright. With the pure, thou wilt show thyself pure. And with the froward, thou wilt show thyself froward. Now He's giving us a general principle here, and that's simply this. The way you conduct yourselves toward others is the way God will conduct himself towards you That's the general principle. In fact, I was reading the great Old Testament scholar Loophold, and this is what he wrote about these verses. God very appropriately deals with every man as that man deals with him. God lets man, as it were, choose the pattern after which he will be dealt with. If you're merciful, God will be merciful to you. If you deal purely with others, God will deal purely with you. If you're honest towards others, God will deal rightly towards you. Now there are some that struggle over verse 26 where it says with the throeword, and the word throward here means Crooked, it says with the forward, thou wilt show thyself forward. Someone said, now wait a minute, is God going to be crooked to the man who's crooked? No, because God never does evil. He never does wrong. The second word thrower in verse 26 is not the same Hebrew word as the first one. The first word fro word does mean crooked, but the second word is a word that means shrewd. God will be shrewd with the man who's crooked. And the idea here is that God will um God will be uh He will be astute in the way that He deals with that Look at verse 30. As for God, his way is what? It's perfect. That's perfect in all the ways that He works. And so David could say, Lord, you had delivered me because you delighted in me and because I was seeking to walk uprightly before you and that's why you delivered me If you want to experience the deliverance of God in your life, you have to seek to walk uprightly. You have to seek to please the Lord and obey his word. And in general, if that's your life, when you call upon the Lord, he will run to be at your side. He will run to help you. This is what David says. Now let me give you the last thing. There's the power of the deliverer. There's the purpose of deliverance, and I want you to write down number three, the praise of the delivered. Because David in the rest of this psalm, and again, we're kind of doing a bird's eye view here, we can't look at all these verses But in general, what is David going to do the rest of these verses? He's going to praise God. He's going to thank God. Look at verse 31. It kind of sums it up there. For who is God save the Lord? Or who is a rock save our God? You know what he's saying there? Why go to any other source for help? Who is a God besides our God? What rock are you to go to besides our rock? There's no better help than God. He's our rock. He's our help. Why go anywhere else? The story is told of a young preacher named Augustus Toplady, and he was walking through the countryside in England. Suddenly there was a storm that rose up, and he sought refuge. It was a fierce storm, and he spotted a cleft in a rock, and he ran into that place. until the storm sat by. And while he was there and the storm was raging and he was there in the cleft of that rock, he began to think about how God has sheltered him and all the storms of life that he had gone through. God was his rock. And so he didn't have any paper with him, but he happened to see on the on the uh the ground there just a card And so he picked it up and he wrote these words in 1775, Rock of Ages Cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy wounded side which flow Be of sin the double cure, safe from wrath, and make me pure. You need a place to hide. God is that rock. He's the one that we run to. Why go anywhere else? And so throughout the rest of these verses, David just praises God. Because of how God had delivered him, God had enlightened him in verse 28. God energizes him in verse 29. And ver through verse 31, look what he says. We'll just touch on this. For by thee I have run through a troop, and by my God I have leaped over a wall. You know what he's just describing here? Things that we normally humanly can't do in of ourself Only God can help us do this. I can't run through a troop. A whole troop of men. I can't do that. I can't leap over a wall. Think about a high wall guarding a city. I don't have that power to leap, you know. But by God I can do it. He's describing how that things that are by ourselves we couldn't do. Humanly they're impossible with God. God can help you do that. And so God energizes him, God empowers him in verse 32 and verse 33. He can help him to stand on the high places because He gives them hindsight, that's deer's feet like a mountain goat, so that the next step that he takes is a sure step. God will keep you sure-footed. God will equip you. He will prepare you to be a warrior. He will enable you. And finally, down from verses 43 down to verse 50, God will exalt you, because God exalts David above all of his enemies. And so David goes through all of this, and he thinks about God, and he deepens his love for God by remembering God's great deliverance. That's what we need to do. Let me tell you something. Don't allow yourself to forget God's deliverance in your life. Don't allow yourself to do that. When I was in London, I noticed that uh when I was walking around the city, I noticed several monuments to John Wesley. I didn't realize they had so many for him. Uh he was at one time I think honored, I don't know about now, but at one time he was honored throughout that city. There's a chap there's a chapel there in London called the John Wesley Chapel because he preached there. I did visit there at the back of that chapel is the grave of John Wesley. You say who was John Wesley? He was a great preacher and he was really the founder of the Methodist movement that evolved into the Methodist Church. He was very evangelistic. He preached the gospel Someone said that he preached 40,000 sermons in his lifetime. And think about, you know, he rode on horseback from one place to another. He was really the one that invented open-air preaching because some churches kicked him out. They didn't want them And so he went out into the field and he preached in the field, and people would come and hear him in the field. And he started little chapels all along the countryside of England. He preached many years until he was eighty-eight, until he finally died. He had such a fervent love and zeal for God. At the chapel there, I noticed that there's a portrait of John Wesley. And underneath the portrait, there is an inscription. There's really John Wesley. Then there's a portrait of a house in flames. And underneath that, there's this verse, Zechariah 3, 2, is not a bran, is not this a bran plucked from the burning A brand plucked from the burning. Now, why did he have that beneath the portrait? Or why did they have it? Because that's what John Wesley called himself. He said, I'm nothing. but a bran that has been plucked from the burning. And why did he say that? Because when he was just a little child, he almost never made it out of childhood. Because on February the 9th, 1709, fire swept through his house. His father was a preacher, Samuel Wesley, and they lived in the parsonage. He had eight children at that time, and fire swept through the house. Reverend Samuel Wesley was awakened. By a shout of fire, someone out in the street shouted fire. He woke up. He went to one of the rooms of his children and he was able to gather a few of them together with the maid that was there. And they made their way down the steps. But the house became so engulfed so quickly that they weren't able to get to John Wesley where he was. They cried they shouted to him but he couldn't hear. Finally, when he saw the light, John Wesley woke up thinking it was morning. He cried out for the maid And then he realized that it was fire. He tried to go down the hallway, but it was too engulfed in flames. And he began to cry out. And Samuel Wesley, the father, could hear his son John Wesley crying out And so he ran into the house and tried to run up the steps, but the steps collapsed. And he couldn't get to them. So right there, Samuel Wesley got on his knees and he prayed and he said, Lord, I commit my son to you. He thought he was going to lose his son. So he said, I commit the soul of my son to you. But John Wesley, the little boy, took a chest and he pushed it against the window and he stood on that chest, and someone from outside saw him in the window. And they didn't have a ladder. So two men got together and one man put the other man on his shoulders. The other man stood on his shoulders, and the man reached up. And grabbed John Wesley. And as soon as he grabbed him, the whole roof caved in on that house the moment he grabbed them. And Samuel Wesley, the father, when he saw his son was saved, immediately he gathered his family together and they got on their knees. And they thanked God. He said, let the house go. I have my eight children. Thank God for that. And from that time on, John Wesley considered himself a brand plucked from the burning. You know, when you think about it, that's really what we are, isn't it? That's all we are. Without the deliverance of God, where would we be? I tell you, friend, where we'd be. We would be in the fire of eternity. We're brands plucked from the burning because of the deliverance of Almighty God. And what we need to do is never forget that We need to remember the deliverance of God in our life. And let that remembrance of what God has done deepen our love for God. May our love never grow cold. For our Lord. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you for your great deliverance. Thank you for this reminder and this beautiful psalm. And Lord, let us say like David, there is no rock save our God. There's no God like our God. No rock like our rock. And Lord, may we remember your mighty hand in our life, your mighty deliverance. And as we muse and meditate on that, Lord, help us to deepen and strengthen our love to you. May it fill us with zeal. And passion, just like it did for David, just like it did for John Wesley. Made him a mighty evangelist. Lord, let our hearts be on fire with love for you so that everywhere we go people can see the love that we have for our God And Lord, may it have a profound effect in our community wherever we go so that people want to know about Christ. Help us to be evangelistic, Lord, as a church, as a people. As we've been taught by our family, Pastor, Lord, to love others, to reach out to others, bless us, help us. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.