Would you take God's word tonight, please open to the book of Psalm 119? On Wednesday nights, we're looking at this chapter. And tonight we're going to look at verses 9 down to verse 16. Psalm 119. And I want to talk tonight about how to cleanse your life. Psalm 119, verse number nine. Dr. A. J. Arnside was a great Bible teacher, and he used to love to tell the story of a Scottish boy who was one of those persnickety young people that whenever he was told to do something he would always ask the question why. He wanted to know the reason for everything he did And he was and he was working for a farmer and the farmer, um, whenever the farmer told him to do anything, he would always ask that question, why? It kind of disturbed him, but on one occasion he said to the boy, he handed him a market basket and said, Take this basket down to the creek and fill it up with water And the boy said, Why? I mean it's doesn't hold water. He said, I'm paying you. You just do what you're told. And the boy took it down to the creek and sure enough he filled it up and the w water didn't stay in it, leaked all out And uh the farmer said, Well try it again. So he did it again a second time, very frustrated. It wouldn't hold any water. Finally he said, Well do it again. And he said, Well, it's not gonna hold water. He said, just do it again He did it a third time. And uh disgusted, the boy kind of threw the basket and said, I'm not going to do this anymore. The farmer picked up the basket and he looked lifted it up with a smile on his face and looked at it through the sun and said He said, Yeah, he said, Well it's uh it's uh a gr a great deal cleaner than it was before and that's really what I needed. Uh the boy got the point. The water front running through had cleansed away all of the dirt. Well, that's how the Word of God affects our lives. Jesus said in John 15, verse 3, Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. and we're sanctified by the washing of the cleansing of the water of God's Word. Now this is the major idea in this section of Psalm 119. The psalmist starts out by asking a very good question in verse number 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? And we need to ask ourselves that very question. How can we keep our lives clean? Spiritually clean. We live in such a dirty world. How can we stay clean in this world in which we live? And we need to be like the psalmist and desire to be spiritually cleansed. And so what I want you to see from this passage here tonight are three principles that I draw from it as I read over this and meditated on it. Just three simple principles to follow if we would like to clean up our life. Here's the first principle, principle number one. I call this the principle of spiritual motivation. Again in verse 9, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Now there has to be some motivation on our part. The very fact that the psalmist would ask this question implies a desire, a spiritual motivation to live a clean life. Is that your desire? I mean, first of all, you have to want that. You have to desire that. And just three observations. So recognize the need. We have to recognize the need for spiritual cleansing. Again, the question implies that there is a need. We need to clean up spiritually. You remember when Jesus was with his disciples in the upper room and he washed their feet and Peter said to Jesus when he began to wash Peter's feet, he said, Lord, you're never going to wash my feet. And remember what Jesus said, well then you have no part or lot with me, Peter And then Peter said, Well Lord, if that's the case, don't wash this my feet, wash my head, my hands, wash all of me. In other words, give me a bath And and Jesus said, Well, you've already been, you know, he that is washed needeth not save not to save save his feet. In other words, Jesus was saying, You've already had your bath, you just need your feet washed. And that's really spiritual language there. The idea there is that, you know, we when we were saved by the Lord Jesus Christ, we got a spiritual bath, right? He cleansed us. But there's a sense in which as believers we're still going to get our feet dirty in this world, right? And so we need the daily cleansing of God's word. We can't lose our salvation, but if we're not careful, we can we can allow sin to to to dirty our spiritual life and we can lose that on blessings. And so we need to have our spiritual feet washed because we walk in such a dirty world. Now this psalmist recognized that he had a need, but there was a need because first of all he was young. Again in verse 9, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? The Hebrew word is not heir, adolescent. Sometimes it's used of a boy s uh preteen. A lot of times it's used to speak about an adolescent. I think it's an adolescent here. This is such a pivotal and vulnerable time for young people. Young people are hit from all sides, aren't they, with all kind of evil and temptation from the world. And this young man, you have to give him credit. He realizes that in his youth he needs cleansing. He needs to be careful. That's why I think that the author of this psalm was young. And there are different ideas about who the author may be. Some think it was David, certainly could have been, but I think that this was, as I told you last week. uh one of the yo young people that was taken in the exile, taken in captivity when in the Babylonian exile when Nebuchadnezzar surrounded the city. and destroyed it and carried away captives. And this was young monk yo one young man that determined that even though he was going to live in a pagan foreign land, he was going to remember the word of the Lord. and remember uh to follow God. And so this Psalm 119 is kind of the the the diary of his meditation, his desire to hold on to the truth of God's word and to seek God. And here we see his desire to live a clean life, even though he knows he's going to be in a vulnerable place. He wants to be clean. And I think that applies also today for today's youth. Again, our youth, they face a lot of different challenges, don't they? Uh they are becoming individuals, they're growing in the process of becoming independent. Um they begin to discover who they are They also face a crisis with developing communication skills, learning to talk to the people around them, learning to communicate without a sense of self-consciousness. Uh they a lot of times feel inferior. They wrestle with fear feelings of awkwardness and they have emotional highs and lows and a lot of insecurities and then there's that peer pressure that comes upon them and they have to learn to make their own decisions and stand for what is right. And so and also they're investigating things. They're at the point in their life where they're questioning everything that they were taught perhaps by their teachers and parents and they're making their own decisions. So it's such a vulnerable time for young people. You know what they need? They need the Word of God to guide them through all of these challenges. But also there was a need because of his inward nature. Notice where he says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse What? His way. His way, the Hebrew aura, which is metaphorically refers to behavior or your conduct. You know, we're all born with that sin nature, right? We all know that. Years ago there was a Frenchman named Daniel Hugo who was convicted of murder. And um during the trial it was argued that he had an extra Y chromosome that caused him to behave in certain ways, in abnormal ways And the jury uh said that basically he was unbalanced at birth and they uh said it was this this Y chromosome that was causing him to do that. It basically got off. But I don't know about that, but I do know this. Everyone's born with a S chromosome called the sin nature. And that's what causes us to behave badly. And here this young man recognize that, you know, how's the young man going to cleanse his way? There's just something in us that causes us to go the wrong way. The Bible says in Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. But the rod of correction will drive it far from him. Word for child there. Again, same word, not error. You know, Proverbs actually mentions four different categories of youth. There's the simple which is the uh this is someone who's naive and they just haven't learned a lot and they're beginning to learn things. And then it also mentions the scorner. This is the the young person who's a cynic. You know, we would call him a wise guy. You know, they always have something uh smart to say. And then there's the foolish, which is a rebel. They rejected God's word and God's principles. And then there's the wise. Those are the four categories that the Bible gives in the book of Proverbs. And we don't want our young people to become foolish, right? Fools reject God's word. The Bible says it's better for your child to meet up with a bear in the woods who had just been robbed of her cubs. Better for him to meet up with a bear in the woods robbed of her cubs than a fool in his folly. Uh that's how dangerous fools are. The Bible says, he that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be what? Shall be destroyed. So All young people start out simple with the seeds of folly in their heart because foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. And they'll either chu choose to become a scorner and then maybe eventually a fool, or they'll choose to be wise. What is it that makes a simple young person wise? Well, it's God's Word. Psalm 19, 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. And so first of all, you have to recognize the need for spiritual cleansing. But here's the second observation here. We have to use or utilize the instrument for spiritual cleansing. In verse number nine, but wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. It is the word of God that gives us that cleansing. It is God's instrument that keeps us clean. Now in the Bible, water for drinking is a symbol of the Holy Spirit, but water for cleansing is a symbol of the Word of God. And how does God's Word cleanse us? Well, we know this. We study Scripture. It cleanses us by it cleanses our thoughts. It shows us the wrong thoughts, and then it helps us to replace the wrong thoughts with godly thoughts. Second Corinthians 10, 5, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God And bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. God's word affects us on the thought level. But then also it cleanses us of our actions God's word is compared to a mirror in James chapter one. We're able to see when we do wrong. And like a mirror, it it shows us that and it helps us to to to take action and do the right things. But also it cleanses our motives. And Hebrews chapter 13, or excuse me, chapter 4, verse 12, for the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. It's so sharp that it separates not the body but the soul from the spirit and discerns the thoughts and the intents of our heart. God's word can show where our not only our thoughts are wrong, but also our motives are wrong. But then also it helps us in confessing our sin. It teaches us how to confess sins to God. And so God's word is that instrument to keep us clean. But also another observation is maximize the effort for spiritual cleansing. Look at verse number 10. With my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. Notice he's wholehearted. We saw this in the last section. And by the way, we'll see this expression again and again in Psalm 119. This this young man is giving it all of his heart. We have to admire him for that. He's not passive in his spiritual devotion. And if you want to live a pure, clean life, you're not going to drift into it. You can't be passive about it. It has to be a commitment on your part. I mean, the world is actively engaged in and corrupting people's minds. We have to be actively engaged in fighting against that and work and getting God's word into our heart and our mind. And what this takes is spiritual discipline. It's like you're training for a competition. Paul said to Timothy, Exercise thyself rather unto godliness. And the word exercise there is gymnazo, where we get the word gymnasium. It's an athletic metaphor. You're training for an event. You've got to put out some effort. You've got to use some spiritual discipline. It's like Paul said, I count not myself to have apprehended, but Forgetting those things which are behind, I'm reaching forth, I'm pressing towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God. All that talks about effort. And we see that here in this psalmist. With my whole heart have I sought thee. One time a young man said to Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse, the great Bible teacher, I would give everything. to know the Bible the way you do and and he said to him, Well, good, because that's exactly what it's going to cost you. You got to give it everything. And that's so true. So there's the principle of spiritual motivation. But here's the second principle I see as I Read it in this section. The principle of skillful memorization. Look in verse number 11. Thy word have I hid in my heart. that I might not sin against thee. And here the psalmist determines to commit God's word to his heart. The best book is God's word. The best place to have it is in the in the heart. Have I hid in my heart? for the best purpose that I might not sin against thee. All ages need to memorize God's word Hit him at heart again. It's just an expression that means stored up. He's memorizing God's word. Many Christians don't take time to memorize Scripture, to get it in their mind. I'm going to quote here from Donald Whitney in his book, Spiritual Disciplines. He says, quote: Many Christians look on the spiritual discipline of memorizing God's Word as something tantamount to modern-day martyrdom. Ask them to memorize Bible verses and they react with about as much eagerness as a request for volunteers to face Nero's lions. It's kind of harsh, isn't it? Shame on him. I'm going to write him a strongly worded letter. Why is that? Why is it that we sometimes find it hard to to do that? Well perhaps because some believers associate memorizing God's Word with all the effort that it takes. I mean it's work. It's like studying for an exam. How many of us enjoy doing that? It's cool, you know? But maybe it's an issue of attitude. Maybe if we really valued God's word more, it wouldn't be so hard. For example, what if I offered you $1,000 for every verse you could memorize in the next seven days? How many of you would take an effort at that? I'm going to give you $1,000 for every verse. Now I'm just I'm speaking, you know, not just an illustration here. It's not literal. Pastor Harmon lied to me. I memorized ten verses. I wanted $10,000. But I mean would it change your perspective? But any financial reward that you would get would be minimal compared to the spiritual reward. that you would get if you just memorized God's word. And the psalmist, by the way, looked at God's word as something greater than riches. Look at verse 14, for I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimony as as much as in all riches. So I mean he had the same joy in God's word that a person would have if they discovered a buried treasure or they won the lottery or readers digest sweet states. Are they still doing that? But anyway, you get the idea. The Puritan Thomas Watson said the Bible is a rock of diamonds. He said it's a chain of pearls. I read a book when I was in high school that had a tremendous impact on me. It was called Tortured for His Faith, the story of Harlan Popov. He was a Bulgarian pastor. He was an atheist as a teenager, but he got saved and then later on became a pastor. And where when World War II ended in Bulgaria, it was It was abandoned and the communists took over and they basically took over everything. Government, bank, businesses, and they took over uh high positions in the church. And sadly, many pastors fell in line with the new regime, but not Popoff. He used every opportunity to spread God's word But one day the Bulgarian secret police kidnapped him. They came in his house at nighttime and they took him away. And after torture They couldn't really get him a confession. They made up something and they ended up throwing him into a communist prison and he was there for 13 years in a communist prison. And uh while he was in that prison, uh they would put him in a cell and said they would forbid him to talk. He couldn't talk to the other prisoners that were in each each in individual cells, but the prisoners developed a way to communicate by taking their tin cup and tapping it against the wall. And they would spell out words. Not everybody knew Morris code, so it was very simple. One tap was A, two taps was B, three taps was C, and they'd spell they would spell out letters that way. So you can imagine how every conversation was a long one Spelling out the words. And by doing that, Popolf spread the gospel. He shared the gospel in prison with a tin cup tapping on a wall. And it wasn't long until many of those prisoners had received Jesus Christ as their Savior. And pretty soon he had a core of men who were disciples. He was telling them, teaching them, but he didn't have a Bible with him. And he thought, I need the word of God to teach to these men. And he thought, how am I going to get a Bible here in this communist prison? So he had a very bold prayer. He prayed and he said, Lord, this is not impossible for you. Please get me a Bible. And one day he was shocked to see a prisoner take out a little book, rip out a page, use that page to roll a cigarette, and begin to smoke it. And as he looked close at that book, he realized it was a New Testament. And when he saw the Bible, he hadn't seen a Bible for for you know you know six or seven years. And his heart was just so moved and he began to weep. And the man looked at him and said, Why are you crying? He says, What is that? That's a Bible you have. Where did you get that? And the man said, Well, I picked it up out of a trash bin. And he said, I'll give you all that I have if you'll just give me that Bible. The prisoners evidently were allowed to have some money as they worked I'll give you all I have if you'll just give me that Bible. And the man said, if it means this much to you, just take it. And there he had the Bible in his hands. And he wept with joy. And he knew that it was only going to be a matter of time before the guards would find it because every day they would conduct a search in their prison uh cells, and he had to hide it in a different place each day when they would do the search And he knew it was just a matter of time before they would find it. So he decided to hide the Bible in a place where they could never take it away. And that was in his heart. He determined he was going to memorize as much of the New Testament as he could. And he was able to memorize, and they uh finally eventually did find it. And after they found it, he was subject to a beating. But he says in the book it was worth it. I mean, I didn't even feel the strokes because I was so happy that I was able to memorize 47 chapters of the New Testament. Before they were able to get that Bible. He said, I hid the Word of God someplace where they could never take it away. I memorized it and hid it in my heart. So his motivation was simply he loved God's word and he was so desperate for it because he had been robbed of it. I think sometimes we Uh we have uh we have the Bible everywhere and if we're not careful we can we can't we can not appreciate it the way we should as God's people. And so he hid it in his heart. Now the psalmist is saying, Thy word have I hid in my heart. And he has several reasons for that. First of all, to prevent sin in verse 11, that I might not sin against thee. God's word is the best weapon we have to fight sin and temptation in our life. God's word is compared to the sword of the Spirit. That word for sword in Ephesians, there's two words, Greek words for sword. One is the big sword, the romphyah, which is a long sword that you can kind of just wield indiscriminately. But then there's another word for sword which is much shorter, macera, which is a sword that takes skill. This is the one you you would use for Close combat, and you had to be skillful with this sword. This is the word for sword used in Ephesians, the sword of the Spirit. And the whole idea is that, you know, we have to be skillful in the use of God's word So we should memorize verses in areas where maybe we need that strength. If there's a certain temptation that you're prone to, memorize verses in that area. and apply it. If there are certain things that you're struggling with, weaknesses, memorize God's word in that area. If there are certain areas where Satan is coming at you, we need to Pull up God's word and apply it to that area. Remember when Satan came to tempt Jesus? Each time Jesus quoted Scripture, and he applied the perfect passage of Scripture for the temptation that he was facing at that moment. That's using God's word skillfully. And so it's to prevent sin. But then also to promote praise in verse twelve. Blessed art thou, O Lord You know, when you fill your heart with God's word, it's gonna it's gonna come out in the way you praise God. It's gonna come out of your mouth It's going to make you want to praise him more. It's going to control the way you praise God. It will control how often you praise God. The psalmist said in Psalm 119, verse 164, Seven days do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgment. Seven times a day. I just praise God. Why? Well, Lord, because of your word. And when we pray, we can pray skillfully and repeat the promises of God's word back to him. But another reason is to promote discernment in verse 12 where he says, Teach me thy statutes. And the word teach here means to be skillful or to be instructed, to have discernment, really, we could say, to be able to discern, to make right choices. And it certainly God's Word helps us to do that. We're not going to be able to discern correctly until we have a resource, until we have a basis of truth. And God's Word provides that. And so memorize God's word. Commit it to memory. Once there was a little boy who was nine years old, his Sunday school teacher offered him a brand new Bible if he would memorize Psalm 119. And this little boy was motivated. He decided he was going to memorize 176 verses of Psalm 119. And sure enough, one day he was able to recite every verse to his Sunday school teacher. And that little boy's name was David Livingston who later became the great missionary to Africa. But here's the third principle I want to give you, not only the principle of spiritual motivation. And the principle of skillful memorization. But here's number three, the principle of scriptural meditation. Look at verse 15. I will meditate in thy precepts. And have respect unto all thy ways. Meditation in God's Word is such a lost discipline It really is. But it's so effective for our spiritual growth and sanctification. Such an effective tool. J. F. Hacker, in his classical book, Knowing God, he wrote this. Meditation is a lost art today, and Christian people suffer grievously from their ignorance of the practice. And I think he's right. Did you know that the Puritans in their day preached and wrote on the importance of biblical meditation? When's the last time you heard a whole sermon on just biblical meditation? But they preached sermons on it, they they wrote on it. And for the Puritan, meditation was a daily duty that enhanced every other duty of the Christian life. And when they use the word duty, they're talking about practical application, living out the principles of God's word. Thomas Watson, the Puritan, defined meditation as this: a holy exercise of the mind whereby we bring the truths of God's Word to remembrance and do seriously ponder upon them and apply them to ourselves. The Puritans wrote of two types of meditation. There was occasional, and then there was deliberate. Occasional is when, you know, there may be an occasion where a passage of scripture just comes to your mind. I mean, has that happened to you? Maybe, uh anybody when you're out, just maybe uh, you know, doing something, all of a sudden something will come to mind that was you heard it, you know. Anybody remember any of the sermons I preach? I'm just Kidding. Um You're like, no, I'm no, don't really remember any of that. But anyway, um sometimes You know, honestly, I wake up in the middle of the night and the praise song that was sung the the in the service is going through my mind again and again and again. I guarantee you I'm gonna wake up tonight singing He came from heaven They said there's deliver it. And that is when, you know, you as as Edward Colemy, the Puritan, wrote, deliberate meditation is when a man sets apart some time and goes into a private closet or a private walk And he says this, and there doth solemnly and deliberately meditate of the things of heaven. And he went on to say that meditation has to enter into three doors: the door of understanding, the door of heart and affection, and the door of practical living. And so he said, Thou must so meditate of God as to walk as God walks, and so to meditate of Christ as to prize him, and to live in obedience to him. Now meditation of course is a word just it just means to think or to muse, to let it roll around again and again in our mind. And the word meditate in the Hebrew word has several nuances of meaning to it. And we'll kind of go through that as we look at this. But meditation includes repeating God's word. Look at verse 13. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. Again, there's a nuance of the word meditate. One of them is to speak to oneself, to uh to think or to reflect William Wilson writes of this word, it means to murmur and to mutter, to make sound with the mouth. It implies what we express by talking to himself. Now I know in today's world people think if you talk to yourself, you're crazy. But not if you're repeating God's word to yourself. If you're speaking the word of truth in your mind And so a person would recite God's word to himself aloud, maybe in a low undertone, he would just repeat. Scripture over and over again. Joshua said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. What he meant is you're not supposed to talk about it. He meant don't stop talking about it. Just keep repeating it again and again. Just keep speaking it again and again. And you can repeat it in different ways. Um, again, referring to Donald Whitney and his book on spiritual disciplines. He gave an illustration on meditating on Jesus' words in John eleven twenty-five. He said, You can meditate it on like this, I am the resurrection and the life And then focus on the second word. I am. Think about the word am, the resurrection and life. And then I am the resurrection and the life. And I am the resurrection. And each time you go through it, you just focus on a different word. And let that word sink in. And then he writes this, of course, the point is not simply to repeat vainly each word of the verse until they've all been emphasized. He said the purpose is to think deeply upon the light or the truth that flashes into your mind each time the verse is turned. He says it's simple but effective. So meditation includes not only repeating, but also rejoicing in God's word. Look at verse 14. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. This is another nuance of the meaning of the word meditation, a joyful reflection. It may even be with with music. I think the best Praise songs are the ones that are really just scripture put to music. And you know, um a lot of times it helps you to remember it, doesn't it? And it goes back into your mind again and again. And um I've told you before, you know, sometimes I'd walk into a store, hear a song, and that song be on my mind the rest of the day. It's like songs just playing again and again and again. And there's a sense in which that's a form of meditation. If we're thinking about God's word and we're doing it with joy and rejoicing, even set to music, we're delighting in the truth of God's word. Thanking God for Scripture. It's a joyful reflection. A psalmist said in Psalm 1, he talks about the man who delights in God's word. In his word does he meditate day and night. But then also meditation includes respecting God's word. Look at verse 15. I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. And respect here is the idea of giving attention to serious consideration of God's word Someone who's preoccupied. You know, a person who meditates on God's Word is going to be preoccupied with God's Word. He's going to give it much, much attention and consideration. There was a pastor by the name of Philip Henry, and he encouraged his son to take a verse of Psalm 119 every morning and meditate on that verse. And he said, son, if you do that, you can go through Psalm 119, meditating on each verse every day for a year. You can go through it two times in a year. If you just meditate on a verse every morning. And the son took the father's challenge. He said, son, if you do that, you're going to fall in love with God's word. It's going to be your biggest concern, your biggest love. You're going to fall in with love with God's word if you do that. And so the son uh took the challenge and he did that. And the son's name was Matthew Henry. You ever heard of Matthew Henry's commentary? That's a reflection of this man's love for God's word. Meditation includes remembering God's word. Look at verse 16. I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. This is another nuance of the meaning of the Hebrew word for meditation. It is a pleasant reflection to remember. Again, the psalmist says, I will not forget your word. I'm going to remember your word, God. Many people, when they think of meditation, they think of you know mysticism, Eastern mysticism or yoga, but that's not real meditation. What they basically say is empty your mind. Scriptural meditation is fill your mind with God's Word. Fill your mind with the Word of God. Just keep thinking about it. It's like mental digestion. Thomas Brooks, again, the Puritan, said, Meditation is the food of your soul. It is the very stomach and natural heat whereby spiritual truths are digested. You see, eating a meal doesn't really nourish you, it's digesting that meal. And coming to church just hearing a sermon doesn't really give you spiritual nourishment. It's when you spiritually digest the truth of it. And it becomes a part of who you are. That's what changes you. You know, the mind is such a powerful tool. We will begin to do and be what we think about. That's why we have to get it into our mind. Now again, the Puritans devoted scores of Pages on this one topic. They called it the benefits or the excellencies. of meditation. Let me just give you some of those excellencies that they write about in closing. They said meditation helps us focus on the triune God to love and enjoy him in all his person. Meditation helps increase knowledge of sacred truth. One Puritan wrote, it takes the veil from the face of truth. Meditation stirs one's affections, Watson said. It is the billows of the affections, talking about love from your heart. It fosters repentance. Meditation helps us view worship as a discipline to be cultivated. Meditation transfuses scripture through the texture of the soul, one Puritan wrote. Meditation is a great aid to prayer. It tunes the instrument of prayer before we pray. It also stresses the heinousness. of sin. That's a word I don't really use a lot, heinousness. But it shows us how sinful sin is. One Puritan said this, it musters up all weapons and gathers all forces of argument for to press our sins and lay them heavy upon the heart. Thomas Hooker, another Puritan, said meditation sharpens the stain and strength of corruption, that it pierces more prevailingly. It is a strong antidote against sin. And you get the idea. And they just list on and on the spiritual benefits of what will take place in your life if you just meditate on God's word. And for our purpose here tonight, it will clean us up. Spiritually. It gives us a spiritual cleansing when we are in God's Word and we allow it to go through our mind. So how do we clean up our life? Well There's the principle of spiritual motivation. There's got to be that desire, and you've got to do it with your whole heart. There's the principle of skillful memorization. Hide God's word in your heart. It's a weapon against sin. Wherever you're struggling, memorize scripture to deal with whatever that area of weakness or temptation is. And then number three, scriptural meditation. Just meditate in God's word and let it cleanse you. Let it strengthen you spiritually by digesting the truth of Scripture. In his book, How to Be Born Again, Billy Graham tells of a missionary who was imprisoned by the Japanese in China. And at this concentration camp, the penalty for owning even a portion of Scripture was death. However, a small gospel of John was smuggled in this one woman in her winter coat. And at night she went to bed, as she went to bed, she would pull that Bible out, that Gospel of John, and she would, under the cover with a flashlight, she would read a verse. And then she would commit that verse to memory, and that would help her right before she went to sleep. So she literally memorized the Gospel of John in that in that place. And then she would have to get rid of the pages. She would get rid of them one page at a time before it was discovered and they take her life. And so when she went to wash her hands She would take one page at a time, she would dissolve it with the soap and water, and she would flush it down the drain. But she worked her way through the Gospel of John, memorizing one verse at a time. And this little missionary memorized the whole Gospel of John. And she said, that's what sustained her in that prison camp while she was there. And after it was all over, when they were getting ready to be released, she was interviewed by a Time magazine reporter. And uh she was taken out an interview, it is right before they were getting ready to release the prisoners. And uh When she was being interviewed, they were le they let the prisoners out, and as they were walking out, one prisoner after another had their head down. They looked defeated. They looked beaten. They looked like robots because they had been brainwashed. During that whole time in prison. But then here come this woman, and she had the joy of the Lord. She had the smile of heaven on her face. She was so different in her countenance And some of the reporters, when they saw her, one ass, they said, do you think that they've managed to brainwash her? And the time reporter that interviewed her said, no. God washed her brain. God washed your brain. That's what happened. And when you get into God's word, it'll wash you. And if you want to be cleaned up in this world, there's no way to do it outside of God's Word. Words spiritually. Get God's word into your heart, into your soul. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the instrument of your word that you've given us so that we can live Spiritually clean in a dirty world. All around us, Lord, we're we're constantly bombarded from a world that is ungodly. That Lord is in rebellion against your truth. And Lord, we know that in order for us to live the way you want us to live, to be clean practically. Holy before you, Lord. We need your word. It's such a good thought from this young man who wrote this chapter. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. Lord, help us to have the same heart, the same passion, to take heed to your word, and let it clean us spiritually. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Saint Amen