I'd like you to take your Bibles this morning. Open to the book of Philippians, chapter number one. Philippians chapter one. We're going to look at verses twelve down to verse number nineteen. And the title of my sermon this morning is How to Have Joy During a Quarantine. I'm going to read from a man who knows All about this subject, that's the Apostle Paul. Look in chapter one, look down at verse number twelve. He said this for brethren, I would that ye should understand that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. Did you know that um many of the books of the New Testament were written during a government-enforced quarantine? Did you know that? And uh Paul spent many of his years of ministry in quarantine. Uh, you know, we've been at this for a few months now, but think of the Apostle Paul who spent years in a Roman prison. In fact, when Paul wrote the book of Philippians, he's writing it from a Roman prison. And when you read the book of Philippians, what you'll find is that it's not a book that's negative, and Paul doesn't complain. In fact, it's a book about joy. That's the major theme of this letter. And one preacher said that when you open this book, you can almost feel the fresh breezes of heaven swirling about its pages because the message of it is so refreshing. Now, Paul, while he was in this government-enforced quarantine, he had great joy. And why was that? Well, it's because Paul uh was learning to see what God was doing while he was there in prison. God was actually advancing the gospel. Now we would think that putting God's greatest preacher in prison would have a way of uh you know stifling the message of the Word of God, but that was not true in Paul's case. And Paul's going to tell the Philippian church this because they were very concerned about Paul's imprisonment. They didn't view it as a good thing. They didn't think that Paul being in prison was something that was good. And so they were worried about Paul They had received news that Paul had been taken to Rome and that he was in that prison and he had been there for some time. Now how did Paul get to be in prison in Rome. Well, we don't have time to go over all the details of it. If you want to read about it later, you can read the book of Acts, chapter 21 to verse 28. And it gives the account, those narratives give the account of how Paul ended up in prison. It began after his third missionary journey. Paul went to Jerusalem, he went to the temple, he wanted to go through a certain ritual there at the temple to prove that he had not violated the law in any way. And while he was there at the temple he was attacked by a mob And this mob would have killed Paul had it not been for some Roman guards that were there. And so they put Paul under protective custody And for a time they didn't know what to do with him. Paul stood before uh the Roman authorities, he stood before governors, Governor Festus and Felix and King Agrippa, and finally Paul appealed to Rome and they sent him to, from the prison in Caesarea, they sent Paul to a prison in Rome, and he was there in that prison for two years. Two years. Think about that. Just waiting there. And what was he waiting for? He was waiting for the opportunity to appear before Caesar. there in Rome. Now of course the Roman Emperor at that time was Nero. And uh so Paul was waiting for Nero to make up his mind before he could appear before him and then move on with his life. Now there may be some Christians that are complaining about our government authorities and people that occupy the office, but I guarantee you we don't have anybody in the US government or the state government that's anywhere close to a Nero And it looked like for a time Paul was under the uh the control of this governor or this emperor, first the governors, Festus and Felix, and now this emperor, Nero. But Paul reminds the believers, and I want to remind you as well, that it was not those human agencies that were in control, it was God that was ultimately in control. And so Paul was waiting. Now the Philippian church, they heard about this and they were concerned, and they had trouble understanding why God would allow Paul to be placed in a Roman prison for two years. Why would God do that? Why would God uh take the greatest living creature at that time and and allow him to be put under bonds? I mean, that would be like taking your best racehorse and locking him up in a barn and not letting him run. Why would God do that? And secondly, they were concerned that Paul may die. They knew that he was going to have to appear before Caesar. And so they were struggling with all these things. And Paul writes this letter. To alleviate all the worries and all the fears that many of these believers had about Paul's imprisonment And he wanted to assure them that God was in complete control. In fact, he said in Philippians chapter 4, verse number 6, be careful for nothing. That is, don't worry. Be careful for nothing. And then he says in verse 8, finally, brethren, what sort of things are true, what sort of things are honest, what sort of things are just, what sort of things are pure, what sort of things are Lovely And of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Basically what Paul is saying is don't dwell on negative thoughts Think about the good things. Think about what God is doing. And by the way, you know what joy is? You know the definition of joy? It's seeing God in all of our circumstances. Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life, and the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be alright. And the determined choice to praise God in every situation. Let me just say that one more time because it's so important that you get that. Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It is the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be alright. And it's the determined choice to praise God in every situation. And that's what Paul's doing. When he writes this letter. And he's showing the Philippians reasons to be thankful and joyful in this difficult situation that he's in. You see, they were looking at it from the wrong perspective. Uh they needed to change their perspective. They needed to change their view. Remember in the Old Testament and the prophet Jeremiah? One time God came to Jeremiah in a vision, and God said, Jeremiah, what do you see? And God put a vision of a basket of figs that were ripe. And then another basket of figs that were rotten. And God said, Jeremiah, what do you see? And Jeremiah says, Lord, I see a basket of figs that are very good, and I see a basket of figs that are very bad. And God said, That's right, Jeremiah. And the good figs represent the people that are being carried away into captivity The bad figs are those that are left behind. And the reason God gave Jeremiah that vision is because everyone was seeing it from the opposite perspective. They were thinking that when people were carried away in captivity, those being carried away, that was bad. And the ones left behind, that was good. And God says, no, it's the exact opposite. You see, you see differently from the way I see. Those being carried away, it is for their good. It is actually a good thing. And so it's the opposite of the way people are viewing it. And this is what Paul is saying to the Philippians, you look at my imprisonment, you look at my quarantine as something that is bad, but I want to tell you that it's the opposite. It is something that is very Good. You see, some of the believers, when they heard about Paul's imprisonment, they thought, well, you know, maybe God's putting them on the shelf. Maybe God's finished with the Apostle Paul. Maybe God's taking away his ministry from him Maybe God is punishing him. And we have the tendency to think the same things about what's going on in our life right now. Is God punishing the church? Is God putting the church on the shelf? Why is God doing this? We have a tendency to think negatively about our circumstances when in fact it's the opposite God's doing a lot of good things. And God is actually advancing the gospel. And that's what Paul is writing this church to tell them. Look, if you think that the gospel is being hindered Because I'm in this quarantine, I'm in prison, I'm in this circumstance, I've got news for you. It's the exact opposite. And so Paul is about to change their perspective. And so Paul shows them in these verses that we're going to look at four ways in which God was advancing the gospel. Through his imprisonment and through his difficult circumstance. Here's number one. First of all, Paul's confinement was number one producing conversions. Look at verse number 12 of Philippians chapter 1. Notice what it says. But I would that ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. Notice where he says, I want you to understand This is a often an expression that's found in letters in ancient Greece, and it really is uh the the equivalent expression today would be something like, now listen to this. I want you to listen very carefully to what I'm about to say. Look here now. Pay attention. And this is what Paul is saying to this church. You pay attention to what I'm about to say. You think that my imprisonment is hindering the gospel? It's not. In fact It's quite the opposite. The word rather means r in in fact really, uh my imprisonment is causing the furtherance of the gospel. If you've got your Bible, look at verse 12. Look at that word furtherance there. That's an interesting Greek word. And it it's the idea of a it's it was used it by the military. When they were advancing an offensive and the engineers would go out and they would prepare a road, they would remove all the obstacles, they would remove the rocks and the trees, and they would make a pathway so that the military could advance. That's the way this word was used here. Paul is saying, look, the gospel is making a huge advance. It is going out in a way that we've never seen before. In fact, what was going on? Look at verse 13, he says this: so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace. And in all the other places. Paul is saying, you know, the fact that I'm here and I'm in this prison, what's happening as a result of this is the gospel is spreading to places it would not normally Spread. People are hearing the gospel that wouldn't normally hear the gospel. Now how is that? Well, when Paul says in verse 13, in all the palace, the word palace there is the Greek word praetoria. Or and it actually is referring to the Praetorian Guards. These were the elite guards of Caesar. They was an elite unit of military soldiers. This would be about 10,000 hand-picked soldiers, and these were very very influential, very powerful men. And uh they, this praetorian guard, evidently, they were assigned, a handful of them were assigned to watch over and guard the Apostle Paul. In fact, Paul says this in Ephesians 6. 20. He refers to himself as ambassadors in chains. And the word for chain that he used there is a word that speaks about a handcuff that had eighteen inches of chain between them. And so this is what would happen. They would put a handcuff on Paul's wrist, and they would put the other handcuff on the wrist of a Roman soldier. And so he was chained to one of these guards Uh always he had one with him, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. They would take six hour shifts. That meant every six hours a new Roman guard would be chained to the Apostle Paul. Now just imagine that in your mind Imagine a Roman soldier being chained to the Apostle Paul. They heard his prayers when people would come to visit him. He was under house arrest, so Paul could have visitors. Oh, when people would come to to visit them, they would hear Paul speak to them, and no doubt a lot of that was the word of God. They listened to him. Uh perhaps say read letters or had other or listened to other letters being read that others had written to Paul and Paul responding, dictating letters. And sending them out. And what was happening was these Roman soldiers were beginning to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. And some of them were converting to Christ. In another six hours, another Roman soldier would come and he would hear the gospel and then another. And so what was happening was the gospel was spreading into the upper echelons. of this elite military unit, many of them converting to the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, the Romans thought they were binding Paul. Instead they were releasing Paul. And Paul says, my imprisonment Is resulting in the gospel spreading and to the upper places of the Roman government Later, Paul would write in 2 Timothy 2 9, I suffer trouble as an evildoer under bonds. That is, Paul said, you know, they're treating me like I've committed some crime and putting me in this prison. I might be bound, but then he said this, but the word of God is not bound. The word of God is not bound. Paul didn't complain about his change. Instead, he consecrated them to the Lord, and he used them to advance the gospel. Now I I bring that up because friends, I think that in this quarantine there may be some people tempted to think that in a way uh the the church is being hindered, the word of God is being hindered. I want to tell you, friend, God is in control And the Word of God is not bound. I think as a result of what we're going through now, the Word of God is spreading in places that we can't even imagine. You know what I noticed? I noticed there are more people listening to our our broadcast, our TV broadcast, watching. There are more people tuning in to these live stream programs. Even after the live stream is over, they're still on it on our website people can still access them and later on we find through the week there are thousands of views and downloads and I think from people that normally wouldn't be in church. They normally wouldn't be be hearing the word of God. But this whole circumstance is causing people to to think about life and to think about death and to think about spiritual things. And I think God is using this in a way that we can't even comprehend. That's what Paul saw here. I might be in prison, but the gospel is not being hindered. And then, you know who else had to hear the gospel? Not only those Roman soldiers But even some of the Roman officials. Because Paul was going to an official court trial there in Rome. In fact, in chapter one, verse number seven Where Paul says, Even is it meet for me to think this of you all because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds and in defence and confirmation of the gospel You're partakers of my grace. See the word defense there? It's apologiacy. It's actually the idea of a an official defense, like in a court of law. And Paul says, I want you to know that when I go, when I'm called in to stand before Caesar, you're there with me. I'm bringing you with me there in my heart. And when I stand to defend the gospel, you're there. But again, the word defend Let's us know that this is an official court trial. And you know what that means? That means that the other side has to prepare for this court trial. You know what that means? That means the other side has to learn the message that Paul is proclaiming. They wanted to make sure that it wasn't a threat. That means they had to do due diligence to study, to learn. And so now you have Roman officials that are learning the message of the Word of God. God was spreading his word in ways that Paul could see, and that's what brought him joy. And friend, that's what we should think about. When you know the temptation is is when we're in this quarantine, you know, we're thinking, oh, how long and you know the governor has too much power to make us do this and there are people that are plotting, you know, to do this and that. And friend, listen. Remember God's in control. And remember that He's using this to spread the Word of God. Don't think negatively about it. Remember that God is in control. It's all going to be fine. And let's have joy to know that God is doing things that we can't even comprehend, that we can't really even see sometimes. Not only was Paul's confinement producing conversions, but secondly it was also provoking courage. Look at verse 14. And many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident by my bonds are much more bold to speak the word without fear. What was Paul saying there? Paul's imprisonment not only gave him contact with Lost people that didn't normally hear the gospel and they were getting saved, but it was also uh strengthening and encouraging other believers. In other words, his change was making them bold to speak. They saw Paul's imprisonment and it gave them courage. And the word for bold here has the idea to overcome fear. You see, there were many in the Roman church. Paul was in Rome, and the Roman Christians were hearing about Paul's imprisonment and many others for that matter in other places. And a lot those believers are kind of like believers today. They were a bit intimidated or fearful to share the gospel or to share uh the message of salvation or to talk about Jesus. But Paul's imprisonment was giving them courage. And so people that were normally fearful were beginning to speak out. Not in a not in a hostile way, but they were graciously telling others with boldness about the Lord Jesus Christ. The word speak here doesn't mean preach. It's laleo. It's just everyday conversation. Everyday conversation, people were beginning to speak about Jesus. They were beginning to speak about the gospel. They were beginning to speak the word of God. You know, I I see that going on during this coronavirus. I see people talking about things they don't normally talk about. They're questioning things. And they begin to talk about spiritual things and the Word of God and Christ and what a great opportunity this is for God's people to speak about Jesus Christ when we have the opportunity. Because again, I think this is causing people's perspective to change. People are beginning to see how fragile life is. We have a tendency to to take it for granted That everything is going to continue just as it is. And friend, that's just not reality. The Bible says, boast not thyself for tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring. We never know what's going to come And this crisis is causing people to see that. That things they normally would take for granted they realize that they shouldn't. And life is very fragile. And there is life after death. There is an eternity after death. And where will you spend eternity? This is a great opportunity for people to learn the gospel of Jesus Christ how that they can know that after death they can have eternal life by putting their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what was happening? People that were timid and shy, they began to speak up. about the things of God because of Paul's imprisonment. And Paul says there were many, not just a few, but many. Look again in verse 14. And many of the brethren. This wasn't just a few people speaking up, it was many People that were speaking up because of Paul's imprisonment, they had the courage to speak out about the gospel. Let me give you a third thing that was happening. Paul's quarantine or Paul's imprisonment was producing conversions. Secondly, it was provoking courage. But the third thing it was doing, it was proclaiming Christ. This imprisonment was causing preachers to boldly stand up and preach Christ. Look in verse number 15. It says, Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, some also of good will. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. And so there were two groups of men that were emboldened to preach Christ as a result of Paul's imprisonment. First there was his critics. There were preachers back in Paul's day that were not necessarily a fan of the Apostle Paul. They were his detractors. It's hard to imagine that believers would oppose the Apostle Paul But the word some that he refers to here are referring to some who were these these were not false preachers. They were true preachers of the gospel. But they were preaching Christ out of unworthy motives, Paul said. One, he said that it preaches Christ out of envy in verse number um fifth of verse fourteen. Some priest Christ even out of envy and strife. And the word envy here actually is the word that just means jealousy. You know there were some people that were just jealous of the Apostle Paul. He was this wonderful, venerated preacher of the gospel. Many people loved him. He was a brilliant theologian, just a gifted man. And there were some that were just jealous because uh people loved him. And so uh when Paul was in prison, they took advantage of that opportunity and they began to preach more boldly, but while they were preaching Christ on one hand, they were accusing Paul of doing something wrong on the other. They were saying things like, oh well he he probably deserves being put in prison. Uh he he probably is being punished for something uh that he did. Or there are others actually saying, well maybe Paul is being political, maybe he's trying to appease uh the Roman government and by doing that he's compromising the word of God. And so some people were preaching Christ boldly On one hand, but they were criticizing Paul. He said some of strife, and this is the idea of rivalry, um this it's kind of a competition. And that is uh, and then there's the word contention also in verse 15, meaning selfish ambition. Uh they were actually trying to gather people to themselves, kind of a political rivalry. It was a political term there. We can certainly understand that in these days, right? There's everyone has a political agenda that they want to push, and even in a crisis, sometimes those political agendas come to the surface And by the way, let me just say this. You know, I have people s you know, message me and they they want to give me advice and say, you know, we need to be careful The government has a political agenda, and we don't need to be compromising God's word to follow that political agenda. Let me just say this, friend. We will never, ever compromise the word of God, ever We will never compromise what Scripture says. But I'm not into politics. To try to worry about a political agenda, that's not kingdom business. We're concerned about the kingdom of God, and we're going to obey what the Scripture says Now, if it ever gets to the point where the government begins to persecute the church and try to take away freedoms and liberty, friend, I'll be the first one to stand up and say something about it. It's very easy for people to call shots from the bench or from the sidelines. You know, normally Christians are willing to fight to the last drop of your blood, not their own. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, we will never compromise Scripture. We will always obey the Word of God. But I'm not into political agendas. And I'm not worried about those things. Of course, there are wrong motives. Of course there will be people out there that are trying to use this crisis to advance their own political agenda. But again I tell you, friend, God is in control. And God is accomplishing his purpose. And so Paul said there are some people that are accusing him of compromising on one hand, but yet on the other hand, they're preaching Christ. What was Paul's response to all of that? By the way, there were some who preached Christ out of better motives. Looking at verse number 15, he said, some also of goodwill. Look at verse sixteen. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds, but the other of love. Knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. Now there are others, while there were some, his critics that were preaching Christ on one hand and criticizing him on the other, there were others that were Preaching Christ out of the right motive. They were doing it out of love. They understood that God put them there. In verse 16, they knew That um and verse 17 rather, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel, they knew that God was in control. God put Paul in this position so that he could defend the gospel Which could ultimately lead to the gospel being able to spread even more in the future without hindrance from Rome. And they saw that God was in control of all of that. But what was Paul's conclusion? What did Paul think about all this was going on? Look at verse 18. What then? Or we would say it like this, so what? So what? Notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And I therein do rejoice. Yea, will rejoice. You know Paul's response, I love it. He said, you know what? None of that stuff matters. The only thing that matters to me is that because of my imprisonment Christ is being more boldly proclaimed. Christ is being preached. That's the only thing that matters. It doesn't matter what people think about me. It doesn't matter that people are criticizing me. What matters to me is that Christ is being preached. And because of that, I rejoice. Friend, that's the spirit that we need to have. You know, we should rejoice that God is doing things, that Christ is being exalted, and Christ is being preached. It doesn't matter about us. It only matters about the Lord Jesus Christ and his glory. Let me give you the last thing, and we'll be done. Paul's confinement was producing conversions. Paul's confinement was provoking courage. Paul's confinement was proclaiming Christ. But finally, Paul's confinement was perfecting character. Look at verse number 19. For I know that this shall turn my salvation, turn to my salvation through your prayer. And the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. And so Paul was saying, you know what, this circumstance, this is good for me. It's good for me that I'm in prison. It's good for me that I'm quarantined here, enforced by the government. This is all good. You know why? Because this is going to result in my salvation. Now what salvation was he talking about there? But there's several views on this. Some think he's talking about his personal salvation, that he'll later be delivered, he won't die. But I don't think Paul's really concerned about his life because later on he says for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. If I die, it's going to be so much better. The salvation didn't mean eternal salvation because Paul was already saved. He already knew Jesus as his Savior. That already happened. I think what he's referring to here about his salvation is I think he's referring to the the part of salvation that we're all in after we get saved, and that's sanctification. Making us more Christ-like, making us more godly, conforming us to the image of Christ. That's what Paul's talking about. You see, It's been the lesson of history where people suffer much, God accomplishes much in their soul. Where there's no calamity, there's no courage, where there's no hardship. There's no heartiness where there's no stress, there's no strength, no cross, no crown. When you're going through difficulty, you know what? It brings out the best. And it sanctifies us more to the image of Christ. And Paul says, I'm convinced that this is what God's doing to me. You know, what's the old saying, don't waste a crisis, like some people say? That's what Paul's saying. This crisis is not being wasted. God is using it on me. And friend, I would say this to you. Don't let this crisis be wasted. Let God use this to conform you more into the image of Christ and perfect your character. And Paul mentions two things that were part of that. He mentions the prayers of the church. He said, I know this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer. You're praying for me. By the way, let me just say, please pray for me, your pastor, and I'll pray for you. And pray for one another. I know that's been going on in our church. We've prayed for people and God has helped people overcome this virus. We pray for the Massey family. Thank God they're all well and completely over. COVID-19. You pray for my my son-in-law Will and my daughter Abby who had the virus and they're completely over that. They're healed from that. And you know what? I just think there's a lot more prayer going on right now And friend, that's a good thing. Just keep praying for one another. The prayers of the church. Paul said, through your prayers, your prayers. And it's just the will of God that God uses the prayers of his people to sanctify us. into the image of Christ, but also the power of the Spirit. Look in verse 19 again, where he says, not only through your prayer, but and the supply of the Spirit of Christ Jesus. And so this is the idea of the Holy Spirit giving us the power that we need right when we need it. You know what? That's exactly what's happening. God is giving us his gracious power through the Holy Spirit to help us through whatever we're going through. It's his power, it's his strength, and he gives it in great measure and great supply. And so Paul says, you know, this is all good. All these things that are happening to me as a result of me being here in this prison. And by the way, the prison he was in was not a five-star hotel, I'll promise you that. Very, very difficult. But Paul said it's okay Because it's producing conversions. The gospel is spreading. And it is provoking courage. People are now more bold to speak about the things of God. And it is proclaiming Christ. There are people out there preaching Christ even more. Even though they might criticize me, that's all right. As long as Christ is being preached, and also it's perfecting character, and I believe it's perfecting my character. And friend, I think if we will look deeply with the wisdom of God, we can see that God's doing all these things, even now. in this crisis. God is doing all these things. And so listen, just rejoice. Rejoice. Have the spirit of joy. at what God is doing. And let's say with the Apostle Paul, I rejoice, I therein do rejoice and will rejoice. Let people around us, let the world around us see in God's people that spirit of joy and rejoicing at the hand of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Can we pray together? Would you bow with me? Father, thank you. Thank you for this word from your servant, the Apostle Paul. Sometimes, Lord, we had a tendency to think that what we're going through is new and unique and no one's ever had to go through what we're going through. But Lord, we know that's not true. Your word said there's nothing new under the sun. And long before This has that is taking place now has happened. There are other servants of the Lord that went through worse, similar circumstances, and Lord, they they kind of Laid the path for us to follow. Lord, help us to follow in the footsteps of the Apostle Paul and to have joy even in this quarantine. We can rejoice knowing, Lord, that you're doing wonderful things, you're doing great things, and we praise you for that. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here that's never trusted Christ, let this be the time when they turn to Christ. And so, would you, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, You may be listening and you may have never trusted Christ. I just want to invite you, friend, right where you are, right, right in the privacy of your home or wherever you may be. If you've never trusted Jesus, would you do it now? Would you reach out by faith and say, Lord Jesus, I know that you're the Son of God, the risen Son of God, and I know you died to pay my sin debt. Forgive me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child. Save me. And friend, if you'll pray that in me, he will save you. And would you do us a favor? Just let us know. Write us. Send us a word. via the our any of them any of the avenues that are available there through Facebook or YouTube or just email us and let us know that you trusted Christ so we can encourage you in your new life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.