Chapter 24. And we're looking at the life of David on Wednesday night. And we come now to 1 Samuel chapter 24. And I want to talk to you about how to behave in a cave. Not that you'll ever be in one. But there's we find David in a cave as we open up here in chapter 24, and why is he there? Saul's literally been chasing David and making his life a living nightmare, and now he's in a cave. And I want you to see how David responds. Let me ask you a question, have you ever wanted to take revenge on someone? Thank you for that testimony. Uh I think we could all say that, right? I mean let's not all be all holy tonight. I think all of us could probably say that very thing. I heard about three mean-looking guys on motorcycles. They pulled into a truck stop cafe. They went in, there was a a small guy there at the counter who was sitting there eating his lunch quietly And they began to bully him and push him around. They took his food. They threw it in his face and they threw it on the floor. They were trying to get a rise out of him. They wanted a fight, but this man very quietly paid his bill and left The three motorcycle mean guys said to the waitress, he wasn't very much of a man, was he? She said, I guess not. And then she looked out the window and she said, he's not very much of a truck driver either, because he just ran over three motorcycles You know, we have a desire inside of us to want to get even And those who do us bad, we want them to suffer. That's just something that's that's deep down in the human heart. This spirit of retaliation, this spiteful spirit is there in all of us And this is why 1 Samuel chapter 24 is a very unique chapter. Because we're going to see in the life of David, when he had the opportunity to have revenge or enact revenge, we're going to see exactly what he does. Now, where is David at this point in his life? When we come to chapter 24, David and his men are dwelling in a place called Engedi. Where is Ngeti? Well, it's kind of an elevated spot. It's not far from the Dead Sea. In fact, from Ngeti, you can see look out and see the Dead Sea. It's a high, elevated, rocky type area, and if you climb that elevation, you're going to find a kind of an oasis in the middle of a dry, barren wilderness. There's a waterfall there, there's a spring of water. This was a favorite spot for shepherds to come and to just relax as they were watching over their fold. David and his men come to this place of Engenhi here in chapter 24. And they're actually living in one of the many caverns or caves that is there in that region. That region is filled with caves Um kind of it's it's it's so many cases. One writer described it kind of as a honeycomb-like cavernous area Now, God has been systematically removing every single support underneath David's life. And God has been teaching David a very difficult lesson, and that's simply this, that only God is worthy to be leaned upon. Only God is worthy to be trusted. But while David is there in Engedi, living in a cave, an opportunity of a lifetime comes to him. While David and his men are hiding there in a cave, as Providence would have it, his very enemy, King Saul, the one who is trying to kill him, comes into the very cave Where David and his men dwell. Unbeknownst to Saul, David and his men are in their inner recesses of that cave. Saul can't see them, but they can see Saul. And so David has the perfect opportunity now to kill Saul, to claim the throne, to elevate himself to the top. But David does not do what most people would have done in that situation. Instead of reacting with hatred and revenge and murder, David displays incredible grace He displays incredible love and compassion and forgiveness. And in this story, really, we get a glimpse of the heart of David. No wonder he's called the man after God's own heart. And as we look at this chapter and this story here tonight, we kind of have to ask ourselves, have we ever been in the same place as David? Has someone ever wronged you? I mean, really, did you wrong? You didn't deserve it. They hurt you. They offended you. They left you broken, perhaps, inwardly. They did something horrible. to you. And then somewhere down the road, there the opportunity for itself may pr may be presented to where you can get even, or maybe that's a ha has happened to you already where the opportunity to get even with this individual was there. What you do or I do at a moment like that shows what our real heart condition is. When you have the opportunity to enact revenge upon an enemy, what do you do here? Now the most important part of this whole story is that David refused to kill Saul. He refused to enact revenge upon his enemy. Now the there's one principle I want to emphasize as we look to chapter 24, and that's this. We have no control how people treat us. We have no control over that. We have no control over what people will say about us, how they will treat us. We can't stop people from attacking us. We can't stop people from doing wrong to us or from breaking their word to us. All we do is we have control over how we respond. to those situations in our life. And really you only have two options and David had two options. David could have enacted revenge upon Saul at that moment, or David Could have refused. And in this story, he refused. He refuses to slay Saul. He refuses to take vengeance. And in doing this, David becomes a great example. of how we are to respond. When we're living, not literally, but metaphorically, perhaps in a cave of brokenness, in a cave of hurt, in a cave of pain. How do we respond when an opportunity like this presents itself? And what I want you to see in the story here are five reasons why David refused to take revenge. Five reasons why David just would not take revenge when given the opportunity to do it. Here's the first reason. Number one, David's conscience wouldn't allow him His conscience wouldn't allow him. So look in chapter 24 and look at verse 20. It came to pass when David was returned from following the Philistines. That it was told him, or excuse me, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi. Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild Now you remember the last time if you were here in chapter 23, Saul had David surrounded. Remember, David was on a uh uh a rock in the wilderness of Maon And Saul's men had surrounded him and they were ready to move in for the kill. And all of a sudden there came word that the Philistines had invaded the land, and Saul had to leave off. From pursuing David. It was the providential hand of God that spared David in that situation. Well now the battle with the Philistines is over Saul once again is on the attack. He's going to find David. He hears that he's in the wilderness of Engedi. And the Bible says in verse 2, he takes 3,000 good soldiers. These are the elite soldiers here. from Israel because he really wants to get David this time. And he here's where he he here's the region, the location Where it says the rocks of the wild goats, that is a specific location, a specific outcropping there near the Dead Sea. So in verse 3, he makes his way there, his troops go down a path that has been carved out by shepherds and their sheep, going there constantly, verse 3. He came to the sheepcoats by the way, where was a cave. So he is on the the path in this region, he and his men, and they see a cave, and the Bible says in verse 3, and Saul went in to cover his feet. Now that expression cover his feet is a Hebrew euphemism. It literally means he went to relieve himself. The law of Moses was very strict when it came to matters of sanitation. A soldier had to leave far the army, and this is what Saul does. And so he's he's very much alone there now, away from his men. He's vulnerable. He's in this cave in verse number three And look what it says in the latter part. And David and his men remained in the sides of the cave. Can you imagine this? Of all places for Saul to come. Of all the caves that were there in that honeycomb-shaped cavernous region, all the openings, he goes into this specific cave, the very cave that David and his men happen to be hiding in And there he is. And there's David and his men. Can you imagine this? Now David's men immediately see this as a providence of God. Man, David, here God has brought your enemy right here, and he's vulnerable. He's away from his men. And look at verse 4. And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day which the Lord said unto thee. Davis men immediately begin to break out in song. This is the day which the Lord has made. This is your opportunity. And they said, this is what the Lord said, David. Wasn't there a prophecy somewhere that the Lord was going to deliver enemies into your hand? And it seems like the Lord has done this. Now the problem with this is that there's no such prophecy recorded in Scripture. So what were they referring to here? They may have been being very creative with some Old Testament verse or maybe some prediction that they heard from someone else. The commentator Richard Phillips wrote, they were engaging in some creative theology here. They kind of almost maybe made this up. And so they're encouraging, this is your chance. This is the opportunity. Saul has been hunting us, he's been hounding us, he's made our life a living nightmare. Now it's your opportunity. Kill him. Take his life right here in verse 4. Notice what David does. It says, Behold, I will deliver the latter part, excuse me, verse 4. Then David arose. and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily. Now the word for skirt here, the Hebrew word kanash, You may remember I talked about this word before. This is a word that means the edge of a robe or the fringes of a robe. Or we could say the tassel. It's sometimes translated wing of a robe. And so this is talking about Saul's royal robe. You say, why was this significant and why was this important? Because A man would wear a robe, and at the edge of the robe, there would normally be embroidered in or sewed in his seal, his tribe, or perhaps his unique position of authority. was normally there on that robe, especially on the corner of the robe. There was also tassels that were hanging there. And so this was a very symbolic thing here. A man's robe with the with the royal seal on the end of it and the tassels hanging there on the end of it. You remember in the New Testament the the lady who was uh sick with an issue of blood, she said in her heart, If I can just touch the hem of his garment. If I can just touch the edge of his robe, why did she want to touch the edge of his robe? Because at the edge of the robe that Jesus was wearing, there was perhaps there embroidered in that robe a symbol of the fact that he was from the tribe of Judah. And perhaps even a symbol of the fact that he was indeed the son of David, the Messiah. And by the woman reaching out and touching that part of his robe, she was confessing that he really was the Messiah, the Savior. And the Bible had a prophecy in the Old Testament about the Messiah, that when he came, there would be healing in his canaf. There would be healing on the fringes of his garment. On the wings of his garment. And she believed that and she reached out to touch that. So this was a very, very symbolic gesture that David was doing By cutting off the edge of his robe, the tassel or the insignia that was there on the edge of his robe, David was in essence saying, your royal authority is being transferred to me. This was a significant act. In fact, one writer, uh Robert Bergen, suggests that when David cut off that part of the robe. It also, according to the law, the Torah law, made the garments that Saul wore non-compliant, which in essence basically said that Saul was invalid. in his claim as a king. And so this was a very significant thing for David to do. This act Had a lot of gesture and symbolism behind him. Now notice what happened immediately after that verse 5. And it came to pass afterward that David's heart smote him. Because he had cut off Saul's skirt. He immediately realized that what he did was wrong. Let me ask you a question, you ever do something and all of a sudden you know that when you did that, that was wrong. That was the wrong thing to do. The Bible says his heart smote him. What does that mean there? That simply, I think, is a reference to the conscience. David's conscience bothered him at that point. You say, what is the conscience? The conscience is is uh is by the way a very misunderstood thing. All of us have that conscience that God has put inside of us It's not the voice of God, as some people try to say, because the voice of God is never wrong, but your conscience at times can be wrong. If it were the voice of God, it would never be wrong. It's not the Holy Spirit, because everyone has a conscience, but not everyone has the Holy Spirit. So it's not the voice of God, it's not the Holy Spirit, it's not the moral law. Uh it's more like a policeman than it is a written law. A policeman that lives inside of you. Only all a policeman can do is interpret the law and enforce the law, but he doesn't make up the law. That's kind of like your conscience. Your conscience doesn't write out the laws. Your conscience only acts according to the laws or the values that you have been taught. And it enforces that. It is that inward uh that inward policeman we could say, you say, when did man get that? That was right after the fall in the in the Garden of Eden. Immediately they felt Adam and Eve guilt That was something they had never felt before because they were both innocent, but after sin came guilt and the actually the conscience was really a gift that God gave to man. Why? To keep man from living out the full measure of his newfound depravity. Just imagine if mankind didn't have a conscience today. That the depravity of man would find its full measure in every man without that conscience. So there's a sense in really which the conscience is a gift of God to keep man from being as bad as he could be. Positionally man is depraved. He's as bad off positionally as he could be, but he's not as bad as he could be practically. And the reason for that is because of that conscience that God has given men. And by the way, this is a great part of our spiritual life. We have to live according to the conscience that God has given us. The book of Proverbs calls it this, Proverbs 20, 27. The spirit of man is that lamp of the Lord searching all of his innermost parts. He's referring there to the conscience. It's like an inward lamp I like to call it the traffic light of the soul. Sometimes it flashes red to us and it accuses us when we do the wrong thing. And sometimes it flashes green. Sometimes it can affirm us when we do the right thing Here in this passage, very clearly, the traffic light in David's heart, the conscience, is flashing red. The Bible says David's heart smote him. You know why David couldn't go so far as to kill Saul? Because his conscience would not allow him to ever do such a thing. Here he is just cutting off the part of the robe. And his conscience beat on him at that moment. His conscience wouldn't allow him. And there's a lesson in this for all of us. We better not ever Ignore the voice of conscience inside of us. If anyone ever gets into a pattern in their Christian life where you're ignoring that conscience inside of you, that is a very dangerous thing for you to do Because God has put that conscience there to keep us on the right path. Now again, sometimes the conscience might not be convicting us correctly, but that's according to the knowledge that we give it That's why it's important that we come to God's house and we learn the Word of God so that our conscience will be instructed according to the Word of God. But it's that inner voice, that inner policeman. And so number one, David would not do revenge because his conscience would not allow him. But just let me ask you one question before we move on to the second point. How is your conscience? Is your conscience working correctly? Is your conscience operating correctly? Because if you get into the habit of ignoring it, you know what happens? It hardens. How does someone renew that conscience? If your conscience is not sensitive, if it's not tender, if it doesn't work when you do something wrong, you know what you need to do. You need to go to the cross or the Lord Jesus Christ Because the Bible says that when you go to the cross, that the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ will cleanse you and renew that conscience And make it fresh and make it clean. So number one, David's conscience would not allow him. But here's number two. David had too much respect for authority. Look at verse 6. And he said unto his men, the Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master the Lord's servant, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the Lord. So David stayed his servants. That is, he kept he held his servants back You can just imagine in the cave, his servants, they're wanting to take action. David's saying, no, you're not going to do that. Not only would David not do anything, but David wouldn't allow his men to do anything. It says he stayed back his servants in verse 7 with these words and suffered them not to rise against Saul, but Saul rose up out of the cave and went on his way. Notice in these verses, David called Saul my master. Two times he calls Saul the Lord's anointed. In verse 8, David's going to say it, call him my Lord the King. Now think about this. Even though Saul was not doing God's will. Even though Saul had rejected God's word, and one could argue that he was guided by an evil spirit, because we know earlier in First Samuel, that many times an evil spirit would come upon Saul. We know he wasn't doing the will of the Lord. We know he wasn't being driven by the Spirit of God. We know that he was disobeying the word of God And doing the wrong thing, yet David here still recognized that he was God ordained authority. Whether he was doing wrong or not David still had the responsibility to respect that authority. Who anointed and authorized Saul to be the king? God did. By what authority does Saul occupy the throne of Israel? He occupies it by God's authority. Therefore, to attack Saul was to indirectly attack God. You say, now wait a minute, Saul, he was a bad king. That's right, but he was still the king. And the Bible says in Romans, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. There's no power but of God. Paul said. And when Paul wrote that, Rome was not a model of human authority or human government by any means. But Paul's whole point was that human government is instituted by God, it is ordained by God, and even though human government is imperfect And many times corrupt and sinful, it is still instituted by God, and we have an obligation to obey that authority. Now I'm not saying that there's never a time for civil disobedience Of course, the Bible gives us guidelines when that is necessary for us to obey God rather than man. But even in the way we do that, we need to be careful in the manner in which we do it. But here is this man, this demon-possessed king, trying to kill David, and David recognizes by doing what he did, he was not respecting his authority. That's part of the reason why his conscience bothered him. What did Peter say? And he's writing to believers at Rome in 1 Peter 2, verse 13, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him, that is by God, for the punishment of evildoers. For the praise of them that do well, for so is the will of God, that with well-doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish Men he went on to say, honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. And when he said honor the king, remember Peter wrote to a group of people who were under the reign of Nero at that time. When he said honor the king. So we are to submit to authority. Saul was still the king, no matter what he did. Or how he did it. In the Army, they used to have an old saying, you don't salute the man, you salute the rank. You don't salute the man, you salute the rank. It's not an issue of whether or not Saul treated him right, but as long as Saul was the king, he deserved respect by virtue of the position. You know, you might have a boss over you right now. Let's be honest, they might be a jerk. But you still honor the rank, you honor the position, because that's God's plan for God's people, that we model Obedience, civil obedience. And again, I say there are times, of course, when we knew need to practice civil disobedience according to the guidelines of Scripture. But David respected the authority that God had still given Saul even though Saul wasn't acting right. He wasn't acting correctly. He needed to put that matter into God's hand and let God take Saul off the throne. And by the way, eventually God would take Saul off the throne. He would punish Saul. In fact, God was already punishing Saul for the things he was doing. And God at the same time was already protecting David David didn't need to need to try to take matters into his own hands. He needed to be patient and wait upon the Lord to take care of those things, which eventually he chooses to do. Here's the third reason. David wouldn't take revenge. Number one, because David's conscience would not allow him. Secondly, because he had too much respect for authority. Thirdly, David valued reconciliation over revenge. He valued reconciliation over revenge. Now, really, in these next verses, from verse 8 down to verse 12, is really a model of seeking reconciliation with someone who maybe has something against you. Because notice what David does. One writer said David uttered what is perhaps the most passionate and eloquent plea for reconciliation between purses recorded in all the ancient literature. What does he do? Well first of all he took the first step. Look at verse 8. His heart smote him. He wouldn't let his servants do anything to Saul. He said, He's my Lord the King, even though he's not doing right at the moment, he's still my king. And then in verse 8, and David also arose afterwards and went out of the cave and cried after Saul, saying, My Lord the King. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth and bowed himself. So who takes the initiative here for reconciliation now? David does. He reveals himself Someone might be thinking, well, you know, for me to take reconciliation against someone, that's a very hard thing for me to do. Well you can you imagine how hard this was for David? Saul probably had his spear with him at the time Remember, he had dodged Saul's sphere several times. And by making himself known, by coming out of the secrecy of that cave and coming to Saul, what was he doing? He was actually making himself vulnerable to death. Saul could have killed him. Or he could have called upon his men to do that. And so you talk about getting out of your comfort zone David literally does that. He takes the first step of reconciliation. He calls upon Saul. What does the Bible teach us in the New Testament? Leave your gift at the altar. and go and seek reconciliation. We see this modeled here with David. But also notice he humbles himself. In verse 8, when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth and bowed himself So imagine this posture. When Saul turns around, David has got his head down, he's bowed down to the earth. I mean that's a perfect position to get a sphere in your back. He's not even looking up. But now, David, he just humbles himself by bowing before Saul. You know, to be reconciled to someone who has something against you, you know what it takes? It takes humility. It takes humbling yourself. It takes making yourself vulnerable to that individual, to that person, which is exactly what David does. And notice the next thing. Not only does he take the initiative and humble himself, but he speaks the absolute truth concerning the situation. Look at verse number nine. And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt. Now he's speaking the axe absolute truth and he's dispelling some of these carnal, ugly rumors that were being reported to Saul. You ever notice how people sometimes can make up rumors and gossip and it can be a wedge and Saul uses that and they're all rumors. Here are probably some men that want to get close to Saul and they tell Saul things that aren't true because they want him to be satisfied. And they're saying, oh Saul, David wants to kill you. He wants to hurt you. And the first thing David does in verse 9 is he dispels all that. He said, why are you listening to all these men? Why are you listening to what they're saying? Saying, Behold, David seeks thy hurt. Look at verse 10. Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how the Lord had delivered thee today into my hand in the cave. And some bade me kill thee, but my eyes spared thee. And I said, I will not put forth my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed. So he's speaking again truth here. Someone wrote, with the skill of an expert lawyer, David carefully laid out Both eyewitness and material evidence to make his case, and then use it to lead Saul to an unavoidable conclusion. And David says, you know I could have killed you. I'm right here. And then notice he also declares his own guilt in a sense: look at verse 11. Moreover, my father, see ye, see the skirt of thy robe. In my hand. That is the kanat. See this edge of the robe that I cut off. For in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe and killed thee not. Know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand. And I have sinned not against thee, yet thou hunest my soul to take it. There's a sense in which by David doing this, he's actually revealing his own wrong by doing what he did And yet at the same time he's being honest. I haven't acted exactly right, but here is the skirt, or the the the part of your skirt, your robe that I've cut off. And this is evidence that I could have killed you. I got close enough to you that if I wanted to, I could have killed you. You know, when we seek reconciliation with others, we need to be willing to confess also that we haven't been exactly perfect or right. And yet in our heart we want there to be reconciliation. In our heart, we don't want there to be hurt or injury between me and the other. And that's exactly what David is saying. In verse 12, he commits himself to do the right thing. Look at verse 12. The Lord judged between me and thee, and the Lord avenged me of thee, but my hand shall not be upon thee. David made a commitment that he would do the right thing. So let the Lord judge, but I'll tell you this, I am not Going to do anything against you. You may hunt me, but I'm not going to do anything against you. I'm going to do the right thing. Someone once asked Abraham Lincoln, uh Why his attitude towards his enemies was like it was. Why did he they said, why do you always try to make enemies your friends? Why don't you try to destroy them? And Abraham Lincoln responded by saying, Am I not destroying my enemies when I make them my friends? There's a sense in which David is trying to do this. He's trying to destroy an enemy by making him a friend, by showing him he has no ill will in his heart, he has no desire to hurt Saul whatsoever And he valued reconciliation over revenge. I would rather that we be friends than for me to enact revenge upon you. But here's the fourth reason. Number one, David's conscience would not allow him. Number two, he valued his authority. He had respect for authority Number three, he wanted reconciliation over revenge, but here's number four. David refused to sink to Saul's level. He just refused. Look at verse 13. As saith the proverb of the ancient, now here David is quoting a proverb to Saul. Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked, but my hand shall not be upon thee. It's like kind of an old saying here. It sounds like something your mother would tell you, right? Wickedness proceeds from the wicked. Someone said that when you seek to get even, that's exactly what you do. You sink down to their level and you get even with them. Another person said, never wrestle with a pig because you're bound to get dirty and the pig loves it. There are times when you just need to walk away from an argument. And just refuse to get down and get even with a person. And this is exactly what David is saying. I am not going to do this because wickedness comes from a wicked heart. And I'm not going to lower myself to this level. In fact, in a very gracious way, he kind of reminds Saul, why are you doing this? This is unbecoming of a king. A king shouldn't be doing this Surely you've got better things to do than to come after me. Why would you do that? Look at verse 14. After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea? Notice how, again, David humbles himself. Why are you coming after me? He compared himself to a flea on the back of a dead dog. Not a very important venture to go after a flea on the back of a dead dog. David said, that's all I am. And in the most gracious way possible, David is saying, Saul, this is beneath you to do what you're doing. But no matter what you do, I'm not going to that level. I'm not going to sink to that level. I will let God plead my cause. Look in verse 15. The Lord therefore be judge and judge between me and thee, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand. Now this has to be effective. And we'll see later that uh it kind of hits home with Saul. But in a way David was saying this is how a king should handle matters. You're too good of a king, you're you're too uh high of a position in royalty to do what you're doing. Later there would be a king by the name of Jesus who was wrongly treated. He was hunted, he was arrested, he was illegally tried, but you know what the Bible says about him? The Bible says that he did not sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But what did he do? He committed himself to him that judges righteously. No one has ever in history been treated with more injustice and hatred than Jesus. No one. And yet he committed himself to him who judges righteously. And Peter later says, we're called to follow in his steps. in the steps of the Lord Jesus here. Let me give you the last reason why David would not seek revenge. His conscience would not allow him He had too much respect for authority. He valued reconciliation over revenge. He refused to sink to Saul's level, but here's the last reason. David chose to exercise forgiveness. He just wanted to exercise forgiveness. Because look at the rest, look at verse 16. Now Saul sees this, and notice how he responds. And it came to pass when David had made an end of speaking, these words. onto Saul, that Saul said, Is this the voice, my son David? Now Saul has never called David his son ever before this. It's always been his enemy or my son-in-law, but never my son. Is this my son, David? He says. And so he's obviously already broken by what David says. And Saul lifted up his voice, and he wept And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I, for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have reward rewarded thee evil. And thou hast showed me this day That thou hast dealt well with me. For as much as when the Lord had delivered me into thy hand, thou killest me not. For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go away Wherefore the Lord reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day. Now Saul basically launches into the longest unbroken quote credit to him anywhere in scripture. And he ha he does it right here. And what is he doing all during this time? He's exonerating David and he's noting that David is a more righteous man than he is. And so the writer Samuel is putting this in because remember part of the purpose of the writer Samuel is the contrast between Saul and David. the worthiness of David to be king, the unworthiness of Saul. And this this monologue here by Saul put in here does exactly that purpose. It shows the righteousness of David and all this And the evil that Saul intended to do against David. And again, it shows that David is the rightful king and that he is God's chosen man. He is the man after God's own heart. But now Saul asked David for a favor here. Notice what he says. And by the way, in verse 19, he said, what you're doing is not natural. By the way, did you know that forgiveness sometimes isn't natural? To forgive sometimes is not easy. It doesn't come natural, especially when there's been a A horrible thing that's been committed against you. But you know what? God does not call us to do the natural thing. He calls us to walk supernaturally by the power of the Holy Spirit. And there are some times when forgiveness, we don't have it in us. To forgive on that scale, we don't have it in us. We have to depend upon the grace of God to help us to forgive At certain times. I remember one time I was preaching in a church, a former church in Tennessee, and I was preaching on forgiveness. And I was up there waxing eloquent on forgiveness. It's easy to preach on this, it's harder to live it. And sometimes it's not easy to preach on it. But I remember I was preaching and I happened to catch the eye of a lady in my congregation. And when I caught her eye, I continued preaching, but I was thinking to myself, you know, sometimes I'm thinking one thing and preaching another, you know. That happens sometimes for preachers up there. And while I I just saw her eyes, and in a split second I just knew what she had gone through. She was a wonderfully joyful woman in our church, but one Sunday morning she came to me and she said, pray for me. My daughter's been missing for three days. We can't find her. And later, of course Carol and I we went over and we sat with her for many hours while the police began an investigation, a search for her daughter, and finally they found her daughter, the dead body of her daughter. That was wrapped up in her SUV and plastic. Someone had strangled her and killed her, left her there, through an investigation that was found out that her own son-in-law had killed her daughter. And he was in jail he was in jail. And of course they were going through that process, a long process. And I was up there preaching on forgiveness, and my eyes happened to catch her eyes. And at that moment, I asked myself, could you forgive? Could you forgive if you went through what she went through? And I would have to tell you that I don't have that kind of forgiveness in me. I just don't. That kind of forgiveness is not natural. That's supernatural. That's something that has to come from God. But you know what, to this woman's credit, she did forgive and she did get past that. And she did resume to live a joyful Christian life. Oh, you can't tell me that she still doesn't hurt and she's not broken. But friends, she learned by the grace of Almighty God and God alone to be able to forgive. Because forgiveness is a choice that we have to make. You can either choose to live in bitterness all the rest of your life, and by the way, that's only going to hurt us if we do that. Or we can choose by the grace of God to do something that's not natural, that's not normal, to forgive our enemy By the grace of Almighty God. You say, where do we get that kind of motivation? By focusing on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's it. By going to the cross. And focusing on the Lord Jesus Christ and hearing the words that Jesus said on the cross, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. That's the only way we can practice forgiveness on that type of scale. And here this is exactly what David does. He makes a s uh a vow to Saul Because Saul says in verse twenty-one or verse twenty, and now, behold, I know well that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand. Swear now, therefore, unto me by the Lord That thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house. And David swear unto Saul, and Saul went home, but David and his men got them up to the hole. I like that the way it ends there. Did David forgive Saul? Of course he did. He chose in and of himself, and by the way, forgiveness is not an emotion, it's a choice of the will. Your emotions will catch up later. You just choose to release a person, you choose to release the offender from the guilt of their sin. You choose to r to not bring it up. It's over, it's in the past. You refuse to think about the offense. You refuse to talk about the offense with others. And as far as biblically possible, you seek reconciliation. But now let me ask you a question. If you forgive someone, does that mean that you have to automatically trust them again immediately? No. Because what does David do at the end of this? Oh so uh I forgave Saul and now it's good. And Saul went home, and David went home after him and they lived happily ever after. That's not how this ends. What happens? David doesn't go back home. Oh now wait a minute. David and Saul they got reconciled. And David forgave Saul and he did. And he made a promise to him and David kept it. But he still didn't trust him. Because Saul earning his trust, that was another issue here. Forgiveness doesn't automatically mean that you give trust to a person again completely. They have to in a way earn that trust back. But the forgiveness is there. And notice what happens here? Saul goes home. David doesn't go home. Where does David go? David and his men got them up. Notice where it says unto the hold. The Hebrew word here is Masuda. What does that sound like? Masada Did you know right there by the Dead Sea there's a huge rock fortress? And you know what it's called? It's called Masada. I think this is the very spot Later, many years later, where the Jews would hold up and the Romans would come, you know, the Jews who revolted in 70 A. D. against the Romans, and 900 stayed there on that mountain of Masada as a place of refuge, it's an incredible refuge. Many hundreds of feet above the desert floor in this huge rock. And the Romans eventually did get to them, however, in 70 A. D. And they did, uh they found 900 Jews who had committed suicide because they would not submit to the Romans But but just go back many, many, many years before that event, this fortress Masada was still there in that wilderness by the Dead Sea, and that was the very spot I believe that the scripture is referring to here, where David went up into that fortress and he hid. You know why? Because he knew that Saul was still very emotionally unstable. And as we'll find out later, Saul goes back to hunting David once again. He goes back to doing the same thing. But you know what? Here's the lesson. It didn't affect the heart of David. He still was a man of mercy and grace and compassion and forgiveness, and he refused to hold hurts. He refused to take revenge. That's why he was a man after God's own heart. And that's the way we need to be. We need to look at David's example and say, Lord, is there some something that I'm carrying in my heart? Something that I'm refusing to let go of. That's affecting me. It's affecting my joy. I'll close with this story. I read of a story of a wise old monk and his young apprentice. They were walking together down the forest And they came to a river. By the way, their monastery taught them that they were forbidden to have any contact with women. But when they came to a river The two monks found an older woman standing by the river and she had tears because she could not cross the river herself and she asked for help and immediately the older monk picked the woman up and he carried her across the water and then he put her down And the old monk and his apprentice, they walked for about two and a half hours, and finally the younger monk, he was just really just um you know had hold had held it all in, and finally he blurted out, how could you Touch that woman when we have rules that you're not to have any contact with women. And the old monk said, you know, I put her down two and a half hours ago. Why don't you why are you still carrying her? Problem is there are some people you're still carrying some things in your life and you just need to put it down. Again, it's not easy. It's not natural, but we have the supernatural help of the Holy Spirit of God. We are to focus upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and we are to be like our Master. were to be like him and learn to freely let go of things. That's what's taking away some joy in your life. Peace, happiness. Let those things go. And be a person after God's own heart. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, help us to follow in this example. Help us, Lord, to freely yield up any hurts, wrongs, anger, and bitterness that we may have in our heart. That's really not hurting anyone else but us. To yield up all of those things To say like David, it's done, it's gone. I forgive, I choose to forgive. Choose to let it go. I will not stoop to that level to live like that. Lord, this is what you've called us to do, to model this in our own life, to be like our Savior. There may be some people here tonight, Lord, and they have they're still holding on to hurts. To pains that have hindered them for years, they just refuse to let it go. I pray, Lord, that you'll grant them tonight the freedom of total forgiveness. To buy a decision on their heart to say, I'm letting it go tonight. I'm letting it all go. I have no bitterness or anger or revenge in my heart against anyone. I come to the cross, I lay it all there. I look to my Savior. I hear his words. Father, forgive them. And I choose to forgive. Maybe there's some folks here tonight that need to pray that prayer. Say, I choose to let it go. I'm laying it down I forgive. Father, bless these words to the hearts of your people, Lord. Use it. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.