Would you take your Bibles tonight and open to the Old Testament book of Daniel, please? The Old Testament book of Daniel. I want you to look in Daniel chapter two tonight. And uh while you're finding that Um you may have heard of a classic poem written by uh Rudyard Kipling, uh the poem called If, that's the simple title of the poem, and uh he this is one of his most famous poems And it was written in 1909. And uh it it goes the first uh verse of the poem goes like this if you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you And if you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, but make allowance for their doubting too. And then I'm not going to read the whole poem because it is rather long, but he goes through and basically this is kind of a didactic poem It's a work that's meant to give instruction. And the whole idea here is he's spelling out characteristics of someone who is a true man, or we could say a true leader. And the last line of the poem basically says, Yours is the earth and everything in it, and what is more you'll be a man When I think of that poem, I think of this story here of Daniel in the book of Daniel, chapter number two. Daniel was this kind of man. He was a man who knew how to keep his head when other people around them were losing theirs. That's really what we see in this narrative here in chapter two. It opens up with a crisis. And the title of my message tonight is Keeping Your Head in a Crisis As you open up here in chapter number two, this is really a life or death crisis with Daniel. And we can learn a lot by just reading this and studying it. He really teaches us how to respond to a crisis when a crisis will come. Or has come as you know many of us are facing that right now. One day Daniel was just minding his own business And there was a knock on his door, and there was a man there at the door, perhaps with a sword in his hands. He was the king's executioner. The uh actually the Bible calls him the king's captain, but the word is the Aramaic word Which speaks about someone who executes. So this was the king's executioner. And he knocked on Daniel's door and he basically tells Daniel, I'm here to uh execute you, I'm here to take your life. Now you talk about a crisis. That's a crisis right there. How did Daniel respond to that? He's a great example to us of keeping your calm, keeping your head while everyone around him were in a panic Daniel was able to show us how to remain calm. And I think of the verse right now Psalm 119, 165. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. The word offend literally to shake them up, uh to cause them um to stumble or to cause panic, we could say God has a way in his grace of giving his people an inward calm despite of what goes on in the outward circumstances. So therefore, if anyone should know how to handle a crisis, it should be people who walk with God. But we know one thing is for sure, all of us will face one crisis after another in our life. And if you're a leader, you're going to face those just about every day. So I want you to look with me at the story of Daniel, and I want you to notice some principles to remember. uh that I need to remember, that you need to remember when a crisis comes. And if you have or if you're taking notes, you'd like to do that, you might want to write some of these principles down. Number one Here's the first thing to remember. Remember God is sovereign over your circumstances. Remember that God is sovereign over your circumstances And this is the theme of the book of Daniel. It is the sovereignty of God in the government of men. And what we see in this story is the sovereign hand of God all over it. Look in verse number one. It says this, and in the second year, this is chapter two, verse one, in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams. Wherewith his spirit was troubled, and his sleep broke from him. So here is the king, and he's having dreams, and these dreams are causing him great Now let me just back up here for a minute and just say that we I say that God is sovereign over all this because at the end of chapter one, guess what gift God gives to Daniel He gives to Daniel the ability to interpret dreams. That was the gift that God gave to his faithful servant Daniel. Now, why did God give Daniel that gift? Well, God gave him that gift because Daniel was faithful. to stand for his convictions. Uh when you remember the story when the king brought the Daniel and the three Hebrew children into Babylon. He wanted to kind of reprogram, re-retrain them um get them accustomed to the good life. He gave them the king's meat, the king's diet, and this meat was not kosher. This was not according to the laws of the Old Testament that were given by Moses on meat that Jews could eat. And we could even go beyond that. Leon Woods said to partake in a act To eat this meat was to partake in an act of worshiping pagan deities. This would be hard for us to understand in our day and culture, but in that day, to eat meat that was sacrificed to pagan deities was equal to worshiping and honoring that pagan deity. That was something that Daniel couldn't do. So rather than do that, you remember the verse, verse 8, Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. But what Daniel did was he offered a very wise alternative, and that was accepted. And Daniel was able to please God and please the king at the same time. That's a very wise person that can do that. And a lot of times when a crisis comes, when we are maybe asked to compromise our convictions, it's a very wise person that's able to practice God's word without offense. To please the king and to please God at the same time. And because of Daniel's wisdom, because Daniel honored God, the Bible says that God gave Daniel the ability to interpret dreams. Now that would come in handy in this crisis because this because he's going to need it right now. Because not only did God give Daniel this gift Secondly, God gives Nebuchadnezzar these dreams. So Nebuchadnezzar begins to have these dreams. And verse 2, look at verse 2. Then the king commanded to call the magicians and the astrologers and the sorcerers and the Chaldeans. For to show the king his dreams. And so they came and they stood before the king. And the king said of them, If I had I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit was troubled to know The word troubled here is a word that means to beat persistently. It was used to translate an anvil, you know, with a hammer beating constantly against an anvil. And so the idea here is that these dreams were coming continually and they were causing the king great distress. Now notice the phrase where he dreamed dreams. The plural word dreams means he dreamed the same dream more than once. So think about it like this. This was a recurring dream that happened again and again. Has that ever happened to you? You ever have a dream that just comes back again and again? And this is what was troubling King Nebuchadnezzar. He was so disturbed he could not sleep. And um and to the Babylonians ancient dreams were to them messages from the gods. They believed that good dreams were sent by their God, and bad dreams were sent by demons. Do you think the Babylonians even had a God of dreams called Mayu, that was the God of dreams, and they would give offerings to this God? Why? So that that God would give them good dreams instead of bad dreams. And evidently this wasn't working for Nebuchadnezzar. Because he had this dream. It was a troubling dream. It came again and again. So in verse 2, he calls in all the the the the best of the wise men that the world could offer, magicians. These were people who knew astrology and uh and could do magic and astrologers were someone really the word means someone who could talk with the dead, sorcerers and Chaldeans, these were all the best and the brightest that he calls him before the him, and he tells them about this dream, this recurring dream that he's having And basically he's asking them to give them the interpretation of the dream. Look at verse number four, where it says, Then spake the Chaldeans to the king and Syriac, that is Aramaic, which was the international language, O king! Live forever, tell thy service the dream, we will show the interpretation. Okay, of course, live forever. That was real etiquette. If you tell us the dream, we will give you the interpretation. After all, they were kind of dream experts. Did you know that by this time The Babylonians had a dream manual, we could say. They had collected information of people who had dreams and they had interpretation for various types of dreams You could call it a kind of a dream encyclopedia, basically, where all they had to do was refer to these books, and they could give the king an interpretation of the dream. But there's a third element here where I see the sovereign hand of God. Not only did God give Daniel the gift to interpret, and God gave, I think God gave this dream to Nebuchadnezzar that was reoccurring, and we were going to see that that it really was God who gave him this dream. But God controlled the heart of Nebuchadnezzar to not tell them the dream. The king does something very unique here. There's a twist in the story. And this is what brought about the crisis. Look at verse 5. The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, the thing is gone from me. If you will not make known unto me the interpret the dream with the interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made a dung hill. That's a pretty serious threat there. He says, the thing is gone from me. What does that mean? There's a difference in interpretation with this. In fact, um it's due to a word For example, the New American Standard translates it like this, the command from me is firm. And then the NLV translates it, this is what I have firmly decided. This is very different from what we read here in verse 5 where it says, the thing is gone from me. Why do those Bibles translate it, you know, this decision is firm and the King James say that this thing is gone from me. What's based on an Aramaic word here that's somewhat ambiguous, it hinges on this one word, uh AZA, A-Z-D-A. That's the word there. And according to some experts, this is a word that is derived from a Persian word. It's kind of a Persian loan word, and it means firm or certain or sure Now the King James Version translators thought the word was derived from Azeel, which is Az-A-L, which means to go away. So that's why you have some commentaries that will say, well, the king forgot the dream. That's what it means it just went away. And then you'll have some that will come along and say, no, what the king is basically saying is I'm not going to tell you the dream And this decision with me is firm, you tell me the dream and the interpretation. You say, which one is correct? Well, I think that the king remembered the dream I think he just decided not to tell them. And the context makes this clear to me. I think it's suggested in the fact that it's a reoccurring dream. It's hard to forget a dream that you keep having again and again. And then where it says that the king was troubled, we see that word troubled. That suggests that he knew what the dream was about. That's what troubled him, that he knew what the dream was. And then a third reason why I believe that this is the right interpretation is the wise men continue to plead with him. Tell us the dream. Why would they do that in verse 7? They keep pleading with the king. Tell us the dream. Why would they do that if the king said, I can't remember it? They wouldn't continue to plead with him to tell him the dream if he didn't remember. So I think he knew what the dream was. But he said, I'm not going to tell you. I want you to tell me the dream, and then I want you to tell me the interpretation. Again, I see the sovereign hand of God. working here. It is God that put that in his heart. Because what this would reveal is that those guys there were nothing but they were phonies. They did not have the ability. to and to give the dream or the interpretation. And this one small detail I think God is sovereign over. to reveal the emptiness, the vanity of the wisdom of these men, and it gave Daniel the opportunity, excuse me, to exercise the gift that God had given him. So again, what's the principle? When you're in a crisis, friend, remember that God is sovereign over that thing. The reason they're having this crisis is because the events that God providentially put into play in his own life. But then number two, here's another thing to remember. Remember that people often overreact, making matters worse. That normally happens. We see this in a story. What we're going to see is a contrast between the chaos of the king and his men and the calm of Daniel. First of all, the king overreacts. Because look at again at the end of verse number five, he says, if you um don't make known to me, if you will not make known unto me the dream with the interpretation You'll be cut in pieces and your houses shall be made a dunghill. Now call me crazy, but I think that's a classic overkill there. That's he's throwing kind of a royal fit. If you don't tell me this dream I'm going to cut you into pieces. Basically they would be dismembered, hacked into pieces, or pulled pulled apart, and your houses will be made a a trash heap, a garbage dump. This is a serious threat. I think he's overreacting. I think the wise men act foolishly in their response because again they just keep asking. And look at verse 7. They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream and we will show the interpretation of it And verse 8 the king answered and said, I know of certainty that you would gain in time, because ye see the thing is gone from me. That is, the king says, he felt that if these wise men were just trying to stall for time Because they knew he was determined to execute them if they could not. And so really all they're doing is they're just making the king more angry. And the way that they're responding. In verse number 12, it says, For this cause the king was angry and very furious. It's one thing to be angry, but it's another thing to be angry and very furious. I like the way that that's worded there for emphasis. He is enraged here. Sometimes people who should be providing leadership in a crisis only make things worse. Because of the way that they act. And this should teach us that we really need to look ultimately to God for answers in times like this. Psalm 60 verse 11, give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. Now here's the third thing to remember. Remember that God is sovereign in these circumstances. Number two, remember that people often overreact, making things worse. Number three, remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. In verse 10 we see this. They kind of change their strategy, these wise men. They say, What you're asking, King, is unreasonable in verse 10. They say that Chaldians answered before the king and said, This is there is not a man upon the earth that can show the king's matter. Therefore there is no king or lord nor ruler that Ask such things of any magician or astrologer or called the in. They're saying, King, do you understand that what you're asking is unprecedented No one would ever do this because no man can really give the answer here. And you know what they were right? This this wasn't above what man could do. Man's wisdom was insufficient to deal with this crisis. Man's wisdom was weak. I love the verse where it says in 1 Corinthians 3. 19, for the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written, he is the one who catches the wise and their craftiness. I think this is an illustration of that very thing here. The wisdom of the world is weak. And the wisdom of the world is unable to really ultimately give us the help that we need in times of crisis. But here's the fourth thing to remember. Remember, God is sovereign over your circumstances when a crisis comes. Remember that people often overreact, and that only thing makes matters worse. Remember that man's wisdom is insufficient To deal with these things normally. And then number four, remember to stay calm and get the facts. This is what Daniel does. Look at verse number 13. And I want you to notice how wise Daniel is. In verse 13, he says, The decree went forth that the wise men should be slain. And they sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain. So the king puts out this decree. Now they're going to die. And he sends around his executioner. To Daniel and his uh the three Hebrew children and then others. And I think I I think if I'm reading this right that he comes to Daniel first. It's a good thing for everyone else that he came to Daniel first. Because Daniel is able to handle this situation. Notice the contrast. Look at verse 14. Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisdom to Ariok, the captain, or we could say executioner of the king's guard, which was gone forth to slay the wise men of Babylon Daniel answers with counsel and wisdom. This is in contrast to the other panic and foolishness that's going on around him. He answers with poise. He answered with a peaceful spirit. He was calm. He was composed. Even though his very life was on the line. He never panicked because Ultimately, he had confidence in God. He knew that his destiny was in the hand of Almighty God. And so He answers calmly. And notice what he says in verse 15. He answered and said to Ariok the king's captain, Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Then Ariok made the thing known. to Daniel. So here he tells Daniel exactly what goes on. He tells him what all the details of what had happened that led up to this. So And look at verse 16. Then Daniel went in and desired of the king that he would give him time and that he would show the king the interpretation. Now what's amazing here is that this executioner, this captain of the guard actually allowed Daniel to have an audience with the king. That's amazing. And this too, to me, demonstrates the sovereign hand of God in directing the affairs. This man, Ariak, the captain, would allow Daniel to go into the king. And that's incredible. And why did Daniel do this? He did it because he wanted to get all of the facts. Instead of reacting foolishly. He wanted to find out what was going on, and he asked for an audience, and the fact that the king would give Daniel this audience shows the respect. That King Nebuchadnezzar had for Daniel. So many times in a crisis, people react to half of the truth instead of taking time to really learn all of the facts. And when Daniel goes in in verse 16, Daniel went in and desired of the king that he would give him time And that he would show the king the interpretation. So Daniel's plan was just to request time from the king. Now, again, this is interesting to me. Because what's the very thing that the wise men were trying to get from the king and he wouldn't give them? Time. They were trying to stall for time. And here Daniel just goes in and he very calmly asks for time. King, if you give me time, I will give you the dream and I will give you the interpretation. If you'll just give me time. What's the very thing that the king would not give the wise men time? What is the thing that he gave Daniel time? Again, there's a contrast there. I think the king saw something different in Daniel. I think his wise actions in the past gave him this open door, this audience. And they saw Daniel's composure and calm. There was something different about him. You know, in a crisis, the world should see something different about the people of God. They should not see us filled with panic and fear and anger like everyone else They should see a calm about us, a peacefulness about us. This is what King Nebuchadnezzar saw and Daniel So let me give you the next thing. Remember that God is sovereign in your crisis. Remember that people often overreact, making things worse. Remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. Remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Here's the next thing. Remember to pray for wisdom. Because notice the next thing that Daniel does in verse 17. Then Daniel went to his house, and he made the thing known to Hanani and Meshael and Azariah, his companions. Verse 18, that they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret, that Daniel and his fellows should not perish. With the rest of the wise men of Babylon. This is the first thing that Daniel does was to form a prayer meeting for God to give him mercy, for God to give wisdom. Prayer is such an important thing to do in a time of crisis because it lets God know that God, we are fully dependent on you. We are looking to you and not ourselves. I mean, Daniel could have said to the guys, hey guys, no problem. Guess what gift I have? I have the gift of interpreting dreams. Here I am to save the day. That was not his attitude at all. He was absolutely, totally dependent on God, and that was manifested through this time of prayer. Daniel's confidence was not in himself, it was in God God's servants are to be people of prayer. And what we should pray for in times of crisis specifically is wisdom. Remember what James says, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. God will give it to us liberally. Remember Solomon? His great prayer to God, God, I don't I I don't know how to go out and come in. I don't know how to lead. That was a Hebrew euphemism for leading. My father David was a great leader. I don't know how to lead. I don't know how to go out and come in. Give your servant wisdom. And here Daniel is asking for the same thing, wisdom from God. Let me give you the next thing. Remember to worship God. In the middle of your crisis. Look at verse 19. Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. And Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. And he changeth the times and the seasons. He removeth the kings, and setteth up kings, he giveth wisdom unto the wise And knowledge to them that know understanding. He revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth what is in the darkness. And the light dwelleth with him. I thank thee and praise thee, O thou God of my fathers, who has given me wisdom and might And has made known unto me now what we desire of thee, for thou hast now made known unto us the king's matter God honored the prayer of Daniel. God revealed this matter to Daniel. Now if Daniel was like most Christians, he would have just immediately hopped in a chariot and went straight to the king. But that's not what he did. He stopped and he worshiped God. You know, because really the crisis wasn't over. I mean he still could have been put to death. I mean the king may not have liked what he heard. He might not have liked what Daniel said. So this is still in the middle of this crisis, and what does he do? He worships And he praises God. It takes faith to thank God and praise God when you are when you have the sentence of death on you, when you're in the middle of a very difficult time. But God gave Daniel the answer, and Daniel worships God. And here we have a little lesson about worship. You know what worship is? It's the appropriate response. to God's revelation of himself to man. And here God revealed to Daniel that God is the revealer of secrets. God is the one who controls man's hearts. And God is the one who reveals secrets. And in response to that, what does Daniel do? He gives one of the most beautiful doxologies in all of the Bible. He recites the greatness of God. His attributes, he's the ruler, he's the one that sets up kings and takes kings down. And by the way, that's the whole theme of the book of Daniel, the sovereignty of God and the governments of man. And God is the revealer. And so he worships God in the middle of the crisis. Friend, don't forget to do that, to worship and praise God. But let me give you the last thing. Remember, I said, remember God is sovereign in your circumstances. Remember that people often overreact, making matters worse. Remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. Remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Remember to pray for wisdom. Remember to worship God in the midst of your crisis. And then number seven, remember not to be distracted by self-seeking opportunists. Look at the rest of how this unfolds. Look at verse 24. Therefore Daniel went in unto Ariok, whom the king had ordained to destroy the wise man of Babylon. He went and said thus unto him, Destroy not the wise men of Babylon. Bring me in before the king, and I will show unto the king the interpretation. Verse 25. Then Ariak brought in Daniel before the king in haste, and said thus unto the king, I have found a man of the captives of Judah. That will make known unto the king the interpretation. I love this. You know, Daniel goes into the king And he shows concern for others. First he goes to the captain, says, you know, bring me to the king. Don't destroy any of the wise men. Please don't do that. And then verse 25, when Ariok brings Daniel in before the king, notice his words, O king, I have found, let me tell you what I've done for you, King. I have found a man that can make known the interpretation of this dream. Again, this kind of shows Why is this little detail mentioned? It kind of contrasts the character of Daniel to the character of this other people who are self-seeking that are really, you know, in in a time of crisis, they are taking opportunities for themselves. In a time of crisis, and here's a guy who does that. You just mark it down, in the midst of a crisis, a person's character will be revealed. The king overreacts, other people are insecure and in panic, and here's a guy wanting to take credit for what's about to happen. You know, there's the insecurity mode, I say, you know, then there's a self-preservation mode, we see that from the wise men. Then there's the political opportunist mode, we see this from this man Ariok But what's Daniel's response? Daniel wants to just simply put on display this awesome God to the king. That's all he's concerned about. He keeps his composure. He's not in it for self-seeking. He's not trying to gain points to the king. He wants the king to know that there is a great and awesome God in heaven. Every crisis is an opportunity to show and point out to others the greatness of So Daniel, he's not distracted by Arich's amity. He focuses on the glory of God. And this is the last thing. Remember that every crisis presents unique opportunities to point to God. Look at verse 26. And the king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Beltashazzar, art thou able to make known unto me the dream which I have seen and the interpretation And Daniel answered in the presence of the king and said, The secret which the king hath demanded, cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, the soothsayers say unto the king, watch this in verse twenty-eight, but there is a God in heaven. That revealeth secrets makes known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days. Thy dream and the vision of thy head upon thy bed are these And look at verse 30. But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have, more than any living But for their sakes that shall make known the interpretation to the king, and that thou mightest know the thoughts of thy heart. Daniel is very careful to say, look, this isn't because of me This isn't it because of any wisdom that I have. This is God, the great God of heaven This God, who is the creator of heaven and earth, he's the one that's revealing this. And he's doing it For the for your sake and the sake of others so that they can know what he's going to do because he is the God of all. And so what is Daniel's whole purpose? His whole purpose is he just simply wants to reveal the greatness of God to the king and to others. He's totally focused on that. And folks, that's what our attitude should be. We should be totally focused on Pointing out the greatness of God, pointing other people to God in the time of a crisis. So let me ask you a question. How do you handle a crisis when it comes? Do you lose your head or do you keep your head when everyone else is losing theirs? And are you praying, asking God for wisdom? Are you looking for opportunities to point to our great God, to point him out to other people that are in the midst of this crisis? Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for this wonderful story of Daniel. Thank you, Lord, for how it speaks to us, how we need to follow his example. Lord, may we remember that you're sovereign over all of our circumstances. May we not be distracted by those around us who overreact, who perhaps depend a little bit too much on man's wisdom. Lord, may we seek wisdom that comes only from you, to worship you truly in the midst of a crisis, to not seek things for ourself. Do not look for things for us to glory and boast, but to remember that every crisis gives us the opportunity To glorify you and to point out your greatness to those around us. Father, help us. To do that very thing in this time. Give us the wisdom to see those opportunities. Give us the boldness to speak for you. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen That servant coin was happening