Take your Bibles open to 1 John chapter 2, passage we read a moment ago. We're here to learn the Word of God, to learn about our Savior Jesus, to worship Him. And I I hope to make this passage clear here today. We're going through this great epistle, First John, on Sunday morning, and I want to talk today about how to have certainty in an age of deception. How to have certainty in an age of deception. Well, you're finding that, you know, once uh when I was flying on a long international flight, got off the plane after flying about 12 hours hours and uh kinda tried to rest just a little bit. I laid my stuff down in a airport terminal and was careless for a moment and then I next thing I noticed that my iPhone was stolen Taken. I don't know why they call them phones today because they're more than just that, right? I think they're changing the name to mobile devices. Because you really with your your iPhone now you carry everything on there. Anybody else like That you have all of your information on there. You have even all of your banking information on there. And so it's kind of an unnerving thing to know that it was stolen, that someone could steal your identity. that someone could have access to all of your funds. It's kind of traumatic when thieves try to steal those things and they do. But let me tell you something about that's even more traumatic And that is when spiritual con artists who claim to be Christians steal away the souls of those who are unsuspecting. And the stakes are much higher than a bank account. The stakes are the eternal destinies of souls. And I want you to notice from the very beginning, since the days of the New Testament, Satan has been a deceiver. And he's out to deceive. In fact, he plants people all over. He plants people in seminaries. He plants them in colleges. He even plants them in churches. Jesus warned us about this. All over there are deceivers, and they prey on the unsuspecting, or they prey on the spiritually immature. And so we have to be Vigilant. And we have to avoid spiritual deception. And that means that God's people have to develop discernment. Part of the reason that you're Coming to church and you're learning God's word is because God wants you to learn to be discerning. You need to learn to be able to discern between truth and error. And this is part of your spiritual growth. But now we live in a day when the idea of spiritual discernment is kind of minimized. And why is that true? Well, because spiritual truth is minimized. We kind of live in a day when the the idea is, well let's just lay aside our doctrinal differences and let's all come together under this umbrella of love because after all, Jesus uh said The world will know that you're my people by your love, not by your doctrine. And so you have all these people out there that say, set aside your doctrinal views, and let's be tolerant and let's have unity and let's have love And then, you know, of course there's other people that say, Well, I've met some of these people that are strong on their doctrine, their unpleasant encounters with people like that who beat you up and they don't show any grace or any kindness. They talk about doctrinal truth and that's all that they talk about. I think we've all had those kind of unpleasant experiences. However, we should not allow such experiences to cause us to throw out biblical doctrine. And the importance of sound doctrine. It is not a minor issue. It's not a minor theme. Now, it's highly significant that John, who is called the Apostle of Love, who just wrote about love, In chapter 2, that if you you're one of the tests of true Christianity is that you'll love one another, but this this same son who in here in chapter 2 is going to call out the liars and deceivers. In fact, he'll use those words. He'll call these false teachers Antichrists. He'll call them liars. He doesn't call them brothers in Christ. He's very forceful in the way that he deals with them. And he makes it plain that they these people, these false teachers, are trying to deceive the true Christian They were not Christian in any sense of the term. And the whole idea is we can't divorce biblical love from truth. Those things go together. The worst kind of hate is to teach lies about Jesus and to be wrong on those things. So what John's going to give us here in chapter 2 It's kind of another test of authentic Christianity. Remember, we've been going through, we'd be seeing, we've been seeing different tests. We see the test of fellowship and the test of obedience and the test of love. And the test of worldliness, we talked about that last week. If you love the world, you're not going to have the love of the Father in you. And now here John gives us another test. And this is the test really of spiritual discernment, the ability to discern between truth and error. And what he's going to show is that there's a big difference. Those who are truly God's people will continue to abide in truth. Those who are not will walk away from the truth. In fact, there's a purposeful contrast. Look again in verse 19. Notice what it says there in verse 19. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out that it might be made manifest that they were not all of us. So there are those that were in the church community back there that just walked away. John said they went out. But when they did it showed that they were never really of us to begin with. Someone said the faith that fizzles before the finish had a flaw from the first. And if a person walks away from truth, John says they were never of us. And then notice the contrast. Look at verse number 24. Let that therefore abide in you, which ye've heard from the beginning, if ye If if that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. There's the contrast. A true believer will abide. They will remain. They will persevere. They won't walk away from truth. And so John is showing us the contrast. Now, with that in mind, I want you to see in our passage today three warnings, or we could call these three challenges that John gives to believers. And if you're taking those, just write down, number one, write down the Antichrist. And then next to that, write this. You're living in dangerous days. You need to know that. We are living in dangerous days. And so look in verse number. 18. Little children, it is the last time. And as ye have heard, that antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists, whereby we know that it's the last time. So John is reminding the church again that you need to keep your guard up. You need to be alert. You need to be vigilant, be sober, be watchful. You can't let your guard down for one moment. They'll steal more than your iPhone if you let your guard down. They'll steal your soul. They'll cause you to wander away from false doctrine. And so be aware, be alert about the time and the day in which you live. Don't forget that you're living in dangerous days. And notice he talks about the age. Again, he says, it is the last Now, what is the last time? In the Bible, when it talks about the last time, it's referring to the period between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ. That period in between the first coming and the second coming has been labeled in the Bible as the last time you're living in it. We're all in it right now. Peter said this talking about Jesus. He was man made manifest in the last times In Jude, it talks about these days as being dangerous. These last days will be filled with scoffers. And 2 Peter, he talks about this. He says, knowing first that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lust Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, know also that in the last days perilous times shall come, dangerous times. And that's where we are right now. If it was the last time when Paul wrote to Timothy, how much later is it today than today? In fact, if you look at the word where it says last times, actually the Greek reads last hour. Is a little word there, last hour. Listen folks, we are in the last minutes of the last hours of the last days Reminds me of the man who went to bed, the farmer that went to bed and his grandfather clock malfunctioned and it chimed twelve times, thirteen times, fourteen times, and he jumped up out of bed and said to his wife, it's later than it's ever been Well that's what John is telling us here. It's later than it's ever been And it's dangerous. And I believe this, beloved, the closer we come to the coming of Jesus Christ. And by the way, we're one day closer today than we were yesterday. And I think that the closer we come to the coming of Jesus Christ, the more insidious, the more dangerous, the more deceptive the days are going to be. That's why John writes us this warning. We have to be ready. He talks about the age, and then he talks about the Antichrist. Look in verse 18 again. Little children, it's the last time. And as you have heard, that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists whereby we know it's the last time. And notice Antichrist, look at that word there. And I thank God that we were under our four our founding pastor who taught us a lot about the last days. And Pastor taught us that this word Antichrist has always meant two things. Anti-meaning instead of. And so who is the Antichrist? He is someone who presents himself instead of Christ. But also the prefix means as a substitute. And I think it means both things here. It's someone who will come along and he will present himself as someone instead of Christ As a substitute, the second thing I meant to say is that he will also be someone who is against Christ. He is anti-Christ. Against him Now I want you to notice that this word is used twice. And the first time it's used, it's singular. And the second time it's used, it's plural. You have heard that Antichrist shall come. Now the first time John uses this word, he's talking about a person, the Antichrist that will come. And the Bible predicts it. We've been taught about it. The Bible says in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 that the man of sin will be revealed before the final end of things wrapping up in the last days. The Antichrist is going to be revealed, the Bible says. He's going to be revealed. He's going to call himself God. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 3 and 4. He'll sit in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. And then also, he will have great power. The Bible says in Revelation 13, verses 1 and 2. It says that the dragon, that is Satan, shall give him power and his throne and great and he'll have great authority. And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things, blasphemies. And power was given to him. So we know that there's going to come a person on the world scene who's going to call who will be called the Antichrist. He'll have great power, great authority, he'll sway people. And so we know that's coming. Who knows? We may be so close to the end that he might be alive somewhere today. Who knows? I don't know. But I know that we're in the last day And the Bible says this one is coming. But then notice he also says Antichrist plural. Here he's not talking necessarily about a person, he's talking about a principle. And what he's saying is that the spirit of the Antichrist is already here. Although the Antichrist person is not here in the flesh, the spirit of Antichrist is already here It's already here. Now what it what is the Antichrist going to do? He's going to present himself instead of Christ. He's going to be against Christ. He's going to seduce people. He's going to deceive people with great swelling words and great power, that spirit is already here. Already there's deceptions all around us. Let me tell you something. Just because a person stands behind the pulpit and opens the Bible doesn't mean that they're from God. You better be careful. You better be careful who you listen to, who you watch, because the spirit of the Antichrist is all around us, and this spirit of false religion and seduction and deception. It is all out there. There are many people out there today and they're teaching lies. That's why John says Be alert, be careful. In fact, the history of the church is a history of where the church has constantly had to deal with error. We've had to combat it. We've had to defend the truth continually. In the fourth century, under Constantine, this dangerous age, there came the development of the Holy Roman Empire. The Catholic system under Constantine where people developed salvation through a sacramental system. Salvation wasn't through Christ, it was being plugged into a religious system And that system was a substitute. It became a surrogate Christ for the real Savior. And then there came, thank God, the Reformation where People got back to the Bible, they got back to the literal interpretation of Scripture, and the gospel was rediscovered. Thank God for that period. But then there came in the 18th century, there came the rise of rationalism Man began to discover things and he began to invent things and he began to feel his freedom and he began to worship his own mind and human reason became God That was the time when Thomas Paine wrote the book The Age of Reason, and where he debunked the Bible, and he called the mind God, and the Bible became a slave to man's rationalism. And the miracles were disbelieved and denied. And then there the 19th century with cold dead orthodoxy. Yeah, Bibles were being produced, but it didn't really help because there was this spirit of deadness. And there was a lack of zeal and spirituality. Then came politicism in the church, where the church began to vi for political power. And then you come to the 19th and 20th centuries. You come to the 1950s where you have ecumenism, where it's this idea where you lay aside doctrine and it's all come together under the name of love And we throw out the fundamentals of the faith, the non-negotiables. And that opened up a lot of error. And then in the 60s there was experimentalism That is truth by feeling, truth by intuition, truth by visions and dreams and special revelation. There was no longer the objective Word of God as a source of truth. That was another era that crept into the church. And then in the 80s came uh philosophy or psychology into the church and then mysticism in the 90s. And now we're living in a day, in this postmodern day, where you can't be certain about anything anymore. And where uncertainty is the new truth. And the Bible is no longer sovereign over the reader, the reader is sovereign over the Bible. We make our own truth today in this postmodern era where nothing is sovereign. That's why we need the message of 1 John. John says, look, I'm writing you because you know the truth. I've given you the truth. Look at verse 21. I've not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because you know it. And that no lie is of the truth. You can be certain we have objective truth. It's here in the Word of God. And it's because of this objective truth that we can know when the lies come. We weigh what people teach based on the objective and errant word of God. Gotta have that. And so we see then the age, the last days The spirit of Antichrist, we see that. And then the apostasy. We already read this in verse 19. John says there were people who were part of this system, and he said they went out from us because they were not of us. And John is referring to a group of people that were there in that church that received a false teaching of Gnosticism and they picked it up and they went out from the church and they began to teach some new kind of truth That was not really truth at all. And they began began to try to seduce other people to come along. And here's the point. This spirit of Antichrist, John says, these people that left you, they were right there in your midst. They came out from among you. And that's the lesson. The principle is that the Antichrist is working sometimes even among congregations of faithful believers. That's what he's trying to say here. Did you know that most of the false teachers and false teaching that's out there today came out of solid fundamental Orthodox churches? There was a letter written by, or excuse me, an essay written by a 17-year-old high school student. He had to write a essay on re- uh religion. to get a grade. And so he chose as his subject the union of the believer with Christ according to the Gospel of John. Let me read you a portion of his essay. This is what he said. He said, Our heart, reason, history, and the work of Christ convince us that without him we are doomed by God, and only Christ can save us. Who wrote that? This young man had just been baptized in his church, and he shows in this essay wisdom beyond his years Who was it that wrote that? Karl Marx, who later left the church and became the founder of what we know as communism. Very and I God. And you can just go down the list. Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, came out of a solid Presbyterian home. William Miller, another false teacher, was licensed as a Baptist preacher. Ellen White Founder of Christian Science was reared in a Methodist home. Charles Taz Russell, the founder of Jehovah's Witnesses, was brought up as a congregationalist and a Presbyterian, and on you could go. Why is this happening? Because Jesus warned us in Matthew 13 that wherever God plants wheat, Satan will plant his cares. Jesus warned us about it. So that's why John says you better be careful. You better be alert. Better be vigilant. So, number one, the Antichrist, you're living in dangerous days. Write down number two, the anointing. The anointing. And next to that, write this: you have been given the ability to discern. You've been given the ability to discern. Look at verse number 20. But you have an unction From the Holy One, and you know all things. John says, I've not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because you know it, and that no lies of the truth. Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? Christ. He is Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. Drop down to verse 26. These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you, but as that same anointing teaches you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie Even as it had taught you, ye shall abide in him. So the next thing that John tells us, the next challenge is You have an anointing. You have the ability to discern. Now I want you to notice in verse 20 the word unction or anointing. It's also used in verse 27. It is the Greek word charisma. And really I think this is a play on the word antichrist. You know Christ means anointed one. And there's a sense in which John is saying, you have an anointing Now another thing you need to know is that these Gnostic false teachers, one of their favorite words they love to use to talk about what they had, is they they would first of all they love to use the word gnosis or knowledge. That's why they were called Gnostics or From the Greek word knowledge, because they said you had to have certain knowledge. But then they also love to use the word anointing. And they would walk around and they would say, We have a special anointing, and we have new truth for you. Something that's higher than what you have. Something that's better than what you have. And so they would all walk around talking about this higher level of understanding, this anointing. And John comes along and John says, Look, you don't need them you don't need what they say you already have the truth and by the way you have an anointing as a believer. And what you have as a Christian is far better than anything that this world could ever give you. You have an anointing. And John is saying you also have the ability to discern between truth and error. Let me tell you something. If you're a Christian here today and the Holy Spirit lives inside of you, God has given you resources to help you learn to discern between truth and error. Isn't that good to know? He's given you this. What has he given us? Well, first of all, just write this down. The Spirit is our teacher. He's given us a spirit to help us. Again, this word charisma speaks about the ministry of the Holy Spirit in the life of a Christian. In the Old Testament A prophet, priest, or king was anointed with oil. That oil represented the Holy Spirit, who will give them the enablement to fulfill their calling. And God is saying, listen, when you got saved, God gave you the Spirit. And this Spirit is giving you the ability to learn truth, to know truth, and to know error. Look what it says in verse 27 again. But the anointing which ye have received abideth in you And ye need not that any man teach you, but that same anointing teaches you all things, it says. Now, John says, you know all things Now first of all, we have to be careful with this. What does this mean? You know all things. Obviously, this does not mean that God gives the believer all knowledge about all things. If that were true, I wouldn't have needed to go to college and seminary all those years I wish that was true in some sense. Martin Lloyd Jones says to believe that this means the Holy Spirit will give us knowledge in the secular realm like astronomy and geometry and the class and the classics, he said, that's obviously ridiculous We need to keep the statement in its context. John's reference to all things is referring to a particular subject with which he's dealing with right here. And what is he talking about here in the context of the passage? He's talking about discerning error. God will give us, and this idea of discerning truth from error, he will give us the knowledge that we need to know. He will help us. And then John says, you need not that any man teach you. By the way, there's a lot of misunderstanding about that verse. Some people think that this is talking about direct revelation. In fact, the Quakers taught that this means that an inner light is given by God Which gives us direct revelation. And because of this direct revelation, they teach that the written word of God is not necessary. That's obviously wrong. The whole context of this is not that they're going to receive new truth. John's debunking that idea. John says, you have already been given the truth And what is he talking about? He's talking about the faith. John says, you already know it. You've already been given the truth. It's already been done. So what does it mean when it says you don't need human teachers here? Obviously, again, this is not talking about you don't need pastors or teachers because in the Bible, the Bible says God gives to the church teachers, pastor teachers, to teach you, to equip you, to help you, to learn, to grow. So it doesn't mean that So what is he talking about here? By the way, in order to be a teacher, the Bible says one of the qualifications is you have to be skilled in teaching. In order to do that. So he's not saying we don't need human teachers. What he's basically referring to is you don't need to be dependent upon those false teachers or Secular wisdom because God has given you spiritual wisdom. That's the idea. You don't need human teachers that teach outside of the scripture Or these false teachers specifically, or men who promote human wisdom. This is the same thing that Paul said in First Corinthians chapter two. On Sunday night we've been studying First Corinthians two And one of the arguments that Paul gives is that God's wisdom is superior to man's wisdom. And one of the reasons is because of the way that we receive God's wisdom. How do we receive the wisdom of God? Through the Spirit You can use all the other empirical ways of learning, reading. You can use your five senses, and you can have discernment and logic, but if you don't have the help of the Spirit, you're never going to get truth. And this is what he means here. You don't need just human secular teachers or human wisdom. You have the spirit. And God wants you to know his truth, and that's why he gave you his spirit, so that you can know the deep things of God. Now I like to give this illustration. You know, I've often said that no one knows me any better than Carolyn, my wife. But she doesn't know me better than I know me. I know me better than she does. But if I could take my spirit out of me and put it in her, she would know me even better. She would know the deep things of Jerry Harmon. I can't do that. But I got good news. God has taken his spirit and he's put it in you. Why? So that you can know him. So that you can know truth. And that's what John is talking about here. You have an anointing. So the Spirit is our teacher. But also write down the scripture is our text. How do we discern? With the Spirit being our teacher and the Word of God being our text, we have to know truth. You know how you learn to discern? There's no real easy way. You have to learn the truth. That's why you come to God's house. That's why you hear the preaching of the word, because you learn spiritual truth. And when you learn truth, you know what? You're going to know error when you hear it. And that that's the way the FBI agents know counterfeit money. They handle the real thing so much that when a counterfeit bill comes along, they spot it immediately. We know error because we know the truth so well that immediately when error crops up, we identify it. So the Spirit is our teacher. And the scripture is our text. But here's a third way we discern. The sun is our theme. Look what John says. Look down in verse number 22. Who is a liar, but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ. He is Antichrist that denieth the Father and the Son. And so here's the bottom line. This is another tool for discernment. What does this person or this group teach about Jesus? That's the bottom line right there. This is all about Jesus. And friend, if they got their Christology wrong, if they got the doctrine of Jesus wrong, they're wrong. There's no wiggle room here. In fact, John is very strong. He says, if they deny that Jesus is the Christ, they are antichrist. And John has in mind here the lie, the great lie. You say, what's the lie? It's this idea that Jesus is not God in the flesh. That he has not come down from heaven as God, that he's not who he claimed to be. Anyone who teaches anything other than that, John says that is a lie. It's antichrist. This is our whole theme here. This is our whole pillar of belief. It's who Jesus is. And so I don't care what they claim. If they don't teach the right thing about Jesus, they're wrong. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 2. Notice again what he says here Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. John says. Now there were certain false teachers in that day that were claiming that, you know, Jesus didn't come, he wasn't God in the flesh. The God part came upon him at his baptism and it left at his crucifixion But he wasn't really God in the flesh. And John says, that's Antichrist. If they don't teach the right thing about Jesus They're just wrong. There are plenty of religions and denominations out there that say, oh, we want God, but we don't want the Jesus that the that you talk about You know what? If you don't believe what the Bible says about Jesus, you can't have God the Father. He's the only way to the Father, John said. If you deny the Son, you don't get the Father. You can't bypass Christ. Jesus said, I'm the way, I'm the truth, I'm the light. The life, no man comes under the Father except through me. And so you have the ability to discern. You have this anointing. And the Spirit is your teacher, and the Scripture is your text, and the Son is your theme. And if you use those three things, you can discern truth from error. Right there. But then let me give you the last thing quickly. We said, first of all, the Antichrist, you're living in dangerous days. Number two, the anointing, you have the ability to discern. Number three, the abiding You must abide in truth. You must abide in truth. Again, look at verse number 24 of chapter 2. Let that therefore abide in you. Which you have heard from the beginning. If that which ye heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. Look down at verse 28. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed that is coming. Now we have very little time, so let me make this point quickly. What's John saying right here? That you must abide in the truth. This is the character of a true believer. You're going to persevere in truth, you're going to hold to the truth. This is simply the doctrine of perseverance. And you know what it teaches? God will hold us, God will preserve us. That's his part, but also we on our part, we persevere. You know what a true believer does? They hold to the scripture. They hold to the truth. They persevere in it. That's the idea. In fact, these words we see here abide, remain, continue. All these three words are the same Greek word, meno, abiding places. It's the same word that Jesus usually said, In my father's house are many menow, mansions, places to abide. You know, here on earth, one day in heaven, we're going to abide there In our mansion in heaven, amen. But you know where we abide while we're here on earth? In the truth. We stay in the truth, John. says. You persevere in the truth. You will continue, the Bible says. You'll hold to it. Paul said to Timothy, continue thou in the things which thou hast Learn. You see, learning the word of God and abiding is not automatic. You have to make a decision to say, I'm going to continue in truth. I'm going to learn God's word. By the way, that's why I believe as a Christian you should make a decision to be in God's house when the doors are open. Because this is the place where you learn truth. And we have an old saying, free to thrive, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. We preach the word of God. We teach the word of God. You've got gifted teachers here. You need to get in the Word of God. And not only in church, but also on your own. When you're in your each day of your life, you need to have the Word of God open. You need to be continuing in the truth. That's what he's talking about here. You're gonna abide, you're gonna dwell in the truth. And that way when Jesus comes We and when he appears, you know what? We won't be ashamed, we'll have confidence, John says. Look at verse 28. And now little children abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him. Beloved Jesus is coming. We're in the last days. It's dangerous. You need to be aware of that. Know that God's given you the ability to discern, and He wants you to abide in the truth. And that way, when Jesus comes, we won't be ashamed. We'll be standing firm in the truth. That's what he wants from all of us here. And so I want to ask you, do you have the ministry of the Holy Spirit working in your life? Does God bear witness to the truth in your heart? Do you know the Lord Jesus? And if you if you haven't made that choice, why not today? Why not today? Let's bow for prayer together today. And so, Lord, we thank you that, Lord, indeed, you have given us the truth. And you've given us your spirit. We have that anointing. You've not left us out on the sea on a dark and stormy night without a compass or rudder. Lord, you've given us light. You've given us the right direction. You've given us truth. Accompass your word. And you've given us your spirit. You've given us power to live. You've given us principles to learn. You've given us a person to love. Lord, may we use these things to be discerned And may we examine our own heart here today, Lord, because we know that those who are truly yours will learn to discern between truth and error, and they will abide in truth. So Lord, bless this word to the hearts of these who are yours. And then Lord, we pray for those who are here today that have never trusted Jesus as Savior. May today be that day Of salvation. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I want to give this invitation before we leave. Friend, do you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Our hearts desire here at grace, and I speak not just for myself. But for every pastor here and every member of grace, we want you to know the Lord Jesus Christ. We want you to come to know Him as your Savior. And if you're not absolutely certain today that Jesus Christ lives in you, that you have that anointing, that the Holy Spirit lives in you. I'm going to ask you right now, right where you are, why not today? Why not reach out and ask Jesus to save you Today. And would you be willing to pray? Just pray this prayer right there where you are. In faith, reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I need to be saved. And so I'm coming to you today. I'm turning from my sin. I'm turning to you, Lord Jesus. Please come into my heart. Save me. Forgive me. Make me your child. And friend, if you repent of your sin and turn to Christ, he will save you today. And you can be a child of God. Is there anyone here that says that's my prayer? I pray that. That's my prayer. Would you pray for For me, preacher. That's my prayer today. I want to know the Lord Jesus Christ. Anyone here today say that's me. Alright. Let's all stand together then today. I'm going to ask if Brother John will come and lead us on our clothes Closing him for this morning