Good to see everybody here tonight on this frigid night. Winter's here, right? I hope everyone had a great Christmas with family, and uh we were blessed to be in God's house on Sunday. Sunday and have a wonderful time. We're blessed to be here again tonight. I encourage you to take your Bibles, open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter 20. We're going to do a few more sermons here out of Jeremiah. Noted that in this book we've been kind of jumping around and remember we're we're kind of taking a selective approach to the book of Jeremiah instead of a successive approach. And so I want to preach out of Jeremiah chapter 20 tonight. By the way, the book of Jeremiah, if you study it, it kind of defies chronological order. There are things that uh recorded early in the book that happened Later in his life and things that are recorded later in the book that happened earlier in his life. And so it's kinda hard sometimes to put it all together chronologically. It's more of a thematic type approach to the book when uh these chapters were put down. But I want you to look in chapter 20 tonight and I want to talk about how to live above discouragement. Now, discouragement is a part of life Uh we all are going to go through it. Discouragement comes often when you do things right and you're you you expect to be rewarded, but um instead of being rewarded um there's poor results and the result of that is discouragement. For instance you work hard and it but you're not really making progress. You uh show up for practice every day. Uh as you know, and you try to practice hard and yet you lose every game, uh for example. Uh you spend time with your children, you uh you do all you can to be the best parent you can You know how to be and yet that child grows up and ends up rebelling. You just do all the things that are right to do that you know to do and instead of getting the results that you expect to get, you get And the result of that is that discouragement eats a hole in our hearts. It kinda makes you want to quit. And sometimes if if you're not careful, you can get frustrated and angry At God. Now, Jeremiah, as we come to chapter 20, he's going through a time of deep discouragement in his life and ministry. Remember, he was called to a very difficult task police and we'll meet this guy here in a minute named Pasher. He hears he doesn't like him and so as a result, Jeremiah is beaten and put in stocks. And then of course afterwards he's released. But I want Why don't you look in chapter 20? Just to give you an insight about how discouraged Jeremiah is. Look at verse number 14. Cursed be the day wherein I was born. That's not a very Positive verse is it. Cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed. Cursed be the man who brought tidings And let that man be as the cities which the Lord overthrew and repented not Now we read these verses here in Jeremiah, he sounds more like Job, doesn't he? Job, you remember when he went through that difficult time, you know, and his wife said, Curse God and die. Of course, Job never And here this is Jeremiah. He's doing the very same thing. Cursing the day where he was born, he he prays down a curse on the man who said Congratulations, Mr. Hilkiah, your wife had a boy. Uh he says, let that man be like the cities with Now I can't imagine being any deeper in despair and discouragement than that. He is in a really dark hole here. This is the darkness of bewilderment The great British expositor F. B. Meyer was trying to describe Christians that when they go through darkness from time to time. This is what he wrote. He said, In the early days you may have been very conscious of the Clear shining of God's face. You awoke in the morning and God was there, and that was your lot once. You felt that you were Christ's companion, that He was using you. Fellowship between you and him. Meyer goes on to point out uh five different kinds of people who may be dwelling uh we could say in the darkness of discouragement, those who feel themselves forsaken of God, those who have no No power locating Christ in prayer. He said those whose ideals are behind them and withered, those who are passing through a difficult physical or financial times, and then he said those who are caught up And so the the reality is that from time to time as believers we will go through what the Middle Ages theologian John of the Cross called the dark night of the soul. Now why do we talk about these things? Well why does a doctor talk about illness? Why does he talk about And so this is why we talk about discouragement and really As Christians, if we're going to be effective for God, we have to learn to live above discouragement. We have to learn to live above the clouds, as it were. You ever take off on a plane and it was very cloud Cloudy and rainy and the plane goes up and pretty soon you break through the clouds. What's on the other side of that clouds? It's all sunshine, right? Because you've broken through the clouds and now you're on the other side And there's sunshine and there's light. There's a sense in which in this Christian life a Christian has to learn to live above those clouds. What I want you to see in this passage are six principles to help us break through the clouds, to help us live above discouragement when it comes. You might be sitting here saying, Well, I'm not discouraged tonight. Well, I'm glad that you're not But you know what? I venture to say that perhaps maybe sometime in twenty eighteen discouragement may come. I hope it doesn't, but sometimes it does come. So just right here Here's the first one. Number one, expect seasons of discouragement. Just expect it. Now I'm not being pessimistic when I say expect it because the p Pessimist is someone who's always looking for bad. An optimist is someone who's always looking for good. But a realist is someone who says, good times will come and bad times will come, but regardless, I'm gonna accept both And a step beyond that is a person who lives by faith says, whether it's good or bad, I'm going to trust God. But we have to be realistic and say bad circumstances sometimes are And we have to expect that, especially if it's your desire to obey God. Friend, if you want to obey God and live for God, do you think the devil is going to leave you alone? Do you actually think that you'll have no enemies or nothing come against you? If you're going in the opposite direction of the world, do you expect there to be no conflict whatsoever? It's just going to come. And this is what happens here with Jeremiah. So let's look at his circumstance. Look in verse one. Now Pasher, the son of Emir, the priest, who was also chief governor in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesied these things. Now here's where it starts to get bad for Jeremiah. Here's this chief priest in the temple. He's kind of the uh security Guard we could say, uh chief of the security team there in the temple. And he hears Jeremiah prophesy some things that he doesn't really like. Now what are the things? Well really to understand this you have to go back and we don't have time to go back into all of it in great depth, but just let me touch on it. If you go back to chapter eighteen, do you remember what God did? God sent Jeremiah down to the Potter's house And he said, Jeremiah, go there and look and notice that there's a pot the a potter has a vessel on the wheel. And God was wanting to teach Jeremiah an object lesson. You see, prior to that, Jeremiah had been Pray for God to uh to relent on his judgment and several times God said, No, Jeremiah, no, I'm gonna judge them, stop praying. And then God says, Let me show you something, Jeremiah, and he says, God Go to the potter's house and watch him work a vessel on the wheel, and you remember that Jeremiah does that in chapter eighteen. Now a lot of times when you hear preaching on that, you hear things like old God God's not done with you yet, and you know he's doing a great work in your life. But if you get the context of chapter eighteen, the vessel that's being formed on the wheel is a vessel of destruction I know I ha I hate to say that to break that, you know, image that you have here of this. A lot of times we preach this a really feel good passage, but if you look at it real closely, the vessel on the wheel Is a vessel of destruction that God is forming. In fact, and then God says to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, listen, you tell the people if they change their minds, if they read Repent about their sin, I'll repent about what I'm doing because I'm like a potter. I can change my plan anytime, and I can change it from a vessel of destruction unto a vessel of mercy. I can make it whatever I wanted to do, because I'm the potter. Look in chapter eighteen real quick. Look at verse eleven. Now therefore go to speak to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Judah Jerusalem saying, Thus says the Lord, Behold, I frame evil against you. The word for frame there is a potter's term. I'm forming evil Against you. Just like the potter forms clay on the wheel, I am making a vessel for destruction. I am forming evil against you. And the word evil Evil there rise, not talking about a moral evil, it's talking about a calamity, a judgment from God that God is forming. Look again at verse 11. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I frame evil against you and devised a device against you. Return ye now everyone from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good In other words, God is saying, if the people will repent, then I will change my plan. I will go from making it a vessel of destruction to a vessel of destruction What's the response of the people? Look in verse number 12. And they said, There is no what There's no hope. That's a fatalistic response to God's offer. And they go on to say, but we will walk after our own devices, and we will ever Everyone up do the imagination of his evil heart. We're going to walk after the imagination of our own heart. And then in verse number 13 it says, Therefore thus says the Lord, ask ye now among the heathen, who have heard of such things? Who's ever heard of someone When they know that judgment is going to come and they're given this last offer of mercy for them to say, Oh, it's no use. We're already set in our ways. We're going to continue to do what we're going to do And so God then says, okay, fine. Now so basically this is an object lesson of the fact that these people are so hardened, they're so unyielding, like a hard Piece of clay. They they won't yield to the Lord. That judgment is set. So in chapter 19, look in verse 1, thus says the Lord go and get a potter's earth Earth and bottle, take of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of the priests, go forth into the valley of the Son of Hinnem, which is by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that I shall tell thee. So Jeremiah, take this vessel from the potter, go to the valley of Hinnan, which is there on the east side of the city, and this of course is the valley where Later, this would Jesus would point to this valley and use it as an illustration of hell. Why? Because in this valley that's where they burned their garbage. It was a garbage dump. And when you live back then In that day you would just burn your garbage. And so there was constantly a fire that was burning there, the garbage in that valley. And God said, Jeremiah, get all the older elders and priests And take them there, and take this potter's vessel, and I want you to preach my word there, a word of judgment. And then look in verse 10 of chapter 19. Then shalt thou break the bottle in the The sight of the men that go with thee, and shall say unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, even so will I break this people and this city as one breaketh the potter's vessel. So, Jeremiah does exactly what the Lord says. He goes there and is a dramatic gesture of the coming judgment where God is going to break the hardness of Judah and Jerusalem. He smears Smashes that vessel right there in that garbage stump at the Valley of Hinnan and preaches a word of judgment. Now then Jeremiah goes from the Valley of Hinnan and he travels to the temple. Look in verse 14. Then came Jeremiah from Tophit, whether the Lord had sent him to the people to prophesy, and he stood in the So basically he preaches the same word in the temple. Now this is what got Jeremiah into trouble because There happened to be there in that temple Pasher, the chief one of the priests, one of the chief priests, and the man who was in charge of security there at the temple And he doesn't like what Jeremiah says. And so what does he do? Uh and by the way, the y the year, what year is this? This is six oh six BC. This is when Nebuchadnezzar is systematically going through and Conquering one village after another, and next on the list was uh Judah and Jerusalem. And so for Jeremiah to preach this kind of a message was considered treason. So what did they They do in verse number two. Then Pasher smoked Jeremiah the prophet and put him into stocks. Look at the word smoke there. That's a very strong word This is a word that s describes fatal blows. This was not just a mild slap on the face. This was a terrible beating. If they followed the Mosaic Law, which they probably did, this would be four 40 lashes saved one for Jeremiah. And then to get to make sure that Jeremiah get takes this serious, he's putting stocks in verse number two. And put him in stocks that were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the Lord. Now the word for stocks comes from a Hebrew word which means to distort Now it's hard to describe exactly what this is. It's probably something like the European wooden stocks that you perhaps seen a person in with their head and their wrists in there, but this was a more ancient kind of device And it's from a word that means to distort. And so somehow he was put on this wooden device that kinda d that twisted him up and obviously was not comfortable because this was a torture Device. We know this because in 2 Chronicles 16, 10, it was a device that was used for false prophets for torture, basically by the Jews there. And so he was put in these stocks, and then he was put in the high gate of Benjamin. Why is that important? Because this was a very well traveled gate. Place in the city. And people would come by and they would see Jeremiah there and that in those stocks, and they would laugh and they would mock and they would Spit on him. And they treated Jeremiah just like much later Jesus would be treated. And really when you sa when I see this, I think of the Lord Jesus because our Lord Jesus later was put on a wooden torture device. He was mocked, he was laughed at, he was spit upon. And so here's Jeremiah in this position. And he's suffering. And why is he suffering? He's not suffering because of anything that he's done wrong. He's suffering because he obeyed God. Because he did what was right. It wasn't because he was out of fellowship. You talk about being Being co are in in a in a place of darkness and a place of discouragement. This was where Jeremiah was. And let me just say that there's gonna be Times in your Christian life when you're going to be in a place of darkness and perhaps discouragement, not because you've done anything wrong. In fact, because you've done all the right things. And instead Instead of their things turning out the way you had hoped, or being rewarded, perhaps. In fact, what's going on is the opposite. You're you're suffering because you've done the right thing. Again, those Who serve God faithfully, you can expect opposition from the enemies of God. It's just going to happen from time to time. And so there will be these times of bewilderment and In times of discouragement. In fact, if you go through the Bible, you're going to find many of God's greatest servants went through such times as these. Job, none who feared God like him. Job said He maketh my paths darkness. You read the r read biographies, read about great Christians, and you'll find again one common denominator, many of them Went through these similar times of discouragement. Billy Graham once said this: the Christian life is not a constant high. He said, I have moments of deep discouragement. I have to go to God Charles Spurgeon uh was a man who wrestled with discover Discouragement a lot. Now you would think a man who pastored the first modern megachurch, we could say, was a man who wasn't discouraged. But he said at one time, there are dark dungeons beneath The castle of despair. He went through the same kind of t things in his life. And so what does God want us to do? He wants us to learn to persevere through those dark times. Look Here's the second one, the second principle we learned. Number one, expect these seasons to come. Don't be surprised when you serve God faithfully that this will happen. Secondly, determine to persevere Despite the difficulty. Look at verse 3. It came to pass on the morrow. That pasture brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks, then said Jeremiah unto him, The Lord has not called thy name Now I love what happens here. Jeremiah is in these stocks for twenty-four hours and and finally he's released. You ever been in an uncomfortable position for twenty-four hours? You know, remember what Oh man. You ever been in a place where I mean, I remember one time I went to Africa and they put me in a a room and they thought it was a mattress and I It was a piece of pie with a sheet over it. I remember sleeping that and then trying to get up the next morning. And it was you talk about torture. Here's Jeremiah, and he's putting this torture to And he's left there overnight. I dare say he got no sleep that night. And then he's released. And I I picture my mind him just kind of, you know, gym And at that moment God gives a word in Jeremiah's mouth. Now if you're An old testament prophet, whenever God put a word in your mouth, it was time to proclaim that word. I'm not sure exactly all that how that worked, but the old testament prophets they did. And whenever the Lord The Lord came and he gave a revelation and he gave a word. There also came that compulsion to immediately speak that word. And specifically here, we know God wanted Jeremiah to speak Speak immediately because this word was against Pasher personally. Now think about this. Why was Jeremiah suffering? Because he had preached the word of the Lord That's why he was in the stocks to begin with. And now here he is, he's just walking away, stretching out all the cramps, and immediately the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah Jeremiah, and you know what, he had a decision to make right there. He could think, you know what, I'm suffering because I've been preaching God's word, and he just let me out of the stocks Lord, I don't think I'm going to preach this one right now. I think I'll just let this one go by. He could choose just not to say anything, or he could choose to be faithful To what God had called him to do. And give the word of God like God told him. And this is what Jeremiah does. He he speaks the word. Look in verse 4. For thus saith who the Lord. This is God giving his word. Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself. In other words, your name pastor, by the way, the name Pasture means fruitful all around. Jeremiah says, God's going to change your name to Magor Misabib, which means terror all around. Won't be fruitful All around. It'll be terror all around. And so uh what do we learn here from Jeremiah? As he walks away, he obeys God He speaks the word of God, takes this parting shot. And the lesson I think that I take from this is we have to continue to persevere and be faithful to do what God has called us to do Even though it's difficult. This is what we learn from Jeremiah here. You know what I find a lot of times when things get hard, when things get difficult, you know what a lot of people do? They just quit. They just said, I'm done. But here Jeremiah is very courageous. He turns right around, he speaks the word that God gave him, and he's faithful to what the Lord called him to do And we have to just decide to keep doing what God told us to do, even in times of discouragement. And you know what? That's the reason why sometimes the church suffers. People just quit. Someone wrote this. This part. I've taught a class for many years, borne many burdens, twiled through tears, but folks don't notice me a bit, so I'm so discouraged I'll just quit. Some time ago I joined the Folks won't help me out a bit. I'm so discouraged I'll just quit. Christ's cause is hindered everywhere and folks are dying in despair. The reason why? Just think a bit. Is filled with folks who quit. And there's a lot of truth to that. And Jeremiah's in the same situation. He could quit because he is suffering For being obedient, or he can make a choice to continue doing what God called him to do, and that's what he does. There's a third principle we learn on living above Discouragement. Number three, express your frustrations to God. Talk to God. Now, when Jeremiah gives this word, and by the way, in verses four through six, and again We don't have time to go through all of it. But this is a very strong word. He says to Pastor, you're going to be carried away in exile, all your friends around you, all your family around you as well. You're going to see the terror of the Lord All around you. That's why your name will be terror all around. And there's nothing you're going to be able to do about it. And by the way, this is the first time we hear the King of Babylon coming. This is the first time that's the Specifically, Babylon is mentioned in the prophecies that Jeremiah gives. But right after he gives this word of prophecy, he walks away, and this This is really what commentators call the darkest period of Jeremiah's life, the lowest point of his ministry. Again, just think about it. He's he's physically exhausted. He's mentally Drained. He's emotionally hurt. He's spiritually bewildered. You have to remember that Jeremiah, he's been rejected by his hometown. He's pretty lonely because the Lord said to him, Don't marry Why would you why would you want to marry and have children if judgment's coming to this place? So don't marry. That'll be a sign that what you're preaching is true. So he was by himself He was banned from preaching in the temple. He was hated and despised by people and ridiculed and laughed at. And he's just going through A really difficult time. Now, what I like about Jeremiah is that he doesn't complain about this publicly. You know, a lot of times when Christians go through difficulty, what they'll do is they'll Let everybody know all around them. Oh, and they'll complain about it. We need to be careful about that, folks. Remember what the psalmist said in Psalms 73? If I really want I wanted to share how I felt. I think I would offend a whole lot of people. You know, sometimes when you're going through difficulty, the worst thing you do is go around publicly and tell everybody about all your problems and your Your complaints and your bitterness and your angry at God. And by the way, sometimes I hear people doing that and I cringe. I want to say, look, take it to God. Stop spreading it all around. And this This is what Jeremiah does. He takes it to God privately. Look in verse 7. O Lord, thou hast deceived me. Now these are very honest words that he gives right here. Here. And by the way, by the way, again, Jeremiah, he's doing what many godly people have done in the Bible. He goes straight to God. Job did this, Elijah did this, David, when he fled from Saul went straight to God And so on. Philip Reichen wrote, Take your sufferings to that secret place where you meet God in prayer. And so what does he get take? First of all, his doubt What does he mean when he says, Oh Lord, you've deceived me and I was deceived? Thou art stronger than I and has prevailed. I'm in derision daily. Everyone mocks me. What he was wrestling with here at this moment Is this that Jeremiah had been preaching a message of judgment and nothing had been happening? Nothing was going on. And it seemed like that Jeremiah was a false prophet to the people because he would preach judgment is coming, it's it's it's right here, it's on your doorstep, and then nothing would happen And Jeremiah was like, Lord, you know, is this gonna happen? Why are you waiting to bring the judgment? Look at verse number, again, verse seven, it says, I am in derision daily. Everyone mock Look at verse 8. For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil because the word of the Lord was made a reproach unto me and a daily derision. People were laughing They were laughing at him, they were mocking him. The comedians in Jerusalem were uh had getting a lot of funny material from Jeremiah, listening to him preach and mocking. I remember one time When I was uh in London I was actually passing through I had been to Africa and I was passing through London and I was there for about a day and uh took a day to go down and visit the Great Tower of London. In that huge structure that was built in the 10th century. And there was a man right out there in the front in a very well-traveled area where people were coming through, and he was standing on a soapbox, as it were. And And he was preaching about the second coming with all of his heart. I mean, he was preaching hard. And people were walking by, and they were just laughing. They were scoffing at him. They were mocking him. They were laughing about this whole idea of the second coming, you know. And by the way, you know, people. You talk about the second coming, they just laugh and they mock. But wait, let me tell you something, friend. He's coming. He's gonna come. And this is what the position Jeremiah was in. He kept saying, judgment is coming And nothing was happening. And so people were laughing and they were scoffing at him. And he says, I'm a daily derision, Lord, because I've preached your word. And so He was, you know what he was doing? He was taking his doubts to God. God, are you going to perform this? Are you going to do what you said? And again, this is what we do. When you have doubts and you're wrestling with them, the best thing you can do is take those doubts directly to God in prayer. This is what he does. Remember John the Baptist when he was uh in prison and he's and this was the one who Said, Behold the Lamb of God. And when he was in prison, he said through a messenger to Jesus, Are you the Erchomaih? Are you the coming one? Are you the Messiah? That was a messianic word. Are you the Messiah? Or do we have to look for another? But I like what I like about John the Baptist is he went straight to Jesus. He took it straight to the Lord. Are you really the one? And when you're wrestling with doubts, you need to go straight Straight to God, just like Jeremiah did. Lord, I feel deceived. Someone said, turn your doubts to questions, turn your questions to prayers, turn your prayers to God And that's what he does. Not only his his doubts, but then his fears. He had good reason to be discouraged. Look at verse ten. For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side, reports say that And we will report it. All my familiars watch for my halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our ri our revenge on him and so the priests were gathering in the corners of the temple and Jeremiah heard the nasty whispers and saw their bony fingers pointing in his direction and even his friends waited for him To take a false step so they could pounce on him. He had already been beaten and locked up. What's next? I mean, he was in danger. There were people that were threatening him His life. And actually, if you look at verse ten where it says, For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side, that's the same Hebrew word as the name Magor Misab terror on every side They're in a sense they're taking that name that Jeremiah gave to Pastor and they're bringing it back on him and saying, You're saying to him, There's going to be terror on every side. But Jeremiah, we got news for you. You're the one that's going to have terror on every side On every side. You better watch your back. They were threatening him. And so what does he take to the Lord? Not only his doubts, but he takes his fears And he pours his heart out to God. And again, this is a lesson for us. You ever have doubts and fears? Take them to the Lord. And you know what? You're going to be amazed. If you in prayer take these things and you do what Peter says and you cast all of these things on the Lord in prayer, you know what God does? We give him our groans, and you know what he gives us in exchange? His grace. That's a good exchange. You take your groans and you pour them out, and God says, okay, in return for that, I'm going to give you my grace, I'm going to give you my strength And you're going to be able to bear up under what you have. So expect seasons of discouragement. Determine to persevere despite difficulty. Express your Frustrations to God. But here's the fourth principle. Let God's word strengthen your heart. Let God's word strengthen your heart. Look at verse 9. And then I said, I will not make mention of him Nor speak any more in his name. But his word was in my heart as a burning fire, shot up in my bones. I was weary of forbearing, but I could not stay Now Jeremiah had thoughts of quitting. In fact, he decided he was just going to quit. He was not going to speak anymore in God's name. He said, That's it. I'm through. I'm going to hang up my sandals and get a real job? I'm done. You know, but right after he quit, you know what he realized? That he couldn't quit It was kind of impossible for him to quit. Vance Habner says Jeremiah announced the impossible. He resigns and then declares immediately, I can't resign. It's impossible. Why? Because there was something, whenever Jeremiah said, okay, I'm done, there was something inside of him that compelled him. And what was it? It was the word of God God that was in him. And it came alive. And Jeremiah said, you know what? I'm not going to speak anymore about God because every time I do, I get in trouble. But I can't help it. Because when God's word comes to me, I can't help. It's like I'm being carried along by a force and a strength That is not of me. That's really what he's saying here. You know what that tells me? You know why it's good for Christians to get into God's Word, saturate yourself, get a reservoir of truth And understanding about the Word of God because during those times when you're at your end and you say, I'm done, I can't go on anymore, you know what will happen? God's word in you will carry you along. And you'll have Have a strength that you know is not of you. It's not of you, it's of God. And what is it? It's that reservoir of truth, it's that reservoir of scripture That's just carrying you along. And Jeremiah says, you know what, I would quit if I could, but I can't. Because God's word is like a fire in me. And I and I cannot not preach his word. I know that's a double negative English teachers. But you understand the point. Okay? Let God's word strengthen you Again, that's why you should read God's word, meditate, hear it preached, hear it taught, build up that reservoir of truth that will carry you through those times when you're discouraged. Here's number five Number one, I said expect seasons of discouragement, determine to persevere, express your frustrations to God privately, let God's word strengthen you. But number five, take comfort in the sovereignty Of God. Look what Jeremiah says in verse 11. He says, But the Lord is with me as a mighty, terrible one. You know, even though it didn't feel like it for Jeremiah, he knew that God was with him. He might not have felt that at that moment, but he knew that the Lord was with him. And that's That's what we need to remember. God has not forsaken you. And you know what? He calls God here a mighty, terrible one. That's a great phrase here. It has the idea of a dreadful, fierce warrior Standing beside Jeremiah with the idea is, you know, in order to get to me, you have to go through this warrior here. He's right there with me. I was reading this week You ever heard of a remorus? Remoras? Um they're also called pilot fish. You ever see a picture of a shark s swimming through water this this big Great white shark. And there's these little fish that are kind of hanging on to them. You ever see pictures of that? They're called remuras. They're called pilot fish. And these are fish that are basically Content to go wherever their host fish takes them, they decided to attach themselves to this fierce, huge shark. And you know why? They're pretty smart fish. You know why? Because they know They have to deal with this fierce shark. So they're very content to feed on whatever the host fish will feed on You know what? We can learn a lot from those fish. What we need to do is we need to attach ourselves To our mighty warrior God. Because when you do, you know what? Before anyone can get to you, they have to go through that mighty warrior. And that's what Jeremiah is saying. He knows in his heart That God is with them, and we need to remember that. He knows that God is in control. And he also knows that God will allow us to go through times of testing to teach us. Look at verse 12 But, O Lord of hosts, thou that triest the righteous and sees the reins and the heart, in other words, God, you try the heart of the righteous You will test us. That's why God will allow us to go through these times. They're not accidents. They're allowed by God. I remember there was a time in my life years ago when I went through a period of great darkness. I made some bad decisions regarding the will of God, and I don't know about you, but sometimes Knowing God's will and discerning it, sometimes that's the hardest part of the Christian life. And I will be honest and tell you, there are times when I had stumbled over that. And there was a time in my life where I thought I I made a few bad decisions and because of that I was suffering for it and I felt like I was in a way put on the shelf and God was done with me and that sent me and plunged me And I I just remember, you know, I I don't think the Lord can use me anymore because I made these decisions. And I'm out of the will Of God. And you know what? God used that time, and He had to show me several things. And the one thing that I learned through that whole time that God really enforced in my heart I wasn't trying to get out of God's will. I was trying to find it. I was desperately trying to do it. Even the point of fasting and praying to find out And then after all of that, I felt like I made a wrong decision and I blew it and I messed it all up. And God had to come along and He had to show me, you know what, I'm sovereign in your life. And everything that you're going through Through is very purposeful. It's not without significance. And there were things I learned about God in that time of darkness that I would never have learned Had I not gone through that darkness? Do you know there are truths in the scripture that you're not going to really understand unless you're in the dark? You know, stars are always there, but we can only And the truths of God and things about God, they're very obviously there, but we don't really grasp and understand some of those theological Understandings about God, the great things about God, until we go through the darkness, and God has to say, Let me show you something. Now that you're here, there's something I want to show you. And there's no other way you can learn it but by going through this darkness. And God will use that to try our hearts. And so what we need to do is that even in a time Of discouragement and darkness, we need to take comfort in the fact that God is sovereign and He's in control of our life. And what He's allowing us to go through is very Purposeful. I remember during that time I read a passage of scripture in the book of Lamentations where it said, you know, this is the the yoke that I've laid on you. You need to learn to bear this yoke right now in your youth And this essence what God was saying is, Jerry, stop complaining, stop whining. I put this on you. Now learn to bear it and learn to trust me. And God will do that. He'll take us through Let me give you the the last point here. The last principle. Number one, expect seasons of discouragement. Express your frustrations to God. Let God's word strengthen you. Take comfort in the sovereignty of God. But here's the last thing: praise God in the darkness. Praise God in the darkness. Look in verse number 13. Sing unto the Lord, praise ye the Lord, for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of the evil. Now you wouldn't expect to see that right in the middle of this chapter. But here's Jeremiah right in the middle of all this. And yet always saying, Sing to the Lord, praise Praise ye the Lord. And you know what? That's what we need to do. If we can't praise God in the darkness, you know what? What we sing in the light really has no value unless we know that we can praise God And here, Jeremiah, in the midst of his discouragement, he says, Sing praise to God. That's the key that unlocked the door to victory in his Life, I believe, and it was the door of praise. He learned to turn his despair to joy. His defeated attitude, he learned to turn it around in a triumph by learning to praise the Lord You know it praise does, it recognizes that God is in control. We were just talking about the sovereignty of God. What it does is it takes our mind off the situation and it puts our mind on God. Recognizes that God is in control. Really, it's an act of submission. When you praise the God and God in the midst of darkness, you're saying, God, I know that you put me here, and so Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to praise you in advance for whatever you're going to do. It's an act of worship and submission. It acknowledges that God has a plan. And He's working that plan You know, just a few verses later, it says in Jeremiah 29 11, For I know the plans I have for you, saith the Lord. Plans for your to Could give you a hope and a future. Just a few verses later, God will say that, Jeremiah, I have plans for you. And so when you praise God, it acknowledges that He has a plan. Also Praise accepts the present. Lord, I accept this present situation. I accept it as being from you, and I put my hope in you. And I think also what it does is it kind of releases power In our life. When we praise the Lord, He gives us strength. The Bible says God inhabits the praises of Israel. He inhabits the praises of his people. And it releases a power in in our life to help us rise above the discouragement that we're in at that moment. Now let me just close with this illustration and we'll be done tonight. I know you've heard this illustration, but I want you to pretend like you've never heard it before, okay? The devil was selling all of his weapons, right? You know this illustration administration and he had them all laid out and he had all price tags on all he was having a garage sale. I wish that would really happen by the way, but and he had hatred, he had anger, he had pride, he had all these And they were all priced, and a guy was coming on, he was looking at all these. And he saw one wedge tool that was very obviously well used, and it had a huge pr And the man looking at it said, Why is this one tool so highly priced? And it was labeled as discouragement. He said, If I can drive this wedge into a person's heart and pry their heart open with discouragement I can put all these other things in there. And so I use this weapon more than any other weapon. And you know what? There's some truth to that. I think Satan uses this weapon More than he uses any other weapon. And friend, in order for us to be effective for Christ, we have to learn to live above it. And we can learn that if we do what Jeremiah Teaches us here. Just expect there's going to be seasons of discouragement. It's going to come. Determine that you're going to persevere. Go to God with your frustrations. Don't air them out. Publicly go to God with it. Lay them out before the Lord. Let God's word strengthen your heart. Take comfort in the fact that God is sovereign over all the circumstances Of your life and praise God in the darkness. Now, friend, if you'll do these things, you know what? You'll learn to live above discouragement. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, we thank you again for your word, Lord. It's so very helpful to us, so very practical. And we thank you that you've recorded uh with great honesty, with great detail, some of the trials And the dark valleys that many of your servants have gone through. And we're reminded of what the Apostle Paul said: that all these things were written for us, to help us. They're examples unto us that live in this age. And so, Lord, help us to learn from Jeremiah that in this world in which we live When we seek to live for you, we will have seasons of discouragement. But may we learn to apply these things. May we learn to persevere and come to you with our frustrations. And be strengthened by your word. And remember that you're sovereign and praise you in the dark. Lord, apply these principles. And there may be some people here tonight Some people that need these things right now. They need to apply these things. With heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe that's you tonight. And you just need to reach out to God for his grace and his strength To help you through whatever season of discouragement you're in. And would you, with an uplifted hand as an act of worship to God, raise your hand to God and say, Yes, that's me I need this and I want to apply these things to my heart and my life. God sees your hands, beloved. He sees that. Father, use your word to strengthen every heart. And we'll forever Forgive you the praise in Jesus' name, amen.