Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of Acts, chapter 17? The book of Acts, chapter 17, and we're going to be looking at verse 30 down to verse 34. Will you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning? Acts chapter 17, verse 30, down to verse number 34. And the times of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, and that he hath raised him from the dead And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter. So Paul departed. From among them, how be a certain men claven to him and Belize among the which was Dionysius the Areopai And a woman named Damaris and others with him. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's word. May God help us to hear it. to heed and to submit to it. Would you pray with me, Father, thank you for this beautiful service when we celebrate the resurrection of our Savior. Lord now would you bless us as we go to the Word of God. Lord help me As I preach, help me to preach with clarity. And Lord, may those who are here receive the truth And so as to be saved for those who have never come to Christ, may they know that they're saved, that they believed on Jesus, and we pray in his name. Amen. A woman who works for the Internal Revenue Service was responsible for communicating with delinquent taxpayers. On one of the cases she had to get in touch with a man. And in order to do that, she had to call Anchorage, Alaska, and was patched through to a ham operator in the Aleutian Islands. Two hours later, the ham operator was able to contact the taxpayers' home base, and from there they were able to reach him at sea with his fishing fleet. And she identified herself as being with the IRS from Utah, the IRS in Utah, and she reminded him that he was delinquent on his taxes and he will be penalized. There was a long pause, and then over the static from out of the North Atlantic came this message, ha ha, come and get me. Many people are that way when it comes to the idea of God's judgment. They kind of shrug off the idea of the judgment of God the way a delinquent taxpayer shrugs off the IRS. The idea of death and judgment seems far off, and so there are people that are prone to ignore it, and they go on with their lives as if there's nothing to be aware of. But none of us here knows the day of our judgment. None of us knows here the day of our death. The Bible says, Boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth Now I know that what some of you are thinking, you're thinking, now wait a minute, preacher, this is Easter. Easter is supposed to be a happy service. Easter is about being happy about Jesus Christ. resurrection. It's springtime. You know, it we have on our new church clothes and this is all about Easter egg hunts and Easter bunnies and dinners with family. And there you go talking about judgment It doesn't occur to most people to connect Easter Sunday and a coming judgment. And after all, judgment has kind of a negative connotation to it, to talk about judgment. And so most people don't put Easter Sunday and Judgment together. Well the Apostle Paul would disagree Because here in this passage that we just read, Paul makes that connection again in verse number thirty-one, because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained Whereof he hath given assurance unto all men and that he raised them from the dead. What's the assurance that there is going to be a day of judgment? The fact that God resurrected Jesus from the dead. That's the assurance right there. So Paul basically is in this passage wrapping up a sermon. What is the context of this? He's been preaching to philosophers at Athens in Greece. And s basically he's wrapping up the sermon that he was preaching. And basically he wraps it up with his one idea, since the resurrection is true, you better believe it and you better Prepare for judgment, you better repent. So I want you to notice with me here these three ideas this morning. as we think about the resurrection of our Savior. First of all, here's the first thing I want you to consider with me. Since the resurrection is true, you should believe it. Since it's true you should believe it. Now why was Paul in Athens? Paul had just come from Thessalonica and Berea He left Tim he left Timothy and Silas behind in Athens. He traveled on and he said that he would meet them later there. And Paul was waiting here in this city, and while he was there, he saw all of the idolatry that was going on. This was a very idolatrous city. In fact, one ancient writer said it's easier to find a god than a man in Athens. And while Paul was waiting there in Athens, he saw all the idols, he saw all the monuments dedicated to false gods, and the Bible says that his spirit was stirred. And so he began to preach. And first Paul would go into the synagogues there in Athens and he would speak the word of God, but he wasn't having much success doing that. And so then After that, Paul followed the pattern of many Greek teachers, and that is, he would go out into the agora, he would go out into the marketplace, and he began to speak to them about Jesus Christ. There was even a place there in Athens by the Areopagus called Mars Hill. And that was a place where philosophers would go if they had a idea or something they wanted to debate. Or an idea they wanted to present, they would go to Mars Hill and they would meet with other philosophers and they would speak that idea Look in chapter 17, look down at verse number eighteen. This is where Paul does after he leaves the synagogue. He goes out into the public places. Verse 18. Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him, and some said What will this babbler say? Other some. He seemed to be a settler forth of strange gods, because he preached unto them Jesus and the resurrection. It was no secret what Paul was talking about. When Paul met there with them, he spoke to them about Jesus Christ, Jesus dying on the cross for the sins of the world. And not only did he die, but coming out of that grave, he spoke to them of Jesus Christ and the resurrection. Now, look at verse number twenty what it says. For it says this, for thou bringest certain strange things to our ears. We would know therefore what these things mean. And so the philosophers, when they heard Paul speak about the resurrection, to them it was a strange thing. Because in Greek philosophy, the idea was that the soul was what mattered. The body was really a prison of the soul. And the sooner that the body died the sooner that the soul would be free from that prison. And Greek idea and Greek thinking, it was not even thought of that the body would have a resurrection. That you would live on afterwards in another body. They couldn't conceive of that in their mind. But the whole gospel is based upon the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Our whole gospel is based upon that truth, that resurrection. And Paul is basically saying, Jesus, there is a resurrection, and Jesus did come out of that grave. And that is the basis of our salvation. And not only that, it is the basis of all judgment. You will stand before this God, this holy God, and one day you will be judged. And the surety of that is because Jesus came out of that grave. And so Paul, he pulls no punches with the philosophers there. He's very straightforward And he lets them know that the resurrection is a fact. That's what I want you to consider today, beloved, that the resurrection is true. It's a fact. Now there are many evidences of the bodily resurrection. And those evidences have stood the the test of time, even though critics have aimed their guns at this doctrine of the resurrection. The evidence is clear. Let me just give you a few of these evidences here this morning. First of all, number one, the move stone. The question we'd have to ask, who moved the stone? In John chapter 20, verse number one, when Mary Magdalene was on the way to the tomb early that morning, she was with other women, the Bible says in Luke 24, too. And they were coming to the stone, and they found that the stone was already rolled away from the tomb. And that was shocking to them because on the way there, they were discussing who's going to roll away this stone. Now why was that such a big deal? Well, because this stone was massive. It weighed about two tons. It was rolled on a track right there in front of the tomb uh opening. And to move it back, it would take a group of men at least to do that. And they were wondering, they were taking spices to the grave of of the Lord. And there's a even a little bit of doubt in that because why would you need spices if he's going to resurrect? He told them that he was going to come out of that grave. And yet they went there and when they got there this stone was rolled. By the way, when it says that to roll the Greek word here, Koleo, it actually has the idea of rolling upward. And so really think of it, it's kind of on a incline, you have to roll this huge stone up this incline some. There's no way that a few women could do that. And again on the way there they were wondering, how in the world are we going to move this stone? And the and to add to that, do you remember what the Bible says that the tomb was sealed? Because The Pharisees came to Pilate after Jesus died, and they said to Pilate, Pilate, we remember what this one Jesus said. He said that he was going to come out of that grave. And we're afraid that his disciples are going to go there and they're going to steal away the body and and then we'll have a big problem after that. And so they asked that Pilate put some Roman guards there at that tomb and which he did. The Bible says he put a watch there. You know how many soldiers are in a watch? Sixteen soldiers. And not only that, they stret they would stretch a wax cord across the the the the stone in front of the entrance and there would put a seal right in the middle, a Roman seal, which basically said, do not break this seal, and anyone who would break this seal risked death. So think about this. There are sixteen soldiers there guarding the tomb. There's a huge stone there at the door. But yet by the time the ladies got there There was no one there. And the stone was rolled away. You say, what happened? Well, the Bible tells us what happened on that first Easter in Matthew chapter 28. Verse number one, it says, In the end of the Sabbath as it began to dawn, toward the first day of the week came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it And his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow. And for fear of him the keepers did shake and become as dead men. We know what happened because Matthew tells us what happened. An angel came down and rolled the stone away. Now he didn't roll the stone away in order to let Jesus out. He had already resurrected. He rolled the stone away to reveal that there's nothing in there. That's what happened. And the Bible says that that watch of sixteen soldiers, they became so afraid, they became as dead men, the Bible says. They were paralyzed with Fear. And by the time that Mary got there to the tomb on that first Easter morning, the stone was already moved away. You say, what is that? That is evidence of the resurrection Who moved the stone? Years ago, an attorney named Frank Morrison set out to refute the evidence of the resurrection. He appreciated the life of Jesus, but he believed that the resurrection was a story that was basically a myth made up by the early disciples And so he decided to take his lawyer investigative training and his legal mind and investigate all the facts of the resurrection. And by the time he was it was all said and done, he was convinced that Jesus Christ came out of that grave. And he wrote a book, and the title of the book is Who Moved the Stone? Who moved the Stone? The moved stone is evidence of the resurrection. But then there's also the empty tomb. The next question we would have to point ask is, how did the tomb get empty? This is what we point to as another evidence of the resurrection. They when they got there, they saw that the tomb was empty, the Bible says in John 20, verse number two. As they entered in, they found not the body, Luke 24, verse number three. If there was no resurrection, how can you explain the empty body? tomb. Even the critics of Christianity admit that the tomb was empty. How did it get Now there are those that try to make up all these excuses about how it got empty. Someone says, well, it was the enemies of Jesus that stole the body away. Well, why would they want to do that? What would be the motive for the enemies to take the body of Christ? And if they did have the body of Christ, when Peter got up to preach that day on Pentecost on Acts chapter 2, just a few days later By the way, you know the theme of Peter's sermon? You know what it was? It was the resurrection. He got up and he preached the resurrection. But if the enemies had the body of Jesus, all they would have to do is say, here's the body. Peter would have to be quiet. The disciples would be laughed out of town if the enemies had the body of Christ. No, Peter boldly preached the resurrection because Jesus did, in fact, resurrect out of that grave. If the enemies had the body of Jesus and produced it, that would be the end of Christianity. Well, someone comes along and says, Oh, I know it was the Roman soldiers that stole the body. Really? You think the Roman soldiers did that? They were charged with guarding the body. And why would they want to steal it away? That would be to lose a prisoner, especially one that was not alive, meant death for them. They would be risking their life by doing such a thing. Well then another one says, well, it was the disciples that stole the body away. This was a A lie that was made up by the Jewish leaders when the sixteen soldiers came back to Jerusalem and told the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin what happened, you know what they said? Here's some money. You just go around and tell everybody that the disciples stole the body away. I call that the lie that proved the resurrection. They bribed him, they made up a lie, but again you would have to say, why would we say the disciples stole the body? Wait, guess what? It was the disciples that buried him. If they were going to steal the body, they would have done it before they put it in the grave. That would have been the ample time to steal the body of Jesus away. But it was the disciples that supervised the burial of Jesus there. And besides that, the Bible tells us that they were so afraid, they were locked up hidden away. To believe that the disciples would gather enough boldness and courage to go to the tomb and then to sneak past sixteen Roman soldiers break the seal, roll the stone away, steal the body aw out of there. That's just not reasonable. That that that just doesn't work. None of that works. So we point to the moose stone. We point to the empty grave. But also another evidence is the post-resurrection appearances. Did you know the Bible tells us very clearly there were numerous appearances of Jesus after he came out of that grave? From the time that he resurrected until the forty days, and then to the time he ascended, he appeared many times. And Paul refers to these appearances, and he says at one point Jesus appeared to five hundred brethren at once. That's a lot of witnesses to a fact. 500 at once. There are more witnesses to the resurrection of Jesus Christ than there are to the signing of the Declaration of Independence. More witnesses. J. N. D. Anderson wrote this. He said the most drastic way of dismissing the evidence would be to say that these stories were mere fabrications. that they were pure lies. But so far as I know, not a single critic today would take such an attitude. In fact, it would be really Think of the number of witnesses over five hundred. Think of the character of the witnesses, men and women who gave the world the highest ethical teaching it has ever known And who even on the testimony of their enemies lived it out in their lives. Think of the psychological absurdity of picturing a little band of defeated cowards. cowering in a upper room one day, and a few days later transformed into a company that no persecution could silence and then attempting to attribute this dramatic change to nothing more convincing than a miserable fabrication that they were trying to foster upon the world. That simply wouldn't make sense. And he's right. He's exactly right. Which leads us to the fourth point A fourth evidence of the resurrection, and that is the changed lives of the witnesses. The disciples, they were changed. They went from being afraid. To being bold witnesses of Christ. Remember doubting Thomas, who didn't believe? And then finally, when he saw the risen Lord, what did he say? My Lord and my God. Did you know that Thomas preached the gospel all his life? He went as far as India, planting churches, preaching the gospel, and he died as a martyr in India. In fact, most of the disciples became martyrs. They were willing to give their life. You know what? You don't give your life for a lie. You don't give your life for something that you know is a lie, but you will give your life for something that you know to be true Uh Charles Coulson, convicted for his involvement in Watergate, he was an assistant to the president, President Nixon at the time. This is what he writes. He says, I know the resurrection is a fact, and Watergate proved it to me. How? Because twelve men testified that they had seen Jesus raised from the dead. Then they proclaimed it for the next forty years, never once denying it. Everyone was beaten, tortured, stoned, put in prison. They could not have endured that if it were not true. And then he said this, Watergate embroiled twelve of the most powerful men in the world, and they could not keep alive for three weeks. You're telling me that twelve apostles could keep alive for 40 years? Absolutely impossible. But then Paul says I saw him. He appeared to me in 1 Corinthians 15. 8. And last of all, he was seen in me also as one out of And now here is the Apostle Paul at Mars Hill, and he's confronting some of the most brilliant minds of the brilliant philosophers of the day, right there at Athens at Mars Hill, and you know what Paul is saying to them? The resurrection is true, and you better believe it. You better believe it. But here's the second thing. Since the resurrection is true, we should believe it. But number two, since the resurrection is true, you should fear judgment. Again, look in verse number 31, where it says, Because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, and that he raised them from the dead. The fact that there is a resurrection means that there will be a judgment And every one of you will stand before God. In fact, Paul gives three certainties of this judgment in verse number 31. Notice where he says, Because he hath appointed a day. You each have an appointment with God. That day has already been appointed. It's in God's calendar book. It is fixed. Now you might look around at the world today and you might see all the wickedness going on, going unpunished, and you might think that sinners are getting away with their sin. Not so. Not so. The court date has already been fixed. They will stand before God. No one will skip out of the judgment. God has fixed a certain day when he will judge the world. And you might say, well, why is he waiting? Why does it not happen? I'll tell you why he's waiting, friend, because God is patient. And you know what he's waiting for? He's waiting for you to repent. He's waiting for you to trust his son Jesus Christ, and he waits. But friend, make no mistake about it. One day death will come to us all. And that time will be over. You better not. Put that time off. You better make sure of your soul right now. God is giving all men right now the opportunity to repent. At Mount St. Helens, there's a visitor center there a center there in Washington in Washington, and there's a film there that tells the story of the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980. And in that film, there's a story of an old man that lived there right there on the mountain and they they call him old Harry. And the reason that story is popular is because when they were warning people about the eruption of Mount St. Helens, Old Harry didn't believe it. And now he's buried there. He's famous, but he's he's buried there beneath tons and tons of lava. And he is a testimony to the fact of some of some people that don't believe the warnings when they come. Friend, God right now is warning all the world there's coming a day of judgment. There is coming a day of judgment. And most people make that eternally fatal mistake to ignore that warning about judgment. Look in verse number thirty where it says, In the times of this ignorance, God Winked at. Paul points out that God overlooked the times of ignorance. That is to say, God has been incredibly patient because he knows people are ignorant of their danger. Perhaps you're here today. You're not aware of the danger that you're in That there's going to be a time of judgment. Perhaps you're not aware of what God requires of you and how to prepare for that day of judgment. And so God is patient. But he wants you to know what you have to do to prepare for that time of judgment and don't delay. There's coming a day. There's a certain day, then there's a certain standard. Look again in verse 31, it says In which he will judge the world in the righteousness. What is the standard by which God will judge the world? It will be his perfect righteousness. Many people think that God will grade on a curve, and that only the really bad sinners are the ones that are going to be judged and go to hell. Only the scum of the earth are going to are going to be judged. Uh uh there's uh recently a national public radio reported a Gallup poll in which sixty percent of Americans say they believe in hell, but only four percent think that there's a good chance that they will go there We don't think we're going to go to hell because we comp we compare ourselves to other people and we say, you know what, compared to that person, I'm not really all that bad. But I want to tell you something, friend, God doesn't grade on a curve. He grades according to his perfect standard. And you say, what is that standard? Well, he laid it down in the Ten Commandments. How are you doing with that? And not only that, Jesus later came along to the Pharisees who felt like they were obeying all of God's commandments, but Jesus on the Sermon on the Mount showed how hypocritical that was He showed how that outwardly it might look like they were living a pretty good life, but in their heart they were filled with corruption and sin. What did Jesus say? It is said, Thou shalt not murder, but I say unto you that anyone who hates a person in their heart has already committed murder. He said, It is written, Thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you that any man who lusts after a woman in his heart has already committed adultery. What did Jesus say? You're to love God with all your heart, love your neighbor as yourself. What's the golden rule? Do unto others as you would have them do unto you How are you doing with all of that? Can you honestly say that you've never hated anyone? Can you honestly say that you've never lusted in your heart? Can you honestly say that you've treated everyone the way you'd wanted to be treated? Can you honestly say that you've loved the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might? Just to violate one of those means you're guilty before God. And that you will be judged because you don't measure up to his perfect standard. That's the standard. There's a certain day, there's a certain standard by which he'll be judged, and then there's a certain man. Look again what it says in verse number 31, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men. That he has raised him from the dead. But let me back up actually what I want to look at is in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained. that he raised from the dead. That man, who is that man? Who is the judge? Who's the one that's going to be judging us in that day? I'll tell you who it'll be, friend. It'll be Jesus Christ. The Savior today will be the judge tomorrow. The man Christ Jesus. Now some would say, well, I thought only God judges. That's right. Jesus is God. He's the God-man, the one that was virgin-born, that came into this world, that took upon him the robe of flesh, and he lived a perfect life. And he took all of our sins upon himself on the cross when he died to pay our sin debt. Today he is our Savior, but on that day he will be our judge. Listen to what Jesus said in John 5. 22. For the Father judges no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. All judgment will be put in Christ's hands. When Jesus died, he stood before Pilate. One day in the judgment, Pilate will stand before him. And so will every one of us stand before Him. We have a certain man. Now you'd say, well, I understand there's a judgment. All I'm asking for is for God to be fair with me. You don't know what you're saying. You don't know what you're saying. If God were fair, I don't want God to be fair with me. I plead for mercy, not fairness. I plead for mercy. Every one of us, because of our sins, stands guilty before God many times over. You say, What should we do? Should we run from God? Should we try to hide? Should we just try harder? No, none of that will do. Let me give you the last thing here. Since the resurrection is true, you should believe it. Since the resurrection is true, you should fear judgment But here's the third thing, since the resurrection is true, you should repent. You should repent. Look at verse number 30. And the times of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. God is commanding all to repent today. Because Jesus did come out of that grave, because he will judge the world, the only salvation you have is to repent of your sin and to turn and put your faith in Jesus Christ. That's the only salvation. And God is commanding it. God is not suggesting it. Sometimes we talk about an invitation. The gospel is not an invitation. The gospel is a command. God is commanding you to repent, and if you don't obey that command, you're disobeying God. He's saying, You better believe, my son, you better believe that he died for your sins on the cross. He came out of that grave, and just as surely as he came out as Savior, he will be the judge. And the only way that you can be safe in the day of judgment is to repent of your sins. And put your faith in what Jesus did for you on the cross. The word command is not a suggestion, it is a word of authority. And the word repent means a U-turn. I'm born headed in the wrong direction, and so are all of us. If I were going South on ninety-five, headed towards Virginia, and suddenly I realized I need to go to New York. I would Make a U-turn. That's what the word repent means. I start going north on 95. We're born headed in the wrong direction. Every one of us were sinners. We're sinners because of that sin nature that was given to us at birth. We're all headed in the wrong direction. And suddenly God in his mercy gives us the message of the gospel, which is Jesus Christ, the sinned Son of God, came to bear your sins, to pay your sin debt. He took all of your sins upon himself and he paid the sin debt. God's holiness demands that sin be punished. Jesus took your punishment He paid your sin debt, and now much what you must do is believe in what Jesus did, believe on Jesus, believe that he died, was buried, that he rose again. Turn, make a U-turn from your sin, and put your full faith in Jesus Christ That's what it means to repent. And God is commanding that you need today to repent. You know, we use terms like accept Jesus, friend. I don't mind. I understand what you mean when you say accept Jesus, but I really don't like that term. The question is not, do you accept Jesus? The question is will Jesus accept you. And he only accepts those who are truly repentant and believe fully on him. That's the issue there The term accept has the idea of Jesus is standing hat in hand. He's waiting for us to accept him if we will. No, no, friend, that's not the Savior. He is the Lord. He is the King. He died for you. He came out of that grave and now He commands you to repent. The question is. Will he accept you? And he will only accept you if you come broken over your sin, poor in spirit, believing on him, and him alone is your only way of salvation. That's what he asks. And friends, since the resurrection is true, you better repent. You better make sure that you're ready for that day. When the Lord will judge the world. And so the question is, are you ready? Now, let me wrap up this sermon by saying Paul, on that day at Marshill, when he preached the sermon of repentance. And believing on Jesus. He had three responses. You know what they were? Look down in verse number 32. Notice what it says. And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. There's one response. They didn't believe in the possibility of a resurrection, which means they didn't believe in a God who can raise the dead. I hope that's not you. I hope that you don't mock because friend Jesus came out of that grave. And there will be a judgment. And he is the only way of salvation. But nevertheless, there are some that mock. That's one response. And then notice what else it says in verse number. 32. It says, and others say, We will hear thee again of this matter, that if some procrastinated, oh, I want to hear more about this. That might be you here today as well. You might say, well, you know, this is very interesting. I want to hear it more. Okay. But you can't guarantee me that this won't be the last opportunity you have to repent. In fact, we don't read anything else about these people anymore. Paul didn't go back to Mars Hill. Once he got done this, he left. He was done It was over. They didn't get to hear Paul anymore. You might not ever hear a sermon again. You might not ever hear me again. You may not make it past this day. I don't know. I hope you do. I hope you live to be a good long age. But you can't promise me that. And if death were to come suddenly, would you be ready? Some procrastinated And they miss their opportunity. I hope you don't put off repenting, knowing the state of your soul. But then here's the third response, again in verse number 30. 33 actually verse 34 how be a certain men clave unto him and what believed. They believed. There were a few there. That believed. This is what I urge you to do. Join us who believe by repenting and putting your full faith in the finished work of Christ. Beloved God is offering you a pardon today. He's offering you a pardon today. Would you take it? Having overlooked your times of ignorance, God is now commanding you to repent. And this is what you need to do because, friend, Jesus Christ did come out of that grave. Praise his name. Let's bow for prayer together. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just ask you to search your heart. And the very simple question I have for you today is, have you repented? Are you mocking? I don't really believe all this. I feel sorry for you. There will be a day of judgment. You say, oh, I just want to think about it more. Really? You need more? What more do you need? What more evidence do you need? Now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. And so friend, would you believe? Would you reach out in repentance and faith and say, yeah, I believe. I believe. And I'm now turning from my sin and I'm I'm turning to Christ and I put my full faith in him in him alone as my only means of salvation. Is that your response? That's the right response to the resurrection. That's the right response. And friend, if that's your response here, I want to pray for you. You say right now, yes, I believe. I'm putting my faith in Christ. Can I pray for you? Would you just lift your hand? I won't embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. God bless you, friends. God bless you. God bless you. Put your faith in Christ, in Christ alone. And then let us know. We want to encourage you in your new life. But friend, make sure of your soul. Make sure that you're believing on him. You repented and you're turning to him. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts. Save souls Sweep people into the kingdom of God in true repentance, Lord. And we ask this for your honor and for your glory. How we praise you, Lord, that you are the living, risen Son of God. And fully and freely we call you, Lord. And we praise your name. Lord, help us to continue to be faithful. As the Apostle Paul said, because the resurrection is true. That Lord we be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Because, Lord, we know our labor is not in vain. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen