Well it's good to see everybody here tonight. And tonight I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to a well-known Psalm, Psalm chapter 1, perhaps one of my favorite psalms. in all the Bible. It is brief, but it's so very powerful. And I want to speak tonight about how to be blessed. We actually could title the sermon, How to Be Blessable So many times we pray, Lord, bless me. But perhaps the prayer that we should pray is, Lord, make me blessable. Because we have a God who delights in blessing. I believe that God wants to bless us. I believe God wants to bless you. God is not in heaven reluctant to give blessings to his people. He is a God who delights in blessing his people. Psalm 35, verse 27 says this, let the Lord be magnified, which has pleasure in the prosperity of a servant. God takes great pleasure in prospering his servants. And so he longs to bless us, he longs to prosper us. And in fact that's kind of the theme of Psalm one, the last Well look in verse three, the last part of the verse where it says, And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. This is a promise from Scripture. If we do these things, God will prosper us. This is kind of a spir uh scriptural might as touch. Whatever we put our hands to, God will bless it. It'll turn to gold, you could say. Uh do you know men like that? You know anybody that just seems like whatever they put their hand to, God prospers them. even in bad times, in difficult times, yet God sees them through it and just seems to prosper them. The Bible says Joseph was a man like this. In Genesis 39, verse 2, it says the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. You say, now wait a minute, Joseph went through a lot of difficulty, that's right. And to say that you know you'll have God's blessings and God's prosperity doesn't mean that all of your times will be good. But that even in the dark times, the difficult times, God will see you through that. And God will prosper you even in that. And that was the way it was in Joseph's life. And even the ungodly were able to see this In Genesis 39, verse 3, it says this, and his master saw that the Lord was with him and made all that he did to prosper in his hand. The people around Joseph saw this. They saw this young man who honored the Lord, and that even through his difficult times God seemed to prosper him. And so Psalm 1 actually teaches us this very thing for us, how we can be blessable. Look at the word prosper there in verse 3. It's used 53 times in the Old Testament. Sometimes it's translated successful or success. But it's used to speak of a plant flourishing no matter what environment that it's in, to be fit for anything, to prosper in any circumstance. And that's really what we're going to see here in Psalm one. So what I want you to see are just four distinguishing marks of the life that God is able to bless or how to be blessable we could say. First of all, the person that God blesses, number one, he's separated from the world. Look at verse 1. Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. The person that God blesses is a person that has learned to say no to the world. He realizes that the world can offer him nothing. There's nothing that the world can give to you as a believer in Christ. What does the Bible tell us our relationship is to be with the world? In first John two fifteen, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, what? The love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world is, and you know this verse, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world And the world passes a lust thereof. But he who does the will of God abides forever And so literally we could say that the world is in the process of passing away. Now, again, there are some people that actually think that the world can help you in some way. That the world in some way can satisfy you or make you at peace and give you contentment. Solomon was one of those people in the Old Testament that felt that way. He thought there was a lot that the world could give him And so he went after the things of the world with all the gusto that he had. In Ecclesiastes chapter two, he said, I withheld not my heart from any joy. That is the lust of the flesh. He would ask for everything the world had in that respect. He said, Whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them. That's the lust of the eyes. Anything he wanted, he saw with his eyes, he got it. In verse 9 he says, so I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. That's the pride of life. And so you could say that Solomon had all that the world could offer. Was he satisfied? It says in verse 17, therefore I hated life. I hated life. He realized the world could offer him nothing. And so you're either being influenced by the word or the world. The world seeks to conform you into its mold. The world wants you everyone to be worldly to have the values of the world, to accept the philosophies of the world. But God is seeking to transform us. The world wants to conform us from without. God wants to transform you from within. What does the Bible say? Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. that you might prove what is that good and acceptable perfect will of God. Now, this man here in Psalms He rejected the world. He didn't think the world could give him anything. First of all, he rejects the world's advice. Again in verse 1, walk not in the counsel of the ungodly. The Christian life is compared to a walk. It begins with a step of faith and trust in Christ, and it continues as we walk and we grow in Christ and we grow in knowledge and we grow at we walk in the light. It's one long walk. I trusted Christ when I was 15 years old. I've been on that walk ever since. And I'm learning more and more. And I hope that I'm being more conformed to the image of Jesus Christ as I'm growing more in the Word of God. And as we walk through this world, the Bible says we're not to be of this world. You know, it's very easy to cave into all the things around us on this long walk that God has put us on. This Christian life. We have to be careful to reject All the advice of the world, the world is constantly telling the church what to do, or how to act, or what to believe, or what not to believe. And we choose either to follow the wisdom of the world or the wisdom of God. That's the choice. That's it. You can do things man's way, or you can do things God's way. Why would anyone in their right mind want to walk in the counsel of the ungodly? Why would anyone even want to do that if you're a believer When you think of the Council of the Ungodly, don't think about a person who is streetwise or a thug or an out-and-out sinner. Certainly they are part of that world system. But think of a person who has a lot of letters after their name. And they have a an education. And they're steeped in the philosophy of man in this world. The world has educated people with the wisdom of man. And you know what they're telling us, the church? You can't trust your Bible We have better wisdom for you than that. You know, here's what you should be doing. You need to get up to date with the way things are going in the world, with the philosophy of the world. Be careful when you go out to seek counsel. You know, you ever notice that everything now is called Christian counsel? There's a lot of things that have the name, the title Christian on it, that have nothing to do with the Bible or Christ. It's just manly, worldly wisdom that takes that title so that they can bring people in. I've I've I've met a lot of Christians that went to Christian counseling and what it did was it totally pulled them away from God It pulled them out of the Word of God and taught them to depend upon the wisdom of the world rather than the Word of God. Be very, very careful. about what people call Christian counseling. A lot of it is Freudian psychology. Or uh B uh V. S. Skinner who taught that, you know, you're a victim of your environment. You have to, you know You have to get out of the environment. And then also, you know, Carl Rogers said, you know, you need encouragement and so on And Freud, his whole philosophy is, you know, your standards are too high. Someone gave you high standards. That's why you're feeling guilty. That's why you are, you know, having these mental issues. All of that is the wisdom of man. You know what God said in the very beginning? God put man in a perfect environment, the garden. The standards wasn't too high because he said, Don't eat fruit off this one tree. And then also he had all the encouragement, man had all the encouragement that he needed because God walked with him every day. You know the problem with mankind is it's sin. It always has been. And all of the other problems are indirectly related, or directly or indirectly related to that one problem of sin. And the answer is Christ. The wisdom of God starts at the cross of Jesus Christ. That's the wisdom of God. And so You need to be careful to reject the world's advice. But also this man, he rejects the world's actions. Again in verse 1. Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Nor standeth in the way of the sinner. We go from walking to standing here. Standing is the idea of abiding or a pattern of life. It's doing what others do. Standing where they stand. Don't stand where the world stands. It's doing what the world does, following their ways, being lured in to do what the world does. If you don't reject the world's advice, pretty soon you will be doing what the world does. A believer has to turn from all of that. I remember right after I got saved, I still had some of the old friends. And as a newly converted believer, I was standing where they were standing. And you know what? It didn't help me in my sanctification. They were pulling me in their direction. I finally had to make a decision, you know, I I can't do that. I can't stand in the way of sinners. I tried to share the gospel with them. They didn't want anything to do with it. And so pretty soon I had to make sure not to stand where they stand. I had to reject all the world's actions. That's a choice. that we have to make as believers. The Bible said, wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. You're to be different as a believer. This man rejects the world's advice. He rejects the world's actions, but also he rejects the world's attitudes. Again in verse number one, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful Seat here is used figuratively of a place of influence and power. Scornful is to be critical. It's an attitude of rebellion. We could say a lack of reverence to ridicule holy things. The ungodly use their mouth to blaspheme God, to ridicule and tear down the things of God. You ever meet people that they never have anything positive to say ever? They're just constantly pulling people down and things down. They're irreverent with God. They're got they gossip towards people. The Bible says God punishes scorners. The Bible says, you know, we're not to be hanging around those kind of people. In Proverbs 29, or excuse me, 24-9, it says, the thought of foolishness is sin, and the scorner is an abomination to men. So don't take on that attitude. Don't take on the attitude of the world. That scornful attitude. And notice here the progression in these in this verse. There's walking, that's what we think. There's standing, that's what we are. They're sitting, that's what we become. And that's how the world gets in, a little bit at a time. It's like a boat in the water. We I've heard this many times as a younger believer. It's okay for a boat to be in the water, but you don't want that water to get into the boat, right? Same way, we it's okay to be in the world, but we can't let the world get in us. Because that's when we sink. And in we see this progression in the New Testament. In James 1. 27, it talks about being spotted by the world. And then in James 4. 4, friendship with the world. And then in Romans 12, 2, we are conformed to the world. And then in 1 Corinthians 11, 32, we are condemned with the world. That's a progression. And we don't want to be in that flow. Think about Peter. Peter, he was walking in the Council of the Ungodly when he when uh he stood afar off Or he was walking afar off, I should say. Remember on the night when our Lord was betrayed, they came to get him and arrest him. Peter, the Bible says, was kind of walking afar off there. He was walking in the way in the council of the ungodly. And then he was standing When he was standing by the world's fire, he was standing in the way of the sinner. He was hanging around sinners, standing by the world's fire, trying to warm himself. And then he was sitting in the seat of the scoreful when he cursed and he denied the Lord Jesus. We also see this in Lot. Uh he was walking in the in the council of the ungodly when he lifted up his eyes to the well-watered plains of Sodom and decided that's the place to go. That's where everybody was saying you should go. He was standing in the way of sinners when he pitched his tent towards Sodom. And he was sitting in the seat of the scornful when he was sitting at the gate of Sodom as a judge of that wicked city. If you want to be blessable, you have to be separated from the world. But here's number two. He is saturated by the word. Look in verse 2. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. Here's a man or person that loves God's word. First of all, he appreciates it. His delight, he loves, he or she or that person loves God's word. Do you love the scriptures? Do you understand what a precious gift you have in the Word of God? Um I re I love the story of Spursion when he was visiting a friend in Scotland and preached there and went to the friend's house for lunch afterwards and While it was preparing, he went to his friend's library in his house, and he pulled off an old tattered Bible and noticed that on the cover of the Bible there was a hole, and he opened up and noticed that a bookworm had eaten its way through Genesis And then he noticed as he flipped through the Old Testament, the bookworm had made its way through the whole Old Testament. And then he continued flipping and it made it way it made its way through the gospel, and that worm made its way through the epistles and all the way to the book of Revelation. And as he opened up the back cover, he noticed that the bookworm was eating his way out on the other side of the Bible. And he held the Bible up and said, Oh God, make me that kind of bookworm. That should be our prayer. We should love God's word. Spurgeon also said there's dust enough on some of your Bibles to write damnation with your fingers. I have found that in my spiritual life, my spiritual growth is directly related to how much time I study and am in the Word of God. It's directly related to that one thing. The Bible that is falling apart usually belongs to someone who isn't. And someone said, if you carry your Bible when you're young, it'll carry you when you're old. So he appreciates it, but also he appropriates it. Look again in verse two His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And the key here is getting God's word in you. Now it's good to read through the Bible. That's certainly something to be commended. I hear people talking about that all the time. But what is even better than you going through the Bible is the Bible going through you. Allowing God's word to get into you, into your heart and life. That's the real issue here. And this is what he's talking about here. In his law does he meditate. day and night. That's allowing God's word to get into you. What does the Bible say in Colossians? Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. We have to internalize God's word for it to do any good for us spiritually. You know, and that's meditation. You know, when we think of meditation today, a lot of people think of the Eastern mysticism type of meditation, you know, that says, empty your mind of everything. Well, that's not Christian meditation. Christian meditation is the exact opposite. God doesn't ask you to empty your mind. God asks you to fill your mind with the Word of God. Fill it up with God's Word. And then once you have God's word in your mind, you have to reflect on it, you have to think about it over and over again. What digestion is to the physical body, meditation is to the spiritual man. to our soul. We we we're taking it in, we're thinking about it over and over and over again. I hope that when you come to church that you know when you leave on Sunday That's not all there is about the sermon. You know, you hear it, you leave, there's nothing else about it. I would just encourage you, not because I preach the sermons, I try to give you the word of God. I would just encourage you to meditate on the truth of God's word. Think about it Have a time to think about it. I remember um a church I preached in in uh New York after the service. When the benediction prayer was given. And you expect people just to walk out of church. This church had developed a habit where after the last prayer, rather than walking out, everybody sits down. And for the next five minutes, quietly, everybody just thinks about what was said. They think about the truth that they just heard. And after they had thought about it, then they would get up and leave Now I I remember when I preached there the first time and that happened, I'm like, what did I say? What did I do? They said, Oh no, that's just that's just the habit of this church here You know, they sit they think about the truth and then you know after a few minutes when they're done, people g quietly leave. That's what the church is. That's not a bad thing. In fact, this Sunday No, I'm just kidding. Just think about it, God's word. That's that's what a scr meditation is. And God wants us to meditate on his word. And you've heard me quote Joshua 1. 8, one of my favorite verses. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. That means you don't say anything about it. That means that you should not stop talking about it. Just keep talking about it. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Why? Why, God, do you want me to think about it day and night? To do according to all that is written therein. You see, what you begin to do, what you think about If you think about something often enough and long enough, instinctively you begin to do that. And so meditation is the key to application. You have to meditate on God's word. And then when you apply God's word, it says, For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. That's where the prosperity comes in. You meditate on God's word, you begin to live it out in your life, and then that's where that prosperity comes. It goes from your mind to your heart to your feet. You know, you start to live it. Someone said this, sow a thought, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character. Sow a character, reap a life. Sow a life, reap a legacy. In order to have a godly legacy, it all starts with your mind, your thinking. And let it become a part of you. Your mind controls how you behave. And so we want to meditate in God's word. And so the person that is blessable is separated from the world. They're saturated with the word. But here's the third thing. He's situated by the waters. Look at verse three. And he shall be like a tree, planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in this season, his leaf also shall not wither And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now, water in Scripture is a symbol for the Spirit. Water for cleansing is a symbol of God's Word, but water for drinking is a symbol of the Spirit. And the water here comes from the rivers. Here's a tree that is soaking in the nourishment of a river. And so it's a symbol of a person who is under the control of God's Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the master of their life. And so we're being nourished. We're abiding in Christ, you could say, we're abiding, we're in the Spirit, we're being nourished by the Spirit, walking in the Spirit. And notice his permanence. He shall be like a tree. That gives an image of something solid, something stable, not like grass that that fades away. A tree is permanent. A tree is lasting. A tree will grow year after year and get stronger. It gets taller. It begins to bear fruit. Another thing about a tree is it has a hidden life. It has a root system that no one sees. It's underground. The roots go deep down into the soil. They stretch out into that river getting nourishment. The roots are the key to the strength and prosperity of a tree. When a tree bears fruit, good fruit, we know it has strong roots, right? We know that the hidden life of that tree is good. That's the key. The key to your prosperity is your hidden life. What you're doing when no one else sees you but Almighty God. What you are in secret before Almighty God and no one else, that's what you are and nothing else. Your hidden life as a Christian. Are you being nourished by the waters? Are you spending time with the Lord? Are you reading God's word? Are you praying and meditating? And so we see his permanence. We see his position by the rivers of water. Literally by the divisions of water. Most likely this is referring to here the favorite mode of irrigation in the Middle or the favorite mode of irrigation in uh the Middle East countries. Um they would irrigate water from rivers and that's I think what he's referring to here. Canals were dug in every direction so that waters could carry nourishment to the plants and veget vegetation. You know, we were over in Egypt. And right there along the Nile there are all kind of canals that they dig. Um, you know, to get the water to, you know, dry, barren places. And I think this is what he's returned talking about here. There are trees planted right by these waters, right where they can be nourished. And that's the position of the Christian. We're to be right there, dependent upon the Holy Spirit. His position, but also his productivity that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. You ever notice that fruit is seasonal? I know some of you have been faithful to the Lord. You say, man, I'm kind of going through a season where I'm not seeing much fruit. That's okay. Fruit is seasonal. You might be going through a time when, you know, uh it's not time for fruit just yet. You're you're planting seed, you're you know, you're right by the river, you're trusting in the Lord. And fruit will come and we have to be patient and trust God. You know, you don't farm it and plant a seed into the ground and get it back in just a few minutes. Fruit, you know. So what does the Bible say in Galatians 6 9? Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Stay by your river, your season will come. Just be patient. But also his perpetuity, his leaf also shall not wither. This tree is not affected by the weather around it. It is always the same. This is a person who will not wither away because of the circumstances around them. They will continue to trust in the Lord. But then also his prosperity, whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. And again, God wants you to prosper. God wants to bless you. He delights in blessing his people. So the blessed person is like a tree, a tree with a root system, a hidden life that is by the rivers of the waters of God's Spirit. Now, let me give you one more thing here. The man God blesses is separated from the world, saturated with the word, situated by the waters. But also, I would just add one more thing: he's segregated from the wicked. Because look in verse number four. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. And so I want you to notice this purposeful contrast here in verse four. That the writer is giving. The ungodly are not so. And so there's a purposeful contrast between the wise and the wicked, between the godly and the ungodly. God's people are different. They're set apart from the wicked. They're the godly. Now, this is not the only time in the Bible we see this kind of contrast. One of my favorite passages to refer to is Jeremiah 17. Let me just read these verses to you. Jeremiah 17, verse 5. Thus saith the Lord, and again we see a contrast here. Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, that maketh flesh his arm, whose heart departeth from the Lord. Again, if you if you put your trust in man's wisdom Your heart will depart from the Lord. If you're trusting in men, that's what's going to happen to you. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness. In a salt land not inhabited. Now here's the contrast. Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, whose hope the Lord is. This is the exact opposite. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when he cometh But her leaves shall be green and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding. You see the contrast there It's such a beautiful passage. You have trusting in man and trusting in God. You trust in man, you're cursed. You trust in God, you're blessed. You trust in man, your heart departs from the Lord. You trust in God, your heart depends upon the Lord. If you trust in man, you're blind to blessings. You don't see the good when it comes. If you trust in God, you're blind to burdens. You don't see when the when the drought comes. You're not aware of it because you're you're close to the Lord. You're by the river. You trust in men, you're going to be unfruitful. You trust in God, the fruit's going to come. Shall not be careful in the year of drought, but neither shall cease from yielding fruit. If you trust in man, the picture is like a heath in a desert, like a dry desert. If you trust in God, it's like an oasis in the desert. And notice here in Psalm one, what are the ungodly compared to in verse four? The ungodly are not so they are like chaff which the wind driveth away. The psalmist describes the wicked in contrast to the righteous. The righteous is like a sturdy Tree firm and planted. The wicked are like chaff from wheat, rootless, weightless, useless. You see, this is this is chaff that's w when the wheat's thrown up in the air and the threshing floor, the wind just drives the chaff away. And the wheat falls to the ground. And God says the chaff is the ungodly. That's the picture here, the threshing floor, the time of the grain harvest. When the grain is brought to them, then they crush it with the animals, and then they they throw it up in the air, and the wind drives the chaff away. So it's a picture of futility, it's a picture of emptiness, weightlessness, worthlessness. Oh, the world gives you such a beautiful picture Of itself. The people of the world give you such a beautiful image of themselves The same ones who have no fear of God, no reverence of God, that scorn the Word of God and the things of God, yet they present themselves as being so beautiful. And so wonderful, you know what God says? It's all weightless, it's all worthless, it's all chaff. There's no substance to that. None whatsoever. And so it's a picture really here of an of inevitable judgment that awaits the wicked, those who do not put their trust in the Lord So it's a such a clear contrast that the psalmist is giving here. I don't know about you, but I don't want to be chaff. I want to be that tree planted by the rivers. One scholar asked this question when he was going through this psalm. He basically asked the question, Who is this man that Psalm 1 is talking about? Who is this man? H. A. Ironside, the great Bible teacher, talked about a man who visited Palestine years ago. Joseph Flax who asked this question. And and he when he read this psalm, he asked this question, Who is this man? He he's talking to people in a In a group. He said, This man never walked in the council of the ungodly, stood in the way of sinners, sat in the seat of mockers. He was absolutely sinless. This man was perfect. Nobody spoke Said, who is this man? Was this Abraham? Said it couldn't have been Abraham. Abraham denied his wife and told lies and did wrong. What about Moses? Well, it couldn't be Moses. Moses killed a man, lost his temper at the waters of Merevah Couldn't have been Moses. Someone said, Oh, it was David. No, it couldn't have been David. He committed adultery. There was a long silence, and finally one person said, Jesus? And you see, that's right, that's who this man is. It's Jesus. This is the man that you're reading about here in this psalm, said this scholar. I like that. This man is Jesus. In short, Psalm 1 is really a portrait of the Lord Jesus Christ, the blessed man. And all those who are not like Christ, all those who don't follow God's way, that's the wicked. God is calling us to follow after the Lord Jesus Christ, to be like him. And this is how we do it. And if we do these things, we will be blessed. And again, God wants to bless you. He wants to bless all of you. He wants to prosper you. And I pray that this will be true of all of our lives. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. The life God blesses is marked by someone who is separated from the world, saturated with the Word of God, situated by the waters, segregated from the wicked. May God help us to be that blessed person, follow in the footsteps of Christ. Father, thank you for this beautiful song. There's so much here in it and There's so much, Lord, that we need to apply in our own life. I need to apply in my life. I don't meditate on your word enough. I don't depend upon the Spirit enough. And so, Lord, I just want to be planted by the waters. I want to be dependent upon the Holy Spirit. The flesh profits nothing, Father. And Lord, help me to reject the wisdom of the world, to say no to the world. How often on unguarded moments I've allowed the world in. Lord, forgive me for that and forgive us for ever thinking that there's any value in the things of this world. So Lord, help us to be blessable. And help us to apply these truths to our life for your honor and for your glory, we ask it in Jesus' name.