Would you take God's word today and open to the New Testament letter of Philippians chapter 3? And I want to look with you today at verses 17 down to verse 21. We've been looking at this chapter. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Philippians chapter 3, verse 17. And we're looking down to verse 21. Brethren, be followers together of me. And mark them which walk so as ye have have us for an example. For many of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mine earthly things. For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ. who shall change our vow body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. This is God's authoritative word. You may be seated. Thank you so very much. And would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for your word, and we come now very humbly and ask that you would open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things from the scripture. Lord, teach us things that will change us. that will make us more like Christ. May this be our obsession, Lord, as your people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. A welfare worker was sitting at her desk one day and she was happened to be looking out the window and watching some children play and she noticed that there was one child that was a crippled and he c he could not run with the other children and her heart went out to that child and so she went down there to the ball field where they were playing and she found out by speaking to that child that he was hit by a car and uh was taken to the hospital, but because the parents were poor and they couldn't afford to pay the doctor to really do the right thing and and and fix his leg, he uh never got his bones straightened the right way. Well the welfare worker decided she was going to do something about it and so she took the boy to a famous physician who agreed to do the operation for free And uh and and sure enough the uh bone was rebroken and properly set and after months uh the little boy could then run with all the rest of the children. He was he was completely well. in that respect. And years later she was telling this story to a woman's club. She was very happy that she was able to be used to help this boy, but as she was telling the story, she said this. She said, Would you like to know where the boy is today? She said, he's in the state penitentiary. She said, I was so busy helping him to run, I forgot to teach him how to walk. And you know, as Christians, the thing that we need to learn is how to walk. And this is what Paul's going to talk about here in these verses that we just read. Whenever the word um we're we're saved now, we we know the Lord, we are believers, but the question is how do we walk? We know where we stand, we've trusted Jesus as our Savior. All of our hope and our faith is in the finished work of Jesus Christ We've been justified by faith, but now the question is how do we walk? And whenever the word walk is used in the New Testament Regarding believers, it refers to our pattern of life. It refers to our day-to-day life. It refers to our lifestyle. Step by step, each day of our life Christianity is called a spiritual walk. It's not a run. It's not a jog. It's a walk And it's walking consistently, step by step, day to day, that helps you to grow into Christ-likeness. And so the Bible is filled with this reference about how to walk or Let me just give you a few. In Romans 6. 4, Paul said, we are to walk in newness of life. You now are saved. Now you need to learn how to walk in this newness of life. In Romans 8. 1, we're to walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. In Romans 13, 13, we're told to walk honestly. In 1 Corinthians 3. 3, we're not to walk carnal as other men. In uh 2 Corinthians 5. 7, we walk by faith, not by sight. In Galatians 5. 16, we are to walk in the Spirit. In Ephesians 4. 1, we walk worthy of the vocation wherewith we are called. We walk as children of light. Ephesians 5. 18. We walk circumspectly, Ephesians 5. 15 and 1 Thessalonians 2. 12, we walk worthy of God, and on we could go. All the way through the New Testament, we're told that we need to learn how to walk, to walk as Christians, specifically how to walk like Christ. Remember, this is the major theme here in chapter three. The major theme is Christ-likeness. Paul is teaching us that we need to pursue it. We need to be obsessed with our sanctification of being more like Christ. This is the mark that we're pressing towards. If you were here with us last week, we talked about that. Paul said I press towards the mark in verse 14 of chapter 3 here. For the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. This is the mark. This is the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. It is our Christ's likeness. John said this in 1 John 2, 6. He who says he abides in him ought himself also to walk just as he walked. And this is the very thing that Paul's teaching us here. And so the word walk is very key in this section. Again, look at verse 16. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk By the same rule, let us mind the same thing. Again in verse 17, brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walk. So as you have us for an example. And then in verse 18 we see the word again, For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are not that they are enemies of the cross of Christ. And so Paul uses this word here often in this section. And what I want you to see are just three guiding principles that he's really giving us here. on how we can walk as a Christian. And here's the first one, number one. There's an example to follow after An example to follow after. Paul, first of all, gives us a principle, and we see it in verse 17. Brethren, be followers together of me. Now this one phrase here, be followers together of me, is one word in the Greek, but it's a compound word. It's the word SIM, which means with And then the word mimic, and obviously this is where we get our word today, mimic, when someone mimics someone else. You know, I just had my grandchildren with me for a few days. Uh Theo is uh four years old, he's going to be five. Owen is uh two, he's going to be three. And you can just rest assured, whatever Theo did, Owen was going to do it right after him I mean that's characteristic of children, right? They mimic their older brother. This is the word here. Paul says, look, you mimic me. All of you together, you imitate what you see in me. Now, this is not the first time that Paul has commanded this. He has commanded this in other places. In 1 Corinthians 4. 16, he said, I exhort you therefore, be imitators of me. In 1 Corinthians 11 1, he says again, be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ In 1 Thessalonians 4. 6, he says, Ye also became imitators of us and of the Lord. He's commending them there. He's saying to the Thessalonians, You're doing well in that you are becoming imitators of us and of the Lord. You're you're mimicking us. And that's a good thing. Now, Paul was not on the ego trip when he said these things, right? I mean he already had just said that he was the chiefest of sinners. We he said that earlier on in in chapter three. He said, Look, I haven't attained, I'm not perfect. So it's not like he's on this ego trip saying, you know, I'm perfect, you need to follow me. No. He understood that he fell short Well then why does he say imitate him? Because this is simply the principle of discipleship. And this is an important principle. This is what discipleship is all about. Jesus said this in Matthew 10 verse 25. He said, It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master. and the Lord as his servant. A disciple is not greater than his teacher, Jesus said in Luke 6. 40, but everyone is fully trained when he will be like his And so what Jesus did during his earthly ministry is he took twelve men and he showed them how to live. He showed them uh to follow him. And Paul's doing the same thing here. Paul's saying, look, mimic me as I try to live out the Christian life. Now he was supremely confident that he had a life that was worth imitating. Could could I say that about me? Could you say that about you? Look, just if you want to know what a Christian life is like, if you want to live the Christian life, you just look at me and you follow me. You do what I do. Paul could say that. Stephen Cole writes this: Paul is not being egotistical. It is a false humility that denies the truth by saying, Well, I'm not really worth imitating. Paul knew that he lived a life with integrity before God He also just admitted that he was still in the process of coming to know Christ and the power of his resurrection. So he's not implying that he is sinlessly perfect. But his life was an example of other believers how they should live. And that's true. That's what he's doing here. Look in chapter four, look in verse nine. He kind of states it again. He says, Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the God of peace shall be with you Again, he says, look, whatever you learn, whatever you see in me, that's what you're to do. You know, what we need in the Christian life are godly examples. People that we could follow after. Now he he he again said again says the same thing in verse 16. Look at verse 16. Back up to chapter 3, verse 16. Nevertheless, where unto you have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. And that is a very colorful Greek word there, stoken, which means to walk in a row. And so it's the idea of following in a row. You know, you ever play the game when you're a little follow the leader? That's the idea here. We follow in a row. We follow the leader. Who is the leader? It's Christ, right? And then behind him are who? Are the disciples? The apostles? They all form a single line behind Christ. They watch the life of Christ. They imitate the life of Christ. And in that line is the Apostle Paul. And Paul is saying to these believers, look, you follow me as I follow Christ. You get in line. And he's saying the same thing to us today. You want to know how to live the Christian life? You just get into a long line of people that have gone before us that have lived a godly Christian life. And that's really what it is about. Again, that's why the church needs godly believers. It needs godly people. You know what I I'm trying to my best to be the best pastor I can be. You know, a lot of times I'm just I I just trying to remember what Pastor Johnson did. And how he lived. And trying to i uh imitate that and try to mimic that. You know, because that was a pattern for me. And and and then there are many other godly teachers and people in my life that I've looked at and I've admired and I've tried to follow. And I think some of you could say the same thing. There's a godly example, a godly influence Someone that has gone before you that you can mimic, that you can follow. In fact, Paul says, mark them. Notice we see the principle, but then this is what I call the people here. In verse 17, brethren, be followers together of me and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an example. Mark them. The word mark is scope It's where we get our word scope, as in telescope or microscope, and in the Greek it just means to to set your attention on. It means to spy them out. It means to observe with the idea of of uh maybe imitating them or emulating them, aim at them. And so Paul says, look, pay attention to godly people, notice their lives. Notice how they live. And so this is such an important principle in the Christian life. Thank God for godly people that have gone on before us. We just need to follow after that godly pattern. And this is the next part. We see the principle and the people and then the pattern. Look again in verse 17. It says, which so as ye have us for an example. And again, the word example there is a very important word. It's tupas, which is where we get the word type. A type. And the word, let me tell you how it was actually used. It was used to speak about an imprint that was left by a blow or a strike. You know, like when you would take a hammer and you would maybe hit it into the soil, you know, the imprint that was left there. Or sometimes this word was used about those who work with leather. They would take a piece of leather and they would take a a little aw and the end of it was a little pattern and they would put it on the leather and they would strike it with a hammer and they would pull it back and leave a pattern there on the on the leather. That was how this word was used. We see this word, for example, the most famous reference to a literal mark, a tupas, was when Thomas was doubting Jesus and Thomas said, I'm not going to believe until I see the imprint the tupas on of the nails in his hands. And that that's the same word there. But it has this idea of an imprint that is left or a model or a pattern And Paul is calling us here to look at the pattern of godly lives that have gone on before us and to follow after that, to study the lives of godly people. They have are an example to us. They have been an example to us. This is why I love to read Christian biographies. Uh I remember when I first got saved, I was uh going to a uh a school that was halfway across town and uh it was a three-hour bus ride. Uh Half a hour and a half in the morning, hour and a half coming back from school. And I did something that I I really thought was very helpful for me as I look back on it. I would take a biography and I would read that on the bus ride. And during that school year I must I don't know how many biographies I read, but I read the biographies of great Christians, of Wil the Life of William Carey, Harlan Popoff and other great Christians. Other great men. Recently I was given a book titled Fifty Christians You Should Know. And it summarizes the lives of fi uh Christians, great Christians, as a pattern that we should follow. We have a rich Christian history filled with people that we can learn from. And this is the what Paul is telling us here. So as you walk, notice that there's an example to follow after, but Number two, write down the second principle here. There is an enemy to fight against. Look at verse 18. For many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. Now the reason it's so important to follow godly examples is because there's a lot of bad examples out there. You know, there's a lot of people out there who claim to be followers of Christ, who call themselves Christians, even teachers. That are not the followers of Christ, they're a bad example. In fact, Paul calls them the enemies of the cross here in verse 18. Paul is now issuing a strong warning. About those who are pseudo-Christians or pseudo teachers or preachers. Notice the word use of the word many. There's a lot out there. Let me tell you something, beloved, don't believe everyone who stands behind a pulpit and calls himself a preacher. You better watch. You better use some discernment. You better Guard yourself against everyone who may claim to be a follower of Christ. There are so many deceptive false teachers that are out there and they Throughout we've seen this throughout the history of the church, but I believe more today than ever, we have so much false teaching and false teachers. And we have to warn the church about it. And Paul says here, I I have often told you, this is the idea I've told you again and again and again. Paul repeatedly warns people back in that day to Watch out for false teachers. And here he says, I tell you, even weeping, verse 18, tell you this with a broken heart. Paul wept at the danger that the Philippians were facing by some of these false teachers. This is the only place in the New Testament where Paul speaks of himself as crying in the present tense. No doubt, maybe perhaps when he's writing this he has tears. Why the tears? And by the way, this should be a rebuke to all those who think that Doctrinal correctness is not important. There's people out there that say, oh, you know, don't be a heresy hunter. Don't criticize others. That's not all that important. Let's just all try to get along. No beloved doctrine matters What people teach matters. Paul knew the devastating consequences of error. That's why there's the tears. Error enslaves people. Error damns people to hell Error defrauds God's people and makes them slaves. Error causes believers to lose their reward. Now who were these enemies that he's talking about here? Notice verse 19, what he says: whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is in their shame. who mine earthly things. Now s some think that maybe Paul's referring again to these le legalistic Judaizers that are telling them that they have to become more a Jewish before they can become a real believer. They have to go back to obeying the law of Moses. I don't think that's who he's referring to here because the idea here in verse 19 is not legalistic standards. It's loose living It's licentiousness. It's people that take the grace of God for granted and say, now that I'm saved, I can live however I want to. Once saved, always saved, and they use that as a license to sin. We we call this in theology anti-nomianism, anti is against nomos law, against law. You're living as if there's no law As if there's no law of God that you need to submit to. And they say, oh, that's all Old Testament. The law of God is all Old Testament. Well, the law of God is a guide for us. Martin Luther said it like this. The law of God before we were saved is like a rod that beats us down and humbles us so that we in our brokenness will come to Christ, will repent of our sin and be saved. But the law of God after salvation is like a staff that helps us to walk in the way of God. We don't live as if there is no law. We have the Holy Spirit now inside of us, and that Holy Spirit is teaching us how to obey the Word of God. And so while we are saved by the grace of God, that same grace disciplines us. And teaches us to walk according to God's way. Here is a group of people that are licentious and they're taking their freedom and they're using it as a license to go out and live however they want to live. And notice how Paul describes them. Notice their fierceness. He says they're enemies of the cross of Christ. They hate the cross. They may not come right out and say it, but there's a hidden hatred there for the cross. The cross of Christ is the central principle of the gospel and the Christian life The cross humbles human pride because it shows us that our good works are not able to make us right with a holy God. It shows us that we cannot save ourselves from God's righteous judgment. It shows us that we cannot even help God out because we're not saved by merit. But only the worthiness of Christ and his shed blood. And so to come to the cross means we abandon all of our own ability and hope in ourselves, and we place our hope only in Christ. We have to be humbled. False teachers, they resist this idea. They resist the idea that we can offer nothing. Are you telling me that I can't offer anything in regard to my salvation? That's exactly what we're telling you. That your righteousness is filthy rags. And so they hate the fact that the cross humbles their religious pride. And Paul says they're enemies of the cross. But notice their future in verse 19, it says, whose end is what? Destruction. Whose end is destruction. And Paul is referring here to eternal punishment, not to some temporal judgment, but to a Punishment that is eternal, and he's talking here about hell. Eternal damnation in hell. We don't like to talk about hell. We don't like to think about hell, but Jesus spoke twice as much about hell as he did about heaven. And Paul says, that's their end. These are not real believers. These are false believers. And then their futility, or we could say their fleshliness. Look again at verse 19, where he says, whose God is their belly. What does he mean by that? Well the word belly here really is one word that stands for the whole body or their their their whole self And it's used figurative to speak about fleshly appetites. You know, where one word speaks about the whole we do this all the time. We say, you know, I'm working to try to put a roof over my head. Well you're putting more than a roof over your head, right? You want the whole house, right? The word roof stands for the whole house. I'm trying to put bread on the table. Bread stands for all the food that you eat. Here, belly stands for the all of the whole body, but it all the fleshly sensual appetites. Paul said, people like this. They don't have their flesh under control. And they, again, as Jude says in Jude 4, turn the grace of God into lasciviousness, whose glory is their shame. He says in verse 19 that as they boast about the very thing that should bring them shame. They boast about sinful, immoral things. They glory in it. This is the society in which we live today, beloved. Did you know that today in Canada a law a law was passed that's in effect today? And the law is that you can't Use conversion therapy for any transgender person or any gay person. That is to say, if you go and try to convert a gay person or a transgender person, it's against the law. You can be thrown in jail for that That's in effect today in Canada. And by the way, it's coming to the United States. In fact, it's in some states in the United States. Conversion therapy is against the law. May I tell you that the biggest book in the world for conversion therapy is the Bible? That's exactly what the Bible does. The Bible converts the sinner and makes them righteous before God. It takes sinful people and begins to make them more like Christ. This is what I'm preaching about here today. That's called sanctification. And now it's against the law to even try to uh convert a person and and uh a person who is gay or transgender to tell them that it's it's wrong, it's sinful, you need to repent of your sin, you need to get right with God. To even do that is against the law. And again, it's coming here to the United States. That's the society in which we live today. This immoral society. And this is what Paul's describing, whose glory is in their shame. The things that were shameful years ago now people glory in. But beloved, we need to continue to stand on the Word of God and not compromise in any way. But notice in verse 19: who mine earthly things. This is another thing. who mind earthly things. That is, they they have no eternal perspective whatsoever. They're only thinking about the here and the now. They're not thinking about afterwards. They're not thinking about what happens after death. Their total view is earthly. There's no eternity in their focus. So there is an example to follow after. There's an enemy to fight against. Well, let me give you the third and final thing here today. There is an eternity Look what Paul says in verse 20. For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. Look at that word conversation, for our conversation is in heaven. These are the things that we look to, these are the things that we focus on. And first of all, he talks about our conversation. I call this our rightful citizenship because the Greek word here is polos. Or Polis, you've heard of a Annapolis city of Anna, you know, that was named after, you know, one of the royals uh here in Maryland. Then there's Indianapolis, a sin a city of Indiana, and so on. Polis means city or citizenship. This is the Greek word here. And Paul's saying, look, your citizenship is in heaven. You're citizens of heaven. And you need to remember that. By the way, this is a powerful image to the Philippians. You know why? The city of Philippi was a Roman colony If you were living back in that day and you traveled to the city of Philippi, which is in Macedonia, 800 miles away from Rome, and you walked into that city, you know what you would think? You would think that you were visiting Rome Because it was a Rome away from Rome, basically. People would go into that city and they would think, Is this is this Philippi or is this Rome? Because everything looked like Rome. You know why? Because they were a colony of Rome. They live like Romans. They had Roman citizenship. And they were proud of that. They talked like Romans. They wore Roman clothing. Their judges judged according to Roman law. Roman justice was administered. They observed Roman morals This was a little Rome there in Macedonia. And they were very proud of that fact that they were citizens of Rome. And really as believers, you understand that even though we are citizens here in this world, we have a dual citizenship Our rightful citizenship is in heaven, and that's the one we need to focus on. I was telling you about my grandsons that were here Theo and Owen, they are they have a dual citizenship. They're citizens of Great Britain because their father was born there. They're citizens of the United States because their mother was born here. And so when they come over here from Great Britain to the US, I'm faithful to remind them of their rightful citizenship. They're real citizenship. I bought them for Christmas. I bought them Ravens jerseys and bought them oral jerseys. I bought him a baseball glove, I bought him I bought 'em a baseball bat. None of that cricket stuff. We played baseball. I bought him a real football and I taught him what football really is. You have to wear pads and a helmet and you tackle your opponent. You know, I want to teach him what a real citizen lives like. Paul saying here, look, I nay I realize that you uh uh Philippians l have a citizenship in Rome, but your rightful citizenship, your real citizenship, is in heaven. And that's what you need to focus on. You need to remember that you need to walk like a citizen of heaven. You need to talk like a citizen of heaven. You need to speak heaven's language. And that's not just what you say, but it's how you say it. Everything about your life should reflect the fact that you are a citizen of heaven. That's how you walk as a believer. We live by heaven's laws. We're governed by heaven's king. We dress like citizens of heaven. We are loyal to our kingdom. The kingdom of heaven. And here's this is what Paul is saying to the Philippians. Our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior. I call this our returning Lord. Our focus is on the fact that Jesus is coming again. This is what we hope in, his soon return. And this is what motivates us, this is what purifies us. As John said in 1 John 3 3, every man that has this hope purifies himself even as he is purified. pure. And then notice our resurrected body. Look at verse 21. Who shall change our vow body that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body? And here we focus upon the glory that we're going to have one day. The glory that shall be revealed. Our focus is on our citizenship, our Savior who's coming again, and on the fact that when he does come, the final stage of our salvation will be completed. We are justified, that's past. Glorification, that's future. We live in the present sanctification, but we're looking forward to that eternal glory, that glorified state that's going to come. And when that happens, you know what? We're going to get a brand new body And God's going to change this vile body, this earthly body, this body of humiliation to a body of exaltation, the word change, a meta schismatizo, to change the whole form of. We're going to get a brand new, glorified body in that glorified state one day, and we rejoice in this. We hope in this. You say, how do you know that the Lord is able to do this? Well look again in verse 21. Look at the last part. According to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself The Lord can do anything. And he can subdue anything unto himself. And he will do that. He has the power. He is the reigning Lord. Verse 21, the sovereign king who has power to do anything he wants to do. And one day he will make us just like he is. So, how do we walk? There's an example to follow after, there's an enemy to fight against. There's an eternity to focus upon. That's how we walk. Let me just close with this And we're done. One of my favorite stories is the story of a World War II soldier who wrote his mother a letter, and in that letter he told his mother about a miraculous event of God's protection. He had a Christian sergeant leading his platoon and they were advancing on German lines. They had to go through a minefield and it wasn't hard because someone had gone through that field earlier and with a mine detector and they detected the mines and they Painted a red X wherever the mines were. And so they Sergeant just simply led his men around those red X's. But after they came out of that field they came under heavy fire. And the sergeant commanded them to take cover. And he decided to wait it out. They were under heavy German fire. But the problem was it began to snow. And the snow was covering up all the red X's. And the sergeant thought, well, that's that's okay because I remember where they were. I could still leave them out. But then it started to get dark. And the sergeant began to worry. He thought in the darkness he could lose some men in that minefield. And so he prayed. And he asked God to intervene. And when he got done praying, Miraculously a heavy fog settled in between them and the enemy line that was firing upon them. And the sergeant thought, this is my chance. This is my chance to get my men out. So he called all of his men together and he said, Men, whatever you do, follow me. Put your your footsteps in my footprints. Follow me through that field. And they passed through that field under the cover of the fog, and not one man was lost The next day the commander came to the field to give a report on what happened the previous day. And as he looked over the minefield covered with snow, he saw only one set of footprints Just one. That's the secret to walking the Christian life. And it's really not a secret. We simply follow those who are following those who are following those who follow Jesus Christ. There are many people since the time of Christ, many Christians, but there's only really one set of footprints, and we need to make sure that we're following that set of footprints. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I pray that you'll help us, Lord, as we In this Christian life, learn how to walk the way we should walk. This is the challenge, Lord, that we face every day. And we confess with all our heart that we need your help, Lord. We want to walk like a Christian should walk. We want to make sure to put our our feet into those footprints. And Lord, we need your grace. We need your help. Lord, may we be obsessed with our sanctification like the Apostle Paul was when he was pressing towards the mark or the prize of the high calling? When he was warring against sin in his own life and seeking to be more like Christ. Lord, as he struggled and As he kept his eyes on the cross in eternity and in your coming and the future glory, Lord, may we as well follow him And imitate him. Help us, Lord. We ask you to help us as we seek to walk in a way that's worthy of our calling, that high calling. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just give this invitation before we wrap up today. Let me just ask you, friend, I I don't want to be guilty of ever closing a service without offering the invitation for people to come to receive Christ, to repent of their sins. And I would ask you, do you know Christ? Are you absolutely certain of your own salvation? If you're really saved, there's going to be some desire in you to walk like a Christian Do you have that? Is there any desire for holiness whatsoever? Is there any desire for practical righteousness? That's a sign of being saved. But if you don't have any of that, if you don't, there's no desire for those things. Friend, you need to examine your heart. Make sure that you're a believer. And would you be willing to reach out in prayer and say, Lord, I want to know you in salvation. Today I come and I repent of my sin. I ask you to save me. Make me a child of God. Place within me that hunger for holiness and righteousness. Help me as I do battle against This fallen world and the sinfulness of it. Friend, if you'll reach out in prayer, he will save you. And if you've done that, please let us know. We want to help you along in your Christian walk Father, take these words. Use them for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.