And would you please, when you're seated, open your God's word, please, to 1 John chapter number 3. And we're going to get back into our series in 1 John this morning. And we're going to look at verses 3. Or excuse me, chapter 3, verses 19 down to verse number 24. And this morning I want to talk about how to deal with doubt. Have you ever struggled with doubt? Specifically, doubts about your salvation. John is writing to believers who have been struggling with assurance of their salvation. And he's telling them that you can know that you are saved. I know there are some people out there, some who actually teach. There's no way to have full assurance for your salvation, but John in 1 John tells us that we can know, we can be certain of these things. For example, if you ever read through 1 John, Every time you see the words or the expression we know, just circle that, and you'll be surprised about how many times you see that as you're reading through this epistle. For example, just look at a few verses with with me. Look in chapter 2 and look at verse number 3, where John says this, and hereby we do know that we know Him. Look at verse number 5 of Chapter 2. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. And look in chapter 3, look down in verse number 14. There's several we can go to, but look at verse 14. of chapter three. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. So again, John says, we can know that we're saved. We can know that we have passed from death unto life. And then look at verse number 19, which is our text verse here this morning in this passage. And hereby know we that we are of the truth. and shall assure our hearts before him. And go ahead and look at verse number 24. And he that keepeth his commandments and dwelleth in him and he and him, and hereby we know that he abideth in us by the spirit that he's given us. You get the idea And you can just keep going. There are verses in later chapters where John again says, We can know. So one of John's purposes in writing this letter is to remove doubt with regard to your salvation. He wants you to have a total, complete assurance. of your salvation. So there's three factors I want to look at here as we consider this passage this morning. And here's number one if you're taking those, just write down the problem of heartfelt accusation. Now John is a very wise pastor and he understands that doubt is a very real issue for Christians. I know very few Christians who have wrestled who have not wrestled with doubting their salvation. In fact, I begin to worry about some who have never wrestled with the issue of doubting your salvation. John knows that this is something that's very real and the goal is assurance. We see this in verse number verse number 19, again, where he says, and hereby we know that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts before him. The word here for assure means to set at rest. or to persuade, to reassure. Doubt often arises like a pack of ravenous wolves creeping in during the dark night of the soul and taking away your peace and your rest. And at times like this, our hearts have to be assured and set at rest. And this is what John wants to do here. Now remember that, by the way, this is the second time John will pause. Remember I said there are basically three themes that John repeats again and again. The doctrinal cord of truth about Jesus, do you understand the Jesus revealed to us in Scripture? Do you believe on him? That's one chord. Then there is the moral chord of obedience. Are you obeying Jesus? And then there is the relational cord of love. Do you love other believers? And John went, cycled through those first three tests, but then he stopped in chapter 2 to give the reader's assurance. He's doing the same thing here. This whole section here is John stopping and reassuring the people that he's writing to about salvation. Now sometimes people read this and they'll think that John is actually trying to create doubt And Christians. No, that is not true. It's the opposite. He's not trying to create doubt. He's trying to remove doubt. And he's trying to give a true biblical assurance of salvation. And the reason I bring it up is because there's two different approaches to this passage that I read by commentators. One approach is to say that these verses are aimed at people that uh That only love in word, but not in deed and in truth. And they say that if anyone is c uh not really living out the way they should live, that Uh basically uh if anyone's condemned by his conscience, how much more will that person be condemned by God one day? So according to them, these are these verses are not meant to um to uh comfort the troubled hearts, but rather to trouble the comfortable hearts. But I think that if you take that uh interpretation, I think you're it's wrong, I have to be honest. I disf I uh Not disrespectfully agree. I respectfully disagree. All right? Uh because there are some wonderful commentators that take that that view But I again respectfully disagree with that. I think that what John is doing here is he is trying to remove doubts and to comfort troubled hearts. You have to remember that when he starts this chapter, he begins by expressing, behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us that we should be called the children of God. And in this section about love, he addresses his readers as brethren in verse number 13, as little children, in verse number 18. And in our text he calls them beloved. and verse number twenty-one. And that's to remind them that they are loved by God. So he's trying to, again, remove doubts. He's trying to give them assurance here. He's not trying to create those doubts. He's trying to encourage them to continue on living a Christian life where they're obeying the Lord and loving And uh so that's the whole goal of this, is the goal of assurance. He wants their hearts to be settled. He wants them to be at rest before God. And that's my desire for you. Don't ever get the idea that when I'm preaching sermons like this, I'm trying to create doubt in you. No, I'm trying to remove doubt. My heart's desire, and God knows, I want you to have a true biblical assurance that you know Jesus Christ. And I want you to be at rest in your heart that you know Jesus Christ. So we see then the goal is assurance, but then we also see the guilt of accusation. But look at verse number 20. For if our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our heart. And knoweth all things. Again, doubts are real to the Christian faith. Christians do wrestle with doubts. That's not a sign of being unspiritual if you have doubts. John says, if our hearts condemn us, That means it's a real possibility that you may wrestle with doubts. You see, doubt and faith can coexist. Martin Lloyd Jones in his book Spiritual Depression wrote this: quote, doubts are not incompatible with faith. Some people seem to think that once you become a Christian, you should never be assailed by doubts. But that is not so. Peter still had faith. as he panicked in the storm in Matthew chapter 14. He goes on to say, his faith was not gone, but because it was weak, doubt mastered him and overwhelmed him, and he was shaken. Doubts will attack us, but that does not mean that we're allowed to allow them to master us. And I really like that. Daus will attack you But don't let them master you. Don't let them overcome you. Now there are reasons for doubt. You say, why does doubt come? Let me just give you a few reasons here why you may struggle with doubt at times. First of all, it might be based on your emotions, a mood swing It'll be a great day when we realize that our emotions are unstable. Our moods are changing. You know, we they're not very stable. So do not base your salvation on your emotions or on your moods. Again, C. S. Lewis wrote this about doubt. He says, now faith is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted in spite of your changing moods. I like that. Hold on to what your reason has accepted despite the changing moods or the changing emotions that you may have. Here's another reason that people may doubt. Defeat in the battle with indwelling sin. You ever get defeated by your besetting sin? Don't raise your hand, because all of us would raise our hands. We've all in the battle against sin in our life have been defeated at times. This is Romans chapter 7, right? The things that I want to do, I don't do. The things I don't want to do, those are the things that I do. Where Paul at the end of chapter seven cries out and says, Oh wretched man that I am, who's going to deliver me from this body of death? And he's talking about that sin ademic nature that we all have, that we all carry with us, that at times pulls us down. And it's very possible when you lose Against this the battle of sin at times, you begin to say, how can I be a Christian? But then another reason we may doubt is because of a prolonged pattern of stubborn disobedience. This may be an area where God has convicted you and you don't respond. You stubbornly refuse. God talks to you about a specific area of sin in your life that you're to deal with, and yet you're not really dealing with it And because of that, uh, you're disobeying the Lord and you have doubts. And that's going to happen. Look, if you're living in disobedience, you should doubt. I mean doubt should come because Peter says that, but he that lacketh these things, talking about obedience, is blind and cannot see a far off, and has forgotten where it that he is purged from his old sins. If you are in a pattern of disobedience, doubts surely will come at time. But then also the treatment of others. And what I mean by that is the way you may be treated by others. John is writing to a group of people who have been left behind. This little community was Basically there are people in that little community that left them and left this little community behind, and the people that left them were basically saying to them, You're not really truly saved, because you don't have the knowledge that we have They were acting with kind of a spiritual elitism. We live on a higher level. We're on a higher plane. We have higher standards. And so we're leaving you. And it left the community behind, doubting, do we have the real thing? You know, sometimes Christians, maybe unintentionally, could treat you in a way as if you are not really a believer. Don't let other people treat you that way. Really, it's not their judgment. It's not you living up to their standards. The question is, are you living up to what God expects you? Not what other people say. Other tr the treatment from other people can sometimes cause you to doubt whether you are a Christian but also there's satanic accusation and just note this that Satan is busy always trying to create doubts And he will always put that in your mind. Remember the whole thing with in the book of Job was, was Job's faith real? Satan said, Oh, he's not genuine in his faith. God, you take away all the things you've given him, he'll curse you. And God says, okay, let's try. I'll let you take those things away and you see what happens. And what does the Bible say? Job didn't curse God, he blessed God. But it was Satan that came questioning the authenticity of his faith, and Satan wants you to doubt. But then another thing that might cause you to doubt is undetected spiritual progress. Maybe you are doubting because you don't see Spiritual maturity taking place in your life. You're not growing the way that you would like to grow. And because of that, uh you may be doubting And sometimes we have a tendency to judge ourselves a little bit too severely here. There may be growth taking that you might not really see, but it's there. It's happening. But then another reason that sometimes people doubt is the result of a weak conscience. A weak conscience. I think that the the word for heart in verse number twenty is a reference to the conscience. For if our heart condemn us. That is our conscience accusing us. And so doubts might come because we have a weak conscience. Now we talk about the conscience, what are we talking about? We're talking about it's not the voice of God, so don't think about don't think it's the voice of God. Because there's a contrast here between the heart condemning us and God in verse 20, who's greater than our heart and knows all things. So the conscience is not the voice of God. The voice of God is never wrong. Your conscience can be wrong. Okay? It's not the Holy Spirit. Your conscience is not the Holy Spirit. There are people who have who have the Holy Spirit that have a conscience. There are people who don't have the Holy Spirit that have a conscience. Not everybody has the Holy Spirit, but everybody has a conscience. It's not the Holy Spirit. It's not the moral law of God. Some people think it's the moral of God written in our hearts. No, it's not the written law of God. It's the enforcer of God's law. Just like a policeman is not the law, he's the enforcer of the law. And even so with the conscience, you say, What is the conscience? It's the inward judge in your heart. It's the courtroom of your heart And your conscience is the judge. And your conscience can render you guilty, or it can render you not guilty. But let me ask you a question. Is it possible for a judge in a courtroom to render a wrong verdict? Of course. If he doesn't have the proper information, he's going to give a wrong verdict. That's why the judge has to have the right information. And so uh that's the way it is with the conscience. What's a weak conscience? A weak conscience is a conscience that is constantly accusing you and condemning you because uh it doesn't have the right information. Now you say, what do you do when you have a weak conscience? The Apostle Paul teaches us that if you have a weak conscience that's constantly accusing you and taking away your rest and your peace. You never ignore your conscience, but what you do is you inform your conscience. You have to give it the correct information. And you how do you do that? By growing in the truth of God's word. You have to grow spiritually. You have to get into God's Word. That's the way you help that weak conscience. And so the more you Grow in the Word of God, the more you understand Scripture, the more well informed your conscience will be, and so therefore it will not condemn you or accuse you uh unnecessarily or wrongly. And so that's the way we overcome that. But another thing that can sway the verdict of the of your heart is our emotions and feelings, and we already talked about that. You can't trust your feelings or your emotions in this. Emotions are an unreliable source of information, right? The heart is deceitful, excuse me, and desperately wicked who can know it. Our hearts lie to us all the time. Your heart can be, you know, sometimes we had a tendency to tell ourselves how great we are in our heart. And the truth is you're not all that. I'm not all that. All right. Your heart is deceitful. And so we have to not we we can't rely on emotions. All right? We have to inform the conscience with the word of God. But that's the problem of heartfelt Accusation. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Just write down the principle of higher appeal. The principle of higher appeal. Again, look at verse 20. For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. In the case where the conscience is condemning us unjustly, what do we do? We take our case to a higher court. You know, in our judicial system, if the lower court makes a wrong decision, you can appeal to a higher court, right? And then even a higher court. You can go all the way to the Supreme Court. Well, for the Christian, the Supreme Court is God. He's the Supreme Judge. Paul, you remember he talked about two courts in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. He said this, but with me it's a very small thing that I should be judged by you, talking to the Corinthians. The word for small is a superlative of micro It's a very, very, very small thing that you would judge me. And Paul wasn't being arrogant here. He was just understanding that your judgment of me is not reliable. In fact, human judgment is not reliable even when we judge ourselves. He said this, for I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. Paul says, look, when I judge myself, I don't know anything I'm doing wrong. But that doesn't get me off the hook. Because even in when I judge myself, that judgment isn't reliable. Again, we have the sent the tendency sometimes to give ourselves a lot of credit and think we're We're we're really doing really good when maybe we're not. You know, I heard about a preacher who uh thought he preached a good sermon and he went home to his wife and he was fishing for some compliments and he just said uh Uh, you know, how many how many how many great preachers do you think there are in the world today? And she said one less than you do. So that's why I never fish for compliments. But a lot of times we we're we we judge ourselves, but that judgment is not correct. So Paul says I don't even Rely on my own judgment of myself. But he who judges me is the Lord. The only reliable judgment of who you are and where you are is the judgment of God. That's the only reliable judgment. And so John mentions three specific reasons why we appeal to God in this matter of assurance of salvation. Because first of all, God is greater than our heart. We see that in verse 20. For if our heart condemneth, God is greater than our heart. God's judgment is much more reliable than ours. His is a perfect judgment. He knows us better than we know ourselves. And here's the bottom line. What did God say about salvation? What is his judgment? If you are trusting and believing in Jesus Christ and Christ alone for your salvation, you know what God's judgment is? Romans 8:1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. If you're trusting and believing present tense in Christ alone, all of your faith is in him, in him alone. You are under no condemnation. None. That's God's judgment. So when you examine yourself, ask yourself that question. What am I trusting in this very moment for my salvation? If you're trusting in Christ, God declares you righteous. That's wonderful. So the next time your conscience begins to accuse you and condemn you, just remember Romans 8. 1 and take the matter to a higher court. Here's God's judgment. This is what God says. Not only that, it says this in Romans 8. He goes on to say, What shall we say to these things of God before us? Who can be against us? If God has rendered you not guilty, nobody can bring a guilty accusation against you. God's for you, who can be against you? Who can lay any charge to God's elect, Paul says No one can bring a charge against you. You can't even bring a charge against yourself. Alright? Satan can't bring a charge against you And you can't bring a charge against yourself. God has already declared you not guilty. You are under no condemnation. You are righteous in Christ. And here's the next thing: God knows all things. John says in verse 20, God is greater than our heart, and he knows all things. That's why we appeal to a higher court, because not only is he greater than our heart, and his judgment more reliable But he knows everything. You know did you know that God knows you better than you know you? He knows you better than you know yourself. Reminds me of the story of a man who's broken down an old model T along the the road and and he was he was out there he was looking at and the man pulled up in a nice beautiful car got out of the nice suit walked over to the man said can I help you and the man said you don't look like you're a mechanic to me And the man said, okay, he got back in his car and drove off. A friend who saw that said, You know who that was? He said, No. He said, That was Henry Ford. He built these things All right. He knows those cars. Well, guess what? God built you and He knows you. He knows you better than you know you. Because He knows everything. And that's what John assures us here. I agree with James Boyce, who wrote this. He said, Whatever our hearts may say, God knows us better than even we do ourselves, and nevertheless, has acquitted us. Therefore, we should reassure ourselves by his judgment, which alone is trustworthy, and refuse to trust our own. But another thing here is that God is working in us. That's another thing you need to remember. Because again, look at verse 19 where it says, hereby Know we, or we know rather, that we are of the truth and shall assure our hearts. Notice what John's doing here. He's referring back to what he had just said. And verses seventeen and eighteen, and he reverse seventeen and eighteen he's talking about love. Look at verse seventeen. But whoso hath this world's good See his brother have need and shut up other bows of compassion for him. How dwell the love of God in him? Look at verse eighteen. My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth And hereby we know. You see the point there? John is saying, look, just remember that acts of love, self-sacrificial acts of love is a mark of a true believer. And look at you, he's talking talking to these believers here. This is how you know that you're a child of God when you're doing these things in your life So, and this is the work of God. God's love is flowing through you, and the things that you do towards others, so you should take comfort in that, that that is a mark and a sign of being a child of God. That's the whole point here. John is saying, look at the evidence in your own life. Now again, the problem is sometimes we are too hard on ourselves. For example, if I said to you, uh, give me five areas where you have failed, you wouldn't have a problem. You can name them off to me quick. But if I say, give me five areas where you really had victory, you would probably go, hm Let me get back to you on that because sometimes we're too harsh on ourselves. But John is saying, look, look at this one thing. Now, by the way, who among us has not failed at times? Who among us are you having failed, Gary? Okay, all right, you failed, I got it. All right. All of us have. All of us have failed. None of us have obeyed God perfectly. None of us have loved our brother perfectly. We've all Come short. But he's not here talking about perfection. He's talking about the direction of our life. And that's what he's saying here. Look at the evidence. The general pattern of your life should be: I want to obey Jesus. The general pattern of your life should be, I want I love other believers. I'm going to not love them perfectly, and there's times when I do selfish things and selfish acts, but God knows the general pattern of my heart is that I love God's people. I'm expressing that love at times. And so John's saying, look at that. That's all the work of God. That's what God is doing in you. So you need to understand that. God's work in your life. So, this is a matter of just holding to the facts of God's word over your own feelings. That's what he's saying. Use what God's Word says, and let that be your guide as you examine yourself, not your own feelings. Martin Luther wrote, for feelings come and feelings go, and feelings are deceiving. My warrant is the word of God. Naught else is worth believing. Though all my heart should feel condemned for want of some sweet token, there is one greater than my heart whose word cannot be broken. I'll trust in God's unchanging word till soul and body sever, for though all things shall pass away, his word shall stand forever. So our trust is in God's word. That is our source that we use as we judge ourselves. But let me give you the third thing quickly here. There's the problem of heartfelt accusation, and then the principle of higher appeal. But then here's number three. Just write down the power of heaven-sent assurance. Now there's a positive side to doubt, and that is that it will force us to examine ourselves spiritually. But there's also a negative side to doubt, and that is prolonged doubt is not spiritually healthy. You say, why? Because it affects your relationship to God. And a relationship cannot grow and mature if you're constantly insecure about where you are in that relationship. And so if you're not sure of your standing before God, that means you're not going to have any confidence, and that that will affect how you live and how you serve. And John wants you to have confidence in your relationship to God. And so that's why this assurance is so important. Again in verse number 21, it says, Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, Then have we confidence towards God, and that's what we want. We want to have this confidence, which means openness and assurance. Because what is the result of that? Well there's freedom, there's a boldness in prayer. Look in verse 22. And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandment and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. We have a boldness in prayer when we're sure of our standing. When we know that we're children of God, that gives us a greater boldness when we pray. Right? Because if we know that he's our Father and we're his child Then we have a greater confidence when we come to God in prayer. Remember what Jesus said in Luke chapter 11? He said, if a son asks for his his father for bread, what father is going to give him a stone? No father does that. And he was talking back then they the little barley rolls, they look like just a little rock if you're not careful. A a stone could look the same as a barley roll. How many How many fathers back then when his father when his son said, Dad, I'm hungry, can you please give me some bread? The father picked up a rock and say, Here, chew on this. No father's gonna do that. No. Or if his son asks for fish, he's gonna give him a serpent. No, no, no loving father is going to do that. And then Jesus said, if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your father in heaven? Your heavenly Father is not going to withhold any good thing from you. And that should give you a boldness in prayer. He's going to give you what you ask. Especially when you have no cons uh no sin that you're holding on to. You're obedient. Verse 22, we receive because we obey his commandments, we're living an obedient life, and we do what is pleasing in his sight. There's going to be freedom in our life. There's going to be faith. Look at verse 23 where it says, and this is the commandment that we should believe on the name of His Son, Jesus Christ. We we believe on Jesus. That's the commandment there. And then also there's fellowship in verse number 23. Actually verse twenty-four. And he that keepeth his commandments well defend I'm sorry, back up to verse twenty-three. And this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and love one another. As he gave us commandment. That's fellowship. And so really what is John doing right here? Did you notice he's circling back through the three tests? We we uh we are doing what is pleasing in his sight. We're obeying his commandments. That's the test of obedience, the moral test. And we believe on Jesus Christ. That's the doctrinal test of believing in Jesus. And then we love one another. That's the test of love. He's kind of cycling back through those same three things. Again, here in these verses. We have fellowship with each other As he gave us commandment. But then there's fullness. Look at verse 24. And he that dwelleth in, he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that He abideth in us by the Spirit that He's given us. We will enjoy the ministry and the working of the Holy Spirit in our life. That's another way that we know We have the Holy Spirit working in us, who teaches us truth, who convicts us of sin, who strengthens us when we need that strength. Have you experienced that ministry of the Holy Spirit that binds our hearts together in love one towards another? We have that fullness of the Holy Spirit in our life. And so this is the way you have this assurance. A man once told D. L. Moody, he said to Mr. Moody, he said, I'm worried that I'm not saved. And D. L. Moody said, Was Noah safe on the Ark? And the man said, Well certainly, of course he was. And then D. O. Moody said, What why was he safe? Was it because of his feelings or was it the ark? And the man understood. The reason that you're safe from judgment is not because of your feelings, it's because you are in the ark called Christ. Because you have trusted him and you're in him. That's why you're safe. That's why you're safe. Not your emotions, not your feelings. And so John is trying to assure our hearts and to remove the doubts about where we are. Do you love are you obeying God's commandments? Well that's a sign that you're a child of God. Do you love other believers? That's a sign you're a child of God. Are you believing in Jesus and Jesus alone? The Jesus revealed to us in Scripture, the Virgin-born Son of God, sinless Son of God, who took all of your sins upon himself And God with the Father was so pleased with his sacrifice that he resurrected him from the dead. Is that the Jesus that you are trusting fully for your salvation? Then there's no condemnation. That God, the Father's judgment on you, is that you are safe in Christ. And his judgment is better than your judgment. So hold on to what God the Father says. He's greater than your heart. He w John wants you to be confident in your salvation He wants to assure you that you are his child. And I pray that that's the kind of assurance that you will have. Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want you to just think about what you've heard this morning. And I just want to ask you, friend, do you have that kind of settled assurance? Are you trusting in Christ, Christ alone? Can you rest in Christ and have your that assurance? That's what God wants you to have. He wants to assure your heart before Him. Now, friend, if you're here today and you've never repented and put your faith in Christ, I want to invite you to do that today. I want you right there where you are Again, John tells us God knows our heart, which means he knows the thoughts of your hearts. You don't have to pray out loud verbally. You can pray in your heart And you can just reach out to Jesus and faith, right where you are, and you can just say something like this, God, I know that I'm a sinner. I know that I cannot save myself. I'm unrighteous. But I know that Jesus did come. I believe he is the virgin-born son of God. Who took all of my sins upon himself. And I'm running to Christ right now for salvation. Please forgive me for my sin. I'm turning to Christ. Save me. And just pray something like that. Reach out in faith. And the Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. I will in no wise cast out. Would you be willing to come? Do you know Christ? And if you're doubting today, just remember God's judgment. You say, I've done that. I put my faith in Christ. Alright, hold on to that. See that's my that's my declaration and God's declaration to you is you're under no condemnation. Trust his judgment. What he says in his word. Let's all stand together now. We're gonna have our ministers here in the front Friend, if you need to come and pray, or if you want to come and learn more about how you can be a child of God, I just invite you to come. Whatever the Holy Spirit has put on your heart, if you need, just respond. Don't, don't Put it off. If we're here, we're here to help you in any way we can. If we sing our invitation hymn, we do what the Holy Spirit says. Lord I feel me. Lord I I receive Lord, I confess you now. Lord I read. Lord, I receive Lord I contrast you now. Speak me more Lord and use me, let your love flow through me, change my heart, I pray. Lord I believe, Lord I receive, Lord I confess. Thank you. Thank you very much. We're gonna I'm gonna close in prayer. Rebecca Gorm is gonna come and close us in our closing hymn this morning and remind you about coming back to seeing us tonight at 6. Let's pray. Father again, thank you for your word and the assurance you give to those who come to Christ. Lord, bless all those that are here today. May we may leave, Lord, with Your blessing in their heart and life, thank you, Lord, for all that you've done for us, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen