James chapter 1, let's go to God's Word. Look in verse 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death Now James, we've been talking about James here on Sunday morning, and James is a book that is very practical. In fact, I call this series practical Christianity. We're going to preach through the book of James and hopefully learn some practical things that's going to help us. in our own Christian life. But James is really a an epistle that forces us to examine our faith to see if our faith is real. To see if it's genuine. And already we've dealt with the issue of trials. One of the ways we know whether our faith is a real faith is how do I react to trials. Now James is going to talk about temptation. How do I respond to temptation? Let me ask you a question. Do you struggle with temptation? I think all of us could probably say yes to that. Like one man said, he said, I can resist anything except temptation. One young priest was serving in the confessional booth for the first time, watching the older priest, and the older priest put them aside and they said, Look, when people confess their sins, you've got to say something besides wow. Let me give you some preliminary thoughts on temptation. First of all, number one, testing and temptation are not the same Now we see here in James chapter 1, the first part of this chapter talks about testing. Then he talks about temptation In verse 3, he uses the word um or verse 2 temptations, and then in verse 13, he uses the word tempted. Now these are the same word, but it's not the same concept It's the same word parasmos in the Greek, but it's a neutral word, and it can be testing, or it can mean temptation to sin. You say, how do we know which is being used there? The context tells us. You see, when God tests us It's for our good, but Satan can tempt us for our evil. And so it's the context determines this This word temptation used in verse 13 is talking about a temptation to sin, not a testing, as we saw in the first part of James. But here's another thought. Don't think that temptation will decrease now that you're a Christian. Some people think that the moment I get saved, I won't face so many temptations. No, that's not true. In fact, the opposite is true. Now that you're saved, you will face more temptation. Because before you were saved, you were going in the same direction as the world. Remember Jesus described people on a broad road and then a narrow road? Sometimes we think of the broad road as going this way. the narrow road going the other way, two different roads. No, there's a broad road, and right up in the middle of that there's a narrow road. You were on the broad road, you turned, you repented, and now you're going through the middle on a narrow road. So you're really you're meeting the world head on. You ever turn down a one-way street accidentally going the wrong way? That's about what happens when you get saved. You're on the broad road, you make a U-turn, now you're meeting the world and the devil head on And so temptation will not decrease. In fact, it will increase. You will be tempted. But then here's a third thought. Don't think that you can grow to the point where you cannot fall. Write down 1 Corinthians 10, 12. Let him who thinks he stands, take heed lest he what? Lest he fall. Don't get proud and think, well, I can grow past temptation. No one gets to that point. All of us are vulnerable. Someone said the proud man tempts the devil to tempt him. And so we don't ever grow to the point where we are above temptation. We all face it. Now, with that in mind, James is going to teach us three lessons we need to learn about temptation in this passage. If taking notes, write down, number one, the direct cause of temptation. The direct cause. In order to deal with temptation, we have to know the cause of it. And James begins to look around to find out what is the cause, where does it come from, what is its source. And first of all, he looks upward To deity. Notice what he says in verse 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. When he says, notice where he says, let no man say, that's a strong command. And he's commanding an action to stop that was already beginning. James was saying, don't say that. He's talking to his church, his congregation. Let no man ever say that my temptation is because of God. And really this isn't a middle voice, so we could say it like this. Don't say this to yourself. You see, there were people that weren't saying it audibly. But when they were facing a temptation, they were thinking, this is a temptation from God And James is saying, no, don't think that. God is not the source of your temptation. He's never the source of temptation to do wrong. You see, in James' day, there were some who believed that. There were some of the Jewish rabbis that believed that God was at least indirectly involved in your temptation and in your sin. They believed in what they called the Yatserhara, the evil impulse. They believed that that was something that was planted in man. Spirosodiatis writes this, how they reasoned in their mind, like this. Quote, God has ordained that I should yield to the temptation under which I have fallen. I have been driven to sin, not by God Himself, since He hates sin, but by the very circumstances in which God has placed me. God is therefore the ultimate cause And therefore I should resolve myself of any responsibility. That's the way they were thinking. They were thinking, ultimately, God is the cause of this. And James says, no. Let no man say that. You can't blame it on God. But it even goes farther back than that. Not only were they saying God was the blame in James Day, but all the way back to the Garden of Eden. You remember in the in the Garden of Eden, remember when Adam sinned? And God Came to Adam. You remember what Adam said? The woman that thou gavest me? She gave me from the tree and I ate. Notice the logic behind that. You created the woman. I didn't ask for her. You gave her to me. The woman ate the fruit, she gave it to me. What was I supposed to do? So I ate And Eve's excuse was no better. She said, you know, the serpent deceived me and I ate. Like one country preacher said, Adam blamed Eve. Eve blamed the serpent. The serpent didn't have a leg to stand on But there's always the shifting of the blame. But actually what they were saying is, God, it's your fault. You put us in this garden. You put this tree in the garden. You put this serpent in the garden It's really your circumstance that created this. And James again is saying, don't blame God. But you know what? That is even true in our day. Not just in James' day and in Adam's day, but even in our day. We seem to blame others for things that we do. Ultimately we try to blame God. And James is very clear in verse 13. Notice again where it says, For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. God is completely holy He does not tempt others with evil. He doesn't tempt any man. You see, before you can tempt someone else, you have to be evil yourself. Before you tempt someone else to do wrong, you have to be someone who does wrong And God is completely holy. He can only export holiness. Now most people don't come right out today and say, well, it's God's fault, but they They use other ex uh excuses. It was the glands I inherited. It was the ghetto I was raised in. It was the parents that raised me. We live in a society today where it's always somebody else's fault Victims, we're victims today. And that idea of being a victim is what we hear all the time when something bad happens, the victimizing of our culture. I read a report where a man was killed, the man who actually did the murder, his his his defense, the lawyer made a defense of this. He said that the reason this man was uh did this is not because uh this is what the way he is. Uh he ate too many hostess twinkies and it caused him to act irrationally Do you think I'm making this up? This is called the the Twinkie defense. And the lenient jury brought the verdict of manslaughter rather than murder because they believe that his actions were caused by eating hostess twinkies. Can you believe that? I mean that's that's ridiculous. But we're living in a world today where people are looking everywhere for excuses. And ultimately some people try to blame God. What is God's role in temptation? Write down 1 Corinthians 1013. There is no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. But listen to this, but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able to tempt. But will with a temptation make a way of escape that you might be able to bear it. You know, want to know what God's role is in temptation? God never allows you to be tempted above what you can uh control or above what you can handle we could say in other words no one can ever say well this temptation was so overpowering I had no choice you can never say that you know why because God will not allow you to be tempted above what you can handle. But he will always give a way of escape. And you can't use this excuse either. Well this temptation that happened to me, it happened to me like no one else. This is so unique. This has never happened before to anyone else like it has to me. That's not true There's no temptation taking you, but such as what is common to man. So God controls the temptation. He doesn't allow you to be tempted above that you're able. And he allows us to have a door of escape with every temptation that we face. And so when you look for the source or the cause of temptation, don't look to God. It's not his fault. But notice the second place James looks. He looks upward to deity. Then he looks inward to desire. Look in verse 14. But every man is tempted. When he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. What does James teach us? Temptation is an inside job. It starts with an inward desire. It comes from our own sin nature, our own lusts Because beloved, we have a sin nature. Jesus said this, from for from within, out of the heart of men, proceeds evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, theft Covetous wickedness, and so on. He said, All these evil things come from within and defile a man. It comes from the inside, from our own sinful heart. That's where it starts. That's what James is teaching us here. You know, we blame the devil for a lot of things that he doesn't do. Oh, the devil made me do it. When the devil, it was you It's like the little girl she got in a fight with her brother and the mother said to her, Shame on you. The devil made you hit him, and the devil made you kick him, and the devil made you pull his hair, and the devil made you spit on him. And she said, Mama, the devil made me kick him and hit him and pull his hair, but spitting on him was my idea. You know, a lot of times our sins are our idea. It is, and with this word being drawn away, I want you to look at that. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away. This is the idea of being dragged away as a prisoner. The idea that sin enslaves, it drags you into captivity. This is the word that was used of Joseph in the Septuagint, being dragged away. Your lust can get a hold of you. Your inward lust can capture you, is what he's saying. It starts with the inward lust. But then there's also The outward temptation. This is the third place he looks. He looks upward and says, you can't blame God. He looks inward to desire and says, that's where it starts, when we're drawn away. But then he looks outward to deception again in verse 14. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. And look at the last phrase, and enticed. There's the outward deception, the outward enticement. This is the idea of hunting or it's actually a hunting or fishing term, the lure away. It's the idea of baiting a hook. So lure the fish away. You know, that's what a fisherman does. I'm not a fisherman, but you know, what does a fisherman do? He takes a certain lure. And to lure the fish out, you know. He hides the hook. And he lies to the fish. What does the fisherman say to Mr. Bass? Mr. Bass, I want to be a blessing to you. I want to give you a free meal here. And here it is. And what does he do? He hides the hook. He doesn't want to give Mr. Bass a free meal. He wants to make Mr. Bass a free meal. Right But he hides the hook. And they're called lures, right? To lure the fish out. This is the idea behind this word here. This is what Satan does. He's the master fisherman. And he knows exactly what lure to use To get at you, to get at me. That's how sin takes place. There's the inward desire. There's the outward enticement. So notice the second thing. We see number one the direct cause of temptation, but write down number two the deadly course of temptation. Look again in verse 15. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death And what James describes to us here in this verse is the end result of temptation, the course of it. One of the best ways to overcome temptation is to understand where it leads you. What's the end result? Where is this going to bring me? And James is using here, remember, James is kind of the master of metaphors. He uses great illustrations to give us spiritual truth. Here, he's using the illustration of a birth First, there's the conception. And the parent of sin is lust, or I should say parents of sin is lust and outward enticement. And when these things come together There's the conception followed by the child. What is the child? The child is sin. There's the conception of outward lust and enticement, and then there's the child sin. And then there's the completion, which is death. He says in verse 15, when lust has conceived, it brings forth sin. That's the child, and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death When the child reaches full maturity, there is death. Someone said this is the devil's LSD: lust, sin, death. There's always that pattern. Lust, sin, death. That always takes place. And so what James is saying is Focus on where temptation leads you. It always leads to death if you don't resist it Because there's the conception of sin, and sin brings death. You see, Satan doesn't want you to see the end result of his temptation. He doesn't want you to see that. I I read about a pastor in Florida who had a church that was close to a brewery. The brewery had a big billboard sign. It was a beautiful picture of of a party, you know, and men and women and and tuxes and evening gowns and a beautiful picture of beautiful people. And at the bottom there was the caption, the finest product of the brewer's art. And the pastor thought that's rather deceptive. So he had a billboard in front of his church and he had a commercial artist draw a picture of a man laying in a back alley dead with liquor bottles around him And he put a caption at the bottom of that picture, and he said, the finished product of the brewer's art. You see, Satan wants you to see the finest product, but he doesn't show you the finished product. And here, James is saying, this is the finished product. There's lust. There's sin, and then there is death. Some people think, well, you know, I I I have no problem. I I'm having I have sins in my life, but No problem here. Well, your sin isn't finished with you yet. Ever hear people say, well, you know, be patient with me. God isn't finished with me yet. I can say that about sins. Be patient. Sin's not done with you yet If you're living in sin, if you're allowing sin to dominate your life, and you say, I have no trouble, well it's not finished yet. Like one preacher said, sin will take you farther than you want to go, it'll keep you longer than you want to stay. It'll charge you more than you're willing to pay. But it's not done with you yet. A man had a basket in his arms, dropping beans as he walked, and behind him followed a line of little pigs gobbling them up. And someone came along and said, that's a strange way to feed your pigs. He said, I'm not feeding my pigs. He said, I'm leading them to the slaughterhouse. And that's what Satan does. Let me give you the third and final point. We see the direct cause of temptation. It's not God. It's when our lusts meet enticement. But I want you, and not only the deadly course, it ends up in death, but write down number three, the definite cure for temptation. Look at verse 16. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no veritableness, neither shadow of turning. Now what's James teaching us here? He gives us solid advice for overcoming temptation in our life. And it starts with right thoughts, right thinking. You see, here's what Satan wants to do. He wants you to think negatively about God. Because if he can get you to think negatively about God, then he's got you. And by the way, some people in the church that James was writing to had already started that. He says, do not err. And again, it's a command of something to stop that's already taking place James is saying, some of you are you're err- you err in your thinking. You're thinking the wrong thing about God. Stop being deceived. Don't think negative thoughts about God. Because if Satan can get you to do that, he's got you. Remember that's how he started with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Yea, have God said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? God doth know in the day you eat arrest, you'll be as gods. God's holding out on you. He's not letting you have your due. But I will. God knows if you eat this, you know, God's not being good to you. And if Satan can get you to think that God's holding out on you, that God's not being good to you, then he's got you. That's how temptation works. That's his strategy. Erwin Lutzer wrote this: when you doubt God's goodness, you hug sins tightly to your bosom, afraid that God will rob you of your crutch. So Satan wants you to be dissatisfied with your circumstances. He wants you to be angry at God. He wants you to question God. God, why why haven't you given a single person wonders, why haven't you given me a mate? A married person wonders, God, why have you given me this mate? He wants you dissatisfied because then he's got you. So where do we fight temptation? It starts with good theology. Look in verse number 17 again. Every good gift And every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of life, with whom there's no veritableness, neither shadow of turning. God is a good God, and he gives good gifts And he gives us really four facts here. God only gives good gifts, every good and perfect gift. Not only does he give just good gifts, but he gives it in such a gracious way. You see, the only reason God hasn't given you some things is because it's not good for you to have this. But He gives you good gifts, He gives you right gifts. And he gives it in such a gracious way. The way he gives is good. And his gifts are constant. Notice where it says, and cometh down from the Father of lights. He's constantly giving gifts to us every day. The very fact that you woke up and you and and you breathe in air and you had food to eat and a place to live all every day, every day he's giving you good gifts Every day God is shining upon you. But Satan doesn't want you to think about that. He wants you to think that God is holding out on you And God doesn't change, he says here. He's like the father of lights. In other words, in the ancient days, the sun and the moon and the stars they were always there. Now it looked like From the earth's perspective, they were changing, but no, they were always there. And it may look at times from our perspective that God's disposition towards us has changed, but no. God loves you, he will continue to love you. His mood, his uh his disposition towards you, his favor towards you will not change. He is he loves you, he will constantly love you, and he will constantly give you good gifts. He is the father of lights, and he does not change. That's what James is trying to tell us here. God's not moody. He doesn't have a bad day. He does not change. And so that's the key right there. James says, we need to know that God is the good giver of good gifts. And that will not change. That will never change towards you. I love the song that we sing, Great is Thy faithfulness, O God, our Father. Well there's a line where it says, thou changest not, thy compassions, they fail not. And the greatest gift that God gives us is salvation. Look at verse 18. Of his own will begot he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creature. That's salvation. And guess what? Salvation was not your idea, it was God's idea. And it was God's idea that you have it And it's a gift that he gave to you. Not of your initiative, it was God's. Not because of your will, it was his will. Not because you or I deserve it. It was all his grace that did it, that begot us. And he it says here that we are the first fruits of his creature. We are the finest of his creation, is what he's saying here. So if you realize that we are so blessed, By our God, temptation loses its power. You see, you can't tempt a fish that's not hungry. If the fish is already full and fed, he can't be lured out. And you know, if you are filled in your heart with God's divine blessings, you recognize those blessings. You see those blessings and you fill your soul with divine resources and blessings. Temptation will lose its power Because you realize how good God is. Let me quote to you again in closing a beautiful hymn, the words that we sing sometimes, written by Robert Robinson. And there's one line in that Song that always touches my heart. Come thou fount of every blessing. God is the fount of every blessing. Tune my heart to sing thy grace, streams of mercy, never ceasing. Think about that. Streams of mercy, never ceasing. That's what James meant when he said he's the father of light. He's constantly giving. I'm standing here before you because of the mercy of God. I live and breathe because of the mercy of God. Streams of mercy never Ceasing. Listen to the next sign. Next line. Call for songs of loudest praise. We should praise him with all our heart. For his mercy that never ceases those streams of mercy. Nothing can eclipse his goodness or stop his benevolence towards us. And friend, knowing and feeding upon divine blessing and being filled up with divine blessing means that temptation will not have its pull over you. That's how we handle temptation. Let's let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you that you are the Father of lights. We thank you for your streams of mercy. That never cease. And Lord, we do praise you. We praise you with all our hearts. Lord help us to see the the deception of this world and Satan and not be lured in. Give us victory. Over sin and temptation that would rob us of the joy, rob us of the blessing of divine resources in our life. And I pray, Lord, especially for those who may be here today who have never trusted Jesus as their Lord and Savior, may today be the day of salvation. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed, and I just want to ask this one question. Do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? Friend, let me tell you the greatest temptation that you'll ever face is the temptation to walk away from Christ and walk into this world. Walk on your own without him in your life. The greatest test, I should say. Satan is constantly tempting you to walk away from the things of Christ. But my question is, what will you do about Jesus Christ? He's the Savior of the world. He's the Son of God. Come into this world to die for your sins. What will you do about that? And Satan tries to lure you away from Christ. He tries to draw you away And for the most part in your life, you've listened. But friend, it's time now to ask yourself this question: what will I do about Jesus Christ? Will you turn to him? Will you realize he is the only way of salvation? And it's no accident that you're here today that you're under the sound of God's word because God is reaching out to you. It's his will that we saw in James verse 18. It's his will that you be a child of his. Would you turn to Christ today? Would you pray this prayer? Just pray this in your heart. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I'm asking you to come into my heart and save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you'll pray that immediate, he will save you. He will do a new work in your heart. He'll give you eternal life. If that's your prayer, you said that's me, preacher, pray for me. Would you lift your hand so I can pray for you individually? Is there anyone here like that to say that's my prayer? That's my prayer. Father, seal these words to hearing hearts. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.