All right. It's good to see you here tonight. We're going to study God's Word again, and we're still dealing with the issue of prayer. And tonight I would invite you to take your Bibles and open, please, to the book of Matthew, chapter six. Matthew chapter 6 is we're dealing with the Lord's Prayer. And there's not a greater way to learn how to pray than just studying through the Lord's Prayer. And tonight we're going to come to a part of the prayer. It's in verse 13 of Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6, verse 13. But let me read this from verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory for ever. Amen. And tonight I want to deal with that part of the prayer of lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For 19 years between 1927 and 1946, Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick conducted a nationwide program entitled National Vespers. And each year he received 100,000 letters from members of his vast audience. And many of them were um talking about the religious difficulties that they were were trying to figure out. And on the basis of that experience he had this to say. Quote. No verse in the Bible puzzles more people than the petition in the Lord's Prayer. Lead us not in a temptation. It goes on to say, is that not a shocking idea? Many say that uh that is that not shocking that God leads men into temptation and that we must beg them to stop doing it So, is that what Jesus is saying here in this request? So this is what we have to look at tonight. What is this saying? What did Jesus mean in this part of the prayer when he Said, pray, lead us not in the temptation, but deliver us from evil. Well, first we have to consider what the prayer is not saying. It's not saying that God tempts us to sin Nothing could be farther from the realm of possibility than that God would entice anyone to sin. And the Bible is very clear about that in other places in James chapter 1. Verse thirteen it says this, Let no man say, When he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. James establishes the fact that you cannot blame your sin or your temptation on God. Notice he said, let no man say. That's a third-person imperative. That means it's a strong command. There were people that were rationalizing that God was causing their temptation and their sin. And James was basically saying, look, you stop thinking that or stop saying that. Let no man say, that's in the middle voice in the Greek text, we could say it like this, let no one say to himself Or let no one excuse himself. There were people that when they would go into temptation and sin, they would excuse themselves by saying, Oh, God must have been in that. He must have allowed that or wanted me to do that. The Greek preposition here, tempted of God, is not is not hoopo, which is the preposition of direct agency referring to God as a direct cause. It's a different preposition, conveying the idea of remoteness. So you can't in any way say that God was involved in your temptation, that God tempted you, or that God is at fault for your sin. Now some thought that in Jesus' day there were some rabbis that believed that God was at least indirectly responsible for sin and temptation. They believed that God gave them what they called the Yatzer Hara, that is the evil impulse. And uh Spirus Zodiates, a Greek scholar, he reasoned, he he he wrote how they reasoned in their mind. This is what he said, quote, God has ordained that I should yield to the tempt under to the temptation under which I have fallen. I have been driven to sin by the very circumstance in which God has placed me. God is the ultimate cause, and therefore I should absolve myself of the responsibility. End quote. That's how people were rationalizing in their mind. But this kind of rationalization goes even farther back, not just in James' day when he wrote this, but also in Adam's day. Remember what Adam said? The woman that thou gavest me, Lord. You know, the reason I sinned is because look, you know, you gave me this woman. I mean it wasn't my idea. I went to sleep and then I woke up and there she was. I mean you you're the one who sent her. And then she's the one who actually sinned and then she made me do it and so on. So really lit Lord it's your fault that I did that. Adam blamed Eve, and Eve, she blamed the serpent, and as one country preacher said the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on. Thank you for that courtesy laughter there. But there are still people thinking this way in our day. People are still trying to shift the blame and they do not want to hold themselves responsible for their temptation or sin. But James makes it very clear. God cannot be tempted with evil, neither does he tempt any man. Scripture is clear about this, then what does this mean here when uh we're to pray this petition? This word here, temptation, is a Greek word paras, and it's a word that can be used either to talk about temptation to sin or it can be used to talk about a trial or a test. And the way we know whether it's talking about a temptation to sin or whether it's talking about a trial or a test is to find out how it's used in its context. The context of the passage will determine how the word is used. Whenever this word is used to speak of God as the agent, it's always speaking about trials and testing. But whenever this word is used to speak about Satan being the agent, then it's referring to temptation. God uses testing to build us up. Satan uses temptation to tear us down. God uses testing to produce sanctification in us. Satan uses temptation to produce sin in us. It's like a doctor who has a sharp scalpel. His whole intent is to bring healing, but a psychopathic murderer can have a sharp blade in his hand, but his intention is completely different. And it's the same with God and testing and Satan with temptation. And so since this in this verse, God is the agent, we have to understand that what he's referring to is testing, a time of severe testing or trial is what is in view. So lead us not into temptation has to do with trials. It's an emotional plea from any saint. Who doesn't really want to go through a trial when they say, God, don't lead me into any trial that's more than I can bear. Now, if temptation in this verse means trials or testing, then what does the word evil mean when Jesus said, deliver us from evil? That's the second part of this request. Lead us not into temptation. but deliver us from evil. But he gets very specific in the second part of this petition. This part of the petition both reinforces and expands upon what Jesus is teaching us in this one single petition. And in order really to understand this, I have to give you a little Hebrew lesson, or you're off for that tonight. So basically in in Hebrew poetry, or we could say Hebrew Old Testament poetry, there is a literary device that uh Hebrew writers love, and it was called it's called parallelism Hebrews love symmetry. They love balancing out thoughts. You know, in English poetry we rhyme words, but in Hebrew poetry they rhyme thoughts or they rhyme ideas. So one of the defining characteristics of Hebrew poetry is parallelism. And normally what you find in a Hebrew psalm or a Hebrew poem are Two lines that are coupled together. You might have, you know, that's called a die stick, you know, they scholars call it, but it's two lines together, followed by another two and another two. But the two lines are meant to be together, they're meant to be parallel And the first line would state an idea, and the second line would normally do one of three things. It would either contrast the idea in the first line Or it would compare the idea in the first line with the second thought, the second line, or it would complete the idea. that was given in the first line. So it either would contrast, compare, or complete the idea. But it would expand upon that first line, and in some way, the second line would serve to interpret what the writer meant. And you have to understand that when you're reading Hebrew poetry. And we see this structure all over in the place of Psalms. We see it in Proverbs. For example, Psalm 1434. Righteousness exalts a nation. That's the first line, right? Presents the idea. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a Disgrace to any people. Second line. So the second line contrasts with the first line. First line talks about righteousness exalting. Second line contrasts talking about sin bringing disgrace. So we can see that. Psalm 125, verse 2 gives us another example as the mountains surround Jerusalem. And if you ever been to Jerusalem, you know that's true, you look around, it's kind of surrounded with mountains. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, that's the first line Second line, so the Lord surrounds his people. And so in that we see that the first thought is presented, and the second thought completes it It completes the whole idea there. And it's all about God's providential protection, God surrounding his people. Then there are some parallels that interpret the first line or restate it in a different way. An example of this can be in Psalm 4, verse 8, where it says, I will both lay me down in peace and sleep. There's the first line. Why? Why what do you mean by that? You're gonna lay down in and in peace and you're gonna sleep Why? Well, the second line tells us why. For thou, Lord, only makest me to dwell in safety That's what he means. The psalmist was able to sleep soundly because he trusted completely in the Lord And so you can see there how the second line interprets the first line. You see, now what's the point? Well, Jesus here in this sixth petition of the Lord's Prayer is using Hebrew literary parallelism It's kind of an explanatory parallelism where the second line explains the first. Lead us not into temptation. What do you mean by that? Why? Well, what do you mean, deliver us from evil? Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. That explains even more what the Lord was talking about there. What evil And the word for evil here is very interesting in this respect. It's a masculine noun, meaning, you know, the Greek word for evil, paneron, is normally in a kind of the neuter form, neither masculine nor feminine. It's kind of a an abstract. It's used in the abstract. But here the word is not panoram. It is panoras, which is in the masculine ending. So therefore we can translate it like this Deliver us from the evil one. It's talking about a person. And that's talking about Satan. Lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from the evil one. So now we can better see what Jesus meant by the first line, and how the second line amplifies that first thought. Jesus is teaching us here to pray that God the Father will deliver us from the wiles of Satan. Because whenever a believer goes through a time of testing, there's always Something that Satan will do to tempt them in the time of testing. We want the testing to be used but for God's glory And so here he's calling on us to pray that we would not be exposed to the devil's onslaughts or accomplish any of what the devil wants. Into is the Greek word ice. Some have compared it to the Hebrew preposition, which means into the power of or into the hands of. And so the prayer is when we pass through a trial Do not allow us to or we could say allow temptation to cause us to fall. Do not allow us to go into the power of or into the hands of the evil one. Because with every trial that a believer might go through, there's always the temptation. To do that, to sin. So Lord, don't lead us into a trial that will present to us a temptation that we're not going to be able to resist. Because God will allow his children to go through times of testing. He just does. We see this all through Scripture. We see this from the very beginning. God allowed Adam and Eve to be tempted. When God created the world, everything was good, right? And then chapters 1 and 2, we see the phrase over and over again. God made it. It was good. God saw that it was good. But then when you get to chapter three, there's introduced another character into the whole Genesis narrative, and that is of course the serpent. The old the great Old Testament scholar E. J. Young wrote a whole book on Genesis chapter three And he basically said that the opening words of Genesis 3 are kind of a foreboding, a foreshadowing of something evil slithering into this majestic narrative about creation. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field. Someone said you can almost hear the hiss of the serpent and those opening words. And then came Satan, and there was the temptation, there was the test, there was the temptation, and we know what ultimately happened there. And then we can fast forward all the way to the story of Job. I referenced this on Sunday morning, Job, who had a wonderful family, a godly man. Everything was going great. I mean if you read the opening few verses of Job chapter one, it's kind of like an Old Testament story of the Waltons. A lot of children, family togetherness, everyone having a great time, and then all of a sudden there is this time of testing where Satan asked permission to get it, Job, and God allowed it And then Job lost so much. And you know the story. He lost his children. He lost his wealth. And all that. And the and the whole idea there was, well, Satan said, look, if you take away everything that he has, God, he'll curse you. And God said, okay, see see what happens. And he lost so much, and in the end we see in chapter one, he doesn't curse God, he blesses God. He blesses the Lord to reveal that his faith was genuine in God. And then there's of course there's Jesus. After his baptism, he was driven into the wilderness, the Bible says, by the Spirit, to be tempted of the devil. We have no idea what Jesus endured for those forty days alone in the wilderness, why while he was fasting, but we just know that the first Adam was tempted in a paradise and it failed. But the last Adam was tempted in a wilderness and he was victorious over all that. And Jesus gives us an example of how to go through Testing because, or temptation, because whenever Satan came with a temptation, Jesus answered back with scripture, with the word of God But the reality is that we are all going to go through seasons of testing, and with those seasons of testing will be the opportunity for us If we're not careful to fall away or to yield to temptation or to think that God is not good. I remember one time When I was a younger preacher, I was pastoring my first church, and we had a great preacher come in by the name of G. Harold Smith. I know some of you may have heard him. He was just a great preacher. And um one time I was talking to him, he was about in his eighties at that time, I think. And I was talking about, you know, ministry in his life. And he told me the story how that he had a little five-year-old boy named Sonny. It was a joy of his heart. And he and he got the terrible news that his son his son was involved in an accident. So motor boys were playing with his son. And and basically um they they sprinkled gasoline on his son and they lit him on fire. And the son burned terribly. It's a terrible story. And he says he remembers going to the hospital, seeing his son just charred. And praying, you know, his little fingers charred down the little nubs, he said. And just praying over his son in that time, and his son passed away. And G. Harold Smith said at that time, you know, Satan came and sat on his shoulder and said, you know, here you are, being faithful to God, doing all this, going around the country, preaching, and this is what God does to you. This is what God does to you. He said he had that thought come into his mind. And for a moment there, he was vulnerable to the temptation of the devil. But God gave him the strength to say, no. God is good no matter what. There's not many people that could have passed that kind of a test. But he trusted in God no matter what. No wonder God blessed Gerald Smith so mightily. And God used them in such a great way. And every century there are Christians who have gone through severe testing and examples of their courage where that they stood for God and they were unwilling in any way to compromise, but they stood firmly. And we don't have time to talk about it all, but they just heroic Stories of Christians that went through difficult times of testing. Now, with all that in mind, let me just give you three quick points here, three lessons that we can learn from this prayer. First of all, we must understand our weakness in testing. That's the first thing we learn from this. Lead us not into temptation. When we pray this, we are confessing our weakness when it comes to testing. We're saying, God, you know, I I don't know if I can endure this. And I can't do this without you. Uh I'm weak when it comes to testing, and I know that I'm weak when it comes to temptation. And so in this prayer, we are recognizing how terribly weak we are and liable to fold under pressure. And so we come to God at this time saying, God help me. In this time, Christostom, the great early church father, said, this particular petition is the natural appeal of human weakness. This is necessary. We must recognize our weakness and we trust in the Lord for strength. And I spoke about this Sunday morning because we're going through 2 Corinthians, where Paul said, strength is perfected in weakness. My grace is sufficient for you. But this is the same point that Jesus is making here. We have to recognize our weakness. Because when we recognize our weakness and come to God with it, God gives us his strength Confess weakness becomes a strength. Hudson Taylor, the founder of the China Inland Mission, knew the secret of strength through weakness. One time a friend complimented him on the impact of his ministry, and Hudson said this. He said, It seemed to me that God looked all over the world to find a man who was weak enough to do his work. And when he at last found me, he said, He is he is weak enough, he'll do. All God's giants have been weak men who did great things for God because they reckoned on being on his being with them. And that's true. The problem with most of us is not that we really don't understand how weak we are. We think that we're strong. The Bible says in Proverbs 29 Or excuse me, 28-26, he that trusteth in his own heart is a fool. Remember Peter when he said, Lord, I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death. He boasted about it. I'm not going to fail you. Others might, but not me. Who was the first one to fail? It was Peter. The first one to deny the Lord. He trusted in his own strength. And so we have to recognize in this prayer our weakness, and we come to God with that, Lord, lead us not in a temptation. I know how weak I am. I know that, Lord, a time of testing and temptation, I can't do that. on my own. But number two, number two, we also learn we must demonstrate our willingness and testing. Not only must we understand our weakness, but But we must demonstrate our willingness. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And the conjunction there really says a lot. Really, what we're saying is, God, I don't want to go through a time of testing. However, should you choose in your wisdom to put me in that time of testing, Then I submit to it. In essence, that's what you're saying. I'm willing, Lord, if if this is your will. The implication here is that if God deems it necessary for us to go through a season of testing and trials Then we must submit to that and we should be willing. And so Jesus is saying that we should pray that the Father will never cause us to undergo a severe test of our faith, of our obedience, but When he does, when he deems it best, then we should be willing and we should look to God to help us to go through it. So there's kind of a paradox here, isn't there? That we see here. I don't desire trials. In fact, I ask God to deliver them, deliver me from them. Lord, I don't want to go through a trial. I don't want to go through a time of testing. I hate that idea of having to be tested. But Lord, if in your wisdom you bring it on me and you see it necessary for me, then I'm willing to do that. In fact, James says that we should count it all joy when we go through trial trial or trials and testings. Count it all joy. So I run from it, but when God says you have to go through it, then I rejoice in it. That's a paradox. You know, I don't want it But it's kind of like what Jesus said in Matthew 5. Jesus says, rejoice when you're persecuted. But in Matthew 10, he says, flee persecution. Run from persecution. But if you get persecuted, rejoice in it. You know, it's the same thing here. How can we be willing to be tested or rejoice when God puts us through a time of testing in our life? How can that possibly be? We don't rejoice in the pain that we're going through. God's not asking us to do that. He's not asking us to be happy or joyful in the painful suffering that we have to endure. What he's saying is we should rejoice in the end product. And what God is going to do in the end when it's all said and done. When it's all said and done, this test will strengthen me. It'll strengthen you. It'll strengthen his people. And so there's a sense in which God uses trials, testings, and even temptations to strengthen us. The reality is therefore our good. We don't like it. We don't want it. but therefore are good when God deems it necessary. Martin Luther said temptation is not so much the penalty of manhood as it is the glory of manhood. It is that by which a man is made an athlete of God. God is making strong saints. He's making athletes for him. And so James tells us we should rejoice. Now why? Well let me expand on it. James says this in James chapter 1, verse 2 My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing that the trying of your faith works patience. But let patience have her perfect work. What does testing do for us? It it matures us. That's what the word perfect here means. God is doing a maturing work. He's maturing us spiritually He's doing an inward work in our life. You know, we look at Abraham in the Old Testament. When God first started testing him, he didn't do so well. But by the time God was finished in Abraham's life, all the tests that he went through, the Bible says Abraham staggered not at the promises of God. He grew in faith. He grew in strength. Maturity, then completeness, that you might be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. God wants a Strengthen all the weak areas in your spiritual life. God wants to fill in all the missing pieces in your spiritual walk. He wants to make you complete and whole spiritually. But also submission. The key to all this is submission. God wants us to submit to him and to the test. He wants us to be absolutely, totally dependent on him. It's like David said in Psalm 131 O Lord, my heart is not proud, nor my eyes lofty, nor do I involve myself in great matters or in things too difficult for me. Surely I have composed and quieted my soul. Like a weaned child rests on his mother. And David is saying, Lord, I'm I'm quiet before you. I'm at rest I'm at peace before you. I'm absolutely dependent upon you. Like a child depends upon his mother. That's where God wants us to be. And so The first lesson we must understand our weakness in testing. We must demonstrate our willingness. But then here's the last lesson we learned from this. We must maintain our watchfulness in testing. Lead us not in the temptation, but, Lord, I'm willing if I have to go through it, but deliver us from the evil one. Help me to always be watchful of what Satan is trying to do. He's constantly on the prowl. He's constantly trying to bring believers down. And so all the great Christians and saints have lived with this testing and temptation and attacks from Satan. In fact, Jesus prayed this in John 17, 15. I do not ask that you take them out of the world. Here Jesus is praying for all of his His people, he's praying for his disciples. He's even praying for us. He's praying for all those that would come to believe on him. So here Jesus is praying for us. You want to know what he says? I do not ask that you take them out of the world But that you keep them from the evil of the keep them from the evil one, we could say, or the evil of the world And so God's not going to take us out of this world. We're here to make a difference. We're here so that people will see Christ, so God will be glorified, so the gospel will grow, because that's God's plan. Not to take us out of the world, but to leave us here, but also Jesus prays that we will be kept from the evil one. And so Jesus also prays, Matthew 26, 41. He says to his disciples, watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The Bible says Satan is like a roaring lion, seeking to whom he may devour. We saw how Satan assaulted Adam, how he assaulted Job. How he went after the Lord Jesus. What's the common denominator with all these men? They were they were godless. Adam was sinless at the time. Job was the most righteous man on the earth. At that time. Jesus was the sinless Son of God. You know who Satan goes after? He goes after the righteous life. He wants to bring down the righteous soul. And the more Determined you are to live godly, then the more vigilance you must maintain because Satan is out to get you. And so this prayer is part of our prayer, the prayer that Jesus gave. Lead us not into temptation, but Lord, deliver us from the evil one. So we must understand our weakness in testing, we must demonstrate our willingness, and we must maintain our watchfulness. And that's part of what we do when we pray. This part of the prayer. A missionary by the name of Lori Anderson was a missionary to the Indians of Peru, and in the morning of practice was to find a a daily quiet time. She would go down to the edge of the river. That was a quiet place for her to spend with the Lord. And that one morning after reading the Bible, she took up her prayer list and she began to pray and her eyes were closed. So she did not see the deadly anaconda weaving its way through the water to get to her. And the the snake basically grabbed her by the arm with its mouth. He wa he wrapped around her, struck a few times, and for some unknown reason he had her. She was really in the death grip of this snake, this anaconda. And for some unknown reason, the snake just loosened its pressure, let her go, and swam off into the river. After she was being treated, a witch doctor from a nearby village that didn't want her there in that whole area. Burst into the hut where she was being treated and looked at her with amazement and said he he couldn't believe that she survived because the witch doctor and other witch doctors that morning had prayed to their snake god that the anaconda would kill her. And Lori said, I'm certain that I probably would have died except for the fact that the Lord protected me from the evil. God watched over me. Satan is like a a serpent that's trying to get at God's people. But friend, thank God we have a God who protects us. And so Jesus taught us to pray every day. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, we uh thank you for this model prayer that our Lord gave us, and it has all the elements of what we need when we pray. I pray, Father, that we will take these things to heart. And Lord, I pray for believers that are here right now that might be going through a time of testing. In your will and your wisdom, Lord, you allow the test for them to come. And now, Lord, they need strength that comes only from you. I pray, Father, that you will deliver them from the evil one. And that, Lord, everything that you had in mind in this test when you allowed it in your wisdom will come to pass for their good. And Lord, for your glory And that, Lord, you will keep us strong, Lord, when temptation comes from the evil one. Lord, strength enough to resist. Deliver us from the evil one, Lord. Give us your divine protection. We thank you in advance for that. And again, I pray for all those that are here. That may be listening, Lord, that are going through a severe time of testing right now. Lord, give them grace and strength that comes only from you, Father. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.