Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of First Peter chapter three? I want us to look at First Peter chapter three and we're going to look at verse thirteen down through verse seventeen. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today, please? First Peter three, verse thirteen, down to verse seventeen. And who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing than for evil doing. Thank you very much. You may be seated. This is God's word. infallible word may we submit to it. Pray with me this today. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for the inerrant Word of God. And for what we learn every time we open the pages of Scripture. Lord, you teach us. And so we pray this morning the prayer of the psalmist, open thou mine eyes. That I might behold wonderful things out of your word. Lord, help us to have understanding, to apply truth to life, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a technical term that scholars like to use when they refer to certain passages of Scripture. It's the term locus classicus. That's just a Latin term that simply means a classical location. And this is a way of a kind of a fancy way of calling attention to what is deemed a particular important verse of Scripture that is used to support as a proof text for a doctrine or perhaps a specific discipline of study. Under the the discipline of what is called apologetics 1 Peter 315 is what is called the Locus Classicus. This is the proof text. This is the support verse for this discipline in the Christian life. Again, look at verse 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your heart and be ready always to give an answer. Look at the word answer there. This is the Greek word apologia. And when you when you say that word, you can almost hear in that word the word apology, uh apologia. In fact, this is where we get our word apology. And so Peter is saying that as a believer you always have to be ready to give an apologia to anyone who asks. Now, this is not what you think. Peter's not saying that we need to go around and when people ask us about being a Christian, we need to apologize and say, Oh, I'm sorry about being a Christian or I'm sorry for uh what I believe. That's not What Peter is saying here. The word originally apologia is a word that means defense. It was really a technical word that was used in the Greek law courts. When a person was going to court to prove their case, they would have a lawyer who would give a defense of what whatever case that they had to give And so really it's a it refers to a speech given to defend one's position or what one believes. Now this word apologia is used nine times in the New Testament. Eight of those times it's used by the Apostle Paul. One time it's used here by Peter. In Acts 22, 1, when Paul was before a mob of people, this is what he said. He said, Brethren and fathers, hear my apologia, hear my defense, here's my defense of what I have to offer to you. One time he was standing before Agrippa. And again the word is used there. He made his defense. And then it's used in Philippians when the Apostle Paul was placed under arrest. And then taken to Rome, he was there to give a apologia, a defense for the Christian faith. And so this is what the word actually means. And Peter here is basically saying to the believers to whom he's writing that you always have to be ready to give your defense. of what you believe and why you believe it. You have to give an apologia. And there's a sense then in which God is calling all of us to be uh apologists. You may have heard that term before. An apologist is someone who defends the faith. So there's a sense in which all of you are apologists. When someone, if someone were to come to you and ask you, why are you a Christian and what do you believe? Are you ready to give an answer, an intelligent answer about what you believe and why you believe it? Are you ready to defend the faith? that you that you claim to have. Don't be like the guy who said one time a man came to him and said, What do you believe? He says, Well I believe what my church believes. They said, what does your church believe? He said, My church believes what my pastor believes. He said, well, what does your church and pastor believe? He said, they believe the same thing. You're going to have to do a little better than that. You're going to have to give an intelligent answer for what you believe in Christ. Now, Paul is the example of this. If you read throughout the New Testament, what you'll find is that he went When he would go into a city or a town, the first thing he would do is go to the Jewish synagogue. They were easy to locate when you would go into a town back then. They were normally on a hill or the highest elevation in a town. If that spot could be uh s uh secured by those who wanted to build the synagogue and then they would have a poll that went straight up and said when a person came to town they would look up and try to see that poll and then they would find a synagogue Paul would go to town, he would go to the synagogue, and he would go in there, and he would begin to reason with them from the scriptures. We see this all throughout the book of Acts. And if the people in the synagogue didn't hear the message, the Jewish people that were in there, Paul would shake the dust off, and he would go to the Gentiles. And he would go out into the public places, the well travelled places. Sometimes he would go to the Agura, which was the marketplace where people There was always a many people there were that were there, crowds of people, and Paul would then begin to give the gospel and give an answer to the people that would ask him about Jesus Christ and his faith. And at one point Paul was arrested and taken to Rome. And the Philippians were looking for Paul And they could not locate him. And finally they found him, they heard that he was in a Roman prison. Paul was there because he was going to go to court in a legal case and appear before Caesar himself and give an apologia, give an answer or a defense for Listen to what Paul said at Philippians 1 7. Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds And in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. Again, the word defense, their apologious. Paul said, When I go to stand before Caesar, I want you to know that you'll be there with me. You'll be in my heart. You're here with me in this prison, and when I go to give my answer, my defense, my apologia to Caesar, you will be there with me. Paul was always explaining the Christian faith to those that were ready to hear. And then of course at the end of the apostolic age, into the second century, the church had to have apologists, people that would defend the faith. You know why? Because the Christianity was under such attack And there were so many lies being spread about Christianity. And so there was a need for someone to stand up and clarify What the truth was, what Christianity was all about. There were all kind of lies about Christians that they were a seditious group That they were cannibals because people didn't understand the Lord's Supper, the saying that Jesus gave when he said, Unless you eat my flesh and you drink my blood. Of course, Jesus wasn't being literal there. He was talking about spiritual nourishment And then of course there's the Lord's Supper, and then people didn't understand Christianity and thought that they were a bunch of cannibal uh cannibals. And they thought that they were people that were atheists because they wouldn't worship the Roman gods. You see People in Rome had many gods that they would worship. But Christians, when they got saved, they would say, We only worship Jesus Christ. And so because they wouldn't worship the other gods, they were called atheists. And so there were apologists that would have to stand up, men like Justin Martyr in the second century, that would give an answer. to all the lies that are being spread about Christians. And he would say, look, we're not political activists. We're not out there to overthrow the political structures of the day. We are model citizens. We pay our taxes. We obey the laws. We're not cannibals. We are simply worshiping in the Lord's Supper with bread and wine. We uh are not a seditious group of people, we are an obedient group of people, and we're not athe atheists, we just simply say that Jesus is Lord and him alone. We won't say Caesar is Lord. We won't say Kaiser Curios, Caesar is Lord. We'll say Christos Curios, Jesus is Lord. And so there was a need then for people to stand up and defend the faith. But let me just say that that need has not changed all throughout the history of the church. There have been attacks against Christianity, and there has been the need for believers to stand up for what they believe and give an intelligent answer about what The truth is what the Bible says, to give a reply to those who would attack the church. Another reason apologies were needed is simply to encourage saints. To strengthen the faith. You know what I see happening today? I see all kinds of young people that were raised in church and yet they go out to the university, and in one year their whole faith is unraveled. And they give in to the lies of modernism and postmodernism and the world We need to provide answers. And by the way, I saw some of this myself. I took a PhD seminar at Johns Hopkins University in the ancient Near Eastern Studies Department. where they would that where we were going through the Hebrew Bible, you would think that the people there that taught the Hebrew Bible would actually believe that the Bible is the Word of God, but I assure you they don't. And it's very subtle some of the ideas that are out there that eat away at the foundation of Christians. And so there's a need then for believers to stand and to give an answer of what we believe. And this is what Peter is calling upon the church to do. And again, I ask you, are you ready to do that? Because I want to tell you that we live in a hostile world still today We live in a world that's hostile against the church. There are still lies being spread against God's people, against Christianity, against the Bible. Are you ready to take that stand for truth? Now Peter is telling these believers that you need to be ready. And remember the circumstances behind the writing of 1 Peter. Remember these believers were living in a time when who was the emperor? Who was on the throne in Rome at the time of the writing of 1 Peter? It was Nero. Never was there a more evil, cruel tyrant on the throne, the Roman throne, than Nero, who hated Christianity and used Christians as a scapegoat and persecuted Christians and persecuted the church. And here's Peter saying, look, here's what you must do. You must learn to stand for truth. So what I want you to see here in a passage today are five principles that we need to embrace. That will help us to be apologists, defenders of the faith in this hostile world. Here's the first one. Number one, be zealous for what is good. Look at verse 13. Who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? Now again, remember the Christians are being persecuted at this time. And they were in a very hostile, dangerous climate. But Peter is simply stating a rhetorical question in verse 13. He could say it like this: Is there anyone who will harm those who are eager to do good? I mean that's that the implied answer to this is no. General general in general, no. No one will really harm those that are zealous for doing good And look at the word followers there in uh verse number thirteen. If you be followers, it's where we get the word mimic from. And it's the idea of mimicking someone. And who are we to mimic as believers? Well, we're to mimic Jesus Christ, right? We're called Christians. We follow him. We do what he does. We live the way he lived. We're to be passionate and zealous about doing good. That's what Jesus did in his during his earthly ministry. He went about doing good, the Bible says, because God was with him. And Peter says, look, that's what you're to do. You just go about and you be zealous of of doing good. That's good advice for us today. As we live in this hostile world. When the world looks at Christians, they should see people who are zealous for doing what is good, what is right. And Peter is saying that if that happens, who's going to harm you? Now, you're probably thinking, wait a minute, what about martyrs? What about Christians who have done good and they were persecuted? I mean this seems to be a paradox to say that. Well, there's two possible explanations to this. First of all, it's generally true. I mean, in general, it's true that if you go around doing good, you're not going to get harmed Even people hostile against the church and against Christians generally do not harm those that are going around simply doing good things. But another way to explain this is this. What's the worst thing that someone can do to you? I know this doesn't sound really good today on a Sunday morning. You come to be encouraged, not how to stand against your enemies. But if you're going to live for Christ in this world, this is the word that Peter has for us. What's the worst thing that anyone can do? Well, they can take your life. They can harm your body, but they can't harm your soul. There's nothing they can do to your soul. And Jesus said this to his disciples when he sent them out. He said, Fear not them which can kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both body and soul. Jesus said, You don't need to fear those Who all they can do is harm your body, they can't touch your soul. And if you're a believer, what's the worst thing that can happen to us is if perhaps we stand and we're persecuted and we die, what happens after that? Well we go where? We go to heaven? You don't have to be afraid of death if you're a believer. This is what Paul said. Remember when Paul was in that Roman Mamertine prison and he knew he was going to stand before Caesar and give an apologia and he's thinking about it in the prison and he says this, you know, I could live You know, I Caesar could hear my defense and he could decide that I'm harmless and the gospel is not a seditious message, and I could live. He could let me live And if I live, remember what he said in Philippians 1. 21, if I live, it's Christ. And he could also put me to death. He could take my life. And if I die, what did he say after that? It's what? It's gain. It's better. If I die, it's actually better. Paul believes in heaven, and heaven is a reality, beloved. That's why, as Christians, we don't have to be afraid of death We don't have to be afraid of that. We actually Paul said it's gain. Listen to what the psalmist said in Psalm 56, verse 4. In God I will praise his word. In God I put my trust I will not fear what flesh can do unto me, not afraid of what man can do, because my trust is in the Lord. So be zealous for what is good. But no, here's the second thing. Be willing to suffer for righteousness. Look at verse 14. But and if Ye suffer for righteousness sake. Notice the if there. This is what is called an optitive mood in Greek, which is A remote possibility. In other words, what he's saying is it's generally true that if you are zealous of doing good, you won't be harmed. However, are there exceptions to that? Yes. Is it possible That you might have to suffer for righteousness' sake? Is that possible? Yeah, it is. Now I know here, when I speak to this like this to American Christians, they all kind of look at me and somebody start nodding off. You know, wake me up when he starts saying something interesting. Because, you know, honestly, we live in a culture today in a world where in America we've had freedom. We haven't had to suffer the way others have suffered in other countries. I've been to other countries, I've been to Africa, where the Christians who live there are in constant threat of their life because of Islam. and radical Muslims. I remember being in certain locations where even a pastor would bring me a letter that was delivered to him by Muslims that said, You better stop preaching the gospel in this village or we will kill you and your family. We don't have that kind of thing here in America. But you never know if things are kind of changing a little bit. Our freedoms are being taken away. And what if suddenly we're called upon now to stand for truth? Peter says it's possible that you might be called upon to suffer. For righteousness' sake or to suffer for what for doing good. Now, when that happens, what should your response be? Should you get angry? Should you ball up your fist and say, wait a minute, this is not fair? Should you have a defeatist attitude? Should you promise revenge and make threats? What does Peter say we're to do? Look at verse 13. And verse 14 rather, but and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, watch this, happy are ye, praise the Lord. I get to suffer. That doesn't really reason out in our mind, does it? Why does Peter say, be happy? Happy are you, makarias? This is used to talk about someone who is blessed. Someone who's spiritually blessed. And there's a sense in which what Peter is saying here is if if you happen to be singled out one day And you suffer for the cause of Christ, for righteousness, you should rejoice because what it reveals is that in your life, people see Christ in you. And you've been chosen in this manner to suffer for Christ's sake. What's the old saying? If some Christians were arrested for being a Christian, there wouldn't be enough evidence to persecute them. Because they look in their life, there's not enough evidence in the life of most people who claim to know Jesus Christ that it would e ever be hold up under scrutiny. But if you're singled out To suffer for Christ, what if Peter is saying is you're blessed. You're blessed, and there's a sense in which you could you reach a new level. in your spiritual life and God has bestowed upon you this special calling to suffer for righteousness' sake. And there's a sense in which you become partakers of Christ's suffering, there's a new level of fellowship and blessing for a person who will go through that. He says, you should be happy about that, but also remember to be brave. Look again in verse 14. He says, and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. Don't be afraid during that time. Don't fear the intimidation. Afraid is FIBA, where we get the word phobia, trouble terrasso, to be an emotional turmoil. Don't fear their threats. Don't fear their intimidation. Because when that happens, there's always the tendency to begin to want to compromise or back up on what you believe. Don't compromise. Don't run from what you believe. Don't be afraid. You see, our courage in the face of persecution is a sign to the world that what we believe is real. That it's true. But here's the third thing: be completely devoted to Christ. Be zealous for what is good. Be willing to suffer for righteous. Number three, be completely devoted to Christ. Look at verse 15. Where he says again, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer. Sanctify the Lord God. The word sanctify means count as holy. Or hallow or reverence God. Or have this high view of God. You know what really bothers me and disturbs me a lot of times about Christians in church on Sunday is that we don't seem to really hold a high view of God. When people see us in the way that we worship, they should know that we believe in a big God. That we reverence God. That we fear God, that we hallow him, we hallow his name, we hallow him in the manner in which we worship him. We hallow his name in the way in which we live. Because worship doesn't end when the service is over at 12 o'clock on Sunday. It continues all throughout the week. And the way you live your life is how you hallow. His name. And Peter's saying you need to hollow Christ. You need to sanctify him in your heart. And what Peter is actually doing here is he's quoting from an Old Testament passage of Scripture, Isaiah 8, and the whole situation in that Old Testament passage is very significant. Let me tell you what it was. King Ahaz, the king of Judah, was going to be attacked by the Assyrian army. And he had a choice. There were others that were offering assistance to help them. The Syrians and the kings of Israel were saying, let's confederate together. But he said, No, I'm not going to do that. And then there was a choice where he could just simply put his trust in the Lord. And he said, I'm not going to do that. You know what Ahaz chose to do? He chose to make a confederacy with the Assyrians, the very enemies that were going to attack Judah. And God sent the prophet Isaiah his way, and listen to what Isaiah said to him. He said to King Ahaz, Sanctify the Lord of hosts. And let him be your fear. And let him be your dread. And Peter is quoting from that. You see, what King Ahaz did was: rather than fear God and put his faith in God, he feared Man. He feared the Assyrian king. And this is what Isaiah said, look, you need to sanctify God. You need to let God be your fear and your dread. And this is what Peter says to the church today. Look, don't be afraid of your enemies. You need to fear God more than you fear men. We're in this world today where everyone's concerned about offending other people. We're being so sensitive. We don't want to offend anyone. We have to be politically correct about the things that we say and the way that we say it. We're so afraid to say things nowadays because somebody is going to be offended. Yet you know what really bothers me? No one's really a concerned about offending God And let me just say this. I don't want to be offensive in the way I talk, but I'm ten times more concerned about offending God than offending you. In fact, I would rather offend you. In fact, it's my job to offend you. I don't want to offend God. We prepare our worship services to be attractive to sinners. I want a worship service that's attractive to God. Where God is honored, where God is feared. And what Isaiah is saying to this king is, you've chosen the wrong person to fear. And Peter's quoting this, and Peter's saying this to the s the very same thing to the church. And again, this bothers me because just recently a big Baptist denomination down in Nashville chose to adopt a ungodly, socialistic, Marxist philosophy used as an interpretive tool to help them understand people. And rather than just saying, you know what, we have the Word of God and that is sufficient, out of the fear of man they decided to make this concession. And you know what? You're choosing to fear the wrong person. I'm afraid of offending God. And I believe God's word is sufficient. I believe this is all that we need. We don't need the philosophies of man. And the and the and the key word down there was, oh well, the world is watching. Listen, I know the world is watching, and I don't want the world to be offended by my behavior, but if my belief defends offends the world, then so be it. If what I believe is offensive, then that's fine. In fact, the gospel is offensive. The Word of God is offensive in many ways. I don't want to offend people by the way I act, the way I behave, but I don't mind offending people because of what the Word of God says. I'll stand on that. And to do anything else is to give in to the fear of man. And Peter here is saying, look, sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Fear Christ, hold him higher. And then notice the next thing. Be prepared to give an intelligent response. Look in verse 15 where it says The latter part, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you of the reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Listen, I'm going to put Christ first I'm going to fear him above all, and if people ask me about what I believe, I need to be ready to give an intelligent answer about what I believe. And why I believe it. Be prepared is the idea here. Be ready to give that answer. J. Vernon McGee wrote this, he said, this means you ought to know more than a little about the Bible. And he says the tragedy of the hour is that there are so many folk who say they are Christians, but the skeptic is able to tie them up into fourteen different knots, like a little kitten caught up in a ball of yarn And they cannot extricate themselves at all. Why? Because of the fact that they do not know the word of God. End quote. And he's so very right there. We have to know God's word. We have to be ready to give an answer when people ask us. I remember when I was a teenager, newly saved, I'd only been saved for about a year. We were out knocking on doors, sharing the gospel, went to the certain house. The man opened the door. They were having dinner there, this man and his family. He said to his family, I want to talk to this young man. We sat down in Liz in his living room. I began to share the gospel. You know what? He was a very intelligent man. He was very skeptical. And you know what? He I couldn't answer some of his questions. Because I could not answer him and defend my faith. And I remember leaving there determining that's never going to happen to me again. I'm gonna be ready. And so several years later we were visiting in the same neighborhood. I knocked on the same door. I didn't plan this. The same man answered the door. They were eating dinner. He said to his family, I want to talk to this guy. This was deja vu all over again, as Yogi Bara says. And sat down. And this time, when he had questions, I had answers. And he noticed the difference. Now, I would love to say that this man put his faith in Christ, but that's not how it ended But let me just say this, and giving an answer to those who ask, it's not our job to uh to persuade, it's our job to just offer the proof. There's a difference between proof and persuasion. Proof is objective. I can give you the evidence. I can give you the facts. I can give you the truth. Persuasion is subjective. That is something that is done by the Holy Spirit of God Only the Holy Spirit can turn a person's heart. Only the Holy Spirit can grant repentance. What does the Bible say? Paul said to Timothy, the servant of the Lord must not strive. But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach the doctor cause skilled in presenting the truth, skilled in teaching, and then in response, God per adventure may give them repentance It's God who gives them repentance. It's God who does the subjective part and does the persuading to where the hardened sinner who once he hears the evidences of the truth of the gospel He bows before those evidences, and it's the Holy Spirit that causes that to happen. I can't do that. I offer the proof. And by the way, when I offer it, I don't do it in an argumentative way. I'm not a prosecuting attorney, I'm a witness. So I'm not trying to win an argument, I'm trying to win a person of Christ. By the way, when Paul said the server of the Lord must not strive, it's that Greek word macho my where you get the word macho. You know, a macho man is always ready to fight, always ready to win an argument. Paul said, that's not what the servant of the Lord is like. We're not like that. We are gentle We simply present the truth. We give it in a gracious manner, in a loving way, but here are the facts. Here is the truth. Here is the evidence. Some people think that when you come to Christ, that you have to make a leap of faith. Look, the only leap you're making is out of the darkness into the light Christianity is based on reason and logic and evidence. There's nothing more solid or more firm than the Word of God. I'm not asking you to stand out, jump on nothing. I'm asking you to look at the Word of God. Consider what the Scripture says. Use all the evidences that you want. I want to tell you something, the Word of God will stand the most severe scrutiny of any man. It has for centuries. And it will continue to do so. But there are some people they're just they're looking for a reason not to believe. The problem is not in their mind, the problem is their heart. They just don't want to believe. But for those that want to, for those that will hear the evidences and the Holy Spirit will bring repentance to their heart, I simply just give the evidence, I give the truth and allow the Holy Spirit to do the rest. But let me give you the fifth thing here. How to defend your faith. Be zealous for what is good, be willing to suffer for righteousness. Be completely devoted to Christ. Be prepared to give an intelligent answer. Then number five. Be careful to maintain a good t uh conscience. Look at verse 16. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing than for evil doing. And this is the theme that runs through the epistle where Peter says over and over again, make sure you're doing good. Be righteous. Have a good conscience. Have a good behavior. Doing good. As Christians, we need to be zealous for that, like he already said. Now what he's saying here is don't ever do anything that would violate your conscience or cause you to uh to turn to have to repent or to be ashamed of what you did As Christians, we need to live in harmony with what the scripture teaches us, with what we believe. You can't be a good witness if you're living a bad life. If you're not living an obedient life. So Peter says you need to keep a good conscience. Whenever the world hears about another high-profile Christian or preacher that is involved in some kind of scandal, the world Is there waiting to gloat, waiting to speak against the name of Christ and against Christianity They mock the Lord. They blaspheme when that sort of thing's happen. We don't ever want to live a life that would bring shame to the name of Christ. Or to Christianity. And so we must live an obedient life. And this is what God is calling us to to be prepared, to learn. And I think that in the days before the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ This becomes even more important because we're living in challenging times today. We're living in difficult days. So I just encourage you to learn God's Word. That's why we have a Case Hill School of the Bible. We're doing these extra things to get people in the Word of God. That's why when the opportunity came for us to have a seminary here I know this a lot of extra work. Uh I don't know if you know the story of faith. Uh faith was a seminary that was here in Baltimore and Towson. Before that, they were in Philadelphia since 1937. In fact, out of Princeton Theological Seminary came Westminster Seminary, and out of Westminster came Faith Theological Seminary They were in Philadelphia for a long time and then they moved down to Baltimore in 2004 and they were there uh struggling actually there. And uh I was asked, I did, I taught some adjunct courses there, and the Board of Faith asked me to be the president. Which is somewhat like asking uh to be captain of the Titanic after it hit the iceberg Because it was in trouble. And we prayed about it. I brought it to our men here at Grace and asked them if they if we should do this, if we should help out the seminary. And my plan for for it was simple simple. They were having financial difficulty. We sell that property, pay off all the debts. House it right here, we have enough room for it. And I can I can't go back and forth to Towson, but I can be here and I can help. And it's always been in my heart to want to train people in the Word of God. You know, we got conservative seminars out there that are compromising on the Word of God all the time. We got seminaries that don't even believe in six-day creation. They don't believe in this the 24-hour day. They say it was ages. And you know why they do that? They're intimidated by science. As if science is infallible. Listen, I believe there's only one book that's infallible. It's the Word of God. We have seminaries out there that don't even believe in a historical Adam. That Adam was a literal historical figure. Do you understand what that does to the gospel? If Adam wasn't a literal historical figure, then where did sin come from? And what exactly is sin? And if you don't get sin right, you don't get salvation right. If you don't get salvation right, you pervert the gospel. We've got people capitulating over all these things because we're intimidated by the world. I just want to be faithful to the truth. I'm not trying to be big or large or influential, but I will I'll I am trying to do this. I'm trying to be faithful to the Word of God. And you know what? It's getting harder and harder. In these last days. But we we took we took this on because I believe it was of the Lord, because we want to train people in the Word of God, and we're not going to compromise. And this is part of our calling. We need to prepare and be ready to stand for the faith. The motto that I adopted for Faith Theological, the New Seminary. Now it's actually a new seminary under the Ministry of Grace is earnestly contending for the faith. Faith. We will contend for the faith. We will be faithful to the Word of God. That's what God is calling us to. That is what Peter is calling these believers to here. Defend the faith. Be true to the Word. Let's let's bow for prayer together today. So, Father, we take this challenge from your word. to always be ready to give an answer to those who may ask us of the hope that we have. That we're able to answer them in meekness and humility, not trying to win an argument, but trying to win a soul to Christ. Lord, help us to be faithful to the truth. Help us, Lord, not to compromise. Help us to sanctify Christ in our hearts, to fear you and honor you and reverence you above all. And may people see this in our life. May we have a good testimony, a good witness in this world today. Help us, Lord, to make a difference. Help us to be the light. That shines in this dark world as your people, as you've called us to be. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that has never put their full faith in Christ, That Lord, they will make that decision, that important decision, to place their faith in the atoning work of Jesus Christ, the risen Savior. May they turn from their sin and turn to Christ. And friend, if that's your prayer here today, if it's your desire to be saved, right there where you are, you can reach out in faith. You can pray and say, Lord Jesus, be merciful to me a sinner, save me, cleanse me, make me your child. Friend, pray that immediately you know the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will know why is cast out. Friend, if you want Jesus, you can have him. If you're thirsty, the water's here. It's the everlasting water of life, Jesus Christ. If you're hungry, friend, the bread of life is here. He says, Come unto me. Come to me. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.