All right, good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Matthew, chapter six. When I was here uh a few months ago, we uh were studying Matthew 6 and talking about the issue of prayer, and I want to finish up on this beautiful uh Lord's Prayer. We studied it. I'm sure I didn't do it justice. I hope that it's been a blessing to you, and I hope that you're incorporating some of the things that Jesus is teaching us about prayer. But we come to Matthew chapter 6, and we're going to look at the last verse of the Lord's Prayer tonight, Matthew chapter 6, verse number 13. But let's uh read the whole Lord's Prayer together again just to Just because it's beautiful, and also because we want to get the context of it, verse number nine. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. I want to talk tonight about the subject, how to get off your knees. How to get off your knees. I'm not talking about struggling to get up I'm talking about the attitude that you should have as you get off of your knees in prayer. I read of a man who was a Protestant but attended the funeral of a friend who was uh the funeral was being held in a Catholic church While he was there, something embarrassing happened to him. Being in a Catholic church, he was unfamiliar with many of the elements of the liturgy of the church service. But when it came time to recite the Lord's Prayer, finally he thought in his mind, here's something that this church has in common with my Protestant church. So he began to quote he and his wife, the Lord's Prayer, with the congregation there, and it turned into an embarrassing moment for him because as in he as he and his wife were uh quoting the Lord's Prayer, they were the only ones that said the concluding line, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Everyone else was silent, and they were the only ones that said that last um phrase, that last doxology we could call it Now, why were they the only ones that said that? Because the Roman Catholic Church does not include that final line in the Lord's Prayer. But it might surprise you that there are some Protestant churches that also do not include the last line of the Lord's Prayer in the quotation of it Why? Because they don't believe that this last line of the Lord's Prayer was in the original text of Scripture, but that it was added later. It was a doxology that was added later by a scribe. In fact, when I was studying for the sermon, I read more than ten commentaries on this last line of the Lord's Prayer, and I was stunned by the lack of attention given to this last expression. The commentaries either say this was not part of the original prayer, they say it was added on later, or they simply give it a few words and kind of pass over it as if it was not very important. Now the problem is this. The Latin translation from the fourth century, known as the Vulgate, was produced by a Roman scholar, a man by the name of Jerome, the scholar of the Catholic Church. And the version of the Vulgate that he came up with did not include this last line. This is the Bible that the Catholics use, the Vulgate Bible. He didn't include the last line for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And so this last line did not make it into the liturgy of the Catholic Church. And so it's not surprising then to find that there are a lot of modern translations of the Bible, that uh English translations of the Bible that do not include this last line in their version. It's not included in the Catholic versions of the Bible. The Dewey Rheims version is a Catholic translation. The Jerusalem Bible is a Catholic translation. There are others like that They follow in Jerome's footsteps and not including the last phrase. But what is more surprising is that most contemporary English translations of the Bible do not include this last phrase. in their translation. The only two English Bibles that include this last phrase are the King James Version if you read it. How many of you have the King James Version tonight? You follow along. So you saw that Or the New King James Version also has this last line uh in the uh Lord's Prayer But other than that, none of the other English translations include this last line. What they'll do is they will They will um either maybe put it in italicized or put it in brackets or they'll they'll have a footnote there and they'll put it in the footnote and they'll give some explanation as as if to say that this was not in the original manuscripts. Now the f you know, while the majority of um Greek manuscripts that we have do include this last phrase, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. The a lot of the earlier manuscripts uh do not have it. So the the battle then would be the m you know, w w which would you believe? Would you believe the majority of man of Greek manuscripts that do have this last line in it or would you believe the earlier manuscripts that do not have it. One of the the big manuscripts some scholars give a lot of uh credibility to is a manuscript called the Kodak Vaticanus. According to uh some scholars, this is the most important of the ancient manuscripts, and this does not have this ending of the Lord's Prayer. And so Scholars today are divided as to whether or not this concluding line of the Lord's Prayer should be included. Now we don't have the time and you probably don't have the interest to go into the detailed debates about how scholars seek to define or decide what is in the original and what is not when there's a variant in in Greek manuscripts, there are thousands and thousands of Greek manuscripts And there are a lot of them are in harmony, but some have variants. Some might read differently than others. The textual criticism is is the field that where uh these manuscripts are compared together and textual critics will uh basically use some guiding principles to determine what was in the original and what was perhaps Added on or maybe forgotten and so on. Again, we don't have time to go into that field of study unless you guys want to be here a few hours. You let me know that by raising the hand. Yeah, I want to be here. So, suffice to say that the debate largely lies in whether you believe in the majority of manuscripts which does have this last line of the Lord's Prayer or the earliest dated manuscript was does which does not have this last line. Those who go with the earlier manuscripts argue that this line was added later on because it was customary among the Jewish people to conclude their prayers. with a doxology. The argument kind of goes like this. I'll kind of quote Albert Moller here, who is the uh uh a scholar you could say, and uh he gives the typical argument that was given by these scholars. He says, quote, as a result of studying ancient manuscripts, scholars now believe with some certainty, some certainty, that these last words were probably a later addition to the Lord's Prayer. Since the Lord's Prayer seems to end rather abruptly, Christians in the early church added a doxology to the end of the prayer so as to give God the final word of praise in corporate worship settings. Now let me just say up front that I don't subscribe to that argument. I don't agree with Albert Moeller. He's he's probably smarter than me some in some things. But I don't agree with him on this issue. I believe the witness of the majority of manuscripts that do include this last line of the Lord's Prayer. But even among scholars that are convinced like me that this last line was in the original prayer, there's surprisingly little attention that is given to this last line Instead, they kind of treat it like some kind of a postscript and they really kind of pass over it as if it's not really important And I think that's sad because I think this last line of the Lord's Prayer is one of the most important parts of the Lord's Prayer, if not the most important part of the Lord's Prayer. And the reason for that, I can give you three reasons. But first of all, I think that this prayer turns the focus, this last line of the prayer turns the focus back to God and to spiritual things. Now, if you've been with us in our study of the Lord's Prayer, you see that the very beginning of this, the focus of the Lord's Prayer is on the things of God. You know, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Notice how that the first part of this Lord's Prayer is all focused on spiritual things, the things of God. And after we are concerned about His name and His kingdom and His will, then We focus on our needs. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation. But then here at the end of this prayer, I think Jesus brings it back full circle, and the focus shifts back to God once again. And I think that's so very important in the prayer. It's kind of sandwich with we focus on God, we focus on the things of God. We then talk about the needs that we have, but then we end our prayer with, again, focusing on the things of God, spiritual things, which are so very important. And that's why the prayer ends so beautifully. if you ask me, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. But a second reason why I think that this should be uh this is in the original and it's very important and I don't understand why it's overpassed so much is that the three themes mentioned in this closing doxology in this prayer perfectly match The doxology of the prayer prayed by David in the Old Testament. David ends his prayer in 1 Chronicles 29. Listen to what he says here. See if this sounds familiar. Yours, O Lord, or thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory. Power, glory, does that sound familiar? And the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and the earth is yours. And listen to this, and thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and you are exalted as head above all. That doxology sounds strangely familiar to me when I read that. And then now we have David's greater son. The Lord Jesus, who is teaching us to pray, who ends with those same great themes. And the doxology that Jesus gives in the ending of the Lord's Prayer. And I might just add as a footnote, the doxologies in prayers are very common in the Bible. We read these all the time. For example, in Numbers 6, 24 The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you. That's a doxology, a beautiful closing doxology. In Romans 11, 33, all the depths of the riches, the wisdom and the knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable his ways, for who has known the mind of the Lord And then there's another one in Ephesians, so very beautiful, Ephesians 3. 20. Now to him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think according to the power and the work within us, to him be glory. in the church and so on. And so um these these kind of doxologies, or we could say praises that are put into our prayers. They're so very beautiful. J. I. Packers reminds us of the value in of including these kinds of praise in our prayers. He says, quote, prayer and praise are like uh a bird's two wings with both working you soar with one out of action you are earthbound. But he says birds should not be earthbound um nor are Christians praiseless. And I I think that's so very true. But third, another reason I give for the importance of this last line of the Lord's Prayer is that this concluding line, I think, expresses the attitude of a child of God as they get off of their knees. As you end your prayer, this should be the thing that is on our mind. This should be the thing that We think about. Ask yourself when you finish praying, is your heart absolutely submitted to the King and His kingdom? When you get off your knees, is the main purpose of your life? To glorify God? Are you focused on his glory? When you get off your knees, are you absolutely dependent upon God's power? I think that's so very important. I think that we should leave prayer with these things on our mind. I think these should be the attitude of every child of God as they get off their knees. after having spent that time in prayer. So I want us to look closely at each of these three themes. Again, these are attitudes we should have as we get off our knees. Number one, focused on his kingdom. Let's think about this one together. For thine is the kingdom. It's important to see that the pronoun here used is in the possessive form. Thine, or we could say yours, God, is the kingdom. And with these words, we affirm that the kingdom belongs to God and God alone And so therefore God is sovereign over His kingdom. This might be a hard concept for us to grasp, we Americans. You know, yesterday we uh We celebrated the birthday of our nation. July 4th was the day that we declared independence from Great Britain. I was trying to find something red, white, and blue to wear. for the day, you know. The only red, white, and blue shirt that I had said London, England on it, and um I didn't think that was gonna work for Independence Day. I was thinking about just wearing it and and just putting a cross over you know, Xing it out like, you know. But anyway I did find a blue shirt for the day. But you know, we celebrate that day Um but interesting, one newspaper printed a quiz about the American Revolution and and the quiz it had a series of questions that you were supposed to answer. And one of the questions was what kind of government did the Founding Fathers establish? And they kind of gave you like some multiple choice. Was it a uh a indirect democracy or was it a direct democracy? Was it, you know, so on. And uh Uh one of the answers I guess the true answer was really not in there. You could have said none of the above, but really the United States was not founded as a democracy either directly or indirectly. It was rather a republic. And there's a difference there. By definition, a republic is a representative form of government that is ruled by a charter or a constitution. A democracy is a form of government that is ruled according to the will of the majority. And so this article included a section that described the thinkers who influenced the framers of the Declaration of Independence. and the U. S. Constitution. And one of those thinkers was a British empiricist, a man by the name of John Locke. And it was his ideas that influenced, according to this article, some of the ideas of the uh our founding fathers. And Locke's major contribution was in the area of the what he called the social contract of government, which states that the people must agree to surrender some rights to the government in order for the benefit of social order. And this is the philosophy, therefore, that undergirds the great idea that the government cons uh basically has its authority from the consent of the governed. We heard of that principle, right? The government gets its authority from the consent of the people, those who are government or governed. Therefore the government of the United States is to be a government, you know, of the people, by the people, for the people, and so on. So you get a say-so in the government And and and we're kind of used to that principle, I guess we could say. I'm I'm not in total agreement with the article and all those principles But nevertheless, that's what we think about as Americans. Let me just say that it is not that way with the kingdom of God. You understand that? The kingdom of God is not of the people, by the people, or for the people. You don't get a vote in what happens in the kingdom of God. You understand that? You didn't vote God in and you can't vote him out. He is an absolute control. He is absolutely sovereign. And his kingdom is to be the focus of our lives. Now I'm a American and I'm proud to be. You know, when you go visiting other countries and you see what they have and then you you you you really value more of the blessing of God. here in our country. But beloved, while I love our country, I truly do, my our focus is to be God's kingdom. That's to be the thing that is on our heart more than anything else is the kingdom of God. And drop down in verse number 33 of chapter 6 here in Matthew. You know this verse very well. What did Jesus say Seek ye first what? The kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. The word seek there is present tense imperative. That is, this is a command. We are to continually, daily, seek God's kingdom first. More Christians seem to be consumed with the temporal earthly kingdoms of this world rather than the kingdom of God In fact, a hot button topic right now among Christians is this term Christian nationalism. Anybody ever heard that term here lately? Christian nationalism. What is that? Well in short Christian nationalism is a desire to have a God-centered nation run by godly people, namely Christians therefore taking back the nation for God. Now, let me just be quick to say that in my study of history, I really believe that our country, America, was started upon Christian principles. I believe it was started with the Judeo-Christian ethic. I believe that there's a lot of evidence to that. I believe revisionist historians have tried to uh to exclude that from their latest histories. But Christian nationalism is this desire that, you know, all of the government be run under Christian principles. Now that would be my heart's desire as well, too, beloved. But a lot of Christian nationalism is based on an eschatology that is post-millennial. It's this idea that everything is going to get better and better and better and better And the gospel is going to completely take over every institution of the world, including the institution of government. And then when things are all in order, Jesus will come back finally and sit upon his throne That's the idea of post-millennialism. Now it's a hard sell for me, beloved. And I'll tell you why, because in the beginning, when our country was founded, we did have Christian statesmen that were in the government. And one of the first acts of the Congress of the United States was to use taxpayer money to give Bibles to every citizen of the U. S. Do you think that would happen today? Do you think our Congress today would vote to give everybody a Bible? Maybe a Quran? Maybe um maybe uh uh uh uh the the Gita of the Hindus, maybe some other holy book But a Bible? Do you think that our Congress would actually do that? We have fallen so far from that. The idea that, you know, we're getting better and better. I I I wish that that were true. I believe again America was indeed founded as a Christian nation. I pray that we will get back to that. This was the desire of the Puritans who came to America to worship in freedom. But if you take a look at what's happening in our nation, we are no longer a Christian nation. I say that with a heavy heart. I think that we could categorize categorize ourselves as post-Christian. There was a time in the days of our Puritan forefathers, when almost every soul in America acknowledged the Ten Commandments as the cornerstone of ethics and morality. Today most Americans can't even name three of the Ten Commandments. Some of them don't even know the first of the Ten Commandments. There was also a time not so long ago when American universities disapproved of homosexuality. adultery and divorce. They believed sexual promiscuity was absolutely wrong. They regarded obscene language as Absolutely wrong, inappropriate. They saw abortion as unthinkable, and they held public offici officials to high moral and ethical standards. Do you think it's that way now? We've fallen far from that now. How times have changed, how our culture has changed. The strong Christian influence and scriptural Standards that shaped the Western culture has given way basically to practical atheism and a moral relativism. That is now dominating our thinking. There are very few vestiges of Christianity in our culture. I mean, at best, they're weak and compromising. And and and and did you notice how quickly this has happened in our country? How we've fallen so far, so fast. And so, you know, what are we to do about it as Christians? One of the responses has been many think that the that this political this political problem will be solved with political strategy. Therefore we have You know, for the past years we got these Christian, well meaning Christians who have founded these activist groups And they've sunk in millions of dollars into their their groups in an effort to lobby legislation. to do demonstrations, to do boycotts, to counteract the moral decline in the American culture. They pour all their energy and resources into Christi uh a Christian political movement that will fight back against the prevailing anti-Christian culture. But the question is, is that the right response? Is that the proper perspective? I don't believe it is. I believe that our focus should be on the kingdom of God. Let me tell you something. When the church focuses on getting out the gospel and not compromising the Word of God, you know what happens? The church remains strong. and we have an impact in the community. But when the church's major priority becomes political and we get all involved in political activism It seems like the gospel, the power of God and the salvation is forgotten, and churches are willing to compromise certain elements of the Word of God. And it is just read your Christian history and you'll see that to be true. Whenever the church is focused on evangelism and the preaching of the gospel, the influence of the church has increased. Whenever she has sought power by political, cultural or even military activism, the church has been damaged and the testimony of the church has been spoiled. You can just look throughout Christian history to find that to be true. Look at the Crusades in the Middle Ages. Look at Other examples, Oliver Quant Cromwell in uh England trying to bring a revolution, a Thirty Years' War, and and throughout Protestant history, we have seen that common denominator. And and I'm saying all that just to simply say this. Our focus the problem in America is not political, the problem is spiritual. It's a spiritual issue. And it doesn't matter how much political activism you get involved with, if the people in the country are not good, it's not going to work And the only thing that makes people good is the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the only thing that can change a heart. So that's what we need to focus on. So you know what our focus needs to be? The spread of the kingdom of Christ. The spiritual spread of the kingdom. His spirit his kingdom is advancing spiritually, first of all, in the hearts of men who confess him as Savior and Lord. Later on, Jesus will come and set up his literal kingdom, but first there has to be the change of heart that comes through the preaching of the gospel. Amen? Okay? Some of you are with me. So we need to be number one focused on his kingdom. When we get off our knees, that needs to be our priority. The bottom line is Christians, as Christians, we need to focus on His kingdom. His kingdom needs to be our priority. I spent so much time on that point. I have four minutes left for the other two. But here's number two. Dependent on his power. For thine is the kingdom and the power. Secondly, Jesus told us that we should acknowledge in prayer that the power is God's and God's alone. The Greek word translated here for power is dunymus, where we get the word dynamite from. And this line of the Lord's Prayer reminds us that God possesses all power. in heaven and on earth. Power to create, power to save, power to enable believers to live the Christian life Let me just say that if anything good and godly gets done, it'll not be by the power of the flesh. It'll go be only by the power of God. If anything good happens, it won't be because of this person here. It'll be because of the power of God. Won't be because of anyone's fleshly ability. It'll be because God did it through his power because power alone belongs to God. Write down Psalm 62, verse 11. God has spoken once Twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto God We need to be absolutely, totally dependent upon God and his power to do anything. Remember what Jesus said like this in John 15, 5. I'm the vine, you are the what? Branches. He that abideth in me and I am, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do Nothing. He didn't say without me you can do, you know, there's certain things you can do. No, without me, you can do nothing. Now again, we have to get back to the analogy that Jesus is using here, the vine and the branches. Any branch that's not connected to the vine, what good is it? You know yesterday we were getting ready to have our fourth of cookout. We have our deck out there. And I noticed that all these dead branches were falling onto the deck. I had to sweep them off. You know, I didn't look at some of those branches and say, you know, I think I could use this. You know, if I had a fireplace maybe, but since I don't have a a wood fireplace, thank God I have a gas fireplace. Just push a button. That's the lazy way. I don't have a wood fireplace. It's no good. It's to be gotten rid of. And that's the analogy that Jesus is using here. Listen to what he said in John 15, 6. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. We are absolutely, totally useless unless we are connected to the life-giving vine called Jesus Christ. There's nothing we can do. You know what a fruit is? Fruit is the effortless product of a healthy branch. And you know what a healthy branch is? A healthy branch is a branch that is connected to the vine. And is absolutely dependent upon the vine for nourishment, for life-giving power, for any source of anything. The branch is just simply a conduit through which the power of the vine is expressed Fruit is nothing but the effortless product of a healthy branch. And that's what we're to be As Christians, we need to be absolutely, totally dependent upon the power of God. There's more I can say about that, but let me get to the last point here. Um when we get off our knees, we need to be focused on his kingdom, dependent On his power, but then finally committed to his glory. Again in verse thirteen, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Jesus teaches us to acknowledge that all glory rightfully belongs to God. In his uh doxology in Romans 11, Paul does just that. Romans 11, 36, for of him And through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. So as servants of Christ, we should desire above all things that God get Again, another verse on this, Psalm 115, verse 1. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us But unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and for thy truth's sake. And again, this should be the passion of every child of God. I want God to receive the rightful Glory. I want my life to be a life that glorifies his name. It was the habit of the great composure Johann Sebastian Bach, when he would write a musical composition, he would end it by putting some initials at the bottom of his composition. S period, D period G period, and that was to remind himself and everyone who played his composition that the glory was to be given to God alone. Now, SVG are the initials that stand for the Latin words that perhaps you've heard me say before, Solideo Gloria. And what does that mean? It means glory to God alone. Soli is alone. Deo Gloria, glory to God. Glory to God alone. He didn't write DG, glory to God. I mean, that would have been good, but that wasn't enough. No, it was SDG, glory to God alone. God alone. Gets all of the glory. That's what we affirm at the end of the Lord's Prayer. We are acknowledging that God alone gets all the glory because you know why? God alone does all the saving. He does all the saving. He does all the keeping. It's like one little boy he w wanted to join a church, so he was being questioned about his salvation and testimony, and they said, How did you get saved? And the little boy said, Well, I did my part and God did his part. And they thought, well that doesn't really sound right. Could you please explain what you mean by that? And the little boy said, Well I did all of the sinning and dot and God did all the saving. And that's exactly right. We did all of the sinning, God did all of the saving, and so God and God alone gets all of the glory. And so let me encourage you as we wrap up this study in the Lord's Prayer that this be the focus For every believer after a prayer, that you're focused on his kingdom, that you're absolutely dependent on his power, that you're committed to his glory. And let me encourage you, if you haven't done it already, to use this Lord's Prayer as a guide as you seek to to deepen your walk with the Lord every day when you pray. Use this as a guide. Heard about a little four-year-old boy named Jonathan. He was trying to learn the Lord's Prayer. And he he learned it by listening every Sunday to what the people said. And of course sometimes you don't really hear exactly what the people were saying. And so one Sunday when they were praying He could be heard praying above all others, Our Father who art in heaven, I know you know my name. That's not exactly right, yet it's right. God does know your name. And we need to know him more. And he wants to hear you pray. So I hope that you're doing that. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for this beautiful prayer, this beautiful guide that Lord we all need to utilize. As we seek your face. And I pray that the study of this beautiful prayer will not only instruct our mind, but it will inspire our hearts, Lord, to draw near to you every day. Lord, to hallow your name, to pray for the kingdom to come into the hearts and lives of people and change people. Lord, for your will to be done. That that would be the passion of our heart to see your will being done. Thank you, Lord, that you do give us daily bread. And through your grace, we're able to forgive others. And Lord, because of your help, we're able to handle Temptations and trials when they come our way. And so, Lord, when we get off of our knees, help us to be totally focused upon your kingdom, totally dependent upon your power Totally committed to your glory. May we live out each day just that way. Lord, help us to do that, Father. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.