Colossians chapter 1, if you know, we're doing a study in this wonderful little epistle that is uh such a powerful little book. And uh although we study it, we probably won't scratch the surface of it. There's so much depth to this book. And Colossians chapter 1, we are going to tonight deal with verses 9 down to verse 14. So follow along as I read these verses tonight. For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, did not cease to pray for you as a desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you might walk worthy of the Lord and to all pleasing. being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. Strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Giving thanks unto the Father which has made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness. and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Many years ago, a young missionary named Raymond Edmond staggered from a jungle in Ecuador. He was desperately ill. The doctor that examined him said that he'll be dead by morning. His wife uh dyed her wedding dress black so it could be ready for the funeral because in the jungles there, the tropics the funeral had to be immediately. So they were fully expecting him to die and to have the funeral the very next day. However, thousands of miles away in Boston, Edmund's friend, a man by the name of Dr. Joseph Edwin uh Evans was having a prayer meeting with friends, and he interrupted the prayer meeting to say, I feel that we should pray this moment for Ray Edmund in Ecuador. And all the people joined together in earnest prayer for this missionary, not knowing why, but feeling the burden to pray at that moment for this young man. They prayed and they prayed until finally at a moment of release, a sense of peace given from the Holy Spirit, Dr. Evans cried out, praise the Lord. The victory's won. And they weren't even sure exactly what was going on. In Ecuador, the missionary the next morning, rather than dying, miraculously recovered. His wife's dress did not. Edmund, Raymond Edmund went on to be a missionary for many years and then later become president of Wheaton College. Now that beautiful and amazing story affirms to us as believers the power of intercessory prayer, the power of praying for others Scripture gives us a clear command that we are to pray for one another. This is not an option for us. God commands us to pray for each other. And I don't want to take time to go through all of the examples in Scripture. You know as well as I do. know that the Bible is replete with illustrations of believers praying for one another. But here's a question I want to pose to you tonight. Have you ever wondered how you should pray for others? Sometimes people will come up to you in church and they'll say, Would you please pray for so-and-so? This might be someone that you've never met. And they're not really very specific about how to pray, but just please pray for this person who is a friend of mine How do you pray at a moment like that? How should we pray for the church? You know, really, this is a question that sometimes perhaps we battle with. Sometimes we're not even sure what to pray for ourselves. Well, here in these verses that I just read, Paul provides a classic answer to this question. And again, we're just really in the introduction to the book of Colossians. We're really not getting into the mean of the letter just yet. But in this introduction, Paul, as it were, gives us somewhat of a guide on how to pray for others. He lays out a model for us. Here in these verses, Ark Kent Hughes wrote this. He said, his prayer was a beautifully constructed tapestry that makes a perfect model for the fabric of our own prayers. And so I want us to look at this prayer tonight that Paul gave for these other believers and use it in our own life on how we are to pray for others. And what you'll notice in this prayer is that the requests that Paul gives are not really anything, in fact, none of it is for physical or material needs. But spiritual needs. Now there's nothing wrong with praying for physical needs or material needs. We should certainly do that. But by far the vast important things that we should pray for are spiritual issues. And spiritual needs. And so I want you to see how we should pray for others in these verses here. How we should ask, what are the things that we should pray for? If you're taking notes, break down number one, pray for fullness. When we pray for others, we should pray for their fullness. Look again at verse number nine. For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you and to desire that you might be filled. Notice that be filled with all the with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. So Paul prays that they might be filled. With knowledge and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Now remember the purpose of this letter, and we're going to see this as we study, is to warn the Colossian believers about a dangerous heresy that was invading that area and had already initially had gotten into the church and it was threatening to uh cause believers to stumble in their faith. And this heresy was an early form of what was called Gnosticism. And we the word Gnosticism is the Greek word uh from the Greek word gnosis. We're going to look at that word here in a minute. And it just simply means knowledge. And the Gnostics were basically saying something like this. Well, Christ is a good place to start, but you need more than Christ. You need more than the knowledge you get with Christ. There's a higher knowledge. There is a greater knowledge that you can gain if you'll just listen to the things that we teach you. If you'll just incorporate into your ideas our passwords Our rites, our initiations. They believed that salvation was esoteric. It was gained by superior knowledge, higher knowledge, that you could ascend into spiritual perfection through knowing things. And so they looked at Christianity as if it were something that were bottom shelf. It was elementary. It was for the immature minds. But if you really wanted to grow and you really wanted to get spiritually elite, then you had to accept this secret knowledge. And when you accept this, then you'll be in the know. These early heretics walked around with a spiritual kind of elitist attitude, as if we are in the know, we have this special knowledge, and you poor souls, you haven't yet been initiated into this You ever see people like that? They feel like they've arrived spiritually, like they know so much more than you do, and you need to come to our level, and we're going to pray for you that you come to our level. That was the attitude that these Gnostic teachers had. Now there's no accident that Paul uses these words that we see in verse 9. Words like filled and words like knowledge. And words like wisdom and spiritual understanding, you know why? Because these were key buzzwords that was used in that Gnostic philosophical system. This was something that they used all the time. So it's no accident that Paul seizes these words and he kind of baptizes them and brings them into Christianity because the real superior knowledge came through knowing Jesus Christ, not through Gnosticism. You know, Satan is so deceptive. He likes to borrow the Christian vocabulary. He will use Christian words, but he'll attribute his own definitions to those words. And that's what heresy does today. It'll use a lot of Christian terms, but it'll give its own definition to those terms I think that Paul got the attention of these Colossian believers when he said, I'm praying for you that you might be filled with knowledge. And all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Now let's look again. Look at the reason for this prayer. Look again in verse 9. For this cause, we also, since the day we heard it. Now, this phrase for this cause refers back to what Paul had previously written in verses 7 and 8. This was based on the report that he received from Epathras. That report was a glowing report of what God was doing there in that little city of Colossee. People were getting saved. And Paul, based on that report, is convinced, he's persuaded, that they knew the Lord Jesus Christ, that they were saved. But there was so much more that they needed to learn about him. And what the Colossians needed was not some new knowledge that was so-called superior. What they needed to learn was what they already had received. In the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want you to understand that. As a Christian, you don't need to go out searching for more knowledge from other places. What you needed to do is to understand everything that you received when you received the Lord Jesus Christ. Because you receive so much we're not even aware sometimes of all of the spiritual resources and blessings that we have when we receive the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's why Paul is praying for them. He's praying that they might not have another spiritual experience But they might understand the spiritual experience they already had in Christ, that they would grow in that knowledge. I think I told you this illustration before, but it it fits here. A rich man who collected art was looking for a certain piece of art. He read about it in a paper. He sent his men out all over, looking, combing the country. to find this precious piece of art. He wanted to add it to his collection. His men came back and said, Sir, we found this piece of art that you've been looking for. He said, Good, where is it? They said, it's already in your own warehouse. You already have it You've already owned it. And the same is true spiritually. There are many people looking for things, looking for resources and help. But if you have the Lord Jesus Christ, you have a warehouse full of resources And what you need is already in the warehouse. You just don't realize that it's there. And so Paul prays that they might be filled with the knowledge of his will. And really the theme, you know, we just sang a chorus What are we saying? Christ is what? All I need. That's the whole theme of Colossians. Christ is all that you need. And so you need to understand all that you've received in the Lord Jesus Christ. So don't look for something new. Pray that God helps you to understand what you already have. Notice the request again in verse 9. For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. And to desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Now, when Paul heard of this Colossian church, he prayed for them daily Continually. And what was his prayer? That they might be filled with the knowledge of his will. Now I want you to look at the word knowledge there. Again, this is the Greek word gnosis. And this is a word sometimes we might even hear in our English language from time to time. For example, when you go to the doctor and he examines a person and he gives that person a diagnosis. That's where we get the word. And it simply means knowledge. But then there is attributed to this Greek word a prefix, which is epi, and it's where we get our word epic. And it has the idea of super, this intensifies the word, a superior knowledge, a super knowledge, we could say, a full knowledge. And again, this was a favorite word that Gnostic teachers would like to use. And Paul uses this word here, and he's saying, Gnostics, you boast of a superior knowledge, but there is a knowledge that surpasses all others. And that is the knowledge that comes with knowing Jesus Christ. And all that you have in Christ. This is what we says. He says, if the Gnostics had their superior knowledge So did the Christian Church. The former was speculative and false, but the latter positive and true. And Paul prays that they might not only just have it, but they might be filled with it. And that's true. Paul is praying. This knowledge that you have in Christ is far superior to any other knowledge. It is a true spiritual knowledge. And Paul is praying for these believers. He said, I want you to be filled with this. Filled with it. Now let me give you another word. Look at the word filled here. It's another important word. And it's the Greek word playroom. And again, this was a key word used by Gnostics, and Paul's using it here. What does playroom mean? And sometimes it is translated fullness And sometimes it's translated to be complete. The idea of being complete. For example, let's look at how she's looking at chapter 1, look at verse 19. And it pleased the Father that in him should all the what The fullness. There is the word there, play root, dwell. Look at verse 25. Whereof I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God, which is given to me for you. to fulfill, there's the word there, the word of God used there. Look in chapter 2 and verse 2 where it says that their hearts might be comforted being knit together in love and unto unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding. It's used there as well. Look in chapter 2. Look down at verse number 10. And ye are, what's the next word there? Complete. You following along? Ye are complete. Underscore that word. You know why? That's the exact same word Exact same word, playru. Ye are filled, or filled to the fullness, or you're complete in Him. You see, this word playru has the idea of being fully equipped. You're fully equipped in Christ. This was a word that was used in classical Greek literature to talk about a ship that was getting ready to launch out on a voyage, and they had all of the supplies. They were fully equipped for that voyage that they were on. Now, the believer in Christ has all that they need for this voyage called life. You understand that? You have been fully equipped. The the storms may come and the journey of the voyage might get difficult, but guess what? It doesn't matter how difficult the voyage may be. You have been given all that you need for that voyage called life. And you've been given that in Christ. And so it has the idea there of being complete. The Bible says in John 1. 16, and of his fullness have we all received. That's what happens when you get saved. You receive all of his fullness. But there's a second idea, a second nuance to this word, not only to be complete, but also to be controlled. Playroom also has this sense of domination to be controlled by. In fact, this word again is used in the Gospels. When it talks about being filled with emotion, Luke 5. 26, you're filled with fear. Or Luke 6. 11, filled with rage. In John 16, 6, Jesus said to his disciples, Why has sorrow filled your heart? In each of those instances It has the idea of completely be controlling that person. This emotion at that moment is controlling that individual. Sorrow is controlling them, or anger is controlling them. And so in the New Testament, then, it has this idea of being controlled by. By the way, it's the same word we see in Ephesians where it says, be not drunk with wine. But be what? Filled with the Spirit. Same word, playroom. And what does that mean? That means a person is dominated by the Spirit. That means that person is filled with the Holy Spirit. Now what is Paul praying for these believers here? That they might be filled or controlled by what? And verse 9, the knowledge that they have received, the knowledge of God's will, and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. You see, that's what we should dominate us. The knowledge of God's will. And doing God's will. That should be the thing that dominates us. Let me ask you a question. Do you want to do the will of God tonight? Does that one idea dominate you? I just want to do what God wants me to do. You know, I remember when I first got saved as a young believer, I didn't really know the will of God. I just wanted to do whatever it was And that desire does not wane. It increases as you grow in Christ. I want to do the will of God. Now, how does this take place? How can believers grow in this knowledge? Look again in verse 9. That you might be filled with all the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. There's how it grows. Well, we could say wisdom and spiritual insight. You see, we understand God's will through God's word, beloved. This is how we understand God's will. Did you know 95% of God's will is right here. It's right here. You just have to understand this. You have to get into God's Word. You have to learn it. In fact, we can divide God's will in three ways. First of all, we could call it God's sovereign will, and we know that God's sovereign will is always done. I don't have to pray about God's sovereign will because whatever happens, God has allowed it to happen, God has permitted it to happen, and he knows why it's going to happen, he has a purpose for it, and the and the secret counsels of his his own heart He knows what he's doing. Sometimes people say, why did this happen? I don't know, friend. That's a secret with Almighty God. But I'll tell you this, shall not the God of all the earth do what is right? The just God. He knows what he's doing. His sovereign will is always done. But then secondly, there's his standard will. And we find this in the scripture. God has laid it down. You want to know God's will? You have to know God's word. And we don't pray about what God has already commanded us or what God has already forbidden. It's already in the scripture. So we just do it But then there's an even smaller, narrow perspective. There's God's sovereign will, and then it narrows down to God's standard will, and then it narrows down to even more, and it's God's special will. And that's God's will for me personally. It might not be the same for you. God's special will for me is to be a preacher of the Word, to serve Here in this church, God's special will for you might be something else. Something specific that God has picked out for you. Now to know God's sovereign will is not hard. To know God's standard will is a little more challenging, but we can know it if we just study the Word of God. But God's special will that's a little bit harder. And that's going to require spiritual insight. But I'll tell you this, friend, if you learn God's standard will, it'll direct you into his special will. If you learn his standard will, you learn the word of God, that will give you directions on finding God's special will. So Paul doesn't pray for these Colossians to have some vision or some mystical experience or anything like that. He just prays that God will fill them with the knowledge of his will. That's his prayer. You say, How should I pray for others? You should pray that God will give them the understanding of his will To be filled with that will, to have insight and wisdom into God's word. That's a prayer for fullness. I want to know the will of God. I want to know his word, and I want to live it out. And that brings us to the second point here. Pray for fullness, but here's the second thing: pray for faithfulness. Look in verse number 10. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. There's the next request. And there's a logical progression here. When we're filled with the knowledge of God's will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding, you know what's going to happen next? then we are going to walk worthy of the Lord in all pleasing. And the word walk there just conveys a consistency. A step-by-step continual consistency in the same direction you're walking Day by day. You know, the Christian life is not a life where we live from one spectacular experience to the other. It's just simply, consistently, step by step, being faithful and taking the next step that God has for us. And just being faithful to do that. No fanfare, no big splash. We just consistently walk in the way of God. And Paul says that when you're filled with the knowledge of his will, through spiritual understanding, then you'll be able to walk worthy on the Lord. And how's a worthy walk? Completely devoted to pleasing God. Notice where it says unto all pleasing. That means I want to simply please God. I want to do whatever God wants me to do. That's a worthy walk. You see, you're in one or two groups here tonight. You're either walking in a way that pleases yourself, and you're living for pleasing yourself, or you're living for pleasing God, one or the other. That's it. So you have to ask yourself, am I walking in this life to please myself? Or am I walking in this life to please God? But that's what happens when you want to do God's will. You see, here's the first thing you have to do. You have to empty yourself of your own will. That's part of Being filled with the knowledge of his will. Let me tell you something else about the word filled that we looked at in verse 9. Listen, it is a passive voice verb. Greek scholars call this a divine passive. God is the one, is the implied subject that is doing the action. So when it says be filled, that means I can't fill myself. God has to do the filling. He's the subject. He's the one acting here. I am the object. God has got to fill me. But now I have to do my part, and God will do his part. You say, what's your part? My part is to empty myself of my own will and doing things that that please me, that are living for my own pleasure. I've got to empty myself of that. And when I empty myself of self-pleasure and self-will and just submit to God, you know what God does? God fills me then with his will. He's the one. He's the active agent that fills me with his will. Then you know what happens? I begin to live a life of pleasing the Lord, a worthy, faithful walk. Sinclair Ferguson said this, the will of God means death to our own will, and resurrection only when we have died to all of our own plans. It should be the aim of every Christian to have his will directed by the will of God. So we pray for fullness And then we pray for faithfulness. But then here's the third thing. Here's the third request we should pray for. Pray for fruitfulness. Look again in verse number 10. That you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Watch this. Being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. Now again, that word knowledge is that word we already looked at, epicnosis, epic knowledge. And as we grow in our knowledge of God, so should our fruitfulness grow. Now, the false teachers at Colossi attracted people because of their supposed superior knowledge. But you know one thing about those Gnostic teachers and that lifestyle is it never translated into practical living. They didn't relate this knowledge to life. And so all of this knowledge that the Gnostics boasted about, it was all theoretical. It was just having a bunch of facts. It was knowing a bunch of special words It was having a a certain philosophical uh thinking about them. But it never translated in the way in which they lived. Here Paul is saying, listen, in the Christian life, knowledge And practice have to go together. You can't divorce obedience from knowledge. There's no separation between learning and living There's no separation between doctrine and duty, and what we believe should determine how we behave. And this is the thing that Paul's saying, the knowledge that you have, that will result in you being fruitful in every good work. And as your knowledge of God increases so should your good works and your practice and your obedience and your fruit fruitfulness, all of that should increase as the knowledge of God increases How many of you have ever met believers and they run from one Bible conference to another? And they get filled with all they get their notebooks out and they fill it. I'm not against taking notes. Take all the notes you want to. It's a good way to remember things. But I met believers and they run from one place to another, from one conference to another, looking for spiritual truth. And they have it all written down in their theological notebook. They've got it all spread out. They've got all this knowledge. And rather than being a blessing and letting them become fruitful, you know what they do? They go around challenging everybody about the things that they don't know. And rather than becoming a blessing to the church, they kind of become a thorn in the flesh They get big heads, and they're kind of puffed up a little bit, and their hearts are not on fire for God. What is that? Their heads are just filled with all this theology and all this knowledge. But none of it translates into practice. None of it translates into doing good. None of it translates into loving others and serving others And this is what Paul's talking about here. He's praying that while they increase in knowledge, that they'll be fruitful. It won't just be theoretical. There's a mutual cause and effect relationship between knowing and doing, and this is one of the fundamental laws of spiritual growth. You're not growing just because you have a lot of knowledge. You're growing as you apply all of that to your life. That's the principle there. And so Paul is praying for their fruitfulness. You know the story of the Dead Sea, right? You've probably heard this before. The Dead Sea is called the Dead Sea because fish can't live in that water. Plants can't grow along the banks of the Dead Sea. You know why? Because it is has so much salt in that sea. And why is that? Because it has an inlet. There's water, salt water pouring into the Dead Sea, but there's no outlet. And so there's a buildup of salt, so much so that nothing can live in it. And and someone has compared that to the Christian life. If you're a Christian and all that's happening is there's an inlet You're getting all this into you. You're getting spiritual truth and things are being taught to you, and you're there's an inlet and you're but there's no outlet. You know what's happening? You can become a dead Orthodox Christian. Dead you say, I'm right. Yeah, you're dead right. You're you're orthodox, you got all this knowledge, but there's no outlet. And nothing is happening in your life. Jesus spent three years teaching his disciples how to bear fruit in their life. And how to apply this. So, what does Paul pray for? He prays for their fruitfulness. So, number one, pray for fullness, pray for faithfulness, pray for fruitfulness. But here's the fourth thing I want you to see. Pray for forcefulness. Look at verse number eleven. Strengthen with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Now Paul is praying here that they will understand the source of their power. The source of the Christians' power Is God Himself. It is God's power that energizes us to live the Christian life. Sometimes people will come to me and they'll say, I can't live the Christian life, and I'll say, You're exactly right, you can't live it. I can't live it. It's got to be God and His power who lives it through us. We have to enthrone Jesus on our heart. We have to yield to the Holy Spirit. It is God who gives us That source of power. You and I, we can't do it. It is the mighty power of God working in and through us. Look at that word strengthen there. That's present tense, which means it's a continual action. You're continually being strengthened. I would give this analogy. Your Christian life is not like riding a bike. You know, when when my father, this is Father's Day, so I'm gonna give my dad some time here. My father taught me how to ride a bike. It was very simple. He put me on the bike and he pushed me, and that was it. And that was the rest of it was up to me. I had to do all the pedaling. He just gave me the initial push and then watched. You know. That happened several times before I got the hang of it, by the way. And some people feel like the Christian life is kind of like that. You know, when you get saved, God the Father gives you an initial push, and then he lets you on your own. That's not what God does. You know, the Christian life is more like riding a motorcycle because the power supply is already there. When I'm riding a bike, I have to do the pedaling. It's all by my strength That's not the Christian life. The Christian life is like riding a motorcycle where the source of power has already been supplied. And it's not given to you just initially. It is that power that is constantly pushing you along That's the power of God. Now some people think in the Christian life, it's all up to me. No, it's up to God. You have to realize your source of power and realize that God doesn't just initially give you power and then let you go. He supplies that power every day, every moment of your life. And you've got to depend on that power. And that's what the Apostle Paul is saying here. That's what he means by this present tense. It is a continually being strengthened by God. You forget that. How many people have ever seen a guy on a motorcycle pushing it himself? You say, I don't I can't think of anybody that's dumb unless it's the Christian who thinks it's up to you to push this thing along. You know, uh when you got all that power that's there and you're not depending on the power. And so remember, it's the power of God that we must depend upon. Now someone might ask, well, how do we know when we're dependent on God's power? How do we know that when it's God's power doing it Well, look what Paul says in verse 11. He says, strengthen with all might according to his glorious power. Watch this. Here's the evidence of it. Unto all patience. And long-suffering with joyfulness. The word patient here, hupomone, literally to abide under, and it has the idea of facing trials. And it means steadfastness under trials. It is bearing up under a heavy load. Bearing up under difficulty. Not surrendering to the circumstances when they get difficult. You may be here tonight, you might be in a difficult circumstance. Maybe you have some heavy trial, some heartache, something that's getting you down. That's friend where you need to depend upon the power of God. Because when the Holy Spirit strengthens you, one evidence of that will be is that you will be able to persevere. You will be able to continue on. You'll be able to bear up. This is what Barclay says of this word. It is a conquering patience. It is the ability to deal triumphantly with anything that life can do to us. And then there's the word long-suffering. Look again in verse 11, unto all patience and long-suffering. Totally different word here. This has to do with patience with people. Whereas the first word has to do with circumstances. The second word has to do with people. You're able to bear up on the uh with any person. Under any circumstance, you have patience, you persevere, you don't cave in, you don't crumble. Why? Because you're being kept by the strength of God, not your own strength. But it's by the strength of God. Someone asked William Carey, the Great Baptist missionary, how he was able to accomplish so much under such difficult circumstances. If you've never read The Life of William Carey, I challenge you to read it. It's one of the most incredible stories of a man who knew how to persevere. And someone asked him, how are you able to do that? And this is what his response was. He said, because I can plod. I can persevere. He said, under any circumstance, God has taught me how to just continue on. And that's the strength of Almighty God. Sometimes the only thing that you can do in the Christian life is just hold on. And persevere. I read this story this week. I thought it was kind of funny, but it fits this illustration this point here. A man tells a story of a commuter flight from Portland, Maine to Boston, Massachusetts. The pilot of this plane was a man by the name of Harry Dempsey. Harry Densley, the pilot of the plane, heard an unusual noise in the rear of the aircraft while he was flying. So he turned the controls over to the co-pilot and he went back to investigate. As he reached the tail section, the plane hit an air pocket, and the pilot Dempsey was tossed against the rear door. And he quickly understood what the mysterious noise was in the back of the plane. Because the rear door had not been properly latched before takeoff. And before the pilot could properly latch the door, the door flew open, and he flew, he was sucked out of the plane. Sucked out of the plane. The co-pilot, seeing the red light and the door open, immediately called in to the nearest airport. He requested an emergency landing. He reported that the pilot had fallen out of the plane. He requested helicopters go to that area to search for him, that area over the ocean. The plane landed uh excuse me, the the plane la uh the plane, excuse me, landed, and they what they found was after the plane had landed was the pilot Henry Dempsey was holding on to the outside ladder on the plane. He was holding on. He had been holding on that whole time. Somehow, when he was sucked out of the plane, he was able to grab onto the ladder So he held on for 10 minutes as the plane flew 200 miles an hour. at an altitude of 4,000 feet until the plane landed, and then he was able to hold on while the plane landed without hitting his head on the runway. It was reported that the airport personnel, it took them several minutes to pry Dempsey's fingers from the ladder. I guess so. When I read that story, I thought, well, that's what sometimes we all we can do in the Christian life is just hold on. The question I asked is how did he get the strength to hold on to that thing? You know, under that circumstance, you know, in this thing called life, there's a lot of turbulence that we're going to experience. And you know what keeps us holding on as believers? It's only the strength of God. That gives us that ability to hold on. Let me give you the last point. We'll be done. So Paul prays for their fullness. He prays for their faithfulness. He prays for their fruitfulness. He prays for their forcefulness. Here's the next thing. He prays uh We should pray for forgiveness. He includes forgiveness in this. In verse 14, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of his sins. But back up really in verse 12. Really this is a thanksgiving as he's closing the prayer Giving thanks unto the Father, which has made us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son, in whom we have re redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness. So really, and these verses here, this is a motto of a thanksgiving prayer. You ever wonder what to pray for or what how to be thankful? Just look at here. We're thankful for our riches, our spiritual riches. He has made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in life. Do you not understand how rich you are, believer? God has so enriched us. And so in this prayer, Paul includes a thanksgiving for our riches and also our rescue. From the power of darkness in verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness. And he has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. We have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. We have been placed in God's kingdom. And then there's a prayer for redemption, a thanksgiving prayer for our redemption, in whom we have redemption through his blood. The purchase price has been paid. We have been redeemed through the blood of Christ. And we should pray this. But friend, I want to tell you something. I can't pray this Where I don't think about those who don't have this, those who are not in the kingdom of light Those who are still in the kingdom of darkness, those who are still in the bonds of sin and have not been redeemed. And so, friend, this should remind us to pray for those that don't know the Lord Jesus. Well that should always be a part of our prayer. Praying for the lost. Pray that they know Christ. I was talking to a dad not too long ago. And he was concerned about his child, because his child was in those years where they were began to make their own decisions, and the decisions that they were making were not good decisions. They were not decisions that honor the Lord. And it broke this father's heart. And we as parents, we know that, right? We want to see our children do what's right before God. We want to see them honor the Lord. And sometimes when they make those decisions that don't, it crushes us. It breaks us. And that's how this father was. And he seemed a bit defeated. And he was concerned because he didn't think that his child knew the Lord. And I basically said to this person, I said, You know what? When it comes to praying for our children, as parents, you know what, we need to develop a militant attitude. He said, what do you mean by that? I mean you just need to say, Satan, you can't have my child. You can't have him, or you can't have her And there are times in prayer when it just requires, on our part, spiritual warfare where we claim that soul for God and we keep praying and praying and we don't give up because we want to see them translated out of the kingdom of darkness. and into the kingdom of his dear son. I meet some Christian parents, and I wonder sometimes if they're really concerned over the souls of their children. Because it almost seems like they've got a passive attitude, oh, whatever, whatever happens, happens. I don't have any control. That's nonsense, friend. Let me tell you something. It is God's will for your child to come to know Jesus Christ. And you need to lay hold of God in prayer, and you need to pray for God to redeem their hearts, and pray for them to be delivered out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's dear Son. And so we pray this, we pray for lost souls to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'll just close with this. There's a book out called Wild at Heart, written by John Elridge. It's a pretty good book. It talks about the search, a man's search for the true purpose of life. And toward the end of this book, the author relates a story, something that happened to him. He was rummaging through a bookstore And he found a book, and he happened to open a book, and he saw two sentences that kind of leaped off the page to him. And those two sentences were so impactful. They were so insightful that he sat this is what he said. He said, I sat the volume down without turning another page and walked out of that bookstore and he began to think about what those words had to say. What were the words That he read. He said, don't ask yourself what the world needs. These were the words that he read. Ask yourself what makes you come alive and go and do that. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive. And when I read that, I think about this prayer of Paul, because really what Paul is praying for is for God's people to come alive. To go out and to do the thing that they have been made to do. The will of God. You see, you know what makes me come alive when I know I'm doing the will of God. When I'm committed to doing the will of God. And what the world needs are Christians that are totally, completely committed to doing God's will. That's what brings life. So my question is, do you want that for your own life to be filled with the knowledge of his will? Let's bow for prayer tonight. And Lord, help us then to do your will. Help us, Lord, to be filled with the knowledge of your will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. And Lord, grant that we walk worthy. A life, Lord, where we're devoted to pleasing you. And grant to us, Lord, that we don't just have spiritual knowledge, but that it translates into fruitfulness in our life, where we're bearing fruit, we're doing good works And we understand our source of strength. We have a force. We are a force because we're dependent upon you to strengthen us. And so, Father, apply these words to us. And Lord, as we pray for others, may we pray this for our children, for our fellow believers in Christ, that we might be all that you intend for us. us to be. And Lord, I pray all this in your mighty name. Amen.