Now, tonight I invite you to take your Bibles, open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms, chapter 123, Psalm chapter 123. I want to talk tonight about how to stay focused during a crisis. You know, myopia is the medical term for near-sightedness. Perhaps you knew that. People with myopia are able to see things that are very close clearly, but When things are far off, they're fuzzy. Now optometrists say that this is brought on by always looking at objects that are near And uh so it's good sometimes to uh kind of get a a long view to see things that are afar off. Did you know that actually the uh term myopia, the medical term, comes from a Greek word? It's used one time in the New Testament, and it's used in 2 Peter 1. 9, and it's translated like this, cannot see afar off. And this is where we get the medical term myopia from that New Testament word that means that very thing. Now there are some Christians who have a problem with spiritual myopia. They're burdened down with the cares of this world, the fears that are being generated by a lot of reports that are being out there about things that are going on. And so they're Because of that, they're focusing more on circumstances. They're focusing more on their problems instead of really keeping our eyes on Kind of like Peter in Matthew 14. While Peter had his eyes on Jesus, he was able to walk above the circumstances, he was able to walk on water, but when he took his eyes off the Lord, he began Now, some of you listening to me tonight, you might have a case of spiritual myopia. It may be that you're looking too much at the things that are around you and not enough on the Lord. And if that's the your situation. And by the way, let me just say that I ha I have to correct myself from this all the time. I don't want to come across like I'm preaching down to you because I want to tell you I have to every day remind myself to take your eyes off the things of this world. Take your eyes off your problems, take your eyes off your circumstances, and put your eyes on the Lord. Again, if that's your problem, this psalm is for you Psalm 123. This gives us a cure for spiritual myopia, kind of is a corrective lens, if you will, that helps us really to stay focused on what we should be focusing on. Now I want you to notice the problem that the psalmist is facing. If you look in Psalm 123, look down at verse number four, where it says, Our soul is exceedingly filled with scorning of those that are at ease. Notice where he says, Our soul is exceedingly filled. He uses the same phrase in verse three. Back up one verse where he says, Have mercy upon us, O Lord, have mercy upon us, for we are exceedingly filled with content. So this phrase exceedingly filled, uh, we could say like this, if we wanted to put it in our word our words today. Uh I I have had it up to here. I've had enough. I'm fed up with this. Um I'm ready to throw in the towel. Uh what are some other things that come to mind, expressions we use? I'm at the end of my what? My rope. I can't take it anymore And then there's the classic, I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired. Well, this is the emotion that the psalmist is expressing here. It's kind of a frustration, it's kind of a disappointment. It's kind of all these things rolled up into one. And let me ask you a question. Have you ever felt that way? Or should I say, do you feel that way right now? Perhaps you're facing a problem that you are uh, you know Afraid of it's causing fear and this problem has brought you down. You're kind of ready to throw in the towel. You're kind of fed up with this situation that you're in. Well what was causing the psalmist to feel that way? Well as we look at these verses here, he talks about those that are scorning uh the people of God. And in verse number four it says, those who are at ease and with the content of the proud So he's uh dealing with an issue where there are people looking scornfully upon the people of God. By the way, it's nothing new that uh the world looks at the church and God's people with hostility I've been waiting to hear a report lately that the reason for this coronavirus is the church and for the some people to begin to blame blame God's people in the church for some of these things that are going on because the world is always looking for a scapegoat and a lot of times conveniently that scapegoat happens to be the church. That's nothing new. We we have faced that all throughout uh the history of the church. And I'm not you know saying we should have a martyr's complex. That's just a fact of life. Here's another situation where the psalmists and the people of God are facing scorn from the world. And what was causing this? We can go a little bit deeper. Whenever we study a psalm, we would like to go back And find, if we can, the background that caused this psalm to be written. And scholars agree that the background of this psalm is found at the time when Hezekiah is king of Judah And he is uh has his throne in the city of Jerusalem, and the city of Jerusalem is being invaded by the evil uh Assyrian king Sennacherib. In fact, his armies have surrounded the city of Jerusalem. He means to take over the city and conquer the city. And just to get a glimpse of this, would you hold your place in Psalm 123 and would you turn to Isaiah chapter 36? Now we're going to come back to Psalm 123, but I want you to look at the background and see some verses that help us set the context of this psalm that was written. Again, picture in your mind. The ancient city of Jerusalem with its walls and the gates, the gates are all shut, and surrounding the whole city is this Assyrian army. They mean to take over. Talk about being quarantined. There was no one that could go into the city of Jerusalem, no one that could come out. Sennacherib sends one of his officers to give a message to Hilkiah. uh or excuse me, um Hezekiah the king. And uh notice in verse number three, then came forth unto him Eliakim Hilkiah's son, which was over the house, and Shevnah the scribe, and Joah Aesap's son, the recorder. And verse four, And Rabshekah said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trusteth? In other words, this officer from Sennacherib comes and says to Hezekiah through these messengers, why would you have confidence? in things as if we're not going to take over. What are you trusting in? Are you going to trust into the kings of Egypt and later he'll talk about that? And verse number five, are you going to go down to Egypt for help? And I think he mentions that because Israel in times past, when they got into trouble, often would run to Egypt for help and Sennacherit's officer says, you know, if you trust in Egypt, it's like leaning on a broken reed And the idea is a reed that's kind of split up the middle. If you lean on that reed, it's only going to pierce your hand. You're not gonna it's not gonna steady you. And so he's saying that Egypt is no help Egypt's not going to be able to help you. And verse number 7, look at verse 7. But if thou sayest to me, we trust in the Lord our God. Is it not he whose high places, whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ye shall worship before this Alter? Are you going to actually say that if you're going to trust in your God? And here he's mocking. You're going to trust in your God. Your God's not going to be able to help you. And then he says something to scoff at them. He says mockingly, we'll offer you two thousand horses if you could find two thousand riders, soldiers to mount those horses, to come out to defend Jerusalem, but even if you find the riders He mockingly says, you know, it's only going to take one of our soldiers, one captain, can take care of all of those riders of Israel. And so here he's just, again, heaping contempt and scorn. upon Israel, making fun of their fear and their weakness. And here's the summation of his argument in verse number ten. And am I now come up without the Lord against this land to destroy it? The Lord said unto me, Go up against this land and destroy it. This was meant to demoralize the people of God. He was actually saying making them think that God was turning against them. God told me to come and destroy your city. You think this God is going to help you? He's the one that's helping me. Now, so what is he doing here? He's just giving one threat after another, one bad report after Now it gets to the point where some of the officers on the inside of the city of Jerusalem are saying to them, look, when you speak to us, speak to us in the Syrian tongue, not in the Jewish tongue. You know why they said that? Because they didn't want the people on the walls that were listening, the people inside the city listening, they didn't want them to hear these threats. They didn't want the people to be filled with panic And with fear. But you know what that caused Rapsheka to do? All it caused him to do was to lift up his voice even louder and make louder threats. Look down at verse 13. Then Rabshekah stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language and said, Hear ye the words of the great king. The king of Assyria, thus saith the king, let not Hezekiah deceive you, for he shall not be able to deliver you. Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord. saying, the Lord will surely deliver us. This city shall not be delivered, shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria. And verse 16 he says, Hearken not to Hezekiah. So here, again, he wants to intimidate the people of God, saying your God will not be able to help you. It's no use to trust in your God. Now, you know, when I think about this, I think about these bad reports that the people are hearing. This is a difficult situation for Hezekiah. And the people that are in that city. Think about today, you know, how many of you if you're listening to television, listen to the news, or hearing negative reports all over? One bad thing after another after another after another. And pretty soon people are just they're they're in fear. And they're and just like the people that are in this city, shut up, quarantine, hearing the threats, hearing the bad news Now all they are doing is they're focusing on their problem. They're fretting over their problem. And they're Being intimidated by the words of these men. You know, Satan can whisper things into your ear. Satan can use uh the bad news out there to get you discouraged And so I think that these people here in the city of Jerusalem, I think even Hezekiah himself, they're just focused on this terrible situation that they're in. Here they are shut up in this city. Here they are getting threats from a wicked, evil king, unable to go anywhere, waiting for something bad to happen. And so they're focused on this problem. Now again, there may be some people that I'm speaking to, and that might be your situation. Obviously it might not be the same problem that Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem face, but you have some burden, something that once To make you quit or maybe give up faith or give up hope. You know what the real problem is? The real problem is, whatever the problem might be The problem is you've been looking too much at the problem. That's the real problem. The problem is what you're focused on. You're focused on the fears, the reports, the problem. You're overwhelmed with it. And that's all you are seeing. And this is what we see here. Look in verse 22. uh chapter 36. Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah that was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asap, the recorder, They came to Hezekiah with their clothes rent and told him of the words of Rabshaka. How would you like to receive news like that? They come to the king and they are so distressed. They are in such fear that they rent their clothes, which in the ancient Near East was a symbol of great mourning, great sorrow. And so they're totally focused on the problem. Now, again, that is myopia. Spiritual myopia is when you are looking too much at your problems. and you're not looking to the Lord. Now, go back to Psalm 123, because this is the context in which this Psalm is written. We're going to go back to Isaiah chapter 36 in a little bit. But I want you to see that's the context around which This psalm is written, and I want you to notice that the word eyes is used often in this psalm. This short psalm of just four verses, look at verse number one. Unto thee, lift I up my what? My eyes. And then in verse number two, behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their masters As the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God. And so this psalm really is all about where you look and getting refocused. That's something that we need to do. In order to cure spiritual myopia, we need to look not at the problems that are around us, but we need to look, we need to get the long look We need to look to the Lord. And this is what this psalm is telling us to do: to refocus, to look to God. And what I want you to see in this psalm are three objects that we have to focus on. First of all, number one, as you're taking notes, focus on God's throne. Look at verse number one again. Unto thee lift up mine, or I excuse me, unto thee lift I up mine eyes. Now, I want you to notice that the V is referring to God, of course, and it is really In in the emphatic position. It doesn't say, I lift up mine eyes unto thee. No, it says, unto thee I lift up mine eyes. In other words, it's put at the beginning of this sentence for emphasis sometimes In Hebrew writings for emphasis, they would put the direct object at the beginning of the sentence rather than the subject. And that's what the writer is doing here. Unto you. And the idea is, Lord, to you and no other. I'm looking unto you. Do you know the life of faith begins by looking to the Lord? And you know, really the Christian life, a lot of times we have the tendency as preachers, perhaps, to be guilty of making the Christian life very difficult. But let me just try to simplify the Christian life here. Let me tell you what it's all about. Very simply, it's all about looking to the Lord. the Lord. It's all about keeping your eyes on him. Friend, if you can do, if I could just teach you to do that, if I could just do that myself and teach you to do that. Then you will walk with the Lord. You'll have faith. The life of faith begins by looking to the Lord. We get into the kingdom of God by looking to Jesus. Now when I think about this, I think about one of my favorite characters in church history. You hear me talk about him a lot, Charles Spurgeon, the great prince of preachers. One time when I was over in London I visited the Spurgeons College and they have certain artifacts there from the Ministry of Spurgeon and I happened to see a wooden pulpit. It was just a plain wooden pulpit It was put on display there. I knew it was not the pulpit that was used where Spurgeon preached at the tabernacle, but when I got close I saw a little uh uh a little plaque that had been put on that pulpit, and that was the pulpit where a man one time preached a sermon that Spurgeon happened to hear when he was fifteen years old. And if you don't know the story of Spurgeon's conversion, let me give it to you briefly. He was a 15-year-old young man. He was wrestling with salvation. He didn't know that he was saved. He says that during that time in his life he was miserable. He was trying to understand how he could know the Lord. On a Sunday morning, January in 1850, he got up to go to church, but it was snowing. And it had snowed so hard that he didn't make it to the church he normally went to. So he went to another church. He ducked into the a street where there was a primitive Methodist chapel. Just a Small group of people had made it there. The pastor didn't make it himself, so a deacon got up and he began to preach. He opened up the Bible to Isaiah 45, 22, and his text was, look unto me and be ye saved, all ye ends of the earth. And Spurgeon, as he's talking about that, remembering it said, the men really didn't have a whole lot to say in the sermon other than look. And he said at one point in the sermon he pointed to me and said, Young man, you look very miserable And Spurgeon said, I was miserable. And he said, Young men, look to the Lord. And Spurgeon said this, he said, Then I had this vision Not a vision to my eyes, but to my heart. And I saw what a Saviour Christ was. I saw it at once the way of salvation. I know not what else he said. I did not take much notice of it. I was so possessed with that one thought. Like as when the brazen serpent was lifted up, the people only looked and were healed, so it was with me. And then Spurgeon went on to say, And as the snow fell on my road home From that little house of prayer, I thought every snowflake talked with me and told of the pardon I had found, for I was as white as the driven snow through the grace of God Isn't that a great story? And I thought about that when I saw that wooden pulpit. That was the very pulpit that that man preached from. It had such an impact that day on Spurgeon's life that Uh that pulpit was retrieved and now it's there at Spurgeon's College as a reminder of his salvation that you look to That's how we start out in the kingdom of God. We look to Jesus. But let me just say this. The life of faith continues. As we keep our eyes on Jesus. A Christian is not someone who looks to the Lord at once and then looks away and never looks back. The Christian life is a continual looking to the Lord. And then you know what? The Christian life will culminate one day when our faith will end in sight and we will see the Lord Jesus Christ. So he looks, but I want you to see what he sees. Look in verse number one. He says unto thee, lift I up mine eyes. O thou that dwellest in the heavens. And here he is, when he's talking about the heavens, he's not talking about the heavens that you necessarily see with your eyes but rather with the eyes of faith, the heavens where God dwells, because where it says the word dwell there actually means is the Hebrew word enthroned. We could say it like this, thou that is enthroned in heaven. And you know what he saw with the eyes of faith? He saw the throne of God. And he was focused now on the throne of God. And the idea here is that God is in control. And again, we need to remind ourselves of this. God is in control. God is on the throne. Write down Psalm 113, verse 5: Who is like the Lord our God, who is seated on high? Psalm 115 verse 3, our God is in the heaven. He does all that he pleases. And so what we must do is we must look to the Lord. I think sometimes we look too much to earthly leaders. We thank God for earthly leaders, but sometimes earthly leaders fail. And the Bible tells us not to put our trust in princes. to put our trust in God. Isaiah learned this in Isaiah 6, right after King Uzziah died. He was a godly king, but he failed. And when Uzziah died, Isaiah said, I looked and I saw the Lord high and lifted up. Sometimes God will use the failure of earthly leaders to get us to look to him. And to him alone. And so he, first of all, he focuses on God's throne. But secondly, I want you to see where He where we need to focus on God's hand. Focus on God's throne, but number two, focus on God's hand. Look at verse 2. Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters. And as the eyes of maiden unto the hand of her mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God. Someone has said that faith is the ability to look past our circumstances to the hand of God at work. Looking to see the hand of God. And here it's just the psalmist is telling us to focus on God's hand. Focus on what God is doing. And he uses an illustration that was very familiar to him in ancient Near Eastern culture. It is a picture of a servant in a Near Eastern household. You know, when a servant would serve, especially when there were guests at a perhaps a formal meal, the master of the household would never speak to give a command. All he would do is he would motion with his hand. And when the servant would want to serve and please the master, what he would do is stand and watch the hand of his master because he knew what gesture meant what duty. And the master would just simply gesture and with a slight w a slight waving of the hand or even a small movement of the finger The servant would know exactly what the master wanted. And here the psalmist is playing on that, and he's basically saying, you know what? We need to look to the hand of God. Did you know in scripture, when the Bible mentions the hand of God, normally it talks about his works, the things that he is doing? Friend, do you have the spiritual wisdom to look out and see the hand of God? To see what God is doing? Let me give you some things in the Bible that tell us what God's hand does. First of all, God's hand feeds us. In Psalm 104, verse 28, thou openest thy hand, and they are filled with good. Psalm 145, verse 16, The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them meat in due season. Thou openest thy hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing God's hand feeds us. God's hand supports us. Write down Psalm 63, verse 8. Thy right hand upholds me. How often do we need the support of God? I know many of you would testify and say, the only way I'm making it through is because God is holding me up. The hand of God directs us. Psalm 139, verse 10. Even there shall thy hand lead. God directs us with his hand. God delivers us with his hand. Remember when Israel was delivered from Egypt, the Bible says that God did it with his mighty hand. Exodus 7, verse 5. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord when I stretch forth my hand upon Egypt. You know, that's the way we're saved because of God's mighty hand. He delivers us from sin. He protects us. Remember when Job appeared before the Lord to ask permission? Or excuse me, remember when Satan appeared before the Lord to ask permission to get at Job? And what did he say? God, you you you put forth your hand, you bring back your hand, and I'll be able to get at him. You know why? Because God's hand was protecting Job. Thank God for his protecting hand. God's hand avenges us. Psalm 10, verse 12: Arise, O Lord, O God, lift up thy hand, and forget not the humble. And finally, God's hand helps us. Listen to Psalm 20, verse 6. Now I know that the Lord saveth his anointed. He will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. God's hand. Helps us. And you know what? There's a whole lot more I could say. But you know what? We need to get our eyes off of our problems and look at the hand of God. Look at what God is doing, not only in our life, but in the life of others around us. In the world, we see the hand of God at work. Focus on God's But then here's the third thing. Focus on God's throne, focus on God's hand, and number three, focus on God's heart. Look in verse number Again, verse number two. Look at the at the end where it says, So our eyes wait upon the Lord our God until that he have mercy upon us. And again in verse 3, have mercy upon us, oh O Lord. Have mercy upon us. Three times the psalmist mentions the word mercy. Three times he's praying for God's mercy. Someone said, when you can't trace his hand, then trust his heart. And look to his heart. Look to the heart of God. For God's heart is a heart that is filled with mercy. But I want you to notice the word until in in this verse here. It says, until that he have mercy on us. And what does that imply? It implies that we have to wait. We pray, we ask God for his mercy. We're waiting for God. God to give us mercy. And that's really what prayer is. Prayer is looking to the Lord, asking for his mercy. Waiting upon God to answer that request because we're powerless. There's nothing we can do. We need the mercy of God. And you know what? I got good news for you. God delights in us when we're in this condition. When we're totally looking to him for mercy. I don't know about you, but I need the mercy of God in my life. And I pray for his mercy all the time. The Bible says in Psalm 33, verse 18, Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. Isn't that beautiful? God looks to the one that hopes in his mercy. And this is certainly what the psalmist is doing. He's waiting on God for the mercy of God. And so listen, don't focus on your problems. Focus on God's throne. Focus on God's hand. Focus on God's heart. By the way, you know this is exactly what Hezekiah did. Let's kind of finish the story. Go back to Isaiah chapter 30. Because I want you to see the end of the story here. Because I think this is exactly what King Hezekiah does. But I want you to see, look in chapter 36, I want you to look in verse number 2, where it says that the king of Assyria sent Rabshekah from Lachish to Jerusalem unto King Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood at the conduit of the upper pole and the highway of the Fuller's Field. Now that's an important geographical distinction there. The fact that the writer mentions that I think is not without significance. You know why? Because years earlier There was another king that was at that very spot that the Bible calls the conduit of the upper pool. There was another king that stood there, and his name was Ahaz. And God sent the prophet Isaiah to Ahaz, and you know what Isaiah's message was to the king Ahaz was to Ahaz, you trust God. And you know what? Ahaz didn't. He didn't trust the Lord. Now here's years later, and Hezekiah is in a similar situation where he is under the threat of a wicked king And now God is saying to King Hezekiah, Hezekiah, you trust me. Look in chapter 37, look in verse number one. It came to pass when King Hezekiah heard it, that as he heard all the threats. He heard everything that Sennacherib wanted to do, that he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloss and went into the house of the Lord. He goes into the house of God. The Bible says he puts on sackcloth. Again, this is a sign of mourning. But you know what? He goes to the right place. He goes to the house of God. You know why? Because for the Jewish person in that day, that was the place of what? That was a place of prayer. They would pray in the temple or towards the temple. So he's going into the house of God. You might say he's going to the house of prayer. And look in chapter 37, look at verse number 14. And Hezekiah received a letter from the hand of the messengers. and read it, and Hezekiah went up unto the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. This is the threatening letter that King Sennacherib wrote to intimidate and destroy fear into the heart. of the king and all the people. And he takes this letter, the Bible says, and he spread it before the Lord And I hope you're following along. Listen to what he says in chapter 37, verse 15. And Hezekiah prayed unto the Lord, saying, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel. That dwelleth between the cherubims, thou art the God, even thou alone, and all the kingdoms of the earth thou hast made, heavens and earth. Incline thine ear, O Lord, and hear. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and see and hear all the words of Sennacherib which has sent to reproach the living God. Of a truth lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations in their countries. And they have cast their gods into the fire. And have cast their gods into fire, for they were no gods, but the work of man's hands, wood and stone. Therefore have they destroyed him. Now therefore, O Lord our God, save us From his hand for all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord, even thou only. I love that prayer. You know why he's saying, God All the other countries that this man has conquered, they prayed to their gods and they weren't delivered. You know why? Because their gods weren't gods at all. They were just they were just wooden idols. And they cast them into the fire because they were nothing. You are the only true God. And God, would you save us from this man's hand. In other words, God, would you glorify your own name by delivering us and would you show this world that you are the real God? And you know, it wasn't long after that that God sent a messenger. Look in verse 21. Then Isaiah, the son of Amos, sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, whereas thou hast prayed unto me against Sennacherib, king of Assyria. In other words, God sends Isaiah the prophet with a message from the Lord, you've prayed unto me for help against this wicked king. And we don't have time to go over all the answer, but let me just give you the bottom line. Look at verse 33. Therefore, thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into the city nor shoot an arrow there Nor come before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it. That's incredible. God says, you just know this. They're not going to shoot one arrow against you. They're not going to come against your city at all. And verse 34, by the way that he came, by the same shall he return. For he shall not come into this city, saith the Lord. What an incredible promise from God. And you know what happened that night? God fulfilled his word. And this is one of the great miracles of the Bible. Because look what it says in verse number 36. Then the angel of the Lord Went forth and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand. I love at the end of verse thirty-six. And when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead. You ever wake up and say, Man, I'm dead. There's kind of a confusion of antecedents here, and they, when they woke up, Israelites, when the Israelites woke up, they, the Assyrians, were dead. The whole camp was just completely dead and desecrated. It was just an incredible sight. God had delivered his people. And God honored the prayer of Hezekiah. We serve a mighty God. A mighty God. And I believe that when we get our eyes off of our problem, this is exactly what Hezekiah did. He got his eyes off of his problem He put his eyes on the Lord. You know what happened? God did something mighty for him. God did something incredible. for him. God uh did a great miracle and delivered him. You know what the world needs to see today? The world needs to see God's people with their eyes on the Lord. Not filled with fear, not filled with panic. No, in fact, there's kind of an excitement because we know why we're looking to the throne of God. We're focused on the throne of God. We're focused on the hand of God. We're focused on the heart of God. You see, friend, we know God's in control. We know he's doing great things, some things we can't even fathom or see. And we know his heart. We know he's a merciful God. He's a God of love. And you know what? He's going to protect us. his own and friend he's going to take care of you. Let me just close with this. Cory Tinboon lived through the hellish life of a Nazi concentration camp. That you talk about a place where there is no hope. It had to be there. But she survived to tell her story of her faith in God. Again, you talk about being quarantined in a hopeless situation. She saw some of the most inhumane acts that men could do to men. And when she came out of all of it This is what she said. She said, if you look at the world, you'll be distressed. If you look within You'll be depressed. If you look at Christ, you'll be at rest. Isn't that good? It's exactly what this psalmist is telling us here. Look to the Lord and be at rest. Would you pray with me? Pray with me. Father, we love your word because it is our source of comfort. When we open the scripture, Lord, we know that you open your mouth and you speak to us. These are your words. This is your encouragement for your people. And I pray for those listening and watching, Lord, that they would apply this. There might be some folks watching and they may have their eyes on the world around them and their circumstances and their problems and they may be filled with anxiety and fear. I pray Lord. That they would focus on your throne, focus on your hand, focus on your heart, that they would look to you and be at peace to know that we have a God who's in control, who does mighty works, who loves his children. With a great love. Comfort us with these words, Father. We'll thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen.