All right. So good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take God's word, please, tonight, and open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms, chapter 139, Psalm 139. And I want to Talked tonight about the subject of how to have a self a healthy self-image. From Psalm 139. You know, the battle cry of modern psychology today is search for your self-esteem. You need to feel good about yourself. You ever hear that? You know, have a good self-esteem, feel good about yourself. Well, the biblical answer to this is you don't need to have a self-esteem to feel good about yourself. You need to have a God esteem. You need to feel good about God. For example, Jeremiah Burroughs, a great Puritan, he preached a sermon entitled The Incomparable Excellency and Holiness of God. It was based on Exodus 1511, the verse that says, Who is like unto thee, O God, among the nations? And then Burrell goes on for the first half of the sermon talking about the greatness of God. And then he brings in the second half of the verse. And who is like unto thee, O Israel? So what's the point? Well, since there's no one like your God, that means there's no one like you. In other words, the whole his whole idea here is the more you love and treasure God, the better you'll feel about yourself. The key to a healthy self-image is not through being self-centered and through being introspective. The key to a healthy self-image is through being God-centered and Christ-centered, focusing on the greatness of God. Focusing on the excellency of Christ. You see, on one man on one hand, man's wisdom tells us that we are descended from an ape, and then tells you that you need to feel good about yourself. Seriously? You want me to feel good about the fact that I descended from an ape that, you know, I'm created by chance, you know, out of a primordial soup and became a tadpole and a tadpole evolved to an ape and now you see what you have standing before you tonight. And I'm supposed to feel good about that. But scripture tells how incomparably great God is, and then tells you that you were created in his image. So the more you value and treasure God, the more you'll feel good about who you are. So the key is being focused on God. You are the crown of God's creation. And Scripture further tells us how valuable you are because Christ paid an infinitely high price to purchase your redemption. See, Scripture tells us how beautiful and excellent Christ is, and then tells us that He traded His life for ours. And so, how could anyone have a lack of self-esteem knowing this? So the more you value God, the more you will have a healthy self-image. This is where Psalm 139 comes in In this psalm, we read some of the incomparable wonders about the person of God. We see a glimpse of how great God truly is. And then we we see how that relates to us. God's wondrous attributes are really in relation to you and me. God's great works are demonstrated in the way He knows us, in the way that He is with us, and the way that He made us And in the way that he thinks about us. That's what Psalm 139 is all about. This is a hymn of worship. And it describes the exhaustive knowledge of God. And it does it in beautiful, poetic Anthropomorphic expressions. And I want you to see in this psalm four wonderful truths about God that should give you a healthy self-image. Here's number one: God knows everything about me. He knows everything about me. Look at verse number one. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. The psalmist says, God, you know everything about me. You know anyone else that knows everything about you? God knows you better than you know yourself. The the background of this psalmist this. The psalmist has been falsely accused. We don't know what he was accused of Some believe he was accused of idolatry or some other great sin. But rather than defending himself before man, what the psalmist does is he he he reacts by appealing to uh to the court of heaven. David, who has been misjudged, takes his case directly to God, who is the perfect judge. And you know why he's the perfect judge? Because he has perfect knowledge. He doesn't need a jury. God doesn't need eyewitnesses. He doesn't need a lie detector test. He doesn't need DNA tests. Because he has perfect knowledge of you and me. He has perfect knowledge of everything and every one. And so the flow of this psalm is kind of like this. The psalmist starts out by making his appeal to God, and he thinks about the knowledge of God, and then he gets caught up about majestic thoughts about God's knowledge and God's presence that he's everywhere. And so the whole psalm is where he is in wonder of the greatness of God. And then he kind of gathers himself Toward the end of the psalm, and he comes back down to earth, so to speak, and he begins to think practically of what he the the thoughts he had about God and how he can practically apply those to the world today. God will punish evildoers, and I need to make sure that I live and walk a holy life. That's really the practical application of this. But David first starts out by confessing that God knows everything about him. God knows me inside out. He knows me backwards and forwards. Look at the word search there. That word is used to speak about an investigation. Used to speak of mining or digging up something, digging deep into the earth. We could say, Lord, thou hast dug deep into me, my life. E. J. Young, the great Old Testament scholar, says God has engaged in an exhaustive search in order to learn all there is to know about David. And of course, this doesn't mean that God has to learn. It's really a poetic way of saying God knows everything there is to know about you and about me. He knows it all. This is expressing deep, incomprehensible truth in a beautiful, poetic way. Really The main purpose is uh in verse 23 and verse 24, just fast forward there. Search me, O God, and know my heart, and try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. He's so confident. In the face of his accusers that he said, Lord, you know everything about me. Search my heart and know me, and see if there's any wicked way in me, because you know all there is to know about me. God knows everything possible. He knows everything actual. All events, all creatures of the past, present, and future. He's perfectly acquainted with the detail in the life of every being in heaven, in earth, and under the earth. He knows all of that. Nothing escapes his notice. Nothing can be hidden from him. Nothing is forgotten by him. He never errs, n never changes, he never overlooks anything. AW Tozer wrote this. God has never learned from anyone. God cannot learn. Could God at any time or in any manner receive into his mind knowledge that he did not possess or had not possessed from eternity, he would be imperfect in less than himself. And that's true. So God knows all there is to know. And this is this is incredible So notice what he says. He knows my conduct, verse two, thou knowest my down sitting and my uprising. Here he's describing the daily, insignificant things of life. that we do, going, you know, getting up, going to bed. David says, God, you know all about that. You see all of that. I read that in some children's bedroom walls in the Victorian era in London they hung a picture frame with a huge eye. Seems like that would scare those children to death. But under it it was written, Thou Lord, seeest me. Got that point across, didn't I? God watches every little thing. In Psalm ten, the psalmist tells us how the wicked reason in their mind, the reason they they do so many things, the reason they oppress the poor, and their mouth is full of cursing and deceit and they do all kind of You know, lies and murder and he and the wicked are like a lion waiting to pounce. Why? Psalm ten eleven tells us he has said in his heart, God has forgotten He hid his face. He will never see it. There are some people that actually think they can do things and God not see it But of course, that's the way the depraved mind thinks. He knows my contemplations. Look again in verse 2. Thou knowest my downsetting, my uprising. Thou understandest my thoughts are far off. Now some translate this to mean that God's way up there in heaven, and way up there, he can look down and see my thoughts. He knows them from afar off. I think the better way to translate this is, you know, God knows our thoughts long before they come into our mind. He knows our thoughts long before we think those thoughts. In Ezekiel 38, 10, it says, Thus saith the Lord God, it shall also come to pass that at the same time shall things come into thy mind, and thou shalt think an evil thought. God is telling them what they're going to think before they think it God knows our thoughts way before we ever think those thoughts. The Bible says in Psalm 14 that God looked down upon all the sons of men. Now, who is all the sons of men? That's everyone. The literal Hebrew is Kalbineh Haadam, all the sons of Adam. That's everybody. God's looking through time. And all the sons of Adam. And what is he looking for to see if there are any that did seek the Lord? And he came to the conclusion there's none that did understand or seek God. No one is good, no not one. God knew long before any of us were ever born our hearts' desires and what we would think. God destroyed the world because the imagination of man's heart was only evil continually. God knew the evil thoughts of all men in the world. He knows my character. Look at verse three. Thou compassest my path and my lying down and art acquainted with all my ways. And verse two speaks about daily activities. This verse focuses more on the destiny or the path of life. God, you know my path. You know the way that I'm going to take. You know the destiny of my life. What's going to happen in my life? You're acquainted with all of those my ways. God knows, in other words, the true character of my heart and where that is going to lead me. He knows all of that. He knows my conversations. Verse 4. There is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Sometimes we open our mouth before we know what we're going to say, but we never open our mouth before God knows what we're going to say. It's been said that in an average day, every man speaks enough to fill one volume of a book. Every person in their lifetime will speak enough words to fill a college library. God knows all those words that every person will speak. He knows them before they ever spoke them. He knows all those words. And not only that, God will judge us according to those words. The Bible says by every idle word that man shall Every time we speak, we create a sound wave that really never stops scientists. Tell us, and I believe that one day God will recapture those sound waves and play our very words before us and judge us according to the very words that we spoke He knows our conduct, he knows our contemplation, he knows our character, he knows our conversation, he knows my circumstances, verse five. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me And what he means here is that, God, you've held me in behind and before. And here the psalmist recognizes God's sovereign hand in his life. God is in control of all of my circumstances. It's like, you know, playing chess. You know, um my little seven-year-old grandson, Theo, got a chess set for birthday. He said, Paul, Paul, I want you to play chess with me. He already knows how to play chess. Better than his Paul Paul. Funny, you know, when you're playing chess, you know, if you're good enough, you can force a person to move the way you want them to move. It's almost what the psalmist is saying here. God's like a master chess player. He knows how to hem you in. He knows how to control your life in such a way that you'll make the decisions that He sovereignly will determine. And yet you'll do it of your own choice, and yet it'll be God who's in control. And so in verse six, the psalmist just breaks forth in wonder and praise, verse six. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it. The greatness of God's knowledge is incomprehensible. It just We can't really wrap our mind around it. It's too awesome. Every theologian knows that the beginning point of theology is the incomprehensibility of God. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. We can't fully wrap our mind around all the incredible knowledge that God has. One time I was driving through West Virginia in the mountains and looking at all the leaves and it struck me that God knows the number of every leaf on every tree in this state. And then he knows the number of every blade of grass in this state. And he knows the number of every grain of sand on every seashore in the world, on every desert in the world. God knows the number of all the leaves and all the blades of grass all over the world. I mean that just blows me away when you think about that He knows all of those things. And this is what the psalmist says. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It's too high for humans to even comprehend. And David says, I can't even attain unto it. This speaks about the transcendent majesty of who God is. You know why churches would put steeples on their buildings? It's because they wanted to kind of express this high God, this transcendent God, who's so far above us. He's higher than the heavens, and his greatness is beyond our comprehension And I think that, you know, we need this emphasis in our day because it seems like in theology today, men today try to bring God down to make him more like, you know, on a human level. But I think that we need to understand how great God is. And so We see here that David is in awe and wonder because he knows everything. God knows everything about me, but here's number two: God is always with me. Look at verse number seven. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Whither shall I flee from thy presence? God is not only the perfect judge who knows everything, but he's also the perfect judge because you can't run from him. He is everywhere. Some people look at the truth of a all-seeing, all-knowing God as a negative, fearful thing. It makes them uneasy. But and and you know, people who are in sin, they don't want to think about a God who knows everything and uh and and and someone that they can't run from or escape from, because you can't run from God. You can't escape God Like Adam and Eve in the garden, trying to hide from the presence of the Lord. David's response here is not one of fear. or terror. He's not trembling when he thinks of God's omniscience. On the contrary, it's a refuge for him to take shelter in. He praises God. He's in awe of God. He's in wonder of God And in verses 7 to 12, this is why David turns his thoughts from omniscience to omnipresence That God is everywhere. And it's not like David wants to run from God. He just is thinking, you know, there's nowhere you can go And God not already be there. And he imagines three areas in which men might try to escape from God. They might try to run from God if possi if possible. First of all, death cannot separate Me from God. Look at verse 8. If I ascend up to heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If he goes to the highest point of heaven or the lowest point of hell. It's crazy that some people think that by committing suicide it might take away all their problems and they can escape God. No, that would bring you right into the presence of God. In Revelation six fifteen, the kings of the earth and the great men and the rich men and the chief captains and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the mountains. And they said to the mountains and the rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. You know, you can't crawl into a grave and think that you're going to hide from God there, is what they're thinking. Death doesn't take one from God, it puts you in the very presence of God. And I love the way the Hebrew reads in this. If I ascend to heaven, you, emphatically, you're there. Just says you. On the other hand, if I make my bed in hell Behold, you're there as well. Death cannot separate me from God. Distance cannot separate me from God At verse nine, if I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. Wings of the morning is a poetic way to describe the the beams of sunlight when the sun comes up, breaks the dawn, breaks the darkness, and the the the sunbeams begin to race out over the ocean, so to speak, here. It's it's really talking about light, the speed of light. The sunbeams are the wings of the morning. They race across the s the sky at the break of dawn. And David was saying, if it's possible for me to ride one of those sunbeams, if I take the wings of the morning And dwell on the uttermost parts of the sea. It takes me all the way over to the other part of the sea. Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. You can't If you could travel the speed of light, you're still not going to escape God. You're still not going to get away from God. In verse 10, where it says, hold me, it's the Hebrew words to snatch. You're not fast enough to run from God's grass, he'll snatch you Even if you could travel the speed of light, he will catch you. Distance cannot separate me from God. Darkness cannot separate me from God. And verse number eleven. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee, but the night shineth as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Some men foolishly feel as though darkness is a blanket that can hide them from God. That's what that's why they do evil. They look at darkness as a covering. Oh God can't see through the dark, can he? And Isaiah twenty-nine, fifteen it says, Woe to them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? Who knows us? Oh, we can do all these things in the dark. God won't see. God won't know. Oh yeah, he knows darkness and light are the same to him. He sees all. Remember back in some of you maybe too young to remember this, but in July nineteen seventy seven when the power went out in New York, I remember that. Thousands of people poured into the street. They began to loot stores, break windows. I mean it just wake people went crazy. Some of them rented trucks to haul off loot from stores. Fires were started. Fire firefighters fought over one thousand fires during that time. Two thousand stores were looted at a cost of one billion dollars. That's back in nineteen seventy-seven. All this because Men thought that in the darkness they could get away with this. As if God doesn't see. But David says the darkness does not hide anyone from God It's Jeremiah 23, 24. Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see? Saith the Lord? Do not I fill heaven and earth, saith the Lord. In Job 12, 22, he discovereth deep things out of darkness, and he bringeth out to light the shadow of death. It's good for us to understand this because knowing the greatness of God gives us a reverential fear of who He is. And it leads to our submission. So God knows everything about me. God is always with me. But then here's another thought, number three, God made me God made me. Look at verse 13. For thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Sadly, we live in a day when teens and children commit suicide in great numbers. It's so sad. Why? I tell you, our children are being abused by the lies of society today. It's it's ch it's abuse by the lies that they're giving them. Being taught that they have no purpose or meaning. Or that they can you know, they can choose what gender that they can be that you know that that rather than telling him telling them how valuable they are and God created them to be what they are They're giving them all these lies. They're told, again, by some that they're descended from an ape. No wonder they're acting like animals. One of the most blasphemous lies ever told is that of evolution. You're a product of genetic imperfection that's evolving. And you know, did you know Charles Darwin, um, when he came up with the theory of evolution, he wrote, I'm determined to escape from design and a personal God at all costs. Evolution is nothing but Romans 1 suppressing or pushing away the truth about who God is. That's all it is. It's rebellion against God. And so this lie causes people to lose meaning if they believe it or purpose. There's no God, no purpose or meaning. When we die, we're just gone. No hope for life after death, no foundations for ethics or morals. No no sin, no standard at which to measure right and wrong, no oath absolutes, no restraints It eliminates purpose, it eliminates destiny, all of that. No wonder when people believe this, they're filled with hopelessness and despair. And then there are others who tell children that they're an accident. You descended from an ape, you're an accident. Maybe some foolish person counseled a young person and made them feel that way. But the psalmist doesn't say any of that. You're not descended from an ape, and you're not an accident, but you are a work of art by Almighty God. Every baby and every child born is the handiwork of Almighty God. This is another truth that should cause us to be in awe of who God is. In verse 12, remember it says, you know, darkness can't hide you from God. But the thought continues in verse thirteen, for the idea here is that in fact it's in the darkness that God does some of his greatest works. Did you know that it's in the darkness of your mother's womb that God made you? He made me sovereignly. Again in verse 13: For thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Again, you is emphatic here in this verse, you possess my reins. Possessed here is a means to create, to form. Rains is from the Hebrew word that means inner parts, the inner organs, the heart, the lungs, the brains, covered, which means we together. David didn't know the modern science uh embryology or uh you know, but he knew that the whole process that took place there in the mother's womb was a mysterious process, but it was divine. It was God who did it all. He knew it was the work of God. And this passage affirms that life begins at conception. David knew he was a person while he was still in his mother's womb. And so personhood begins at conception. It's the act of God And the Bible says in Psalm 127, verse 3, Behold, children are a gift from the Lord. They're a gift from God. And so whenever there's a child born, it's a work of God. No woman can have a child unless it's God who does that. God is the one who grants a woman the ability to give life We see this in the Bible, where God closed up the wounds of some women in the Old Testament, and then God opened and gave the opportunity for women to have children. This was all the work of God. And so we need to understand that. Job 10, 8 says as thy hands have made me and fashioned me together round about That is every part of me, God, comprehensively. Job 10, 9. Remember, I beseech thee that thou hast made me as the clay, and wilt thou bring me into dust again? And so again, I can go on, but God is the source of all life. He made me sovereignly, he made me skillfully. Look at verse 14. I will praise thee for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works that my soul knoweth right well. Fearfully is the Hebrew word which means to be in all wonderfully marked out, unique. God is saying we are each uniquely designed by God. And again, there's so much more I could say about that But write down Job thirty seven, seven. He, God, sealeth up the hand of every man that all men may know his work. Notice that he seals up the hand of every man. What does that mean? Did you know it was in nineteen oh five, Scotland, Yard in England? First discovered fingerprints, the the guy began keeping a record of fingerprints and b finally found out that no two fingerprints are exactly alike. And that's where it all began where they began to take finger fingerprints as a mark of a person And yet already we see in the book of Job where it says, God seals up the hand of every man that all men may know his work. Your fingerprints are God's seal that shows that you are his work. That's the seal of God on you and on your life. And on we can go. He made me skillfully, he made me secretly. Verse 15, where it says this. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth earth. Substance literally means my frame, my form. David is speaking about the emb embryo in the womb, the lowest parts of the work. poetic way to speak about the mother's womb. What goes on inside the womb may be hidden from a man, at least, you know, before the day of sonograms and x-rays, but it was not hidden from God. God was involved in the most minute detail, curiously wrought, we could translate, intricately woven or wrought skillfully. Again, it's all the incredible work of Almighty God. But let me give you the forethought here. We could really expand more on that, but let me move on. He knows everything about me. He's always with me. He made me. And then number four, he continually thinks about me. God continually thinks about me. Look at verse 17. Another amazing thought. How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them Now, what the psalmist here is doing is he's using a form of parallelism. Remember I told you in Hebrew poetry, parallelism is characteristic of it, where a thought is presented and then a second thought either completes the first thought Or it will contrast it, or it will compare that thought. And the and the and the artistry in Hebrew poetry is the way they compare thoughts. But there's a certain kind of Hebrew poetry called climactic poetry where you one thought builds upon another. Sometimes it's called stair step parallelism. You give one thought, and then you give a higher thought, and then you give a higher thought. And that's what's happening right here. He's kind of using a climactic parallelism here. God continually thinks about me. How precious are thy thoughts to me, he says here in verse 17. Precious to be highly esteemed, to be valued. Think about this, that God thinks about you. You're constantly on his heart I mean, how can you have a low self-esteem when you know the Almighty Creator thinks about you all the time? We don't always think about him, but he always thinks about us. Jeremiah 29, 11. For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord. Thoughts of peace, not of evil, to give you an expected end. And then how great is the sum of them? Here's the next thought. How numerous are your thoughts towards me? Great is the sum of them. Again, this is the reason David is so astonished. Psalm 40 verse 5 Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. God, you you you think of me more than we can even number. And here's the next thought. If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand in verse 18. Again, the psalmist uses an analogy that amazes us. If it were possible for us to count each grain of sin in the ear this earth, and let each grain of sin Represent a thought that God has towards us. There would not be enough grains of sand to equal God's thoughts towards us. That's not hyperbole. That's literal. And then he says, when I wake I am still with thee They those words are a bit puzzling. They've been understood in various ways. Some suppose David here is may have been referring to death followed by resurrection. In that case it would mean that the thoughts that God has about David all his life are from his womb until he dies. And beyond that, God is with us and we're in his thoughts. I I think the best way to translate this, actually we can translate it when I wait, as when I come to an end, and I think that fits the context better. When I come to an end, an end of what? An end of counting God is still thinking about me. If I could number the grains of sin and know each one of those represents the thought of God towards me, and if I could count them and I came to the end of my counting, God's still thinking about me. That's the idea there. Now, again, all of this should cause us to be in awe and wonder of God. But the next few verses here are all application. The last section of this. How does this apply to us? Well, look at verse 19. Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God. Depart from me, therefore, ye bloody men, for they shall s for they speak against against thee wickedly, for thy enemies take thy name in vain Do I not hate them, O Lord, with that that hate thee? Am I not grieved with those that rise up against thee? I hate them with perfect hatred. I count them mine enemies. And so the first thing here that David says is, as he's in awe of God and he's in wonder of who God is, it's a prayer for judgment. The perfect judge will judge sinners. He will not let sin go unpunished. Anyone who's thinking that someone is getting away with something, I promise you they're not. God, the perfect judge, will judge all sin. Now David's prayer here seems harsh to us You know, aren't we supposed to love our enemies? Other psalms have similar prayers. They're called imprecatory psalms. And the context of these psalms reveals that this is This is directed towards sinners who have rejected the mercy and salvation, excuse me, of God. These are sinners set on rebellion against God. and against his people. And we see other prayers like this from people like Jeremiah and Paul, and even Jesus himself expressed that attitude towards God's enemies. And so God is a God who will not be mocked. God will judge sin. But then there's a prayer of examination. This is how it ends. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. What is the way everlasting? It's the way of holiness, it's the way of righteousness. What is the practical application for us when we understand these wonderful truths about God? Well, first of all, it's like I said before, it should cause us to have a healthy self-esteem. Again, the more we treasure God and realize we were created in his image, that helps us to have a healthy biblical esteem of ourselves. But the second application of this is we should want to live a holy life before a God who knows everything about me, who sees all, who knows all. A God that I could never escape from, a God who created me. This should want, this should cause me to want to live In the way everlasting, like the Psalm said, I want to live a holy life before God. And allow God's scrutiny into my life. Allow the spotlight of His holiness to search me and know me and to make sure that I am walking in a way of righteousness. that I'm living a holy life before Him. And may that be our prayer. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Since you can't escape from God, you should commit yourself to holiness. You should yield yourself completely to him, just like the psalmist here, and say, Search me, O God, and know my heart. And try my thoughts. Know my thoughts. And see if there's any wicked way in me. Why don't you pray that prayer right there where you are? Why don't you ask God just to search your heart right now and cleanse you from anything that is displeasing in his sight? We all fall short, we all sin. Thank God we have a God who's merciful and kind and forgiving. Because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross, He can pardon our sins. He can cleanse us. Just take a moment just to give praise and worship to God for who He is. And thank him that you are created in his image by him. Father again, just th we just thank you for this majestic psalm. So much here. And we just didn't really scratch the surface of it. But Lord, we thank you for what it reveals. about you to us. And may it stir our heart, our affection to love you more, to praise you more, to be in wonder of who you are, and to truly seek To live the way everlasting and the way of everlasting, to live a holy life. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.