So take your Bibles tonight, open to Psalm 100. We've been looking at the Psalms, and I was reading this Psalm this week and the Lord spoke to me through it. I hope God will speak to your heart through this psalm. And I want to talk about how to celebrate the goodness of God. Psalm 100. You know, this is an election year, and every politician running for office wants to avoid bad press, right? They have to look for the good uh news. They each politician therefore kind of needs a good spin doctor to put a good spin on them, you know, in the news. I read an article recently about the late President John Kennedy And it told about a lot of the serious health problems that he had and how he had to take injections of steroids because of some of the serious illnesses that he had. And he had his health was very precarious. And yet no one ever knew that. It's because he had good spin doctors working for him, putting forth this image of a man that was totally healthy. And so politicians know that bad press can kind of ruin them and it can result in defeat in the polls. And so sadly politicians don't really focus on truthful upright behavior, but rather how to convey an image that is um uh tru uh that is an image as if they are being truthful and upright even if they are not. They want to present good press. Not necessarily stemming from good character, but they want to present good press because bad press is such a bad thing. Now I bring that up because from day one, Satan has been on a campaign to smear truth about the goodness of God. Did you know Satan is out to give God bad press? So he's always wanting to spin the story against God to make God look bad Because he wants people to think negatively about God. And if he can get you to think negatively about God, then he has you. In fact, this was his strategy in the Garden of Eden. You remember that when he came to tempt Eve, he basically said, you know, the Lord knows that the day you eat, your eyes are going to be open. Don't you understand that God is withholding good things from you? He doesn't want you to see certain things. And so he got Eve to go there, to take that bait, to think bad about God, and when he did, he had her. Really, the extension of the whole thought is God's trying to keep good back from you is that this, God is not really good. God is not really good. And the devil has used this falsehood in various forms to keep people from following the Lord. This is the lie that Satan promotes. If you follow God, you'll have to stop doing things that you enjoy and you'll have to start doing things that you hate. God wants you to get rid of ice cream and eat spinach for dessert. He wants you to do things that you're not going to like. And so the idea, it isn't fun to be a Christian. And so Satan is the originator of fake news when it comes to God. That's why this psalm is so very important. Because the whole theme of this psalm is the goodness of God. In fact, God is not against you. God is good. And this is what the psalmist tells us in verse number five. Notice what it says, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endures to all generation. The psalmist here is exclaiming to the world the goodness of God. He wants everyone to know it. He wants everyone to know how good God is. And this reminds us that it's our duty as believers in this world to let the world know that God indeed is good. While Satan is out there on a campaign to give God bad press, as Christians, we need to be out there on a campaign to tell the truth about God. We're not spin doctors because we tell the truth, we tell it the way it is. We tell the world that God is good. 1 Peter 2. 9, jot that verse down. It says that God has made us to be a people for his own possession. Listen to this. So that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness and into His marvelous light This is why God called you out of darkness and put you in the light, so that you can proclaim to the world the excellencies of God. Or as the Westminster Shorter catechism says, what is the chief end of man? And the answer to that is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. What does it mean to glorify God? Very simply put, we make God look good. When the world sees us as Christians, they should say, There's something there about them and I want whatever they have. And of course, when we say we make God look good, we don't have to make him look good because he already is good. We just have to reveal to the world that he is. In short, we need to give God good press, not bad press. And the way that we do that is how do we respond to God's goodness. And that's really the message of Psalm 100. To tell everyone about God's goodness. Look above verse 1, there's a subtitle where it says a psalm of praise. You see that subtitle there above verse 1 in chapter 100? That word praise in the Hebrew is tada, which means confession. And in this case, it means to confess. And what do we confess? We confess the character and works of God. We are to confess to the world, again, that God is good. We confess it. Now, there are several ways to look at this psalm. It has kind of a unique Hebrew literary structure. And Hebrew poetry sometimes they use a literary device called chiasm. Now what's chiasm? Chiasm is a literary device where when a sequence of ideas is presented, it's reversed in the last half of the phrase. For example, y'all finish this phrase for me. When the going gets tough, okay, so you know that. That's chiasm right there. But you see the words goings are at the end, then tough, and then get, right? And so you kind of fold that phrase in half, and if there's a symmetry there. And so you see this all throughout the Hebrew Old Testament. You know why? Because the Hebrews love symmetry. You see this actually more in the literal Hebrew than you do in English. You know, we see it like for instance in Genesis where it says, Whosoever sheds the blood of a man by man, his blood shall be shed. That's a chiastic structure. We see it on a sentence level, we see it sometimes on a paragraph level, sometimes we see it on a chapter level. For example, in this psalm here, the whole psalm is kind of a chiasm because the main idea is in verse number three. In this psalm, you have from verses 1 to 2, three commands to worship. And then in verse 3 is the central cult to know God. And then in verses four and five, again, you have three more commands to worship. So it has that chiastic structure. But the central idea is in verse number three, where it says, Know ye that the Lord He is what? He is God. God wants you to know He is God. And so we can look at it that way, but there's also another way, there are seven commands that tell us how to respond. to the goodness of God. Shall joyfully serve, come before Him, know as we saw in verse 3, enter to his gates, give thanks and bless. These are all commands from the psalmist that's telling us To commanding us to worship God. And the reason is given in verse number five. Again, look at verse 5. For the Lord is good. This is why we worship, because God is good. So I want to kind of back into this song and I want us to look at verse number five. I want us to look at the reason, and then I want us to look at the response And we see the goodness of God, as in verse, he says in verse 5, but three ideas here. God's goodness is demonstrated in his character. Notice it says the Lord is good. That is God Himself. Goodness is just who God is In systematic theology, we would call this one of the communicable attributes of God. God is just good. The goodness of God means that God is the final standard of good That all that God is and does is worthy of approval. And in the Psalms, this goodness is connected to God's actions Where the psalmist said in Psalm 119, you are good and you do good. It's connected with his work in creation. God looks around and everything that he created, it was what? It was good. The works of God in creation. And then what God does for us, following His will, Paul said, if you seek the will of God and find it, you'll find that it's good for you. God has good plans for you in His will. Every gift that we get, the Bible says every good and perfect gift comes from who? Comes from above. God is the giver of all good gifts So again, in summary, just to say that in every way we can think of God and his character and his works, he's just good. He is a good God. Now that's easy to say, but do you really believe it? You may be in a difficult trial tonight and you might be here saying, you know, it's hard for me to believe right now that God is good because of all that I'm going through, but do you believe that God is using these trials to work together for your good, for your ultimate good? That's the question. And it was Fergie who originally said the words, God is too kind to be cruel, God is too wise to make a mistake. And when you can't trace his hand, trust his heart. The psalmist said this. He said, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. In the very next verse, he says this, you are good and you do good. In other words, God, you've afflicted me, and when before that happened, I was always going astray, but now I don't, and you're good. What you've done to me is good. A few verses later he says, It is good for me. that I have been afflicted, that I might learn your statute. So even in our afflictions, we have to submit to God and affirm His goodness by faith. Even when we can't really see it outwardly, we have to affirm it by faith. God's goodness is demonstrated in his character. But then God's goodness is demonstrated in his love. Look again in verse 5. For the Lord is good. Notice the next phrase, his mercy is Everlasting. The word mercy is kessed. This is one of the most beautiful words in the Old Testament. It's usually translated a loving kindness. And let me tell you why it's translated loving kindness because When they were translating this word from the Hebrew to the English, there was no real English equivalent for this word. All that's wrapped up in this word. There was no English word to really uh come uh that could parallel this or in any way be synonymous to this. So the one translator, a man by the name of Miles Coverdale When he couldn't find it a suitable English word, he made up a word, and that's the word that you see in the Bible, loving kindness Loving kindness was created to convey this Hebrew word kessed, and it means a loyal love. Actually, it comes from the Hebrew word for stork. You know the bird, the stork? Why did they use that word to talk about love? Well, the Hebrews notice how storks had an uncommon love for and protection for their young. They built their nests securely in high trees. And they said that God's love is like that for us. He nurtures us, he protects us from all enemies And so this word is related to that word for stork. He cares for us. He watches over us And so God's goodness is demonstrated in his love. But also, another thought, God's goodness is demonstrated in his faithfulness. Look again in verse 5, the last part, where it says, and his truth endures what to all generations. The word for truth here means steadfastness or firmness. We could say faithfulness This idea of just being dependable, the fact that God doesn't change, you know, everything around us is changing. Things change. People change. I've met people years ago who were kind and gracious and wonderful to be around. Then years later I met them again and they were grumpy and they were mean. And they weren't worth being around, to be honest with you. Nobody here, by the way. What happened? Well, they changed. What changed them? Well, the world is cruel, the world is harsh, and they became cold and cynical because they had been treated so hard by the world. They just changed. How do we know that God doesn't change? How do we know that God, after 2,000 years, after we have a completed word, the New Testament, how do we know that God didn't change from that time until this? that the words that he wrote all those years ago are still what he means. Of course I love to tell this story because it illustrates heresy. You heard me talk about the conversation between Benny Hinn and Jesse Duplanis where Benny Hinn was interviewing Jesse Duplanis and Jesse Duplanis said, you know, I was praying one morning and God wasn't acting just right And he said to Benny, you know, Benny, I know God really well, and I could tell he wasn't acting just right. And I said, God, are you okay? You seem like you're having a bad day. And God said to Jesse, my people down there are really hurting me. And Jesse Duplana said to God, Well, God, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'm going to cancel all my appointments and I'm going to stay here with you all day today. And God said to him, Thank you, Jesse. And we're supposed to understand by that that God was having a bad day, and God needed Jesse to plan this to help God make it through that day. Now I want to tell you something. That's blasphemous, that's belittling of God How do we know that God doesn't have a bad day and God is not changed by the world around them? Well, the psalmist says here for the Lord, for his truth, that is, his steadfastness, his firmness endures. to all generations. In other words, he's faithful and he doesn't change. And the God who Abraham worshiped is the same God that we worship today. He's the same God of truth. He's the same God of love. We can rely on his truth. We can rely on his promises. And we can know that he never leaves us or forsakes us. He's not going to have a bad day, and he's not going to change his mind about us or what he told us because as God, he's unchangeable, he's faithful. And that's part of the goodness of God. And so this is all that we see in verse number five. God's goodness is demonstrated in his faithfulness, in his love, and in his character. Now, the question is, how do we respond? Because the first four verses of Psalm 100 show us how the truth of God's goodness should affect us. How should we respond? The reason is in verse 5 of God's goodness. But how do we respond? And so let me give you three ways, three proper ways. That we are to respond to the goodness of God. Number one, we respond to God's goodness with joy. Look at verse 1. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness and come before his presence with singing. We're to make a joyful noise. Is this your image of the Christian life? There seems to be no allowance here for grumpiness. There's no allowance here for complaining. We should be, even though at times we're not, we should be joyful people. Martin Lloyd Jones said unhappy Christians are, to say the least, a poor recommendation for the Christian faith. And I think he's right. He said, the devil's one object is to so depress God's people that they can go to the man of the world and say, There are God's people. Do you want to be like that? You see, there's a Christian there. Look at them. They look miserable. You don't want to be like that A unhappy, joyless Christian gives God bad press. And so we should have joy. And notice some things about this joy. This joy in the Lord should should be expressive. Again, make a joyful noise unto the Lord. This is one word. Make a joyful noise is one word in the Hebrew, and it means shout Literally, it's a shout that a person would give about hearing the news of a battle being won. Whenever a king won a battle on the battlefield, he would send a herald back. to announce to the people in the village or the town that the king had won and the resultant shout of joy is is is what this word means. I I guess the best analogy would be when you're in MNT Bank Stadium and it's packed. And it's uh the Ravens are playing and it's a close game and the Ravens score a touchdown and have you ever been there when that happens. The place erupts, right? Anybody have been there when that happens? I remember this this year had some friends come from Memphis up here to Baltimore. They wanted to go to a Baltimore Ravens game because they fell in the re w in love with the Ravens because of me when I was down there. So my work was done in Tennessee. But he came up, gave me a ticket to go with me to the game. We had front row seats. Praise the Lord. God is good to his servants. But I remember that it was a very, very cold night and when uh you know when I got up to go get a hot chocolate And I came back. I was walking down the aisle with people on and on either side, and a Raven at that moment scored a touchdown. And the place erupted. Everyone jumped up out of their seats. I couldn't hear myself think. People I never met before in my life began to hug me. Give me high fives. I I spilled my hot chocolate all over the front of me. They were just so thrilled with joy, it was ex it was excessive. This is what the word here in the Hebrew actually means That's the kind of joy that he's talking about here. Exuberant joy. Shout. Make a joyful noise It says, do you express that kind of joy when God does something for you? But then this joy in the Lord should be contagious. Notice where it says in verse 1, all ye lands. This is uh for everyone. And when Psalm 100 was written, only a small minority of people in the world worshipped Israel's God. Israel seemed to have little interest in spreading news about God to the Gentiles. They kind of kept separate. In fact, if you wanted to go to the temple and worship, there was a court just for the Gentiles. You couldn't worship with the Jews They had a court for the priests, and then a court for the women, and then finally a court for the Gentiles, and it was kind of separated. But that's why we're kind of surprised here when Psalm 100 calls all the people of the earth to worship the Lord. And later on we'll see there's even an invitation to enter into his gates. Come on in Enter in with thanksgiving. And so there's kind of a missionary focus to this verse here. And I think what it means is when we are worshiping and shouting with joy because of what God's done for us That's kind of contagious. Other people that don't know the Lord see that, and they're going to want to be a part of that. They want to have some of that joy for themselves. Joy in the Lord should be expressed. It should be contagious. It should show in how we serve the Lord. Look at verse 2. Serve the Lord with gladness, right? Two things here: serve the Lord. First, do you serve God? Are you one of those Christians that just comes to church and you sit, soak, and sour, and never really do anything? God wants you to be involved. He wants you to use whatever gift he's given you, but then do you do it with gladness Are you complaining because you have to come to church to worship and do things? Or do you praise God because you get to come to church? And you get to do things, you get to serve the Lord. But then join the Lord should be expressed in how we sing in verse 2 Where it says, come before his presence with singing. And the key there is to understand that when we do sing, we're not doing it for ourselves, we're not doing it for our neighbor. We're singing unto the Lord. So therefore, when we're kind of off and humdrum sometimes or lackluster when we sing, I wonder if we really realize and understand that you're singing to the Lord. You're singing to him, not to anyone else. This is your act of worship to God. So how should we respond to the goodness of God? With joy, genuine joy, because of who God is. And what he's done for us. Secondly, we respond to God's goodness with submission. Look at verse 3. Know ye that the Lord, He is God. It is he that has made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now you won't find the word submission in this verse, but the idea and concept is written all over it. So why does the psalmist insert insert this verse in a psalm dealing with joy and thanksgiving? I mean what does the fact that the Lord is God and that He made us and that we're His people and the sheep of His pasture, what does that have to do with with um this. It has everything to do with it. Verse 3 describes a relationship of submission to God, and submission is directly related to Thankfulness. You see, if you're grumbling or griping about your circumstance, you've not been submissive to the idea that God is God, that He's sovereign. And what you're really implying is, you know, you can do a better job. When you complain about your circumstances or complain about things, what you're saying is, you know, I wish that I were God. I tell you, if I were God, I would change things. Things would run a whole lot better Well, let's just thank God that you're not God, first of all, and you really can't run things better. But it's not until you're willing to submit to God And until you're honestly from the heart say thank you, Lord, that you really have submitted to the Lord and understand. I'm talking about thanking God even when things don't go your way. You don't have to be thankful for, but you can be thankful in everything. Everything. And it's until you understand that He's God that you really can't give Him thanksgiving or joy So three things here, three reasons we submit. We submit because he is the only God. Really, that's the idea in verse 3. Know ye that the Lord, he is God. This is emphatic in the Hebrew. Again, it's the central idea The sense of it, we could say it like this, know ye that the Lord, He is the only God. And remember when the Psalmist wrote this in the ancient Near East, there were people worshiping all kinds of different gods. Monotheism was really not the thing. People in the ancient Near East worshipped the sun. They thought the sun was God. They thought the moon was God. They worship the god of the seas. They worship gods of the on mountaintops. Certain gods had certain control over certain regions of the terrain. That was their idea. And the gods that they worshiped, they were not always good. These gods that they worshiped, they could be capricious, they could be moody, they could make mistakes, they were not in complete control, they were only in control of certain territories That was the mindset of the ancient Near Eastern people about their God. But along comes the psalmist who says, look, know ye that the Lord, he is the only God. And not only that, he's king and sovereign over everything, over all. And you need to know that. This is an enormous claim that the God of Israel is the only God. He's the sovereign king. He rules over it all, and it's all his. And that goes along with the second thing. We submit because he's the only God, but we submit because he's the creator. Again in verse 3. Know ye that the Lord He is God, it is He that has made us and not we ourselves Now, to me, this is such a simple and yet profound statement. And here the psalmist is taking a shot at evolution before evolution ever came along. Evolution in a psalmist saying we made ourselves. The psalmist says, no, he's the one who made you. It is he that has made us, and not we ourselves And so we submit to him and bow before him because he is the creator. And if he's the creator by logical inference, then he's also the judge. And if he's the creator, that means he gets to write the rules. He gets to say what's right, and he gets to say what is wrong And this therefore means that if he is the creator, that means we are accountable to him, and so therefore we must submit to him. And this is the whole Really the reason evolution has gained so much traction and a large following, not because of the scientific evidence, because the scientific evidence is irrational. You would have to jump into the abyss of irrationality to really believe anything about evolution. It's not the science that convinces people. It's because they don't want to be accountable to God. It eliminates, evolution eliminates the need for God. And so proud man therefore doesn't have to submit to God. They don't have to acknowledge what the psalmist said there. It is he that has made us, because if that's true, that means he is the judge. He says what's right and wrong, and we have to give an account to him. Sinful man is running from this. Charles Darwin said this, I am determined to escape from design and a personal God at all costs. That's a quote directly from him. It is Romans 1, where they refuse to acknowledge God. They refuse to they even though they knew God, they would not glorify him as God. But we submit to him because we know he is the creator of all things. But also we submit to him because he's our shepherd. Look again in verse number three. Know ye that the Lord He is God, it is He that has made us, not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. God says to you that you are my sheep. God calls you sheep. Now that's not a compliment. I want you to know that. Because when you think about it, sheep are not very intelligent animals. He could have said you're as you know you're you're lions or you're you're as wise as owls. No, he said you're sheep. Sheep are pretty much dumb. Sorry. You ever been to a circus to see a train sheep? You see train other animals that are trained, but you never see a trained sheep. Sheep are also directionless, they have no sense of direction. They're constantly getting lost. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. Sheep have no sense of direction. Other animals do. Birds can migrate Dogs can find their way home, even cats, if you take them out and leave them in the woods, they'll be back at your doorstep before you get back there. I know that by experience. Just just kidding. Don't turn me in. But sheep are also defenseless, which means they have really no way to defend themselves. Other animals can defend themselves. You think about it, you know, deers have antlers and you know porcupines have their quill and the turtle has its shell and one down the leash you can go, but sheep have no way. to defend themselves. But also sheep are disturbable. That is to say they're very easily disturbed. And you know what? Sheep need a shepherd. If they don't have a shepherd they're not going to make it. And here, the good news is God is saying that He is our shepherd. We are His people. We are the sheep of his pasture, which means that God is our shepherd, and that's why we submit to him. You know, the Christian life, sometimes we as preachers, we are guilty of making it more difficult than it really is. It's really not that hard. You want to live a good Christian life, just follow the leading of your shepherd. Just submit to your shepherd. Just do what your shepherd tells you, and you know what? You're going to be all right. That's what the Christian life is. I love that psalm. It says, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not what? I shall not want. One little girl said, The Lord is my shepherd, that's all I want. That was her interpretation of it. But that's a pretty good interpretation. And there's blessings from just following his leading. And so we submit. Because he's our shepherd, because he is God, the only God, because he is our creator, because he is our shepherd. So we respond to God's goodness not only with joy, we respond to God's goodness with submission. Then here's the last thing. We respond to God's goodness with thankfulness. Look what it says in verse 4. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. We respond with thankfulness. Dozens of times we're commanded to give thanks to the Lord. Psalm 105, verse 1: Oh, give thanks unto the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the people. And there are really two things here. He's telling us: enter into his gates with thanksgiving. This means coming before God to worship. You have to understand this in the Old Testament context. When a Jewish pilgrim was going to Jerusalem on one of the various feast days They would make this long journey into Jerusalem. Normally they were climbing upward. When they got to the temple, there was on the southern end of the temple, there were these long steps that were 200 feet wide There were mikvas all spread throughout. What's a mikvah? It's like a baptistry, basically, because they would go into this mikvah and they would purify themselves. They would literally baptize themselves before they went in. But what's interesting when I was over in Israel, I went to Jerusalem, I went to the southwest corner of the Temple Mount, and I saw that those very stairs that the pilgrims would walk up And go into the gates on the top platform. There was the Holda's gate. There were other gates that were along there. But you can literally still today walk up those very steps that the pilgrim worshippers would walk up. What I noticed that there were fifteen of those steps that were three feet long, and in between that there were little steps. So if you can imagine, you went up a stairway like that where one step was really wide and the other one was really narrow. Then the next one was really wide and the other one was really narrow. Why were they built like that? Because if you walk up those steps, which I had the privilege of doing, there's no way you can walk up those steps without looking down. You have to look down or you're going to trip. You're going to lose where you are. And so what it does is it gives you a posture of being humble as you walk into the gate You come into God's presence with humble gratitude. The pilgrim worshipper that went there to Jerusalem and went through those gates First of all, he was grateful that he had the opportunity to be there at the temple after this long journey. He was so excited about being able to go in But he also needed to have that posture of humility. So there was humble gratitude as they entered into the presence of the Lord. This is what the psalmist here means. When you enter into his gates, enter into his gates with humble gratitude, with thanksgiving unto the Lord. Now let's put it in our day today. You know, every time we come into God's house, we're coming into his presence. Do you come with true, humble gratitude? For God. Anytime you go to the Lord in prayer, you're coming, as it were, into His presence. Do you really go into His presence with humble gratitude to God for who He is and for what He has done? This is our response to the goodness of God. We enter into his gates with thanksgiving. And then he says this, bl and bless his name. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. You say, how do you bless his name? By being thankful to him. Anytime you're thankful and anytime you praise God, in a sense, you're blessing his name. It means you're praising him for who he is, for how he has revealed himself to you in his word and through his son. And you're you're blessing him, you're praising him. We praise him for the great gifts that he's given us, the gift of salvation, the gift of revealing himself to us through his word and through his son, that we can have salvation, that we could be forgiven. And so by thanking the Lord, we're blessing his name. So this is how we give God glory. This is how we give God good press. Satan's out there trying to give God bad press. God's people are to go out throughout the world and share the truth about who God is. And how do we do that? By talking about the goodness of God and responding to it with joy, with submission in our life, and with true thankfulness. And when people see that in us, that's giving God glory. That's giving God good press. So, does your life give God good press or bad press? When people look at you, what do they think about God? What do they see in you, your attitudes, your actions? Let me just close with this illustration. John Wesley, when I was over in England, I kind of traced some of the places where John Wesley ministered. He was a fascinating preacher. And the story of his life is really fascinating. But before his conversion, he was doing things for the Lord, but he wasn't truly saved. He came to realize that at one point that he wasn't really converted. But before that conversion took place, John Wesley talks about a time where he was deeply impressed by the porter of his college. Wesley discovered that this man only had one coat. He also discovered that he had not eaten that day because he was so poor. And Wesley said to this man, he said, You thank God, and by the way, this man was, even though he had no coat, he was very poor, he had very little of anything, this man was overflowing. With gratitude to God. And that was just incredible to Wesley, this man that had so little, and yet so joyful and overflowing with gratitude. And Wesley said, You thank God when you have nothing to wear and nothing to eat and no bed to lie on? And the man basically said, Yes, I do. I thank him for all things. I thank him, he says, that he's given me life. And he's given me being. And he's given me a heart to love him and to desire to serve him. And Wesley was so moved by that man. By his attitude, that God used that person to show Wesley that he really wasn't converted, that he needed to get saved. And later, when Wesley did get saved, he remembered that one individual. And he wanted what that man had. And so, again, the question I want to ask you is. Are you giving God good press? Because God is good, we who are God's people should glorify his name We should give good press to God by our joy, by our submission, by our thankfulness to God. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for this beautiful psalm. Although it's short, it's so very rich, it's so very powerful. It reminds us of our duty as your people to proclaim your goodness throughout the world, wherever we go. Let people see that you're good. You're a good God. Lord, it seems like you get so much bad press from people that don't love you, that don't believe in you, even from Christians sometimes, people who name the name of Christ. Lord, it gives us all the more responsibility to show the truth about who you are to a world that's watching. So, Lord, may we recognize, first of all, your goodness in our own life. May we not be blind to it. And Lord, may we respond to your goodness with real joy. By submitting our whole life to who you are, you are the only God. You are the Creator. You are the shepherd who watches over us. And may we always enter into your gates with thanksgiving. your courts with praise on our lips. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how may you say that's my prayer tonight? My testimony tonight. My desire tonight. That people will see the goodness of God in my life by my joy, my submission, my thankfulness. When I represent God will in this world And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted the Lord as your Savior, I just want to give you that opportunity. You don't have to walk down an aisle. You don't have to pray any magical prayer. Because God will meet you right where you are. If you reach out to him in faith, he'll reach back to you in love. If you tell him that you're a sinner, he will call himself your savior. If you just run to him, he'll be there waiting. And he'll he'll pick you up in his arms and he'll forgive you. And friend, if you've never trusted Christ, I want you this moment turn to Him with all your heart. Call Him the only God, the Lord, the Savior, your shepherd. Just say, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. And he will save you. Father, thank you again for your word. Help us to heed it To apply it to our life, we pray in Jesus' name